Annual Report 2013 3 CONTENTS 08 Message from the 50 Boldness and innovation are President & CEO our hallmarks 16 We are here to serve 70 We build a sustainable future our customers 10 Global presence 56 is our frontier Our people are what make us fly 30 82 We strive for company excellence About the report 4 embraer Our mission and principles GRI 4.8 Annual Report 2013 5 Our vision simplicity, agility, flexibility, and safety, with Embraer will continue to consolidate its position as ongoing pursuit of continuous improvement and one of the leading forces in the global aeronautics excellence. An entrepreneurial outlook based on and defense and security industries. With its integrated planning, responsible delegation, and reputation for excellence, Embraer is a market disciplined execution. leader in the segments in which it operates. Boldness and innovation are our hallmarks – The business state-of-the-art technology, an innovative Embraer’s business is about creating value for organization that is constantly learning; capable its shareholders by keeping its customers fully of transforming from within and being influential satisfied. “Creating value,” means maximizing in the markets in which it operates. Strategic vision the Company’s value and ensuring its longevity, and ability to overcome challenges creatively while practicing high ethical standards consistent and courageously. with a well-developed social and environmental conscience. The Company is focused on four Global presence is our frontier – the Company’s business areas: Commercial Aviation, Executive competitiveness is founded on a combination of Aviation, Defense & Security and Systems. global presence and local actions, leveraging the best of each of the locations in which it Our values operates. Embraer envisions a world without Our people are what make us fly – happy, borders, one that values diversity. competent, valued, and fulfilled people who are committed to what they do. People who work as We build a sustainable future – Embraer strives teams and who base their actions on integrity, ceaselessly to build the foundation for the coherence, respect, and mutual trust. Company’s longevity, delivering profitability to shareholders and respecting quality of life, the We are here to serve our customers – we earn environment and society in general. customer loyalty by delivering full satisfaction and by building strong and enduring relationships. Our partnerships are based on real commitment and flexibility. We strive for company excellence – the Company’s actions are oriented towards 6 embraer Introduction Embraer’s Annual Report 2013 is structured around its six core values, as are all the Company’s activities. GRI 2.1 The Company’s six core values distil a • “We are here to serve our set of beliefs that guides the business customers” covers the operational and daily strategic decisions at every performance of each business level of the hierarchy. Formulated unit and our initiatives for ensuring collectively, these values pervade customer satisfaction; the Company’s culture and shape its employees’ behavior; they provide a • “We strive for company excellence” solid ethical foundation from which covers business strategy, financial Embraer generates value for its performance and corporate customers, shareholders, employees, governance practices; society and other stakeholders. • “Boldness and innovation are our Embraer’s Annual Report, which hallmarks” spotlights our investments follows Global Reporting Initiative in new ideas and solutions; (GRI) guidelines for the sixth consecutive year, demonstrates the • “Our people are what make us fly” importance the Company attaches looks at initiatives geared towards to its values and for this reason is supporting our professionals; structured around them. GRI 3.3 • “We build a sustainable future” The report falls into the following outlines the initiatives adopted by chapters: Embraer to reduce the impact of its activities on the environment • “Global presence is our frontier” and society. profiles the Company and its global presence; Annual Report 2013 7 EMBRAER MAIN INDICATORS Sums in R$ Million* 2013 Variation 2013 vs. 2012 2012 2011 Net Revenues 13,635.8 12% 12,180.5 9,837.9 Gross Margin 22.7% -1.5 p.p. 24.2% 22.5% Earnings Before Interest 1,605.8 32% 1,217.1 521.8 and Tax (EBIT) EBIT Margin 11.8% 1.8 p.p. 10.0% 5.3% 1 Adjusted EBITDA 2,239.1 27% 1,762.8 923,1 Adjusted EBITDA Margin 16.4% 1.9 p.p. 14.5% 9.4% Net Profit 777.7 11% 697.8 156.3 Net Margin 5.7% 5.7% 1.6% 2 Investments 7,267.8 31% 5,519.0 4,245.8 Indebtedness 5,140.6 22% 4,222.7 3,110.2 Net Cash 1,005.5 59% 631.2 831.6 Total Assets 23,760.3 23% 19,374.2 16,598.6 Net Assets 8,509.1 24% 6,846.4 5,848.4 Indebtedness/Net Assets* 0.6 0.6 0.5 ROA 3.3% -0.3 p.p. 3.6% 0.9% ROE 9.1% -0.9 p.p. 10.2% 2.7% ROCE (US$) 14.7% 1.4 p.p. 13.3% 7.9% Inventory 5,358.3 22% 4,407.7 4,291.0 Inventory Turnover* 2.0 -5% 2.1 1.8 Asset Turnover* 0.6 0.6 0.6 Firm Order Backlog (US$ billion) 18.2 46% 12.5 15.4 Aircraft Deliveries (units) 215 -3% 221 212 Number of Employees 19,278 7% 18,032 17,265 EBIT per Employee (R$ thousand) 83.3 23% 67.5 30.2 Dividends Paid 202.2 11% 182.4 180.9 Earnings per Share* (R$) 1.07 11% 0.96 0.22 Number of Shares* ³ 729,001 1% 725,023 723,667 All figures are compiled in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). *Except Indebtedness / Net Assets, Inventory Turnover, Asset Turnover, Earnings per Share, and Number of Shares. 1 Represents net profits, plus net financial income (expenses), exchange rate fluctuations, income tax and social contribution tax, depreciation and amortization, and minority holdings. 2 Amounts include investments in development and capital expenditure, including physical and intangible assets. 3 Excludes 9.5 million shares held in treasury in 2013, 14.1 million in 2012 and 16.8 million in 2011. 8 embraer Message from the President & CEO GRI 1.1 In a year whose challenges were associated with a Strategic Defense and Communications Geostationary recovering economic context, Embraer notched up Satellite (Satélite Geoestacionário de Defesa e important achievements and met its commitments – Comunicações Estratégicas – SGDC). including in terms of projected deliveries, income and operating margin – thus maintaining its credibility in the In keeping with the Company’s plan to diversify its business marketplace. activities, it created Embraer Systems, which is focused on the development and integration of complex systems for 2013 was a landmark year for our Commercial Aviation sectors other than aviation and defense. business in terms of results. We launched the E-Jets E2 family – the second generation of E-Jets for the 70 to In 2013 Embraer continued investing in the expansion 130-seat segment – while consolidating the broad global of its operations in Brazil and worldwide. In the USA, the market appeal of the current generation (E-Jets). We Melbourne facility delivered its first Phenom 300 executive delivered the thousandth E-Jet and booked substantial jet and Jacksonville saw the inauguration of the unit orders, contributing to the expansion of our client base to that will produce Super Tucano jets for the LAS program. 65 airline companies in 45 countries. Facilities in Evora (Portugal) and Harbin (China) moved forward with their operational and investment plans. In spite of ongoing difficulties in the executive aviation sector, Embraer’s Executive Aviation business expanded Inside the Company, the Embraer Entrepreneurial its market share and pushed ahead with its investment Excellence Program (P3E) continues to thrive with the plan for the development of new products, with the first active involvement of all employees, bringing about an prototype of the Legacy 450 making its maiden flight and effective process of continuous improvement. The P3E is advances achieved in the development of the Legacy also helping maintain a high degree of job satisfaction 500, which should enter service during 2014. and enthusiasm for the organizational environment, the latter earning a record approval rating of 84% in 2013. 2013 was a year of intense activity for Embraer Defense & Security, which accomplished noteworthy results in several Added recompense for all these efforts came in the business areas. The successful conclusion of the KC-390 form of various external awards and recognitions. These military transport jet’s Critical Project Review allowed for included the National Innovation Prize awarded by the the release of designs and the start of the prototype’s Brazilian National Industry Confederation (CNI), SEBRAE production; it is expected to make its first flight at the end (Brazilian Support Service for Small and Micro Enterprises) of 2014. Other highly significant developments were the and the Competitive Brazil Movement (Movimento signing of contracts for 20 Super Tucano jets for the US Brasil Competitivo); and recognition by various rankings Air Force’s Light Air Support (LAS) program and for Brazil’s including the Best Places to Work in Brazil (As Melhores Annual Report 2013 9 Empresas para Você Trabalhar) compiled by Você S.A. and Exame magazines; the Great Place to Work Institute survey and the Best Places to Work in Florida, USA, compiled by Florida Trend. Another highlight was Exame magazine’s selection of Embraer as Company of the Year. In terms of the wider community, Embraer High School inaugurated its second branch in the town of Botucatu (Brazil), with a class of 120 students from the public school system. Embraer remains committed to the principles of the UN’s Global Compact and has been deepening its sustainability practices, including through its recent Frederico Fleury Curado enrollment in the World Economic Forum’s Partnering President & CEO Against Corruption Initiative (PACI). For the fourth consecutive year, the Company was listed in the 2013/2014 Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and also in BM&FBovespa’s Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE). In 2014 we expect to continue growing and improving our processes, investing in our people, in technological innovation and in relationships with our clients, shareholders, suppliers and society in general, in a bid to build a sustainable future and secure the Company’s longevity. On behalf of Embraer’s Board of Executive Officers and the Board of Directors, I thank everyone both inside and outside the Company who contributed towards our development and accomplishments in 2013. 10 embraer Annual Report 2013 11 Global presence is our frontier 12 embraer A global company headquartered in Brazil gri 1.2 Since its foundation, Embraer has been transforming knowledge and technology into entrepreneurial excellence in the various market segments in which it operates Annual Report 2013 13 Embraer was founded in 1969 as a stateAviation Industry Corporation of China controlled, mixed-capital company. Privatized (AVIC). The Company’s other main in 1994, it designs, develops, manufactures and industrial center is in Portugal, with sells aircraft and systems, in addition to providing a facility in the city of Évora and the technical support and after-sales service to OGMA subsidiary in Alverca. customers. Its activities span Commercial Aviation, Executive Aviation, Defense & Security Embraer’s net income was R$13,635.8 and Systems. GRI 2.2 million in 2013, with 53% from Commercial Aviation, 27% from With offices and factories in various parts of Executive Aviation, 19% from Defense the world and more than five thousand aircraft & Security and 1% from other activities. delivered across all continents, Embraer today At the end of the year, the firm order is one of Brazil’s biggest exporters. GRI 2.5 backlog stood at US$18.2 billion. GRI 2.8 Embraer’s headquarters are located in Brazil, Embraer ended 2013 with 19,278 in the city of São José dos Campos (São Paulo employees of whom 17,302 are state). In Brazil the Company has industrial facilities located in Brazil and 1,976 abroad. and service centers in São José dos Campos, Embraer-controlled and associated Gavião Peixoto, Botucatu and Sorocaba, along companies employed a further 2,370 with logistical centers in the cities of Taubaté staff. GRI 2.8 and Campinas; a Center for Engineering and Technology in Belo Horizonte and offices in Brasilia, Business units GRI 2.2 e 2.7 São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. Commercial Aviation: ERJ 145 and Embraer also has offices and production E-Jets families. The customer base facilities in Fort Lauderdale (USA), Melbourne consists of more than 80 airlines from (USA), Jacksonville (USA), Villepinte (France), over 50 countries. It leads the market Farnborough (UK), Dubai (United Arab Emirates), for commercial jets with 70-130 seats. Singapore, Dublin (Ireland), Amsterdam (Holland) and Beijing (China). Executive Aviation: Phenom, Legacy and Lineage families. More than 720 Embraer’s centers for service and the sale aircraft delivered, in over 50 countries. of spare parts are located in São José dos Campos, Sorocaba and Gavião Peixoto (Brazil), Embraer Defense & Security: aircraft Le Bourget (France), Alverca (Portugal) and, in for light attack and training, tactical the USA in Fort Lauderdale, Nashville, Mesa and military transport, and conveyance Windsor Locks. There are also parts distribution of official personnel; aircraft centers in Louisville and Minneapolis (USA), modernization; unmanned aerial Singapore, Beijing and Dubai. vehicles (UAV), and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance Aside from its office in Beijing, in China Embraer systems. Currently Embraer serves also owns 51% of Harbin Embraer Aircraft Industry more than 50 armed forces. (HEAI), in association with a local partner, the 14 embraer Where Embraer operates worldwide GRI 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.7, 2.9 UNITED HOLLAND KINGDOM Amsterdam Farnborough IRELAND Dublin Portugal Évora USA Alverca – OGMA FRANCE Nashville Villepinte Fort Lauderdale Le Bourget Melbourne Mesa UNITED ARAB Windsor Locks EMIRATES Jacksonville Dubai BRAZIL São José dos Campos Gavião Peixoto Botucatu Taubaté Brasília Belo Horizonte São Paulo Rio de Janeiro Sorocaba Campinas Annual Report 2013 15 New business unit GRI 2.9 In line with the Company’s strategy to diversify its business operations, it created a new business unit in the city of Rio de Janeiro (Brazil) in 2013. Embraer Systems focuses on the development and integration of complex systems for sectors other than aviation and defense. Assembly of the Super Tucano in the USA In March 2013 Embraer inaugurated the Jacksonville (USA) facility that will assemble Super Tucano jets for the US Air Force’s Light Air Support (LAS) program. The first jet is on track for delivery by the China Beijing end of 2014. In total, this program has Harbin – HEAI already created more than 50 direct jobs and it indirectly helps to support another 1,400. Consolidation of SINGAPORE international operations Singapore In 2013 the Melbourne (USA) facility delivered the first Phenom 300 executive jet. It was another important achievement demonstrating the maturity of this new assembly line. The first Legacy 650 jet to be manufactured in China successfully made its maiden flight in 2013. It was produced by Harbin Embraer Aircraft Industry Co. (HEAI), a joint venture between Embraer and the Aviation Industry Corporation of China (AVIC); the first unit was delivered at the start of 2014. 16 embraer Annual Report 2013 17 We are here to serve our customers 18 embraer Quality, efficiency and safety GRI PR5 Continuous striving to satisfy our customers, identify their needs and deliver tailored solutions is what keeps Embraer’s business growing Annual Report 2013 19 Guaranteeing customer satisfaction is Embraer’s central concern. Consequently, the Company constantly invests in improving its services and developing products which fully meet market needs, as well as in improving client support services. After a client purchases an aircraft, Embraer conducts periodic surveys to gauge customer satisfaction. The relevant business areas analyze the results and use them to formulate their action plans. All participating clients receive feedback on their contribution. In the following sections the Company presents the main results and highlights of each of its business units in 2013. 20 embraer Commercial Aviation In 2013 Embraer’s Commercial Aviation business followed global growth trends. According to the International Air Transport Association Second generation (IATA), global net profits for the sector totaled US$ 13 billion, nearly of E-Jets double the US$ 6.1 billion recorded in 2012. June 2013 saw the launch of the second generation of the E-Jets family. The E-Jets Against this backdrop, Embraer projects a 4.8% annual increase in E2 generation consists of three new aircraft: demand for air transport over the next two decades. Around 6,400 the E175-E2, the E190-E2 and the E195-E2. commercial jets of up to 130 seats will be needed over the period The application of the latest technologies to support the renewal of the global aircraft fleet and the projected in the new jets’ engines, wings and avionics growth in demand. will reduce fuel consumption, emissions, noise and maintenance costs, besides Embraer has consolidated its leadership of the market for jets with 70 maximizing airlines’ operational efficiency. to 130 seats, accounting for an accumulated 60% of all deliveries The new cabin design will provide an since 2004 and serving 65 airline companies in 45 countries. even more comfortable experience for passengers. The E190-E2 model is expected Approximately 200 E-Jets were sold in 2013, with over 300 options to enter service in the first half of 2018. to buy, to a diverse customer base, such as United Airlines (USA), Skywest (USA), Republic Airways (USA), American Airlines (USA), Austral The launch of the E-Jets E2 line has been (Argentina), Conviasa (Venezuela), JAL (Japan), British Airways (UK), attracting eager interest in the market: Belavia (Belorussia), Air Costa (India), Aurigny Air Services (UK) and SkyWest Inc., the largest regional airline Saratov Airlines (Russia). company in the world, has confirmed an order for 100 E175-E2 jets, along with 100 The E-Jets have been widely acclaimed for their versatility, economy, options to buy. International Lease Finance passenger comfort and operational efficiency. Just nine years after Corporation (ILFC), a leasing company, the first E-Jet entered service, in 2013 Embraer’s commercial jets confirmed a purchase order for 25 E190-E2 clocked up two important milestones: 10 million flight hours and the and 25 E195-E2, with options on an delivery of the thousandth new jet, an E175, for Republic Airlines (USA). additional 50. Other airline companies from Africa, Asia, Europe and Latin America also With a view to bolstering the competitiveness of its offering and expressed interest in acquiring E-Jets E2. increasing its market share, Embraer has been developing improvements to the E-Jets, in particular a new version of the E175 entailing a significant reduction in fuel consumption. Commercial Aviation closed 2013 with a total of US$12.2 billion in firm orders. Annual Report 2013 21 22 embraer Executive Aviation Worldwide in 2013, executive jet manufacturers delivered a total of 677 aircraft, up 2% on 2012. In 2014 expectations are for a slight increase in demand, which still remains below the levels that preceded the global financial crisis. Embraer’s Executive Aviation division continued to expand its market share, from 14.9% of global executive jet deliveries in 2012 to 17.6% in 2013. In revenue terms, Embraer’s share of the market rose from 7.3% to 7.8% over the same period according to a report by the General Aviation Manufacturers Association (GAMA). Embraer delivered its 400th Phenom jet and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) certified the assembly line for the Phenom 300 at Embraer’s Melbourne (USA) facility. The Legacy 500 development program clocked up 930 hours of test flights in 2013; the jet is slated to enter service during the 2014. The Legacy 450 made its maiden flight in December 2013 and is expected to enter service in 2015. The Lineage 1000 jet was upgraded with a new cabin and new functionalities, as well as an extension of its flight range, and was renamed the Lineage 1000E. The Phenom 100 jet also benefited from the installation of new functionalities that, combined with new passenger cabin options, saw it become the Phenom 100E. Throughout 2013 Embraer expanded its global customer service network, a highlight being the opening of a service center in Sorocaba (Brazil). With this, Embraer now has six proprietary service centers and a total of 68 service centers worldwide. For the second consecutive year, Aviation International News ranked Embraer as one of the top two firms for after-sales service in the executive aviation market. Executive Aviation closed the year with a firm order backlog worth US$ 2.4 billion. Annual Report 2013 23 24 embraer Embraer Defense & Security Embraer Defense & Security plays a crucial role in Embraer Defense & Security continues with its strategy strengthening Brazil’s defense and security systems and to diversify into non-aeronautics sectors. In 2013 it has been increasing its client base, which encompasses increased its shareholding in Atech Business Technologies 48 countries in addition to Brazil. In 2013 revenues were up Ltd to 100%; the company is now a fully owned 25% on the previous year, reaching R$ 2.6 billion. Further Embraer subsidiary. In addition, it completed important growth is expected in 2014. phases of the Integrated Border Monitoring System (Sistema Integrado de Monitoramento de Fronteiras The development of the KC-390 military tactical transport Sisfron) through the Tepro consortium, made up of two and in-flight refueling jet is proceeding on schedule, with companies controlled by Embraer Defense & Security: its Critical Project Revision (CDR) completed in March Savis Technology & Systems and Bradar (Bradar Indústria 2013. The manufacture of parts for assembly of the first e Aerolevantamento). prototype also got underway and it should make its first flight at the end of 2014. At end-2013 letters of intention to The initial phase of Sisfron will monitor 650 km of Brazil’s purchase 60 aircraft had been signed by Brazil, Argentina, land border in a strip along the boundary between Mato Colombia, Chile, Portugal and the Czech Republic. Grosso do Sul (Brazil) and Paraguay and Bolivia. As a whole, Sisfron covers the monitoring and protection of all Brazil’s In 2013 the US Air Force (USAF) selected the A-29 land borders, totaling 16,886 km. Super Tucano for its Light Air Support (LAS) program for advanced training missions. Embraer will supply 20 In 2013, Visiona Space Technology Ltd., an association aircraft from its factory in Jacksonville (USA) in partnership between Embraer and Telebras, was contracted to with the Sierra Nevada Corporation—a US company that carry out the integration and launch of the Strategic develops technological solutions for the aerospace and Defense and Communications Geostationary Satellite electronics segments. (Satélite Geoestacionário de Defesa e Comunicações Estratégicas SGDC). The SGDC aims to meet the Brazilian Embraer Defense & Security is also undertaking out projects Government’s satellite communications needs, including to modernize military aircraft, three of them for the Brazilian the National Broadband Program and a broad spectrum Air Force, one for the Brazilian Marines and one for the of strategic defense transmissions. Colombian Air Force. They involve the EMB 145 AEW&C, an advanced aerial alert and control aircraft, AMX subsonic At end-2013 Embraer Defense & Security’s firm order fighters, F-5 and A-4 Skyhawk supersonic fighters and the backlog totaled US$ 3.6 billion. EMB 312 Tucano training aircraft. Annual Report 2013 25 26 embraer PORTFOLIO Commercial aviation Standard capacity – single class ERJ 145 Family E170 E175 E190 37 to 50 70 to 78 78 to 88 98 to 114 E195 E175-E2* E190-E2* E195-E2* 108 to 124 80 to 88 97 to 106 118 to 132 Executive Aviation Phenom 100E Phenom 300 Legacy 450* Legacy 500* 6 to 8 8 to 11 7 to 9 8 to 12 Legacy 600 Legacy 650 Lineage 1000E 13 to 14 13 to 14 13 to 19 Annual Report 2013 27 Defense & Security Order Backlog – 12/31/2013 Firm Firm order Aircraft Options Deliveries orders backlog A-29 Super ISR E170 188 26 187 1 Tucano E175 375 472 187 188 E190 569 169 496 73 E195 145 22 128 17 E175-E2 100 100 0 100 Special KC-390 * E190-E2 25 25 0 25 ** Missions E195-E2 25 25 0 25 Total 1427 839 998 429 Aircraft Modernization • Aircraft Repair and Maintenance • AIRCRAFT DELIVERIES BY BUSINESS UNIT Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) • Aerial Surveillance Radar • 2013 2012 2011 Satellites • Training and Operation Support Systems (TOSS) • Systems of Commercial Aviation 90 106 105 security*** / C4I**** • Air Traffic Control Systems • Remote Sensing ERJ 145 2 E170 4 1 1 E175 24 20 10 E190 45 62 68 Agricultural Aviation Embraer Systems E195 17 23 24 Executive Aviation 119 99 99 Development Phenom 100 30 29 41 Ipanema and integration of Phenom 300 60 48 42 complex systems for Legacy 600/650 25 19 13 sectors other than Lineage 1000 4 3 3 aviation and defense. Defense & Security 6 16 8 Super Tucano 6 14 8 *Under development | ** Transport of official personnel, MEDEVAC, in-flight inspection (FIS) EMB 145 AEW&C 2 *** Defense and security application | **** Command, Control, Communication, Total 215 221 212 Computers and Intelligence 28 embraer Other highlights Product safety GRI PR1, PR3 Embraer adheres to the highest production When possible risks are identified, they are standards and strives for continuous improvement immediately evaluated by Embraer’s Product of both people and processes. New products and Safety Committee, which oversees a holistic risk updates of already-certified projects are released management process aimed at minimizing risk to operators only after formal demonstration of exposure. the safety procedures and the resulting approval by the certifying authorities. In addition, Embraer In the event of an accident or serious incident continuously monitors aircraft in operation and involving one of its products, Embraer participates provides constant updates to aircraft’s technical in the investigations and provides the relevant operation and maintenance manuals. authorities with whatever support they need, in keeping with the norms set by the International All aircraft developed for civilian use are certified Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). by the National Civil Aviation Agency (Agência Nacional de Aviação Civil ANAC) in Brazil, by the In 2013, It were recorded three incidents Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) in the US, and involving Commercial Aviation aircraft; these by the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) took place in Botswana (resulting in 2 fatalities), in the EU. These agencies are also responsible Nigeria (16) and Namibia (33). There were no for formally evaluating and approvingagainst fatalities in an incident involving an Executive rigid safety criteria—the publications, technical Aviation jet in the US. In all cases, Embraer sent manuals and maintenance procedures for representatives to assist in the investigations. Embraer’s products and services. Although not all the inquiries had been concluded at the end of 2013, no faults with Embraer holds its supply chain to the same the planes have been identified as contributing rigorous safety and efficiency standards, factors. including procedures for handling and disposing of potentially hazardous substances. Annual Report 2013 29 Agricultural Aviation Asset management support Embraer’s Ipanema airplane remains the leader in Since its creation in 2002, ECC Leasing, an agricultural aviation in Brazil, commanding a 65% Embraer subsidiary that provides sales support market share. The model is used primarily for crop and helps reduce financial risks in the process, spraying. The Ipanema series includes the only has administered 168 jets, both Embraer aircraft assembly line produced ethanol-powered aircraft and those acquired via trade-in from other in the world, resulting in a lower operating and manufacturers. Of this total, 84 were re-marketed, maintenance costs and improved performance. 26 are under operational leases, and 54 are The ethanol version now accounts for 40% of the either available for release onto the market, under fleet in operation. negotiation or in the process of being delivered to customers, and four continue to be used by In 2013, a total of 70 Ipanema aircraft were sold Embraer for completing testing and certifications. in Brazil and Mercosur, representing a 6% increase on the previous year. Ipanema also reached an Sales finance historic milestone of 1,300 units delivered since it Expectations are for a progressive improvement in was launched. the global economy and increased participation of commercial banks in the aviation sector, which is already seeing more diversification and the entry of new participants, such as Japanese and Chinese banks and local financial institutions in the Middle East and Australia. The role of leasing is expected Deliveries to keep growing, financing 50% of the global Ipanema aircraft commercial jet fleet by the end of the decade. Capital market financing remains firm, as new banking regulations and the worldwide adoption of the Cape Town Treaty combine to increase its efficiency relative to other structures. Although Brazil’s export credit agency, has increased its 66 participation during the past year, it has accounted for only 20% of financing for E-Jets since their 55 56 launch. Official financing is expected to continue to play an important role in the aeronautic sector, filling gaps left by the private sector and providing more significant support for Embraer’s future exports 2011 2012 2013 to the North American market. 30 embraer We strive for company excellence Annual Report 2013 31 32 embraer Generating present value in Embraer’s strategy GRI 1.2 Through its business administration and corporate governance models, Embraer strives to achieve growth of shareholder returns on a daily basis, along with sustainable development of the business Annual Report 2013 33 Management Model • People, sustainability, organization and processes: Embraer’s management model is formally described carry on being a global organization committed to in the Embraer Entrepreneurship System (Sistema delivering customer satisfaction and valuing its people; Empresarial Embraer SEE). It envisages the formulation a Company that grows sustainably and serves as a and implementation of long-term plans as specified in the benchmark for innovation and corporate excellence. Company’s Strategic Plan along with short-term projects as defined in the Action Plan. While the first defines macro Continuous management strategies and macro projects for the next 15 years, the improvement P3E second deals with goals to be achieved within the next Launched in 2007, the Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence two years, including operational, economic-financial and Program (P3E) seeks to raise the Company’s management, sustainability goals. processes and products to an ever-higher level of excellence. Based on Lean Manufacturing concepts, The Strategic Plan and the Action Plan are fully aligned with the P3E consists of four pillars: developing Embraer’s each other and geared towards securing the business’s organizational culture, developing people, constantly longevity and generating value for stakeholders. They also training leaders and striving for efficiency and excellence address Embraer’s objectives in terms of increasing its across all processes. As explicitly set out in one of the pillars, competitiveness in the market, improving its entrepreneurial continuous engagement takes place with leaders to ensure excellence model, seeking continuous improvement to they remain in alignment with each other and committed processes, diversifying its business activities and expanding to ensuring the Company’s operational efficiency and its global operations. competitiveness. The Strategic Plan centers on five main areas: As part of the P3E, the Kaizen concept encompasses the review of processes with a view to their optimization, with an • Commercial Aviation: solidify its leadership position in emphasis on increasing productivity and eliminating waste. its segment, expanding the customer base, working on In 2013, more than 5,100 kaizen projects were completed. perfecting E-Jets, and pursuing excellence in the customer support model; Since the creation in 2012 of the Embraer Entrepreneurship System, we have consolidated improvements in the • Executive Aviation: consolidate itself as one of the world’s quality of our management, attaining level 8 on the scale leading manufacturers of executive jets, increasing market compiled by the National Quality Foundation (Fundação share, investing in the development of new products Nacional da Qualidade FNQ). and maintaining high levels of customer satisfaction with services and support; • Defense & Security: be a critical player in Brazil’s defense and security system, diversifying its portfolio of products and services and expanding its international presence, as well as pursuing excellence in customer support; • Diversification: direct efforts towards diversifying Embraer’s business, maintaining synergy with the Company’s core competencies; 34 embraer Corporate governance To ensure that management of the Company to the Company and the Brazilian State. GRI 4.4 is focused on sustainable development and securing the business’s longevity, the corporate The General Meeting is the Company’s highest governance model is founded on ethical deliberative assembly; in keeping with Company principles and conforms to the highest market statutes decisions are approved by a majority of standards both in Brazil and the US. This model is Brazilian shareholders, with foreign shareholders geared towards transparency, independence, restricted to 40% of the votes present. Company and accountability; it aims to preserve the statutes also impose some restrictions aimed Company’s value and increase its potential. at discouraging excessive concentration of shareholdings or American Depositary Receipts Embraer has a pulverized structure of share (ADRs): at the Shareholders’ General Meeting, no ownership and is a member of the New single stockholder or group of stockholders may Market (Novo Mercado) of the São Paulo exercise the vote on behalf of more than 5% Stock Exchange (Bolsa de Valores de São of total shares; and no shareholder is allowed Paulo BM&FBovespa), where companies that to own 35% or more of the Company’s capital, adhere to the highest standards of corporate except with the express authorization of the governance are listed. Embraer’s shares are also Federal Government, and subject to a public traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) share offering. GRI 4.6 and continue to be listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the Corporate Corporate and Sustainability Index of the BM&FBovespa governance structure GRI 4.1 (Índice de Sustentabilidade Empresarial ISE), Embraer’s corporate structure is geared towards which comprise companies with recognized maximizing the effectiveness of the Company’s sustainable management practices. GRI 2.6 management, by integrating operations and customer satisfaction functions, and always The Company’s chosen shareholding distribution seeking to meet local market needs in all the extends voting rights to all shareholders, without countries in which it operates. The governance distinction. The tag-along mechanism guarantees structure is made up of the Board of Directors all shareholders the same rights in the event of an and its three advisory committees (Strategy offer to buy the Company. However, the Brazilian Committee, Audit and Risk Committee, and Federal Government retains a special class Human Resources Committee), the Fiscal Board, of share, the golden share, which gives it veto the Board of Executive Officers, Internal Auditors powers over certain issues of strategic importance and Independent External auditory. Annual Report 2013 35 Corporate Structure Embraer Holding Embraer – Indústria Aeronáutica Embraer Aircraft Embraer Netherlands Embraer Spain Eugênio de Neiva Ltda. subsidiary Holding Inc. – B.V. subsidiary Holding Co. Melo branch USA subsidiary SL subsidiary Nossa Senhora de Embraer Asia Pacific Embraer – Fátima – branch Embraer PTE Ltd. subsidiary Harbin Embraer Gavião Peixoto Services Inc. Embraer Netherlands Aircraft Industry branch ECC do Brasil Participações Co. Ltd. (JV Ltd subsidiary Embraer Aircraft Liasion Office branch Embraer AVIC Embraer Customer Embraer Asia Pacific II) – China Brasília Embraer GPX Services Inc. branch Ltda. subsidiary ECC Investment ECC – Leasing Company Embraer Aircraft Switzerland, AG Ltd. Ireland Embraer – Pq. Division Gavião Peixoto Maintenance Tecnológico Services Inc. ECC Insurance Division São José Embraer CAE Training branch & Financial Co. dos Campos Services (UK) Ltd. Ltd. – Cayman Embraer Executive Embraer – Islands Eleb Equipamentos Jet Services, LLC Embraer China Aircraft Taubaté branch Ltda. subsidiary Technical Service Co. Ltd. Embraer Finance Embraer – Ltd. – Cayman Division Taubaté Embraer Executive EZ Air Interior Limited Campinas branch Islands – São Paulo Aircraft Inc. subsidiary Embraer Embraer – Netherlands Embraer Merco Belo Horizonte Embraer Embraer Training Ltd – EMS branch Representations Beijing Services, LCC Air Holding SGPS Uruguay Harbin Ltd Portugal Embraer Embraer São Embraer Embraer Paulo – Iguatemi Representations, CAE Training OGMA – Indústria branch LLP subsidiary Services, LCC Aeronáutica de Portugal Ltd Embraer Embraer Credit Ltd. – Embraer Embraer Portugal SGPS Ltd São Paulo – ECL, LLC subsidiary Engineering Nações Unidas & Technology Embraer Portugal branch Embraer Defesa Center USA, Estruturas Metálicas Ltd & Segurança Inc. subsidiary Botucatu – Participações Embraer Portugal Estruturas Alcides Cagliari Ltd subsidiary Aero Seating em Compósitos Ltd branch Technology, Atech Negócios LLC subsidiary Embraer Aviation Botucatu – em Tecnologia Europe – EAE – Holding – N. Sra. de Fátima Ltd subsidiary Embraer Defense France subsidiary branch and Security, Inc. Bradar Indústria Ltd. subsidiary Embraer Aviation Embraer – Embraer Overseas International – EAI – France Faria Lima branch Orbisat Ltd. – Cayman Aerolevantamento Islands subsidiary Embraer Europe Embraer – Ltd. subsidiary SARL France Sorocaba branch AEL Sistemas Ltd Embraer Europe’s Embraer – Rio subsidiary Representative de Janeiro branch Harpia Sistemas Office Dubai Ltd subsidiary England branch Visiona Tecnologia Embraer Europe SARL Espacial Ltd subsidiary Embraer Austrália Pty Visiona International, BV Limited subsidiary Savis Tecnologia e Sistemas Ltd subsidiary 36 embraer Composition of Board of Directors Elected in the General Meeting on 25th April, 2013 01 02 03 04 05 06 01 Alexandre Gonçalves Silva 07 08 09 Chairman 02 Sergio Eraldo de Salles Pinto Vice-chairman 03 Antonio Franciscangelis Neto 04 Arno Hugo Augustin Filho 05 Ernani de Almeida Ribeiro Junior 06 Israel Vainboim 07 João Cox Neto 08 Josué Christiano Gomes da Silva 09 Paulo Roberto de Oliveira 10 Samir Zraick 11 Vitor Paulo Camargo Gonçalves 10 11 Annual Report 2013 37 Board of Directors GRI 4.1, 4.3, 4.4, 4.7 supervising the quality of financial reporting The Board of Directors defines guidelines, goals, and compliance with legal and regulatory budgets, and investment plans; it also approves requirements. In addition, the Committee the Company’s Strategic and Action Plans. makes recommendations for the selection of During its two-year mandate, the Board also the external audit company and supervises its monitors the Company’s performance, appoints activities, among other functions. independent auditors, decides on stock issues and bonuses, elects and dismisses members Human Resources Committee: provides support of the Board of Executive Officers, and keeps to the Board of Directors in selecting and dismissing checks on management. Company directors, defining their respective functions, setting remuneration and human It comprises 11 active members, 7 of them resources policies, administering the Company’s independent. The Brazilian Government share option programs and recommending the names one member and employees allocation of funds to employee associations and nominate two others: a representative of the charities, and to leisure and private retirement Embraer Employee Investment Club (Clube plans. de Investimentos dos Empregados Embraer CIEMB) and another elected directly by nonFiscal Board shareholding employees. Since 2010, Embraer This committee is made up of a minimum of has been implementing procedures to evaluate three and a maximum of five active members the Board’s and its members’ performance; along with an equal number of alternates the evaluation assesses individual and (shareholders or otherwise). Members are group contributions to achieving established elected to one-year terms in an Ordinary General objectives and ensuring excellent corporate Meeting. The Fiscal Board reports directly to the governance. General Meeting, and is charged with overseeing administrative management, through regular Auxiliary committees GRI 4.1, 4.7, 4.9, 4.11 quarterly meetings or extraordinary meetings to Strategy Committee: keeps track of Company evaluate financial statements. administration and results and is responsible for assisting the Board of Directors in formulation . of the Strategic Plan and the Action Plan, Composition of the Fiscal Board with a focus on objectives, macro projects, elected on 16th April 2014 GRI 4.2 and evaluation of potential new business Ivan Mendes do Carmo President opportunities. Eduardo Coutinho Guerra Vice-President Nelson de Menezes Filho Audit and Risk Committee: assists in identifying José Mauro Laxe Vilela FB Member and managing business risks inherent to Taiki Hirashima the Company’s activities; adapting risk management models, guidelines, and policies, and verifying managerial and accounting information released to the public and to regulatory agencies – this includes 38 embraer Composition of Board of Executive Officers With effect from 28th February 2014 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 01 Frederico Pinheiro Fleury Curado President & CEO 02 Artur Aparecido Valério Coutinho Executive Vice President, Operations (COO) 03 Jackson Medeiros de Farias Schneider Executive Vice President, Defense & Security 04 José Antonio de Almeida Filippo Executive Vice President, Finance and Investor Relations (CFO) 05 Marco Tulio Pellegrini Executive Vice President, Executive Aviation 06 Mauro Kern Junior Executive Vice President, Engineering and Technology 07 Paulo Cesar de Souza e Silva Executive Vice President, Commercial Aviation 08 Terena Penteado Rodrigues Executive Vice President & General Counsel Annual Report 2013 39 Board of Executive Officers related, for example, to the development of especially The Board of Executive Officers is responsible for managing innovative products; to the global economic crisis; the Company in accordance with the Strategic Plan and the increased trade barriers in foreign markets; the scarcity Action Plan. It is appointed by the Board of Directors to a twoof credit in the international financial markets; and rising year mandate, and is supported by several management costs in Brazil due to inflation, an overvalued currency committees such as the Sustainability, Ethics, Financial (Brazilian Real), and a rising tax burden. Accordingly, risk Management and Environmental Risks committees. It can management and planning for the aviation sector require also call on specialized consultancies and audit firms. constant monitoring of the main trends in the market. It is evaluated by the Board of Directors and rewarded according to market benchmarks and the fulfillment of the Embraer provides stakeholders with advance notice of economic-financial, operational, and socio-environmental any issues that could present a risk to the Company’s goals set out in the Action Plan. GRI 4.10 operations and brand. Risk management GRI 1.2, 4.11 Operational Led by the Company’s top tiers of governance, Embraer’s Operational risks involve possible losses (of production, risk management operation is geared towards maintaining assets, customers or income) resulting from faults, transparency and safety and ensuring the long-term shortcomings or inadequacies of internal processes, security of the Company’s operations and resources. people and systems, as well as external events such as natural disasters. Following several important advances, Embraer’s risk management has achieved significant maturity in global Financial terms. These advances include the completion in 2013 Financial risks are those associated with exposures from of a review – conducted in partnership with a specialized financial operations. The Company has a duty to ensure consultancy – of the principal risks inherent to the Company’s cash flows are administered effectively, in order to business. The Company also established a mechanism to maximize operational cash flow, manage risks and returns increase the visibility of these risks, in addition to mapping specific to financial transactions, and raise and apply respective mitigation actions and introducing risk indicators financial resources according to established policies. as governance tools. In addition, an external audit highlighted significant advances in the overall consolidation The Company’s Financial Management Committee of controls and procedures relevant to financial statements, analyzes and issues positions on the outlook for market and in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Law. production trends and any situations that imply a potential financial exposure for the Company, always in accordance The management and corporate governance practices with the Financial Management policy approved by the adopted by Embraer are applicable to all the Group’s Board of Directors. companies in Brazil and abroad, including joint ventures. Risks are categorized into strategic, operational, regulatory, Regulatory/legal and financial. The next section provides a short explanation Embraer operates in all stages of the aircraft manufacturing of each: process, from project development to after-sales support, adhering strictly to the relevant industry regulations. GRI PR1 Strategic Strategic risks are associated with senior management decisions that have the potential to cause a substantial decline in the Company’s economic value. They may be 40 embraer In the environmental sphere, Embraer assesses its operations in search of opportunities to mitigate the effects of global warming and of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, for example by controlling consumption, adjusting its energy mix, applying new technologies, and developing new products. gri ec2, EN26 In 2013 the main business executives, along with the CFO and the President & CEO, completed a review of Embraer’s overall risk assessment materials. Independent The Company has also been fully cooperating with the auditors US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the US Department of Justice (DOJ) in the ongoing investigation In fulfillment of the Brazilian into possible noncompliance with the US Foreign Corrupt Security and Exchange Practices Act (FCPA). Outside attorneys were hired to Commission’s directive no. conduct the process independently. They are in regular 381/03, in 2013 Embraer contact with both agencies, and provide them with retained KPMG Independent documents and information as requested. Auditors to carry out functions unrelated to the external audit Policies (these consisted of tax reviews). Embraer ensures that all its employees are familiar with Its fees totaled R$ 612,600, its corporate policies. These are closely aligned with the equivalent to around 8% of Company’s values and with the best market practices. the consolidated honorariums Some of these policies are briefly outlined below: incurred for the external audits of Embraer and its controlled Risk Management Policy companies. Given the restricted Embraer’s risk management directives are described scope and specific nature of the in its Risk Management Policy. Approved in 2013 by the procedures carried out, these Audit and Risk Committee and the Board of Directors, this services do not impinge on the is expected to guide the work of the Risk Management external auditors’ independence and Internal Controls department for the next few years. and objectivity. Risk management policies are based on the best market practices and guidelines from the Brazilian Institute of Corporate Governance (Instituto Brasileiro de Governança Corporativa IBGC), the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO II), and ISO 31000, among others. Financial Management Policy Approved by the Board of Directors, the Policy contains the guidelines for administering Company finances related to cash flow and capital structure. Key indicators are Annual Report 2013 41 monitored and reported to the Financial Management products and services retain their competitive edge; Committee, the Board of Executive Officers, the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board of Directors. • Ensuring the protection and registration of intellectual property resulting from knowledge and innovation Human Resources Policy generated in the Company; This communicates the Company’s thinking and position on the treatment of its greatest asset: its people. Across all • Extracting the economic value embodied in intellectual the countries where the Company operates, anyone with property, with a focus on increasing the competitiveness responsibility for managing people must ensure the policy of distinctively different and innovative products, is applied in all business-related situations. processes, and services, as well as taking advantage of new business opportunities. Quality Policy Embraer is certified under ISO 9001 and AS 9100 Environmental and Occupational (international standards for Quality Management Systems Health and Safety Policy GRI 4.8, 4.11 for Aviation, Space, and Defense Organizations). The Updated in 2013, Embraer’s Environmental and implementation of the Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Occupational Health and Safety Policy seeks to ensure that Program (P3E) since 2007 has also entailed a further all Company operations are environmentally sustainable, tightening of these standards. safe and healthy (read more in the chapter “We build a sustainable future”). Its directives envisage continuous The Quality Policy’s chief directives are as follows: improvement and investment in employees’ skills; compliance with environmental and occupational health • Design, produce, and support high-quality products with and safety legislation; and the adoption of preventive adequate safety standards; practices, corrective actions and innovative solutions. • Focus on preventive measures; Flight Safety Policy GRI 4.11 This policy encourages a rigorous commitment to building • Ensure that all employees know, understand, and adhere ever-safer aircraft that exceed national and international to the quality standards in their work in a responsible certification standards. Employees are incentivized to report manner; risk situations, ensure that results data get to the relevant people, and that necessary changes are made to ensure • Ensure the continuous improvement of all business fulfillment of safety recommendations. processes with a view to customer satisfaction, through the involvement of employees and teams at all levels. Intellectual Property Management Policy Embraer is conscious of the need to protect the rights and results of its intellectual creations, such as inventions, industrial drawings, brands, processes, systems, software and products. In its Intellectual Property Management Policy, the Company commits itself to, for example: • Incentivizing innovation and creativity to promote technological development and ensure the Company’s 42 embraer Participation in initiatives World Economic Forum (WEF), the Aviation Working Group and associations GRI 4.12, 4.13, SO5 (AWG), and the Air Transport Action Group (ATAG), among Embraer looks to engage in discussions affecting civil society, others. Finally, it also keeps track of relevant issues at as well as contributing to the formulation of public policies the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), the that touch on issues of direct relevance to the business, World Trade Organization (WTO) and the Organization for always in keeping with its Compliance Program and Code Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). of Ethics and Conduct. It is an active participant and a vocal advocate of sectorial demands in the Technology Supply chain Park Association (Associação do Parque Tecnológico) of In selecting its suppliers, Embraer considers issues such São José dos Campos, the Aerospace Industries Association as price competitiveness, quality, reliability, technical and of Brazil (Associação das Indústrias Aeroespaciais do Brasil productive capacity, socio-environmental responsibility, AIAB) and the Paulista Eastern Cone Innovation and financial health, logistics, risks, certifications and Competitiveness Center (Centro para Competitividade experience. Supplier contract models signed by Embraer e Inovação do Cone Leste Paulista CECOMPI). When it include clauses that establish the supplier´s obligation to comes to Brazilian industry more broadly, Embraer is active comply with relevant legislation and socioenvironmental in the National Industry Confederation (Confederação standards, and prohibit the use of child and forced labor. Nacional da Indústria CNI), the São Paulo State Industries In 2013 no suppliers were dropped or posed risks of Federation (Federação das Indústrias do Estado de São human rights violations or use of child or forced labor. Paulo FIESP) and the Industrial Development Studies Institute (Instituto de Estudos para o Desenvolvimento Industrial IEDI). Supply chain management entails the use of tools such as: a Score Card for monthly monitoring of indicators; a Among the initiatives to which Embraer subscribes or of joint action plan in which Embraer executives and suppliers which it forms part, the most important are the UN’s Global discuss strategic issues that might affect operations; and Compact, the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program (of which Risk Assessment, to monitor supply risks and conduct inEmbraer is a founding member), the Carbon Disclosure person audits of the supplier’s factory floor. Project (CDP) and the Latin American Companies Circle. Supply chain development Embraer is also a member of the Brazilian Institute of Through the National Supplier Development Program Corporate Governance (Instituto Brasileiro de Governança (Programa de Desenvolvimento de Fornecedores Corporativa IBGC), the Brazilian Association of Public Nacionais PDF), Embraer invests in capacity building in Companies (Associação Brasileira das Companhias its supply chain. Developed in the classroom, the initiative Abertas ABRASCA), the Brazilian Investor Relations Institute entails modules such as: business leadership, strategic (Instituto Brasileiro de Relações com Investidores IBRI), planning, financial management, project management, and the National Investors’ Institute (Instituto Nacional de inventory management and people management, Investidores INI). among others. In addition, Embraer participates in organizations that Practical capacity building takes place during Kaizen seek to widen understanding of the international agenda. Weeks for Suppliers, attended by relevant staff in the supply These include the Brazilian Foreign Trade Association area. In addition, suppliers are encouraged to carry out (Associação de Comércio Exterior do Brasil AEB), the Independent Kaizens—in 2013 there were 386 Kaizens. Brazilian International Relations Center (Centro Brasileiro de Practical implementation is achieved via a tool based on Relações Internacionais CEBRI), the Brazil China Business the SAE J4000 standard, which outlines and guides best Council (Conselho Empresarial Brasil China CEBC), the practices with suppliers and clients. Annual Report 2013 43 Compliance Conforming to the highest international standards of good practice as well as local and international legislation, Embraer strengthened its Compliance program with a focus on promoting anti-corruption efforts and export controls. The Compliance Directory, which acts independently and Contact points – Channel for reports directly to the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board lodging complaints: Helpline GRI 4.4 of Directors, is responsible for the management of this program. Embraer intranet: accessible to all employees It is focused on continuously improving processes, training employees and promoting a culture of ethics and business Embraer website (www.embraer.com): icon integrity in internal and external interactions. “Ethics and Compliance”, Helpline section or by calling one of the following numbers: Ethics and transparency GRI 4.8 Brazil: 0800-721-5968 Embraer’s Code of Ethics and Conduct ensures the Company’s Portugal: 800-180-118 commitment to best practices in accounting and corporate USA: 1-877-900-8779 transparency and integrity. Based on the Company’s values and the principles of the Global Compact, the document is available Singapore: 800-130-2122 in Portuguese, English, French and Mandarin. It is distributed to China: 400-120-4946 all the Company’s employees and those of its subsidiaries in France: 0805-080608 Brazil and overseas at the time of hiring or whenever there is a new update. The Code of Ethics and Conduct is available for Percentage of employees (and total consultation on www.embraer.com by clicking on the “Ethics and number) trained in anti-corruption Compliance” icon. procedures (%)1 GRI SO3 2011 2012 2013 Embraer also has a Helpline, responsible for gathering, Managers 100%** (1,152) 1.49% 3.43% recording, evaluating, and discussing complaints received Non (240) (617) 51.05% (9,520) from all sources, permitting anybody to report possible violations managers of the Code of Ethics and Conduct, corporate governance 1 Percentages are based on the following employee totals: 17.265 (2011); 17.970 (September 2012); 18.650 (2013). practices or legislation. An independent company administers ** As anticipated in 2013, the Company fulfilled the goal of the Helpline; this ensures the anonymity and confidentiality of training 100% of the employees working in areas of highest risk complaints. exposure. In addition, 96% of employees were trained in the Code of Ethics and Conduct that addresses the anti-corruption theme in one of its chapters. In 2014, Embraer aims to carry out In 2013 the Ethics Committee evaluated 176 complaints, of phase II of its anti-corruption training, covering 100% of managwhich 26% were deemed valid. In terms of complaints relating ers and all employees working in areas of highest risk exposure. to discrimination, the Company logged four in 2013; however after proper analysis, they were judged to be unfounded. GRI HR4 Also in 2013, Embraer implemented an anti-corruption policy and became an active member of the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI), as well as being a signatory to the UN’s Global Compact. 44 embraer During the course of the year Embraer carried out a risk assessment analysis focusing on corruption-related risks across all its units, subsidiaries and majority-owned companies. In addition, 96% of employees were trained on the Code of Ethics and Conduct, to which they individually and formally adhere; and 100% of leaders underwent training on anticorruption policies and legislation. Asset Evaluation method Monitoring of positive and negative The goal for 2014 is to sustain materials relating to Embraer brand continuous improvement in this Favorability index of Brand area through the Company’s Organizational Environment ethics and compliance program, Inclusion in Bovespa and Dow Jones sustainability indices (ISE and DJSI) with a strengthening of training programs and risk monitoring; a Monitoring activities index in Practice Communities tightening of policies and controls; Knowledge Maturity of Practice Communities and participation in organizations Index of knowledge recycling that support initiatives to combat Portfolio of invention patents corruption and promote corporate Intellectual Portfolio of industrial design patents integrity. GRI SO2 Property Portfolio of trade secrets Organizational environment survey Intangible assets Ranking of best places to work A process of identifying intangible People Competency evaluation – annual cycle assets and according them priority Feedback on training programs attention forms part of the annual Evaluation of results review cycle for Embraer’s Strategic Annual leadership cycle Plan. All the Company’s actions, Performance evaluations based on its six values, are also Leadership 360-degree assessments geared towards the strengthening of Assessment committee these assets: brand value, people (employees and leadership) and the intellectual property and knowledge generated by its innovations. The following table sets out the methods used for the periodic evaluation of these assets. Annual Report 2013 45 Awards and recognition GRI 2.10 Award Awarding organization Category Época Negócios 360º Época magazine Industry Leader in the Vehicles and Autoparts Sector annual ranking Best and Biggest Exame magazine Company of the Year for 2012. Top Vale O Vale newspaper Industry of the City – Vale do Paraíba Region. The Most Admired Carta Capital magazine One of the top ten most admired Brazilian companies. Companies in Brazil Viracopos Prize for Viracopos Airport Operator (ABV) Nominated The Best Importer Logistical Excellence 35th place in the general ranking of 1,000 Biggest Companies and Valor 1000 Valor Econômico newspaper 4th place in the final classification of the vehicles and parts sector. Ranked among the top 100 Brazilian Reputação Corporativa Merco (Business Monitor of Corporate Reputation) companies measured by reputation. Fipecafi (Institution/Foundation for Accounting, Actuarial and Financial Research) Serasa Experian (research Classified as one of Brazil’s most transparent companies Transparency Trophy and investment data)– Anefac (National Association of due to the quality of its financial statements. Finance, Administration and Accountancy Executives) th 15 ABRASCA prize for ABRASCA (the Brazilian Association of Public Companies) Considered one of Brazil’s 10 best annual reports Best Annual Report The Best in Social and Environmental Responsibility, The best of Dinheiro Isto É!Dinheiro magazine Fourth in Vehicles and Autoparts Sector National Innovation Award CNI (National Industry Confederation) Technological Innovation Projects. th 5 Brazilian Congress for CNI / SEBRAE Value Chain innovation. Innovation in Industry Best in People The Best Brazilian Company in People Management Valor Econômico newspaper Management (“More than 15,000 employees” Category) Best Places to Work Great Place to Work Institute and Época magazine Nominated one of the best places to work in Brazil. Guide to the Best Você S/A and Exame magazines Nominated one of the top 150 companies to work for. Places to Work Guide to the Best Places Você S/A magazine Elected the best company at which to start a career. to Start a Career Best Companies to Work Great Place to Work Institute Nominated one of the best companies to work for in Latin America. for in Latin America Best Companies to Embraer was voted one of Florida’s Best Florida Trend Magazine Work for in Florida Companies to Work for in 2013 46 embraer Economic-Financial Performance GRI EC1 In 2013 Embraer met and in some Revenue by business unit and cases surpassed its published targets geographical region for annual revenue, operating margin In 2013 Commercial Aviation’s net revenue (EBIT) and EBITDA. reached R$ 7,186.4 million, 3% lower than in 2012. However, Executive Aviation recorded Net revenue and revenue of R$ 3,658.7 million, up 41% on the gross margin previous year. Defense & Security achieved net revenue of R$ 2,601.0 million, a 25% increase Net revenue for the year totaled R$ on the year-earlier period. Other activities 13,635.8 million (US$ 6,235.0 million) in generated revenue of R$ 189.6 million. 2013, according to Company estimates. This was a 12% increase on 2012, when The North American market, which had been net revenue summed R$ 12,180.5 million. losing ground in Embraer’s revenue mix since NET REVENUE BY SEGMENT R$ Billions 2009, recovered its leading position, accounting Embraer delivered 215 aircraft during the for 29% of total sales. Reflecting the economic 9.86 1% 12.2 1% 13.63 1% year, slightly below the 221 delivered in crisis in Europe, the European market’s revenue 15% 17% 19% 2012. Even so, revenue grew as a result share fell to 22%. China’s share fell to 6% while 19% 21% 27% of several factors, such as: the Asia Pacific and Latin America regions rose to 9% and 8% respectively. In relative terms, 65% 61% • Exchange rate fluctuations during the growth of sales in Brazil were the strongest and 53% period had a positive impact on revenues the home market accounted for 21% of the expressed in Brazilian Reals; Company’s total revenues in 2013. Commercial Aviation Executive Aviation • An increased number of Executive During the year, Embraer’s export sales Defense & Security Aviation deliveries and a change in totaled US$ 4,136.7 million, making the Other the product and service mix, with an Company Brazil’s seventh largest exporter increased share of large executive jets, and an important support to the country’s NET REVENUE BY REGION R$ Billions Legacy and Lineage, at higher sales trade balance. 9.86 12.2 13.63 values than light Phenom jets; 5% 7% 9% Operational results and 9% 5% 9% • Revenue growth of the Defense & operational margin (EBIT) 11% 14% 6% 8% 3% Security business unit. In 2013 the Company recorded an operational 11% 14% 21% result and margin of R$1,605.8 million (US$ 17% The gross margin was 22.7%, 1.5 713.4 million) and 11.8% respectively. Both 31% 22% percentage points lower than in 2012, figures were improvements on the Company’s 25% principally because of a change in the initial estimates for the year. The 32% increase 24% 29% product mix in Commercial Aviation; in the operational result relative to 2012 is 20% it increased deliveries of the E175 explained principally by the rise in net revenue, North America aircraft, which has a lower price point the appreciation of the US Dollar relative to the Europe than the E190 and E195 models. Brazilian Real, an improvement in operational Brazil efficiency thanks to the Embraer Entrepreneurial South and Central America China Excellence Program (P3E) and the reversal of Asia Pacific provisions relating to financial guarantees in Africa & Middle East Annual Report 2013 47 2013 Estimates Net Revenue (US$) EBIT (US$) EBITDA (US$) 5.9 – 6.4 530 – 610 770 – 900 billion million EBIT Margin 9.0% – 9.5% million EBITDA Margin 13.0% – 14.0% connection with American Airlines’ bankruptcy proceedings; Net income and earnings per share the airline company successfully exited bankruptcy Embraer’s net profit in 2013 was R$ 777.7 million, an proceedings in December 2013. increase of 11% on 2012. Profits per share were R$ 1.0668. Investment in research totaled R$ 158.1 million (US$ 74.7 Financial indicators million) in 2013 and was below the Company’s original Embraer ended fiscal 2013 with a solid cash flow, expectations of US$100 million, despite full achievement expressed in a net cash position of R$ 1,005.5 million, of operational targets. Commercial expenses came to R$ 59% higher than the previous year and outweighing 978.8 million, 4% higher than in 2012 primarily because of indebtedness. This increase was due principally to the high the appreciation of the US Dollar. level of deliveries and the strong generation of free cash flow in the final quarter of the year; free cash flow ended In spite of the annual salary adjustment concluded at the year at R$ 568.1 million. Embraer’s total cash position the end of 2012, which increased payroll disbursements rose by R$ 1,292.2 million to stand at R$ 6,146.1 million in the Company’s Brazilian operations by around 6%, at the end of 2013. administrative expenses declined by 17% to R$ 453.7 million, equivalent to 3.3% of annual revenue, compared Embraer closed the year with gross indebtedness of R$ to 4.5% in 2012. 5,140.6 million, 22% higher than the year earlier owing to an increase in long-term borrowing. In September Other operating expenses totaled R$ 100.6 million in 2013, 2013, the Company carried out a successful debt owing principally to the one-off effect of the reversion of exchange operation, in which US$ 146.4 million of provisions of US$147 million related to AMR’s bankruptcy bonds maturing in 2017 and US$ 337.2 million maturing proceedings. in 2020 were exchanged for new paper maturing in 2023. The exchange extended the average maturity of EBITDA reached R$ 2,239.1 million (US$ 1,004.0 million) in the Company’s debt, taking it to 6.2 years. As a result 2013, 27% higher than in 2012, and the EBITDA margin was of the operation, the cost of debt held in US Dollar fell 16.4%; both surpassed original Company estimates. from 6.10% to 5.81% a year, and the cost of debt denominated in Brazilian Real rose from 4.7% to 6.17% In 2013, Embraer recorded net financial expenses of per year. R$ 221.4 million, significantly higher than the previous year, primarily because of a US$98 million repurchase of part of Embraer’s cash allocation strategy continues to be one its exposure in Residual Value Guarantees (RVGs) related to of its main tools for mitigating exchange rate risk. First, by the ERJ 145 family. achieving a balance of assets denominated in Real and 48 embraer Dollar, the Company seeks to neutralize the impact Consolidated R$ million 2013 2012 2011 of its exchange-rate exposure on the balance Revenue 15,163.1 13,094.6 10,403.1 sheet. At the end of 2013, the proportion of cash Inputs Acquired from Third Parties (9,968.8) (8,774.6) (7,691.6) held in each currency was exactly 50%. Second, Gross Value Added 5,194.3 4,320.0 2,711.5 the Company carries out exchange-rate hedging Depreciation and Amortization (633.3) (545.7) (401.2) Net Value Added Produced by the Company 4,561.0 3,774.3 2,310.3 operations to manage its exposure to cash flow Value Added Received in Transfer 345.3 276.8 268.5 denominated in Brazilian Real. In 2014, nearly 60% Total Value Added for Distribution 4,906.3 4,051.1 2,578.8 of Real-denominated cash flow is hedged. Distribution of Value Added 4,906.3 4,051.1 2,578.8 Staff 2,368.5 2,089.5 1,357.9 Inventories ended the year at R$ 5,358.3 million, Government (taxes, levies and contributions) 1,126.0 977.8 612.8 up 22% on the previous year largely owing to the Interest payments and rents 625.4 284.8 436.8 Interest on own capital and dividends 202.1 182.5 226.2 appreciation of the US Dollar during the period; Retained profits/losses 575.6 515.3 (69.9) otherwise inventories would have increased by 6% Participation of non-controllers 8.7 1.2 15.0 in real terms. Inventory turnover was largely stable at 2.0 in line with operational requirements and the Company’s production cycle. Taxes and social contributions The taxes, social contributions, and municipal, state and federal The 22% increase in gross indebtedness was fully fees that measure part of Embraer’s contribution to society compensated by an increase in net equity, resulting totaled R$ 1,126.0 million in fiscal 2013. in the gross debt to equity ratio remaining stable at 0.6. Total assets rose by 23% and asset turnover Capital market remained stable at 0.6. Return on Assets (ROA) Embraer’s shares have been listed on the New Market (Novo Mercado) and Return on Equity (ROE) were 3.3% and 9.1% of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (Bolsa de Valores de São Paulo respectively, virtually stable on the previous year. BM&FBovespa) since 1989 and on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) via American Depositary Receipts (ADRs), level III, since 2000. Value-added Statement (VAS) GRI EC1 The purpose of the VAS is to show the wealth Embraer In 2013, Embraer continued to be listed in the theoretical portfolios of generates and distributes to stakeholder groups the Brazil Index (Índice Brasil IBrX) as well as in the Special Corporate represented by shareholders, employees, financial Governance Stock Index (Índice de Ações com Governança institutions and the municipal, state and federal Corporativa IGC), the Special Tag Along Stock Index (Índice de governments. Added value totaled R$ 4,906.3 million Ações com Tag Along Diferenciado ITAG), the Industrial Sector Index and represented 36% of net revenue in 2013. (Índice do Setor Industrial INDX) and the Bovespa Value Index 2nd line (Índice Valor Bovespa 2ª Linha IVBX-2). In addition, the Company Annual Report 2013 49 re-joined Bovespa’s IBrX50 portfolio and the 2014 Corporate Sustainability dividends distributed Index (Índice de Sustentabilidade Empresarial ISE). R$ Million 116% 26% 26% In the US, for the fourth consecutive year, Embraer was selected for inclusion in the 2013/2014 Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). 181 182 202 Embraer’s shares (EMBR3) traded on the BM&FBovespa at R$ 18.89 at the end of 2013, 31% higher than at the close of the previous year, 2011 2012 2013 while the overall index was down 15% over the same period. The dividends American Depositary Shares (ADS) of the Company (ERJ) listed on the payout NYSE traded at US$ 32.18 at the end of the year, up 13%, compared to a 27% rise in the Dow Jones index. Embraer’s market capitalization reached US$ 5.9 billion at the end of 2013, up from US$ 5.3 billion a year earlier. Distribution of controlling company results and shareholder remuneration In 2013, Embraer distributed R$ 202.2 million to its shareholders, comprising R$ 153.2 million of interest on own capital and R$ 49 million in dividends. This represented a payout of 26% of consolidated net profits of R$ 777.7 million. Profits per share were R$ 1.07. ERJ – NYSE performance EMBR3 – BM&FBOVESPA performance 01/01/2013 = 100 01/01/2013 = 100 embraer embraer 140 140 120 120 100 100 nyse 80 80 60 60 BM&FBOVESPA 40 40 20 20 0 0 1-13 2-13 3-13 4-13 5-13 6-13 7-13 8-13 9-13 10-13 11-13 12-13 1-13 2-13 3-13 4-13 5-13 6-13 7-13 8-13 9-13 10-13 11-13 12-13 50 embraer Annual Report 2013 51 Boldness and innovation are our hallmarks 52 embraer Innovating for growth Thanks to a culture and internal procedures strongly geared towards stimulating innovation, Embraer is known for being fertile in cutting edge technologies Continuous innovation is what keeps Embraer among the biggest companies in the global aviation sector. Each year, the Company creates new initiatives designed to spur its employees onto new ideas, always providing the support to implement them. The Innovation Policy and the Innovation Management Model contain, respectively, the principles and requirements for Embraer’s innovation processes. The Company’s chief tool for instilling a fertile internal atmosphere and stimulating innovation-oriented activities is the Innova program, which provides mechanisms and physical spaces that favor the development and consolidation of innovative ideas. Embraer also has a team dedicated exclusively to researching and making viable new technologies and processes that might add value to the Company. On average, this team develops 40 to 50 projects a year, based on a periodic analysis of market needs and the global technological environment. Incentive programs Innova works through both spontaneous and stimulated innovation. In the case of the first, the Green Light program evaluates innovative proposals submitted voluntarily by employees. When a proposal is approved, its proponents receive time and resources to develop their projects. The Innova Challenge program works to stimulate innovation: managers set a challenge for their subordinates, who then work together to devise and flesh out possible solutions. The 12 challenges launched in 2013 generated 539 ideas. Based on these ideas, 24 prototypes went into a final implementation phase in 7 innovation projects. Annual Report 2013 53 NATIONAL INNOVATION AWARD An Embraer innovation won the Technological Innovation Project category of the National Innovation Prize awarded jointly by the Brazilian National Industry Confederation (CNI), Brazilian Support Service for Small and Micro Enterprises (SEBRAE) and the Competitive Brazil Movement (Movimento Brasil Competitivo). The winning project was Embraer’s new AHEAD-PRO Aircraft Health Analysis and Diagnosis system. This preventive monitoring system was created to provide constant real-time updates on the operating condition of the aircraft’s components. 54 embraer The Innovation Reward Program is a new (Universidade Federal de São Carlos initiative established in 2013. On the UFSCar), with financial support from principle that all successful innovations the São Paulo Research Foundation should be recognized and celebrated, (Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do systematic procedures were set up Estado de São Paulo FAPESP) and Innovation in figures to capture, analyze and reward such the federal government’s Funding achievements. In 2013, 235 people were recognized for 95 innovations, both spontaneous and stimulated. Authority for Studies and Projects (Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos FINEP). The main results of the project were the generation of knowledge and 34% of Embraer’s net income A collaborative building of in-house skills for developing was generated by environment passenger-focused aircraft interiors, innovations put into effect Embraer also continues to operate its along with the creation in USP of a new between 2009 and 2013 Good Idea Program, which encourages Center for Engineering Comfort (CEC). 12,400 employees to submit suggestions for ways to improve performance on operational Embraer also signed a partnership with safety, ergonomics and the environment. UFSCar and the National Paralympic In 2013 the Program celebrated its 25th Committee for the Universal Cabin innovations implemented year of operation, with a total of 50 project; this aims to facilitate the in 2013 thousand new ideas put into practice. collection of data through monitoring 227 the travel and day-to-day activities Of the 13,074 ideas put forward during of athletes with physical or visual 2013, 7,660 were put into practice, impairments. generating cost savings of close patents were applied for to US$ 34.1 million. In addition to these activities, between 2009 and 2013 Embraer also participates actively in The knowledge-creation discussions with leading business and 91 network government figures to strengthen As well as developing new technologies public policies around the National in house, Embraer has a program Innovation System, so as to able to co-ordinate and execute encourage technological innovation patents were awarded multidisciplinary projects in partnership in the corporate sector and research between 2009 and 2013 with teaching and research institutes into emerging technologies. in Brazil and overseas; these projects operate as a knowledge network. Product Lifecycle Management An example is the Cabin Comfort In 2013 Embraer launched a project and Design project, developed in to modernize its Product Lifecycle partnership with São Paulo University Management (PLM) program. (Universidade de São Paulo USP), Advantages include a shortening of the Santa Catarina University (Universidade development cycle for new products and Federal de Santa Catarina UFSC) and the prospect that these enter operation the Federal University of São Carlos at a more advanced stage of maturity. Annual Report 2013 55 MATERIALS CONCEPT LAB In September 2013, Embraer inaugurated the Materials Concept Lab, at the Company’s facility in the Eugênio de Melo district in the region of São José dos Campos, Brazil. The lab carries out research into innovative and sustainable Brazilian materials that might be used in aircraft interiors, and possibly in the automobile industry. These environmentally low-impact materials include metals, ceramics, polymers, textiles and composites. 56 embraer Our people are what make us fly Annual Report 2013 57 58 embraer A good place to work Every year, Embraer invests in new tools and people management programs to ensure its staff achieve job satisfaction and uphold the Company’s values Embraer’s prime intangible assets Number of employees 2011 2012 2013 (*) by functional are its employees. Their intelligence, Male Female Male Female Male Female level GRI LA1 experience and individual contributions Director 65 5 60 6 84 7 are what keep the Company at the Manager 212 29 212 33 364 55 technological cutting edge and make Supervisor 575 58 592 56 670 68 it a global watchword for innovation. Pilot 89 0 85 0 104 0 With a view to retaining this talent, Engineer 2,871 368 3,083 416 3,642 526 which is so critical to preserving Professional 1,022 744 1,024 774 1,263 956 the Company’s competitiveness Technician 2,031 166 2,074 179 2,940 258 Administrative 437 256 461 282 487 387 and leadership, Embraer seeks to Operational 6,459 464 6,320 444 6,697 533 provide favorable working conditions, Trainee 40 2 45 51 38 40 professional development plans and Apprentice 64 32 86 42 104 55 quality of life and well-being. Total by gender 13,865 2,124 14,042 2,283 16,393 2,885 Total 15,989 16,325 19,278 The Company ended december *Figures include units in Brazil and abroad 2013 with 19,278 employees, of Personnel by type of 2011 2012 2013 (*) which 17,302 were based in Brazil contract GRI LA1 Male Female Male Female Male Female and 1,976 abroad. In Brazil, 99.3% Fixed term 264 90 of the employees are full time and Permanent 13,865 2,124 14,042 2,283 16,129 2,795 permanent. In addition, there were Total by gender 13,865 2,124 14,042 2,283 16,393 2,885 a further 2,370 employees in partlyTotal 15,989 16,325 19,278 owned or controlled subsidiaries at the *Figures include units in Brazil and abroad end of 2013. GRI LA1 Number of employees in partially-owned subsidiaries CHINA (Joint Venture) 216 OGMA (Portugal) 1,567 ECTS (US and UK) 41 Atech (Brazil) 212 OrbiSat (Brazil) 249 Harpia (Brazil) 5 Visiona (Brazil) 22 Savis (Brazil) 58 Total 2,370 Annual Report 2013 59 Hiring rate by gender (personnel hired/total personnel at end-period) GRI LA2 2012 2013 (*) Male Female Male Female Total by gender 4.70% 1.70% 8.89% 2.30% Total 6.50% 11.19% Employee turnover by gender (staff departures/ total personnel at end-period) GRI LA2 Total by gender 3.70% 0.90% 3.73% 0.88% Total 4.60% 4.61% *Figures refer to operations in Brazil and abroad Hiring 2013 (BRAZIL OPERATIONS) Employee departures 2013 (BRAZIL OPERATIONS) GRI LA2 Category Category Unit Area Male Female Overall Total Unit Male Female Overall Total Age Age 30 to 50 8 0.0% 1 0.01% 9 0.1% Up to 30 3 0.0% 3 0.0% 6 0.0% BHZ BHZ Up to 30 28 0.2% 4 0.02% 32 0.19% 30 to 50 1 0.0% 0.0% 1 0.0% BHZ Total 36 0.2% 5 0.03% 41 0.24% BHZ Total 4 0.0% 3 0.0% 7 0.0% Up to 30 49 0.3% 17 0.1% 66 0.4% 30 to 50 44 0.3% 13 0.08% 57 0.34% BOT BOT 30 to 50 41 0.2% 3 0.0% 44 0.3% Up to 30 192 1.1% 23 0.14% 215 1.28% Over 50 4 0.0% 0.0% 4 0.0% BOT Total 236 1.4% 36 0.21% 272 1.61% BOT Total 94 0.6% 20 0.1% 114 0.7% BSB Up to 30 0.0% 1 0.01% 1 0.01% Up to 30 39 0.2% 2 0.0% 41 0.2% BSB Total 0.0% 1 0.01% 1 0.01% GPX 30 to 50 49 0.3% 6 0.0% 55 0.3% 30 to 50 52 0.3% 6 0.04% 58 0.34% Over 50 7 0.0% 0.0% 7 0.0% GPX Over 50 3 0.0% 0.00% 3 0.02% GPX Total 95 0.6% 8 0.0% 103 0.6% Up to 30 170 1.0% 31 0.18% 201 1.19% Up to 30 115 0.7% 39 0.2% 154 0.9% GPX Total 225 1.3% 37 0.22% 262 1.55% SJK 30 to 50 177 1.1% 50 0.3% 227 1.3% 30 to 50 171 1.0% 51 0.30% 222 1.32% Over 50 68 0.4% 3 0.0% 71 0.4% SJK Over 50 8 0.0% 3 0.02% 11 0.07% SJK Total 360 2.1% 92 0.5% 452 2.7% Up to 30 7 0.0% 4 0.0% 11 0.1% Up to 30 603 3.6% 206 1.22% 809 4.80% TTE 30 to 50 5 0.0% 5 0.0% 10 0.1% SJK Total 782 4.6% 260 1.54% 1,042 6.18% Over 50 1 0.0% 2 0.0% 3 0.0% 30 to 50 11 0.1% 1 0.01% 12 0.07% SOD TTE Total 13 0.1% 11 0.1% 24 0.1% Up to 30 3 0.0% 1 0.01% 4 0.02% Overall 566 3.4% 134 0.8% 700 4.2% SOD Total 14 0.1% 2 0.01% 16 0.09% Total 30 to 50 2 0.0% 2 0.01% 4 0.02% TTE Up to 30 12 0.1% 10 0.06% 22 0.13% TTE Total 14 0.1% 12 0.07% 26 0.15% Overall 1,307 7.8% 353 2.09% 1,660 9.85% Total Hiring and turnover rates were calculated as a percentage of average total Embraer personnel in 2013. (16,856.67) 60 embraer Composition of groups responsible for corporate governance and distribution of personnel by functional category. gender. age. ethnicity and other diversity indicators¹ GRI LA13 2011 2012 2013 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Gender (%) – Each functional category must add up to 100% Board of Directors 100% 0% 100% 100% 0% 100% 100% 0% 100% Directors 93% 7% 100% 91% 9% 100% 89% 11% 100% Managers 88% 12% 100% 87% 13% 100% 86% 14% 100% Supervisors 91% 9% 100% 91% 9% 100% 92% 8% 100% Engineers 89% 11% 100% 88% 12% 100% 87% 13% 100% Pilots 100% 0% 100% 100% 0% 100% 100% 0% 100% Salespeople 100% 0% 100% 100% 0% 100% 100% 0% 100% Professionals 58% 42% 100% 57% 43% 100% 57% 43% 100% Administrative 63% 37% 100% 62% 38% 100% 58% 42% 100% Technicians 92% 8% 100% 92% 8% 100% 91% 9% 100% Operational 93% 7% 100% 92% 8% 100% 92% 8% 100% Trainees N/D N/D N/D N/D N/D N/D 59% 41% 100% Black (%) Managers 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 Supervisors 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 Engineers 0.09 0.01 0.10 0.12 0.01 0.13 0.12 0.02 0.14 Professionals 0.04 0.01 0.05 0.06 0.01 0.07 0.08 0.01 0.09 Administrative 0.05 0.01 0.06 0.03 0.06 0.09 0.04 0.03 0.07 Technicians 0.13 0.13 0.13 0.13 0.15 0.15 Operacionais 0.96 0.06 1.02 0.92 0.04 0.96 0.92 0.06 0.98 Asian (%) Directors 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 Managers 0.03 0.01 0.04 0.03 0.01 0.04 0.03 0.01 0.04 Supervisors 0.13 0.01 0.14 0.12 0.01 0.13 0.13 0.01 0.14 Engineers 1.21 0.08 1.29 1.19 0.09 1.28 1.09 0.09 1.18 Pilots 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.01 Salespeople 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 Professionals 0.19 0.15 0.34 0.17 0.15 0.32 0.14 0.14 0.28 Administrative 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.01 0.01 Technicians 0.35 0.03 0.38 0.31 0.02 0.33 0.26 0.01 0.27 Operational 0.13 0.01 0.14 0.15 0.01 0.16 0.12 0.01 0.12 Mixed race (%) Managers 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 Supervisors 0.11 0.01 0.12 0.10 0.01 0.11 0.11 0.01 0.12 Engineers 0.27 0.04 0.31 0.25 0.05 0.30 0.27 0.04 0.31 Professionals 0.11 0.05 0.16 0.13 0.06 0.19 0.12 0.06 0.18 Administrative 0.09 0.06 0.15 0.09 0.07 0.16 0.06 0.04 0.10 Technicians 0.51 0.05 0.56 0.51 0.05 0.56 0.44 0.05 0.49 Operational 2.07 0.16 2.23 1.92 0.14 2.06 1.81 0.12 1.93 Annual Report 2013 61 Composition of groups responsible for corporate governance and distribution of personnel by functional category. gender. age. ethnicity and other diversity indicators¹ 2011 2012 2013 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total White (%) Directors 0.39 0.03 0.42 0.36 0.04 0.40 0.34 0.04 0.38 Managers 1.28 0.17 1.45 1.25 0.19 1.44 1.10 0.17 1.27 Supervisors 3.35 0.34 3.69 3.38 0.32 3.70 3.33 0.31 3.65 Engineers 16.39 2.17 18.56 17.33 2.40 19.73 18.64 2.78 21.42 Pilots 0.54 0.54 0.50 0.50 0.45 0.45 Salespeople 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.05 0.03 0.03 Professionals 5.99 4.45 10.44 5.86 4.52 10.38 5.91 4.56 10.47 Administrative 2.58 1.53 4.11 2.98 1.92 4.90 2.55 1.84 4.39 Technicians 11.71 0.96 12.67 11.75 1.02 12.77 12.14 1.17 13.30 Operational 37.88 2.88 40.76 36.25 2.79 39.04 35.05 2.92 37.98 Indigenous Indian (%) Operational 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 Employees with disabilities (%) Directors 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 Managers 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.04 0.04 Supervisors 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.22 0.01 0.23 Engineers 0.60 0.01 0.61 0.57 0.01 0.58 0.54 0.01 0.55 Pilots 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.03 0.03 Salespeople 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 Professionals 0.24 0.05 0.29 0.23 0.05 0.28 0.25 0.03 0.28 Administrative 0.19 0.04 0.24 0.47 0.35 0.82 0.38 0.27 0.65 Technicians 0.83 0.02 0.85 0.77 0.02 0.79 0.72 0.02 0.74 Operational 2.21 0.03 2.24 2.02 0.06 2.08 1.85 0.07 1.92 4 Total 4.43 ² 0.16 4.58 ³ 4.40 0.48 4.89 4.05 0.61 4.46 Age Group (%) – Each category must sum to 100% Under 30 30 to 50 Over 50 Under 30 30 to 50 Over 50 Under 30 30 to 50 Over 50 Brazil Male 83.77 87.38 94.07 82.22 86.77 94.31 81.47 86.24 93.81 Female 16.23 12.62 5.93 17.78 13.23 5.69 18.53 13.76 6.19 Outside Brazil Male 23.87 21.13 11.20 80.97 79.26 88.62 82.06 78.52 87.27 Female 76.13 78.87 88.80 19.03 20.74 11.38 17.94 21.48 12.73 1 Data refer to Brazil operations. except for the last table (% by age group) which offers a breakdown between Brazilian and foreign operations. 2 There was a discrepancy in summing this indicator in the previous report. The figure reported in 2012 was 4.34% 3 There was a discrepancy in summing this indicator in the previous report. The figure reported in 2012 was 4.61% 4 There was a discrepancy in summing this indicator in the previous report. The figure reported in 2012 was 4.91% 62 embraer Lowest salary paid at Company’s operational units in this regard is the Embraer On The Path to Diversity relative to official minimum wage GRI EC5 program. Launched in 2012, it aims to provide training Official Percentage for individuals with disabilities to equip them for the Lowest salary minimum over official labor market and increase their employability. To this Country Gender paid by wage used minimum Company as reference wage (%) end, Embraer developed a two-year apprenticeship Male BRL 1,155.00 BRL 680.00 69.85% program in partnership with the Center for BusinessBrazil Female BRL 1,148.62 BRL 680.00 68.91% Schools Integration (Centro de Integração EmpresaMale CNY 9,500.00 CNY 1,400.00 578.57% Escola – CIEE) and the National Service for Industrial China¹ Female CNY 7,000.00 CNY 1,400.00 400.00% Apprenticeship (Serviço Nacional de Aprendizagem Male USD 2,621.41 USD 1,256.67 108.60% Industrial – SENAI). The program offers 100 places for US Female USD 2,588.42 USD 1,256.67 105.98% individuals with disabilities. They spend the first year with Male EUR 1,890.00 EUR 1,445.38 30.76% the Company’s partner institutions acquiring work skills and France Female EUR 1,475.23 EUR 1,445.38 2.07% technical qualifications; the second year entails a handsMale EUR 700.00 EUR 485.00 44.33% Portugal on apprenticeship at Embraer. Female EUR 821.54 EUR 485.00 69.39% Male SGD 1,943.00 NA NA Singapore SGD 2,207.00 NA NA New tool for people management 1 2013 saw the implementation of the My Embraer In the case of China, the especially large gulf between Embraer’s basic pay and the local minimum wage reflects the fact that the Company’s activity in system, a new integrated people management tool. this country is largely administrative. Using a single global database, the tool encourages the integration of all people management processes, On the Path to Greater Diversity from attracting an employee to when they leave the At the start of 2013, the Government of the State of São Company. It provides both managers and employees Paulo awarded Embraer the Paulista Diversity Seal in with easy access to information on an employee’s profile, recognition of the Company’s efforts to promote social professional development and performance. inclusion and diversity. The Company’s chief initiative Embraer and workplace • Great Place to Work Institute/Época magazine survey: environment indices for the 5th consecutive year, Embraer was highlighted as of the best companies to work for in Brazil. In the first half of 2013, Embraer carried out a workplace • Guide to the Best Companies to Work For (As Melhores environment survey among its employees. The overall Empresas para Você Trabalhar)/ Você S.A. and Exame favorability index reached 84%, surpassing the stipulated magazines: elected one of the best 150 companies goal of 75%. The next challenge is to achieve a uniform to work for and the best company to start a carreer. result, reaching a 75% score in all the Company’s • Great Place to Work Institute survey: elected one of the business units and departments. best companies to work for in Latin America. • Florida Trend: elected one of the best places to work Other important indicators are the external awards in Florida (USA) for the third consecutive year. Embraer received in 2013: • AON Hewitt/ Valor Econômico survey: elected Brazil’s best company for People Management for the second consecutive year. Annual Report 2013 63 Professional development With a view to developing professionals capable of generating distinctive value for the Company’s stakeholders on a sustainable basis, Embraer invests in training and capacitybuilding. Embraer uses professional development systems tailored to each level of seniority, functional sphere and business area. These take into account three dimensions: work experience, training courses completed and experience outside the Company. In 2013 Embraer registered an increased number of training hours in comparison to the Harnessing previous year. A total of 17,252 employees internal talent GRI EC7 located in Brazil and elsewhere took part in courses, amounting to 151,000 training sessions In keeping with the Company’s Human over 751,000 hours. Total investment was Resources Policy and values, the process approximately R$ 11.5 million. of identifying candidates for open positions gives priority to the internal mobilization of Another highlight of the Company’s approach to employees, through promotion (vertical supporting professional development is the Study growth) or sideways transfer (horizontal growth). Scholarship program, through which Embraer Vacancies are advertised externally only after awards grants to cover part of the cost of internal possibilities have been exhausted. technical college or university courses relevant to the business. In 2013, the benefit was extended Although there is neither explicit policy nor to 235 employees, for a total investment of agreement with local organizations, with R$ 226,799. employees’ quality of life in mind Embraer gives preference to candidates living close Embraer also has a Post-Career Program to the Company’s facilities. For example, in for continuous learning and competency Sorocaba’s new facility, 60% of personnel are development for professionals about to retire. local hires and the remaining 40% transferred In 2013, 80 employees participated in the from other Embraer facilities. program, entailing investment of R$ 170,476. At the end of 2013, 87% of the Company’s senior management (managers, directors and vice-presidents) was drawn from local communities (within 50km of their respective facility). For other positions, this figure stood at 92%. 64 embraer In partnership with the Technological Institute of Aeronautics (Instituto The Embraer Designer Program (Programa Tecnológico de Aeronáutica – ITA) Embraer is developing the Projetista Embraer – PPE) focuses on training Engineering Specialization Program (Programa de Especialização em technical staff to work as aeronautical designers. Engenharia – PEE). Aimed at recent graduates of various engineering In 2013, 58 participants completed the course, disciplines, the PEE is a 16-month professional master’s program in which was carried out in partnership with the Paulo aeronautical engineering. Souza Center, under the aegis of the Technology Faculties (Faculdades de Tecnologia, FATECs) of Since 2001, the program has trained more than 1,300 engineers. In São José dos Campos (Brazil). 2013, 120 engineers participated in the PEE, entailing total investment of approximately R$ 8 million. In 2014, the Embraer Bussiness Leader School will enter into operation, establishing and confirming Average number of training hours per year. by the Company’s pedagogical model. functional area and gender GRI LA10 Functional 2011 2012 2013 area/seniority Competency assessment Male Female Male Female Male Female Directors 29.6 34.4 43.8 64.7 24.9 32.3 All Embraer personnel, including those in Management 35.5 40.4 36.2 44.3 31.1 41.5 leadership positions, undergo annual competency Team Leaders/ assessments. With the introduction of the new 44.2 43.8 48.9 45.7 52.0 30.1 Coordinators personnel management tool, My Embraer, the Technical/ 55.5 63.8 51.3 59.3 46.3 57.0 entire process was completed online in 2013. Supervision Administrative 41.3 40.8 45.0 36.3 35.4 32.6 Among other objectives, the assessments Operational 32.8 30.4 33.4 26.7 39.4 37.4 seek to ensure staff members are aligned with Trainee 46.7 38.4 97.7 55.7 73.3 65.6 the Company’s organizational philosophy; to Total 43.1 45.2 44.4 45.3 44.0 41.3 define Individual Development Plans (Plano de Facilities located in Brazil and abroad Desenvolvimento Individual – PDIs); and to show Competency management, continuous learning Internal courses and the employee and his/her manager the progress and end-of-career programs GRI LA11 Pre-Retirement Planning achieved. In 2014, the assessment procedure will Number of participants 121 be the same across all Embraer’s global operations. 2011 Amount invested (R$) 114,092 Number of grants awarded 195 Remuneration and benefits GRI LA3 Number of participants 147 In setting compensation, Embraer takes into 2012 Amount invested (R$) 280,010 account factors such as job complexity, Number of grants awarded 176 Number of participants 80 individual performance and market benchmarks, 2013 Amount invested (R$) 170,476 the latter established through periodic salary Number of grants awarded 80 surveys. In keeping with legislation and best Values refer to facilities located in Brazil and abroad practice in the market, the Company offers its Brazil-based employees and their dependents a Percentage of employess that received a perfomance health plan that covers consultations, therapies, appraisal and career development plan (%) GRI LA 12 tests and unlimited hospitalizations. Other 2011 2012 2013 benefits include: a dental plan, meals, transport, Male Female Male Female Male Female child care assistance, pharmacy benefits, 180 Competency Assessment 98.8 97.7 N/A* N/A* 99.3 99.3 days of maternity leave, support to parents of Operations in Brazil children with special needs, life insurance and *Owing to the launch of My Embraer, competency assessments were not carried out in 2012 a complementary pension plan, among others. Annual Report 2013 65 Health and safety Complementary Embraer’s actions to ensure a safe working environment led to it being Pension Plan GRI EC3 recognized once again as a leader among aerospace and defense companies for health and safety practices, with its inclusion in the Dow Embraer offers its Brazil-based Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) for the fourth consecutive year. employees the EmbraerPrev plan, a defined-contribution Health and safety indicators are monitored and discussed by the complementary pension Company’s top leadership, supported by Embraer’s Policy for the plan. Participation is voluntary, Environment, Occupational Health and Safety. In addition, for the in accordance with Brazilian past ten years Embraer has retained its OHSAS 18001 international legislation. occupational health and safety certification. Each participant sets his or her The Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Program (P3E), has a specific individual contribution within module addressing health and safety issues, with a view to promoting defined salary parameters. continuous improvements in working procedures and making them Embraer makes matching ever safer –including for outsourced personnel. contributions. Other initiatives aimed at promoting a safe environment and In 2013, assets held in preventing accidents are as follows: coverage of the plan totaled • Educational Initiatives Plan – aimed at strengthening the health and R$1.2 billion. safety culture, it is sponsored by the Company’s Directors and involves key corporate leaders and other employees in daily practice of the “Five This benefit is also offered Golden Rules for Health and Safety”. to employees of Embraer’s • Behavioral Program – through group work, this program encourages a facilities in the US and France, team safety ethos and encourages the reporting of near-accidents and in versions adapted to local risk situations with a view to reducing the number of incidents. market conditions. • Embraer Occupational Therapy Program (Programa Embraer de Reequilíbrio Tensional Ocupacional – PERTO) – works on prevention in conjunction with physiotherapy specialists who advise on muscular conditioning and practical reorientation procedures in the workplace. • Managing Ergonomic Risk Factors – in partnership with the Federal University of São Carlos (UFSCar), this initiative identifies and analyzes ergonomic risks at workstations and develops solutions. 66 embraer 47% Injury rates, occupational illnesses, lost work days, absenteeism and job-related deaths, by region and gender GRI LA7 EVALUATION CRITERIA 2011 2012 2013 reduction in the frequency rate of Number of accidents accidents requiring absence and requiring absence 1,2 84 73 41 16% reduction in the frequency Number of accidents 148 148 155 rate of accidents overall without absence 3 Number of employees at facilities 15,095 15,297 16,490 4 Number of accidents per employee 0.015 0.014 0.011 Total hours actually worked (HAW) 5 28,968,055.98 28,503,764.8 30,304,034.48 Number of days lost to accidents 7,448 787 564 Rate of days lost 6 257.11 27.61 18.61 An Internal Accident Prevention Committee Frequency rate of accidents 2.90 2.56 1.35 (Comissão Interna para Prevenção de Acidentes requiring absence 7 CIPA) has been in operation at Embraer since Index of frequency of accidents 8.01 7.75 6.47 with and without absence 8 1971. The number of members in CIPA is defined Investment in accident and illness R$ 745.21 R$ 1,162.60 R$ 1,074.85 by regulatory norm NR-05 of Administrative Ruling prevention, per employee (R$) no. 3124/78 issued by Brazil’s Labor Ministry, Frequency rate of 0.28 0.39 0.40 occupational illnesses 9 and depends on availability of personnel at Number of occupational illnesses 10 8 11 12 each facility. The Committee meets once a Number of days lost to illness 239 231 657 month to discuss employee health and safety Absenteeism rate 11, 12 4.32 4.7 N/D issues; minutes from the meeting are sent to the Accidents resulting in death 1 0 0 respective labor unions. EVALUATION CRITERIA – THIRD PARTIES Index of frequency of accidents 13.65 8.85 9.23 Embraer fully applies all clauses of collective with and without absence bargaining agreements signed by its union Accidents resulting in death 0 0 0 representatives. These include specific items 9 The total number of job-related illnesses with 1 Accidents requiring absence from work include and without absence from work divided by the concerning occupational safety, such as a fatal accident that occurred in 2011 and was HAW and multiplied by a million. computed at 6,000 days lost, in accordance with 10 The total number of job-related illnesses with individual protective equipment; joint health and NBR 14.280 (a Brazilian regulation). and without absence from work measures new safety committees comprising managers and 2 Accidents requiring absence from work are cases of illness. those where the employee does not return to 11 The absenteeism rate is an average workers; the right to refuse unsafe work; periodic work the day after the incident. proportionate to the number of employees in inspections; adherence to International Labor 3 The number of employees was based on each unit. the total for all Embraer’s Brazilian operations in 12 The absenteeism rate takes into Organization (ILO) and Global Compact norms; December of each year. consideration all absences, including legal and issues relating to CIPA, among others. GRI LA9 4 The number of accidents per employee absences (such as maternity leave and blood was calculated by dividing the number of donation), health-related, and unauthorized late employees by the total number of accidents. arrivals and absences. 5 HAW (hours actually worked) including 13 The HAW for third party personnel was overtime plus the normal employee workday of estimated on the assumption of 220 hours per 8 hours and 36 minutes; the 2013 figure includes month per individual at the Faria Lima, Eugênio the addition of the HAW at Embraer Ltd.’s offices de Melo, and Taubaté facilities and in 2013 in Brasilia, Belo Horizonte, Parque Tecnológico, including the Gavião Peixoto e Botucatu facilities. São Paulo and São Paulo Nações Unidas. 14 – Transit accidents, whether or not they lead 6 The rate corresponds to the total of days to absences, are not included in the data. Percentage of employees represented by missed, divided by the HAW and multiplied by 15 – Investments in preventing accidents and formal health and safety committees GRI LA6 a million. illnesses, as well as in uniforms and individual 7 The total number of job-related accidents protective equipment include expenditures and CIPA Internal Accident 2011 2012 2013 requiring absence from work divided by the HAW investments geared to ensuring or improving Prevention Committee 100% 100% 100% and multiplied by a million. occupational safety conditions. They include 8 The total number of job-related accidents training sessions, re-education programs, Total number with and without absence from work divided by ergonomics, industrial hygiene, and improvements 140 140 140 of CIPA members the HAW and multiplied by a million. to machinery, equipment and support tools. Annual Report 2013 67 Health and safety goals for 2014 • Reduce the overall frequency rate of accidents by 10% relative to the frequency rate for accidents in 2013. • Reduce the overall frequency rate of accidents involving service providers by 10% relative to the frequency rate for accidents in 2013. • Reduce the frequency rate of accidents involving service providers and requiring absence from work by 5% relative to the frequency rate for accidents in 2013. • Reduce health-related absenteeism by 5% relative to total absenteeism in 2013. 68 embraer Relations with labor unions GRI HR5 e LA4 • Well-Being with Stress – encourages a review of habits Embraer fully respects its employees’ freedom to join a and techniques for day to day stress management labor union. At the Company’s Brazil operations, 7.9% of personnel are unionized, but salary adjustments and other • Well-Being and You – to improve the health of those clauses negotiated in meetings with unions are extended suffering from chronic illnesses, overweight, hypertension, to everyone, with the result that 100% of the Company’s diabetes and dyslipidemia. employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Embraer also supports a Vaccination Program for all employees and their direct dependents. In 2013, the These agreements cover workplace safety issues such Company invested over R$1.4 million in vaccinating more as: individual protective equipment; health and safety than 30 thousand employees and their families. committees comprised of leadership and employees; participation of employee representatives in health Embraer Values and safety inspections and accident investigations; During 2013 Embraer carried out an extensive action plan among others. to reinforce its Values concepts among all its employees worldwide, stimulating reflection and daily practice. In April, Quality of Life GRI LA8 the Values were also formally instituted at Embraer’s recently Embraer has a range of different company programs opened facility in Évora, Portugal. focused on occupational health and employees’ quality of life. The Well-Being program is a good example. Focusing In December Embraer held its first Global Blue Day to on employees and their dependents, the program blends a celebrate the value “Global presence is our frontier”. It set of initiatives that aim to stimulate the adoption of healthy entailed 30 hours of uninterrupted activities, involving all habits. The Well-Being program entails the participation a Embraer units and employees spread across all corners of range of specialist professionals, such as psychologists, the world. doctors and nutritionists. The program’s “modules” are as follows: • Well-Being without Cigarettes – offers treatment to help quit smoking • Well-Being without Drugs – treats chemical dependency • Well-Being with the Scales – for healthy weight reduction • Well-Being and Maternity – provides help, advice and special absence leave for mothers • Well-Being and the Heart – guidance and monitoring for individuals with heart problems • Well-Being with Physical Activity – encourages physical and sports activities Annual Report 2013 69 Internal Communications The Excellence in Communications Program, which seeks to instill habits of continuous and high-quality internal communication, has seen the introduction of more modern electronic internal media. In April 2013, the CEO launched a blog on the Company’s intranet as a means of communicating directly with employees in units all around the world and in which he talks about the Company’s strategy and achievements. 70 embraer We build a sustainable future Annual Report 2013 71 72 embraer Sustainability as the foundation for development Sustainable management is a core part of strategy at Embraer, which sees care for the society and environment as an intrinsic part of good business performance Embraer seeks to conduct its business by aligning economic objectives with socio-economic aspects, always with the goal of delivering client satisfaction and generating value for shareholders and employees. In 2013, the Sustainability Committee was revamped and its internal norms defined. Composed of representatives from all over the Company, its role is to discuss sustainability issues affecting the Organization and to present strategic recommendations to top leadership. In 2014 the challenge is to extend the collection of sustainability indicators with a view to improving the Company’s overall sustainability management. Environmental Responsibility GRI EN26 Throughout the year, environmental management was bolstered both by a review of the environmental directives and policies which guide the Company’s activities, and by risk mitigation initiatives aimed at diminishing environmental risks and reducing environmental impacts. With the update of the Environment and Occupational Health and Safety Policy, the Company has reinforced its principles and defined clear directives on themes such as eco-efficiency, supply chain engagement, product development (Design for Environment practices) and climate change concerns. The Integrated Development of Environmentally Sustainable Products (Desenvolvimento Integrado do Produto Ambientalmente Sustentável DIPAS) initiative, which was launched by Embraer in 2001 to embed environmental requirements into the development of new aircraft Annual Report 2013 73 UPDATING OF ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY In 2013, Embraer updated its Environment and Occupational Health and Safety Policy (EOHS), which guides the Company’s actions concerning the environment and occupational health and safety. The policy was rolled out to all the Company’s facilities in Brazil and overseas. In general terms, its principles include the following: • the environment and occupational • development of new technologies health and safety are priority issues with reduced impact on the for Embraer; environment and individuals; • eco-efficiency and continuous • selection of suppliers and improvement of occupational outsourced services that health and safety; demonstrate respect for the environment and occupational • fulfillment of all legal requirements health and safety norms in their in environmental and occupational practices and procedures; health and safety legislation; • co-operation in developing • combating pollution; products, processes, equipment and fuels with lower greenhouse • concern with climate change; gas emissions; • life-cycle management of the • adoption of new renewable Company’s products; energy sources; • integration of environmental and • reduced use of non-renewable occupational health and safety materials and increased use of goals into Embraer’s strategic plans; recycled and recyclable materials. 74 embraer including the E-Jets E2 family, continued its work in 2013. extension of a commitment signed in 2008, which pledged It achieved a reduction in the volume of waste produced a 50% reduction of GHG emissions by 2050, using 2005 as during the manufacture of wiring along with a repurposing the base year. of waste materials generated by the manufacture of parts made from carbon fiber composites. In 2013, Embraer kept up its initiatives to reduce the volume of direct and indirect emissions. Some examples are Also as part of the program, Embraer held lectures and, as follows: along with other entities such as the Brazilian Aeronautics Technology Institute (ITA) and the National Industry • Optimization of Operation 200 – consisting of the Confederation (CNI), developed courses and workshops collection of data on engine vibration levels during on sustainability and Design for Environment. aircraft ground testing. The project’s implementation resulted in a 757-liter reduction in average fuel Biofuels Program GRI EN4, EN6 EN7, en18 consumption per aircraft manufactured. In 2013 Embraer, in partnership with the São Paulo Research Foundation (FAPESP) and Boeing, launched a white paper, • Heat exchanger – use of heat generated by compressor the Flight Plan for Aviation Biofuels in Brazil. The document cooling to heat water for the paint spray booth, saving outlines pathways for the development in Brazil of a biofuels 589,704 m³ of natural gas which would otherwise be used industry serving the air industry. to supply this heat. Researchers and Brazilian and foreign representatives of • Risk analysis for engine vibration – shortening of additional the aeronautics industry, airline companies, manufacturers production flights for the E190 aircraft, reducing emissions and government agencies evaluated the opportunities by 53 tons of CO2. and technological challenges; the various raw materials; conversion methods and logistics; along with the economic • Solar heating system – to heat the water used for cleaning viability and sustainability of producing this type of the kitchen and utensils of the restaurant in the Faria Lima fuel in Brazil. unit in São José dos Campos (Brazil). The unit’s roof has 180 solar panels, covering a total area of 12 x 30 meters. The State University of Campinas (Universidade Estadual de It is estimated that each m2 of solar paneling reduces Campinas UNICAMP) coordinated the inter-disciplinary atmospheric emissions by 1 ton of CO2 annually, although study. The biofuel resulting from this research and there is no specific calculation of how many gigajoules investment process would be drop-in; that is, it could be (GJ) of energy are saved as a result of the project. EN5 added to fossil fuels in existing structures such as ducts, tanks and pumps, as well as being used in the aircraft themselves, without creating any incompatibility or need for modifications. Atmospheric emissions GRI EN16, EN17, EN18 Fuel consumption in the aeronautics industry and the resulting emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) account for approximately 2% of all global emissions. In 2012, Embraer signed an aeronautics industry sustainability pact, an initiative of the Air Transport Action Group (ATAG) and an Annual Report 2013 75 Total direct and indirect GHG 2011 2012 2013 Change emissions (EN3) by source GRI EN16 (Tons CO2 equivalent) Electricity, heat or steam generation Other combustion processes 35,291.4 31,324.1 49,567.17 58.24% Physical-chemical processing Transport of materials, products and waste Vent openings Fugitive emissions 1,356.1 2,150.7 2,343.42 8.96% Indirect emissions (EN4) – not taking into account travel-related emissions Change Purchased electricity, heat or steam generation (EN4) 3,275.6 8,117.8 11,603.34 42.94% Total direct and indirect emissions 39,923.1 41,592.6 63,513.92 52.70% (Tons CO2 equivalent) Other significant indirect GHG emissions, other emissons GRI EN20 by weight (TONS CO2 EQUIVALENT) gri EN17 Measurement Indicator Site 2012 2013 unit Indirect GHG 2011 2012 2013 Change VOC Emissions SJK ton 4.185 3.050 emissions by source Transport of VOC Emissions EGM ton 0.305 0.860 8,707.6 9,493.8 8,864.72 -6.63% employees VOC Emissions TTE ton 0.000 0.000 Business travel 14,347.2 22,344.7 19,109.95 -14.48% VOC Emissions ELEB ton 0.000 2.700 Other emissions 761.7 570.6 705.86 23.70% VOC Emissions GPX ton 2.750 3.530 Total indirect emissions 23,054.8 31,838.5 28,680.53 -9.92% VOC Emissions BOT ton 28.830 29.140 TOTAL 36.070 39.280 MP Emissions SJK ton 6.752 6.490 MP Emissions EGM ton 0.131 0.230 MP Emissions TTE ton 0.000 0.000 MP Emissions ELEB ton 0.000 1.950 MP Emissions GPX ton 1.900 1.022 MP Emissions BOT ton 16.160 18.530 Emissions of substances destructive TOTAL 24.943 28.222 of ozone layer gri EN19 SOx emissions SJK ton 0.706 0.921 2012 2013 SOx emissions EGM ton 0.077 0.001 Consumption Consumption SOx emissions TTE ton 0.000 0.000 Location Location (tons) (tons) SOx emissions ELEB ton 0.000 1.210 Total 1.293 Total 1.087 SOx emissions GPX ton 0.000 0.000 Faria Lima 0.667 Faria Lima 0.499 SOx emissions BOT ton 0.150 0.232 BOT 0.001 BOT 0.051 TOTAL 0.933 2.364 R-22 EGM 0.180 EGM 0.152 NOx emissions SJK ton 13.433 16.710 GPX 0.292 GPX 0.208 NOx emissions EGM ton 0.907 0.010 TTE 0.095 TTE 0.098 ELEB 0.058 ELEB 0.079 NOx emissions TTE ton 0.000 0.000 Total 0.496 Total 0.232 NOx emissions ELEB ton 0.000 20.190 Faria Lima 0.150 Faria Lima 0.120 NOx emissions GPX ton 0.000 0.000 HCFC-141b BOT 0.000 BOT 0.017 NOx emissions BOT ton 82.830 115.700 EGM 0.046 EGM 0.000 TOTAL 97.170 152.610 GPX 0.300 GPX 0.095 TTE 0.000 TTE 0.000 ELEB 0.000 ELEB 0.000 76 embraer Waste management GRI EN24 Non-hazardous wastes 2011 2012 2013 (tons) gri EN22 Embraer employs a systematic approach to waste Compost 1,122.49 1,108.79 1,222.58 management. All the Company’s facilities are furnished Repurposing with designated collectors; these are subsequently Recycling 9,604.2 10,324.58 10,643.4 transported to “intermediate areas” and from there are Recovery (including immediately dispatched to relevant separation points, 176.54 239.93 577.52 recovery of energy) depending on the type of waste. Incineration (burning of mass) Sanitary landfill 1,144.34 1,178.9 1,208.85 An outsourced company transports the waste to partners Underground injection of waste that perform co-processing, decontamination, repurposing, On-site storage recycling, and disposal. All these companies are properly Other – biological treatment 588.02 534 432 accredited and undergo periodic audits. Embraer does not Other – co-processing 41.94 15.06 19.39 Total 12,677.54 13,401.26 14,103.74 import or export hazardous wastes. The goal established in 2012 of not sending hazardous wastes to land fills was Hazardous wastes (tons) 2011 2012 2013 reached at the end of the first half of 2013. Compost Repurposing Energy efficiency GRI EN4, EN6 EN7 Recycling 23.76 25.94 74.76 Recovery (including In 2013, Embraer contracted a company specializing 1,917.64 2,295.78 2,005.63 recovery of energy) in route-planning in order to optimize the efficiency of Incineration (burning of mass) 11.54 38.16 9.1 transporting employees, based on studies carried out in Sanitary landfill 31.33 25.03 0 2012. Initially planned for the Faria Lima facility in São José Underground injection of waste dos Campos, the project was made progress at all Brazilian On-site storage facilities and its implementation is scheduled for the first half Other – autoclaving 0.66 1.17 1.24 of 2014. Others – co-processing 955.92 971.33 1,027.9 Total 2,940.85 3,357.41 3,118.63 Non-renewable intermediate energy sources purchased and consumed – Electricity* GRI EN4 2011 (GJ) 2012 (GJ) 2013 (GJ) Faria Lima EGM TTE ELEB GPX BOT 406.332 439,992 437,389 228,816 52,236 13,428 36,842 48,888 57,179 *It is not possible to determine the primary energy consumption for producing indirect energy, since utilities (hydroelectric, thermoelectric, etc.) are not legally obliged to disclose the production source of energy in Brazil. Annual Report 2013 77 Water management GRI EN8,EN10 The water that Embraer uses comes from local utilities absorb them and neither of the water bodies is located in as well as directly from the water table, on the basis of a designated environmental conservation area. GRI EN 25 prior concession and grant in accordance with prevailing federal and state requirements. The water table source is periodically monitored in accordance with parameters established by Ordinance 2914/11 (Brazilian legislation). Disposal of water by use and destination GRI EN21 Embraer measures and monitors both industrial and human 2013 Volume (m³) consumption on a monthly basis. Domestic 442,602 Faria Lima 292,078 In 2013 the volumes of domestic and industrial effluents BOT 46,551 grew 15% and 1% respectively compared to the previous EGM 56,249 year. Embraer applies a physical-chemical or biological GPX 36,650 treatment to its effluents, before disposing of them in the TTE 11,074 public sewer system or into a body of water. ELEB -* Industrial 79,472.6 Faria Lima 28,627 No bodies of water are significantly affected by the BOT 39,716 disposal of water from Embraer’s operations. Only two EGM 4,161 of the Company’s facilities dispose of effluents in bodies GPX 920.6 of water (Gavião Peixoto in the Mulada stream and TTE 0** Taubaté in the Paraíba do Sul river) after proper treatment ELEB 6,048 in an appropriate sewage treatment plant. The volumes *ELEB does not have these data. disposed of are well below the water bodies’ capacity to **TTE does not have any industrial effluents. Water consumption by source GRI EN8 2011 2012 2013 Faria Lima EGM TTE ELEB GPX BOT Surface water (rivers, lakes, wetlands, oceans) Underground water 524,390 m³ 552,930 m³ 541,900 m³ 307,960 m³ 114,280 m³ 26,930 m³ 92,740 m³ Rainwater harvesting Effluents from third party entity Utility/water supplier 90,450 m³ 96,930 m³ 103,180 m³ 16,910 m³ 86,270 m³ Total 614,840 m³ 649,860 m³ 645,090 m³ 78 embraer Biodiversity and protection of the education, in the belief that this is the most efficient means environment GRI EN11, EN12, EN13, EN14 of fostering a society’s development and achieving social Embraer’s industrial facility in Gavião Peixoto has a inclusion. In 2013 Embraer invested R$ 21 million in these 356.71-hectare preservation area where, prior to Embraer’s kinds of programs and projects. arrival, sugar cane and oranges had been cultivated. Of the recovered area, 32.38 hectares are designated as a The centerpieces of Embraer’s social investment initiatives permanent preservation area and 328.74 hectares as a are the two Embraer Schools. Fully funded by the Company, legal reserve. This environmental compensation initiative these offer three years of high school to students from the promotes regeneration of the ecosystem and encourages public school system. In addition to study grants, the students the return of wildlife to the area. receive uniforms, study materials, meals and transport. This facility’s industrial processes are considered to be of a Scholarship Fund high technological level and low environmental impact, Through its Scholarship Fund, the Company seeks to assist classifying the Company as an industry of light to moderate Embraer High School alumni who have been offered places environmental risks. The municipality’s urban population is at universities located far from São José dos Campos and not directly affected by the Company’s activities, nor do lack the financial means to cover subsistence expenses. The the latter cause substantial environmental impacts, since Company contributes 25% of the financing of the scheme, building the facility required little change to the topography the rest being supplied by partner companies, along with in this extensive terrain. The noise generated by takeoff and voluntary contributions from around 800 employees and landing operations can be heard up to a maximum of 8 former Fund beneficiaries; after joining the job market, these km away, so the surrounding communities are not affected. begin to pay back the sums received during their university studies. In 2013, some 302 university students drew monthly Embraer’s newest facilities are being built with resources assistance of R$ 616.20, and 270 former beneficiaries paid that aim to reduce environmental impacts. The two back part of what they had received. most recent, in Évora (Portugal) and the Service Center in Sorocaba (Brazil) adhere to sustainable construction and Social Partnership RI EC8 e SO1 green design precepts. Embraer provides financial support to educational projects developed by Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) in Social Responsibility GRI EC8, SO1 the communities where the Company is active. Through its Through the Embraer Education and Research Institute Social Partnership Program (Programa de Parceria Social (Instituto Embraer de Educação e Pesquisa IEEP), the PPS), Embraer employees work alongside the NGOs in Company adopts a structured approach to social the design and implementation of social initiatives and investments. These are focused primarily on promoting volunteering activities. Annual Report 2013 79 Success in education The Embraer High School – Juarez Wanderley in São José dos Campos has capacity for 600 students. In 2013 100% of students who completed their studies here were offered places in at least one university, 86% of them at public universities. In the National High School Exam (Exame Nacional do Ensino Médio Enem), Juarez Wanderley was ranked top in writing skills, eighth overall in the State of São Paulo and 27th nationwide. In 2013, a total of 3,900 young people applied for 200 places for the first year of high school, equivalent to 19.5 candidates competing for each available place. Classes at Embraer High School – Casimiro Montenegro Filho in Botucatu got underway in February 2013. Construction of the new location, which has places for 360 pupils, entailed investment of approximately R$ 5 million. The pedagogical system is the same as at Juarez Wanderley, envisaging ten hours of classes per day and focusing on academic excellence, preparation for university, professional training, and environmental, social, and cultural education. 80 embraer Between 2004 and 2013, the Company supported 119 Stimulating regional development GRI EC9 projects, involving 1,300 employees and benefitting 54,000 Embraer’s operations create favorable impacts on local children and adolescents. Investments during the period communities near where the Company operates. The totaled nearly R$ 4 million. industrial facility in the city of Gavião Peixoto, in the interior of São Paulo State, has significantly boosted industrial Volunteering at Embraer GRI EC8 e SO1 development and, consequently, spurred the local The Wings for Good Program seeks to foster – and ensure economy. The construction of new factories and the arrival great importance is attached to – a corporate volunteering of service-providing firms help generate both direct and ethos both within and outside Embraer. The initiatives indirect jobs. that the program supports may be carried out by the Embraer Institute or by public or private social organizations Technological development is especially important in endorsed by the Company. In 2013, more than 3,500 this regard. The city of São Carlos, near Gavião Peixoto, employees took part in an array of initiatives benefitting is home to the University of São Paulo’s São Carlos School around 4,200 people. of Engineering (EESC.USP), as well as the Federal University of São Carlos (UFSCar). Both institutions offer courses in The Mini-company program GRI EC8, SO1 engineering and exact and technological sciences. They Mini-company is a program that encourages have been investing more and more in building and entrepreneurship among 9th grade students in public expanding laboratories and research centers, as well as schools. Developed with Junior Achievement, a São Paulo granting study grants and developing research projects— NGO, the Mini-company program works in partnership with including studies in the aerospace field. the Municipal Departments of Education in São José dos Campos, Gavião Peixoto and Botucatu (Brazil), and involves Embraer volunteers. The program lasts for 15 weeks, with three hours a week of classes, and covers financial, production, human resources, marketing, and leadership topics. The participants are encouraged to form mini-companies that, at the end of the program, are liquidated and any profits donated to social institutions. Over a period of 11 years, about 1,300 students and 350 Embraer volunteers have taken part. In 2013, R$ 74,000 was invested in the program. Annual Report 2013 81 Materiality Matrix GRI 4.14 e 4.15 Embraer identified the creation of a Materiality Matrix to be a crucial step in its goal of positioning sustainability issues within a more strategic framework as well as prioritizing and focusing efforts • Management of natural on the highest-impact areas in terms of resources and waste • Ethics • Attraction, • Atmospheric emissions creating value for the business and its • Noise • Human and development and retention of talent chief stakeholders. A consultation with worker rights • Product safety Degree of importance or affected parties • Health and safety stakeholders was carried out throughout 2012 in conjunction with an internal process • Transparency and • Chemical substances to define the sustainability issues of greatest communication management • Environmental life• Supply chain relevance to the business. • Preventing cycle management management inappropriate • Socio-economic • Export controls use of product development of • New sustainable local communities business activities, Revised in 2013, the Materiality Matrix will be • Research, development products and services the basis for defining indicators, goals and and innovation action plans for the coming years, as well as a reference point for Embraer’s next Annual • Biodiversity • Engagement with • Crisis management Report. Since the issues can shift substantially • Philanthropy and public authorities • Data privacy volunteering • Local production and security over time as a result of changes both in • Dematerialization chain societal demands and in the business, the Materiality Matrix must be a dynamic tool, subject to revision every three years; it will Influence on business strategy constantly seek to maximize positive impacts Governance Environment People Value Chain Products, Services and Clients on decision-making. 82 embraer About the report Understanding the document For the sixth consecutive year, Embraer’s Annual Report follows Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. It sets out the Company’s economic-financial and socio-environmental performance during the year in accordance with version G3.1, application level B. In all, 52 indicators are dealt with, covering the period from 1st January to 31st December 2013. GRI 3.1, 3.2, 3.3 The economic-financial data presented describe operations in Brazil and other countries where Embraer has facilities. The socio-environmental results are restricted to the facilities located in Brazil. GRI 3.6 e 3.7 In defining the report’s contents and GRI indicators included, the Company took the 2012 annual report as its starting point. It also took into consideration the requirements of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact, of which the Company has been a signatory since 2008. GRI 3.5 e 3.8 KPMG Independent Auditors audited the financial statements, which were compiled in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The socio-environmental information was gathered and consolidated using internal methods and was not verified externally. Significant changes that affect data comparability are noted throughout the report, as are any developments subsequent to the period covered by the publication, along with socio-environmental data related to the Company’s international units. GRI 3.13, 3.5, 3.8, 3.9, 3.10, 3.11 Any questions, comments, or suggestions regarding the 2013 Annual Report may be emailed to investor.relations@embraer.com.br. Other information can be obtained on Embraer’s investor relation’s site (http://ri.embraer.com.br). GRI 3.4 Annual Report 2013 83 84 embraer GRI INDEX GRI 3.12 Profile Information Global Indicator Description Reported Page/Response Compact Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Message from the President & CEO Complete 8 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Complete 12, 32 and 39 Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization Complete 6 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services Complete 13 2.3 Operational structure of the organization Complete 14 2.4 Location of the organization’s headquarters Complete 14 Countries where the organization operates and where 2.5 Complete 13 and 14 its principal operations are located 2.6 Nature of and type of ownership Complete 34 2.7 Markets served Complete 13 and 14 2.8 Size of reporting organization Complete 13 2.9 Significant changes during the period covered by the report Complete 14 and 15 2.10 Awards received during the period covered by the report Complete 45 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Complete 82 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Complete 82 3.3 Reporting cycle Complete 6 and 82 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content Complete 82 3.5 Process for defining report content Complete 82 3.6 Boundary of the report Complete 82 3.7 Declaration of any specific restrictions on the scope or boundary of the report Complete 82 3.8 Basis for reporting Complete 82 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations Complete 82 3.10 Reformulation of information provided in earlier reports Complete 82 Significant changes of scope, boundary, 3.11 Complete 82 or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of information in the report Complete 84 Policy and current practice with regard to 3.13 Complete 82 seeking external verification for the report Governance Governance structure of the organization, including 4.1 Complete 37 1 10 committees of the highest governance body 4.2 Leadership of highest governance body Complete 37 1 10 4.3 Independent or non-executive members of the highest governance body Complete 37 1 10 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to submit recommendations Complete 34, 37 and 43 1 10 There is no relationship Linkage between compensation and the organization’s performance 4.5 Complete between compensation and 1 10 (including social and environmental performance) sustainability performance. 4.6 Procedures to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Complete 34 1 10 4.7 Qualifications of the members of the highest governance body Complete 37 1 10 4.8 Mission and values statements, codes of conduct, and relevant internal principles Complete 4, 41 and 43 1 10 Annual Report 2013 85 Profile Information Global Indicator Description Reported Page/Response Compact Responsibilities for implementing the organization’s 4.9 Complete 37 1 10 economic, environmental, and social policies 4.10 Procedures for the highest governance body’s self-assessment Complete 39 1 10 Explanation of whether and how the organization 4.11 Complete 37, 39 and 41 7 applies the precautionary principle 4.12 Externally-developed charters, principles, or other initiatives Complete 41 4.13 Memberships in national and/or international associations Complete 41 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Complete 42 and 81 15. To identify stakeholders, Embraer accessed the same groups consulted for the development of the Embraer Entrepreneurship System, geared to business management. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders to be engaged Complete Because of their importance, these stakeholders were consulted to build the materiality matrix, and provided input on topics of high priority to Embraer’s business. The approach to the engagement of stakeholders is available in the following chapters: Our people 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Complete are what make us fly; We build a sustainable future; We are here to serve our customers; and We strive for company excellence. The main topics and concerns raised by the stakeholders are available in the following chapters: Key topics and concerns raised through 4.17 Complete Our people are what make us fly; We stakeholder engagement build a sustainable future; We are here to serve our customers; and We strive for company excellence. Management Approach Global Dimension Aspects Reported Page/Response Compact Economic performance Complete 46, 47, 48, 49 and 82 1, 4, 6 EC Market Presence Complete 14 and 15 and 7 Indirect economic impacts Complete 78, 79 and 80 Energy Complete 74 and 76 Water Complete 77 EN Biodiversity Complete 78 7, 8 and 9 Emissions, effluents, and waste Complete 74, 75 and 76 Products and services Complete 72 Employment Complete 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62 and 63 Labor/management relations Complete 68 LA Occupational health and safety Complete 41, 65, 66 and 67 1, 3 and 6 Training and education Complete 63 and 64 Diversity and equality of opportunity Complete 62 and 64 86 embraer Procurement practices Complete 42 Non-discrimination Complete 43 1, 2, 3, 4, HR Freedom of association Complete 68 5 and 6 Child labor Complete 42 Forced and slave labor Complete 42 Community Complete 78, 79 and 80 SO Corruption Complete 43 10 Public policy Complete 41, 42 and 74 Customer health and safety Complete 20, 26 and 28 PR 1 and 8 Product and service labeling Complete 28 Global Indicator Description Reported Page/Response Reason for Omission Compact Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Complete 46 and 48 The risks associated with climate changes are evaluated along with other environmental risks, Financial implications and other risks and EC2 Partial 40 through the Company’s 7 opportunities stemming from climate change risk management processes. The exposure to impact and its intensity are evaluated as low. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s pension plan obligations Complete 65 Market presence Change in ratios of entry-level wages to EC5 Complete 62 1 local minimum wage, by gender EC7 Local hiring Complete 63 6 Indirect economic impacts EC8 Impact of infrastructure investments provided for public benefit Complete 78, 79 and 80 EC9 Description of significant indirect economic impacts Complete 80 Environmental performance Energy EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Complete 74, 75 and 76 8 and 9 In 2013, a solar heating project was implemented, but the Company does not have an estimate of how many GJ are saved. The Company has energy meters for groups of buildings and EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Partial 74 hangars at the Faria Lima 8 plant. A project exists for the installation of additional meters in order to increase the level of detail on consumption and the perception of savings obtained with efficiency projects. Annual Report 2013 87 Global Indicator Description Reported Page/Response Reason for Omission Compact The product concept is geared to fuel usage optimization. Embraer EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient products and services Partial 74 and 76 does not have quantitative data on the reduction of energy consumption. There are still no criteria for selection based on Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption low energy consumption, EN7 Partial 74 and 76 and reductions achieved and we do not have procedures to reduce indirect energy. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Complete 77 8 and 9 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Complete 77 8 Biodiversity EN11 Location and extent of land owned Partial 78 8 EN12 Significant impacts on biodiversity of activities, products, and services Complete 78 8 EN13 Habitats protected or restored Complete 78 During the evaluation of environmental aspects and impacts, negative effects from activities upon biodiversity were not detected. In addition, EN14 Strategies for managing impacts on biodiversity Partial 78 the Company is not established in sensitive areas, does not directly work with vegetable or animal resources, and is not exposed to any pertinent legislation. Emissions, effluents, and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Complete 74 and 75 8 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Complete 74 and 75 8 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions EN18 Complete 74 7, 8 and 9 and reductions achieved EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Complete 75 8 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant atmospheric emissions Complete 75 8 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Complete 77 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Complete 76 8 EN24 Weight of transported hazardous waste Complete 76 Description of protection and biodiversity value EN25 Complete 77 of bodies of water and habitats Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Complete 40 and 72 7, 8 and 9 Social performance Labor practices and decent work Employment Total workforce by employment type, work contract LA1 Complete 58 and region, broken down by gender 88 embraer Global Indicator Description Reported Page/Response Reason for Omission Compact Total number and rate of new hires and employee LA2 Complete 59 6 turnover by age group, gender, and region Comparison of benefits provided to full-time and LA3 Complete 64 temporary employees by major operational location Labor/management relations Percentage of employees covered by LA4 Complete 68 1, 2 and 3 collective bargaining agreements Occupational health and safety Percentage of workforce represented on LA6 Complete 66 1, 2 and 3 formal health and safety committees 66 This information is It was not possible managed, but the rate Rates of injury, occupational illness, lost days, and absenteeism, LA7 Partial to segment of absenteeism will not 1 and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and gender data by region be available before the and gender. report is published. We did not identify workers engaged in occupational activities with a high LA8 Education, prevention, and risk-control programs Partial 68 incidence or high risk of 1 specific diseases, and the Company’s programs are focused on prevention. Health and safety topics covered in formal LA9 Complete 66 1 agreements with trade unions Training and education Average hours of training per year per employee, LA10 Complete 64 6 by gender and functional category LA11 Programs for skills management, lifelong learning and retirement Complete 64 Percentage of employees receiving regular LA12 Complete 64 performance reviews, by gender Diversity and equality of opportunity Composition of leadership bodies and committees LA13 Complete 60 1 and 3 and breakdown by group and gender Social performance Human rights Procurement process HR1 Description of policies and directives addressing human rights issues Partial 42 HR2 Supplier companies subject to human rights screening Complete 42 1, 2, 3 and 4 Non-discrimination Total number of incidents of discrimination HR4 Complete 43 1, 2 and 3 and corrective actions taken Freedom of association HR5 Freedom of association policy and degree of application Complete 68 1, 2 and 3 Child labor HR6 Measures taken to promote effective abolition of child labor Complete 42 1, 2, 3 and 5 Forced/slave labor HR7 Measures to promote the eradication of forced labor Complete 42 1, 2, 3 and 4 Social Performance – Society Community Annual Report 2013 89 Global Indicator Description Reported Page/Response Reason for Omission Compact 78, 79 and 80 The Company does not yet monitor this Programs and practices to assess and manage SO1 Partial percentage. impact of operations on local community The stakeholder engagement policy will be launched in 2014 Corruption SO2 Facilities assessed for corruption-related risks Complete 43 10 Percentage of employees trained in SO3 Complete 43 10 anticorruption policies and procedures Public policy SO5 Stance on public policies Complete 41 10 Social performance Product responsibility Customer health and safety Policies to ensure health and safety of PR1 Complete 28 and 39 1 customer during use of product Product and service labeling Type of product and service information PR3 Complete 28 8 required by labeling procedures PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys Complete 18 and 19 90 embraer Social Performance Indicators Annual Social Statement – Controlling Company 1 – Basis of calculation 2013 (R$ thousand) 2012 (R$ thousand) Net revenue (NR) 10,662,935 10,230,261 Operating result (OR) 777,689 697,792 Gross payroll (GP) 1,920,119 1,843,551 2 – Internal social indicators Value (thousand) % over GP % over NR Value (thousand) % over GP % over NR Meals 26,713 1.39% 0.25% 25,939 1.41% 0.25% Mandatory social charges 317,980 16.56% 2.98% 393,063 21.32% 3.84% Supplementary retirement 57,390 2.99% 0.54% 51,669 2.80% 0.51% Health 111,097 5.79% 1.04% 105,841 5.74% 1.03% Occupational health and safety 24,101 1.26% 0.23% 30,619 1.66% 0.30% Education 426 0.02% 0.00% 265 0.01% 0.00% Culture 107 0.01% 0.00% 102 0.01% 0.00% Training and professional development 19,539 1.02% 0.18% 24,956 1.35% 0.24% Childcare or childcare assistance 1,087 0.06% 0.01% 883 0.05% 0.01% Profit and/or results sharing 81,092 4.22% 0.76% 68,221 3.70% 0.67% Other 41,529 2.16% 0.39% 41,146 2.23% 0.40% Total – Internal social indicators 681,061 35.48% 6.38% 742,704 40.29% 7.26% 3 – External social indicators Value (thousand) % over OR % over NR Value (thousand) % over OR % over NR Education 21,040 2.71% 0.20% 21,585 3.09% 0.21% Fighting hunger and food safety 51 0.00% 0.00% 46 0.01% 0.00% Other 793 0.10% 0.01% 1,075 0.15% 0.01% Total contribution to society 21,884 2.81% 0.21% 22,706 3.25% 0.22% Taxes (excluding social security contributions) 319,148 41.04% 2.99% 490,132 70.24% 4.79% Total – External social indicators 341,032 43.85% 3.20% 512,838 73.49% 5.01% 4 – Environmental indicators Value (thousand) % over OR % over NR Value (thousand) % over OR % over NR Investments related to production/ operation of company 15,405 1.98% 0.14% 7,698 1.10% 0.08% Investments in external programs and/or projects 66 0.01% 0.00% 59 0.01% 0.00% Total investments in environment 15,471 1.99% 0.14% 7,757 1.11% 0.08% Regarding the establishment of “annual goals” to minimize waste ( ) does not have goals ( ) achieves 51 to 75% ( ) does not have goals ( ) achieves 51 75% and consumption in general in production / operation and ( ) achieves 0 50% (X) achieves 76 100% ( ) achieves 0 50% (X) achieves 76 to 100% increase the efficient use of natural resources, the company 5 – Personnel indicators 2013 2012 Number of employees at the end of the period 17,302 16,325 Number of hires during the period 1,660 1,129 Number of outsourced personnel 2,897 2,835 Number of trainees 404 253 Number of employees above 45 years of age 2,964 2,765 Number of women working in the company 2,509 2,283 % of management positions held by women 9.77% 9.91% Number of black employees in the company 793 784 % of management positions held by black employees 2.57% 2.61% Number of people with disabilities or special needs 771 798 6 – Relevant information relating to corporate citizenship 2013 Goals 2014 Ratio between the highest and lowest 59 There are no goals remuneration in the company Total number of work accidents 196 176 The social and environmental projects developed (X) directors ( ) all (X) directors ( ) all ( ) directors ( ) directors by the company were defined by: and managers employees and managers employees ( ) directors and ( ) directors and ( ) all The occupational health and safety standards were set by: ( ) all employees (X) all + CIPA (X) all + CIPA managers managers employees Concerning freedom of union association, (X) will ( ) follows ILO (X) encourages ( ) will not be ( ) will follow the right to collective bargaining and internal ( ) not involved encourage rules and follows ILO involved ILO rules representation of employees, the company: and follow ILO (X) will ( ) directors and (X) all ( ) will not be ( ) directors and Supplementary pension benefits contemplate: ( ) directors encourage managers employees involved managers and follow ILO ( ) directors and (X) all ( ) directors and (X) all Profit and/or results sharing considers: ( ) directors ( ) directors managers employees managers employees In selecting suppliers, the same ethical ( ) are not (X) are ( ) are not (X) will be ( ) will be and social responsibility and ( ) are required considered suggested considered suggested required environmental standards adopted by the company: (X) organizes Regarding the participation of employees in ( ) will not be (X) will organize ( ) is not involved ( ) supports and ( ) will support voluntary work programs, the company: involved and encourage encourages Total value added for distribuition (R$ thousand) In 2013: 3,887 In 2012: 3,508 22.98% government 48.18% employees 5.20% 23.16% government 49.72% employees 5.20% Distribution of value added (DVA) shareholders 8.83% third parties 14.81% retained shareholders 7.23% third parties 14.69% retained Annual Report 2013 91 CREDITS General coordinator Vice Presidency of Institutional Relations and Sustainability GRI consulting, writing, editing and layout Report Sustentabilidade Photos Lúcio Cunha Embraer Picture Collection Av. Brigadeiro Faria lima 2170 São José dos Campos Sp 12227 901 Brazil www.embraer.com.b
