Communication on Progress 12 May 2014 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Qualcomm Incorporated reaffirms our support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Steve Mollenkopf Chief Executive Officer Communication on Progress 12 May 2014 Our Commitment to Human Rights and Our Key Accomplishments Qualcomm is committed to respecting human rights and avoiding complicity in any human rights abuse, throughout our company, our operations and our communities. Our efforts are informed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our membership in the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) and our participation in BSR’s Human Rights Working Group and the UN Global Compact further augment our efforts. Working with other companies in these multi-industry groups provides us with an opportunity to share best practices and discuss challenges in developing companywide solutions to address human rights concerns. In 2013, we continued to make progress on this commitment. Our annual assessment of human rights compliance and risks was conducted by a cross-divisional team of our legal, finance, employee relations and internal audit staff. We published Our Commitment to Human Rights, which elaborates on the human rights issues most directly related to our business, industry and the communities we serve. We also formalized Our Environmental Guiding Principles, which outlines our commitment to protecting the environment throughout our company and operations. We revised The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct to ensure that our ethical guidelines remain aligned with our evolving business environment. We also strengthened our ethical behavior practices by updating our Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and Anti-Corruption Policy. We enhanced our commitment to maintain a fair, progressive and rewarding workplace where diversity and innovation thrive. As of May 2014, Qualcomm Wireless Reach™ had nearly 100 projects in various stages of development in over 35 countries. These sustainable advanced wireless projects strengthen economic and social development with a focus on education, entrepreneurship, health care, the environment and public safety. Last year, Wireless Reach invested in programs that specifically target the UN Millennium Development Goals of universal education, gender equality and child and maternal health. Our policies, implementation efforts and outcomes related to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact for the past year are detailed below. For more information on Qualcomm's commitments, please contact humanrights@qualcomm.com. Communication on Progress 12 May 2014 Global Compact Principles Qualcomm’s Commitments Human Rights Policies and Implementation Principle 1: Businesses should support and The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct respect the protection of internationally Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct proclaimed human rights; and Our Commitment to Human Rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit Outcomes in human rights abuses. 2013 Qualcomm Sustainability Report Our 2013 GRI Content Index Qualcomm Sustainability Website Labour Policies and Implementation Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct freedom of association and the effective Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Our Commitment to Human Rights Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Outcomes Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; 2013 Qualcomm Sustainability Report and Our 2013 GRI Content Index Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in Qualcomm Sustainability Website respect of employment and occupation. Global Inclusion and Diversity Summary Report 2013 Environmental Policies and Implementation Principle 7: Businesses should support a The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct precautionary approach to environmental Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct challenges; Our Commitment to Human Rights Our Environmental Guiding Principles Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Outcomes Principle 9: Encourage the development and 2013 Qualcomm Sustainability Report diffusion of environmentally friendly Our 2013 GRI Content Index technologies. Qualcomm Sustainability Website Qualcomm Wireless Reach™ Qualcomm Solutions Anti-Corruption Policies and Implementation Principle 10: Businesses should work against The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct bribery. Our Commitment to Human Rights Code of Ethics Corporate Governance Outcomes 2013 Qualcomm Sustainability Report Our 2013 GRI Content Index Qualcomm Sustainability Website
