What’s Inside A word from Chairman 1 About the Report 2 Company’s Profile 3 Sustainability – Our Approach 4 Stakeholder Engagement 10 Materiality Issues 13 Governance and Values 14 Economic Performance 21 Environmental Performance 27 Research & Development 38 Product Responsibility 41 Social Responsibility 44 A Great Place to Work 49 Safety and Occupational Health 54 List of abbreviations and acronyms 58 Assurance Certificate 61 GRI Indicator 63 4 A word from Chairman Dear Stakeholders, It is my pleasure to present to you IndianOil‘s 8th Sustainability Report ‘Widening Horizons’. This report delineates our resolve and proactive efforts in tapping the unprecedented opportunities that aid and assist sustainable development of our business. In the larger context, preserving and conserving the environment that is so critical for long term well being of mankind and enterprises has now become an integral part of our planning and decision making processes at all levels of organization. For long term economic development at an accepted rate, environment conservation and harmonious coexistence with all habitants of our planet is now an accepted central theme. The scientific community is becoming increasingly convinced of the link between global warming and climate change although consensus is yet to emerge on route and speed for tackling the same. There is however near unanimity on adopting innovative, local resource dependent, non fossil-fuel based and efficient energy systems, in the coming decades, which are expected to be radically different Above backdrop of future prospects has led to from conventional energy systems. This directionIndianOil’s successful forays in Exploration and change will also be necessitated by growing shortage of Production, Gas, Alternate Energy i.e. Wind, Solar fossil fuels and need for reduction in carbon emissions and Nuclear, Biofuels and initiating a host of R&D and minimizing its’ adverse impact on people and projects aimed at securing both energy and planet. The overall resultant circumstances will push environment in decades ahead. We have human ingenuity to innovate and find new technologies considerably increased investment in energy and processes towards sustainable fulfillment of our conservation (ENCON) projects and sustainable energy and energy based products’ requirements. To development initiatives to minimize our carbon, summarize, we are on the verge of a historic water and waste footprints as promulgated in our transformation where unabated exploitation of nonSustainability Policy. renewable energy sources will be replaced by a completely new set of resources and technologies. I take this opportunity to further assure that we will considerably step up our advocacy and actions At IndianOil, embracing sustainability in every walk of to produce products and services that are more our life is a conscious decision to demonstrate our firm environment friendly and also build a logistics and commitment towards protection of environment since in delivery system that aims to be the best in the larger public perception, we get directly associated industry. with some of the causes of modern civilization’s woes. We have accordingly taken care to fine tune our In this journey of Sustainability, I seek your inputs business processes, system/ resource deployment, HSE and feedback at sustainability@indianoil.in for and QA practices as well as our communication making Indian Oil, India and our planet a better strategy. As a prominent energy provider to the nation place for ourselves and our future generations. we are addressing the challenges of growth and at the same time creating standards of environmental governance that develop and emerge as green JAI HIND benchmarks for industry. 1 About the Report “Widening Horizons”, IndianOil’s 8th Sustainability as direct customers such as Government agencies, Report for the year 2012-13 is in continuation private industry locations etc. where we do not with its reporting journey on the triple bottom line have operational control. Hence data pertaining to performance and strengthening relationship with direct customers has not been covered in this all stakeholders. This report, published annually, report. reflects IndianOil’s approach to sustainability and defines a path forward aligned with its corporate As Government of India holds 78.92% shares in sustainability stratagem. IndianOil’s previous IndianOil, the administrative control of our sustainability report “Fuelling a Billion company and its various policy decisions are in Aspirations” reflected the companies performance accordance with the administrative and functional in 2011-12. There are no significant changes in directives issued by the government. These issues the reporting boundary and no re-statements from have been duly considered while addressing the previous year’s report. materiality of the report. The sustainability report is prepared as per GRI We are constantly engaging with all our G3.1 OGSS framework including comprehensive stakeholders through various channels of outlook on the economic, social and environmental dialogue. This report aims to properly reflect the aspects. The scope of this report covers implications, risks and challenges inherent in our performance of IndianOil’s all business verticals all business activities. and Corporate functions but excludes performance of its Subsidiaries and Joint Venture companies. Emission data Produced in this report are as per IPCC guidelines and ISO 14064 standards. SCOPE 1, SCOPE 2 The reported data relates to the major operational emissions are reported whereas SCOPE 3 emissions are streams of IndianOil carried out through its excluded from the reporting boundary. Refineries, Pipelines, Marketing and R&D. We have also covered an account of our recent growth drivers beyond the core business viz., IndianOil attains an externally Petrochemicals, Exploration & Production, Gas verified application level of A+ Marketing, Alternate Energy & Sustainable ‘A’ represents the highest level of completeness in Development. addressing core topics as identified by the Global Our stakeholders and readers are requested to Reporting Initiative (GRI). The “+” is achieved as a keep in mind that IndianOil has significant result of report assurance by internationally operations at different consumer locations known recognized external Assurer namely Emergent Ventures India Pvt Ltd. Report Boundary The Report covers all establishments in India owned by IndianOil viz. Limitations -Refineries -Joint Ventures and Subsidiaries not included -Marketing locations in report boundary -Pipeline Installations -International operational locations are not -R&D Centre included within the report boundary --All Administrative Offices, Training Institutions, -Environmental Data of pipeline Division excluded Townships etc …Of your Interest As a part of sustainable business action plan to reduce paper consumption, our Sustainability Report 12-13 Widening Horizons is released only in e-version ; however, an abridge version of Sustainability Report 12-13 has been released in printed form as Sustainability Highlights 12-13. Both the reports can be accessed form our website http://www.iocl.com/Aboutus/sustainability.aspx for reference to all our stakeholders. Detailed GRI Index: At the end of the report, a full index of GRI G3.1 OGSS nomenclature is given to help navigate to your topic of interest. Embedded Links: Relevant details about various topics can be found from links throughout the report. 2 Company Profile: IndianOil-In every part. In every heart. The journey of IndianOil from a Marketing Company to a transnational Energy Major has been dotted with Sustainable Development drivers… IndianOil. In every part. In every heart. IndianOil, ‘The Energy of India’ has always been an operator as well as global upstream player. fulfilling nation’s energy demand, which is the basic After acquiring stake in Carabobo, Venezuela, need for any country’s growth and development. Be it two oil wells have come into production. scorching heat or extreme cold, day or night, plains Additionally, 10% working interest in producing or hills, we work indefatigably so that our Shale Oil condensate asset in USA has been countrymen always maintain speed and momentum. acquired along with Oil India Limited. As an However, global economic crisis, climate change and operator in Cambay Blocks, IndianOil is gaining occurrence of frequent natural calamities compelled valuable experience. us to reanalyse our strategy, which is primarily growth focused. We have understood that economic With facilities spread over the entire nation and growth alone can not sustain the world. We need a ever-expanding market opportunities, IndianOil more sustainable approach to growth and has become a truly integrated energy company. development. Government of India holds 78.92% share in IndianOil. The administrative control of the IndianOil with over 34,000 strong workforce, is company vests with Government of India and meeting the growing energy needs of the nation in therefore, various policy decisions forms the economically, environmentally and socially underlining principles of our Corporate responsible way. This involves running our Governance. IndianOil has also successfully operations responsibly today and building a combined its corporate social responsibility sustainable energy system for tomorrow. agenda with its business offerings to millions of people. IndianOil is India’s highest ranked Indian corporate in the prestigious Fortune ‘Global 500’ listing at 88th Installation Nos. rank in year 2013. IndianOil and its subsidiaries own and operate 10 of India’s 22 refineries and its crossRefineries 8 country network of over 11,000 kms of crude oil, Oil Depots & Terminals 135 products and gas pipelines, which is the largest in Aviation Fuelling Stations 97 the country. IndianOil has a portfolio of powerful and much-loved energy brands that include Indane, LPG Bottling Plants 90 LP Gas, SERVO lubricants, XTRAPREMIUM petrol, Lube Blending Plants 15 XTRAMILE diesel, etc. Pipelines Terminals 83 IndianOil is vertically integrated energy company Length of pipelines (kms) 11214 through Exploration and Production activities on the Administrative Offices 105 upstream and Petrochemicals and gas marketing on R&D Centre 1 the downstream within India and abroad. Retail Outlets 16,837 For future growth prospects, Renewable Energy Kisan Sewa Kendra (Village Rural Outlets) 5,535 Portfolio of Wind and Solar Energy generation, LPG Distributors (including RGGLVY) 6,467 Feedstock production of Bio fuels and Ethanol blending and Nuclear Energy generation in SKO/LDO Dealers 3,938 association with NPCIL have been embraced. With a Industrial site mixed slurry explosives plant 9 world-class R&D Centre, IndianOil conducts Cryogenics container manufacturing unit 1 pioneering work in lubricants formulation, refining processes, cost effective pipeline transportation and On grid Solar Power generation (MW) 5 development of alternative fuels. Wind power generation (MW) *14.7 MW plant is to be commissioned in April 48.3 IndianOil’s journey in E&P is gaining strength step 2013 3 by step with a view to establishing itself as Energy Crop Plantation Jatropha (in hectare) 8000 Sustainability – Our Approach IndianOil, a globally admired Energy Company is becoming a key player in the evolution of India’s strategy for sustainable development by addressing the concerns for environment, aspirations of community and creating values for stakeholders. Our commitment to sustainability has its roots in our vision. Accordingly we have formulated our sustainability strategy that supports our communities, enhance our business relationships to create a brighter future for our next generation. Our sustainability strategy allows us to focus on long-term sustainable business opportunities, manage risks, enhance our corporate reputation and to get a competitive advantage. In developing plans for the future, we are mindful of our influence on natural resources and their development. We understand our responsibility towards society, the role we have to play to address the menace of climate change and other sustainability challenges. During the year, we continued to carry out eco-foot printing exercise, wherein mapping of green house gas emissions, water consumption and waste generation were carried out on ‘as is’ basis. Additionally, during the year, energy audit of office buildings was carried out in various locations. A number of mitigation actions, such as commissioning of rainwater harvesting systems, solarization of retail outlets, installation of organic waste converters, organizing carbon-neutral events, sustainability seminars and conducting awareness generation programmes were also carried out during the year. With our sustainability initiatives and conducive policy environment, IndianOil has forayed into green energy generation, which is an attractive and rewarding investment to minimize interactions of our business operations with environment. Rs. 115.66 crore Sustainability Strategy in Actions has been spent by Formulate Action Plan for reduction of GHG emissions IndianOil on Policy for making major events Carbon Neutral Renewable Energy Policy for installing LED/ Energy Efficient lighting Initiatives during Solar minigrid project planned for Socio-economic development the year 2012Water and waste footprinting 13… we truly call Workshops/ Seminars/ Lectures for Awareness Generation on it investment not Sustainable Development expenditure Sustainability Organisation Grid In IndianOil, sustainability planning and implementation is a combination of top-down and bottoms-up approach. The philosophy and policies are designed by the board level committee whereas plans and proposals are created at the field level. Board Committee on CSR & Sustainable Development Corporate Level Renewable Energy & Sustainable Development (RE&SD) department Nodal Officers at Division Levels Marketing Refineries Pipelines R&D Locations/ Installations 4 Medium Term (2-5 years) • Emission • Carbon Foot printing ReductionProcesses • Carbon sequestration measures-Tree • Emission Reduction• Implementati Carbon plantation on of Processes • Targets for GHG organizationManagement Sustainability Strategy wide GHG emission emission reduction reduction Short Term (< • Strategy strategies 2 years) development for reducing GHG Long Term (>5 emissions years) Medium Term • Developing Policy (2-5 years) framework • Achieving better than • Energy Audit • Energy Conservation • ENCON projects industry benchmark in Energy & Efficiency energy • Targets for initiatives reducing consumption Management energy consumption Long Term (>5 Short Term (< years) 2 years) Medium Term • Developing Policy (2-5 years) • Watershed framework Management • Rain Water Harvesting • Re use of treated water • Process • Achieve better than Water from ETPs improvements • Packaged Sewage • Recycling Industry benchmark. Management Treatment Plants waste water • Water Foot-printing • Desalination Long Term (>5 Plants years) Short Term (< 2 years) Medium Term • Waste Foot-printing (2-5 years) • Wastetoexercise energy • Developing Policy framework • Implement best waste Projects Waste • Installing Organic Waste Converters management practices. Management Long Term (>5 Short Term (< years) 2 years) • Solar PV Project Medium Term (2-5 years) • Solar CSP Bio, • Wind Power Project Project • Ethanol Blending in • Solar PV Project • Biomass Renewable Petrol Energy • Solar CSP Project Project and Clean • Wind Power Project • Nuclear • Waste / BiomassEnergy Energy based energy Project Projects Short Term (< 2 years) Long Term (>5 Portfolio years) 5 Sustainability – Our Approach In the fields of carbon mitigation, waste management and energy management, we have outperformed our targets for the year 2012-13. Following tables show our performance of the last year and our target for the next year. Achievement for Year 2012-13 Target for Year 2013-14 Parameter Target Achievement Parameter Target (no. of (no. of (no. of locations) locations) locations) Carbon Mitigation Carbon Mitigation Carbon foot printing exercise 30 48 Carbon foot printing exercise 60 Carbon neutral events NA 6 Energy Management Carbon neutral events 10 Energy Audit of Office Energy Management 5 28 Building Energy Audit of Office Building 40 Retail Outlet Solarisation 100 276 Solar PV Installation at Refineries/ 400 KW Water Conservation Offices/ Townships/ Installations/ Rain Water Harvesting 40 66 Retail Outlets etc System Waste Management Water Conservation Organic Waste Converter 5 9 Rain Water Harvesting System 45 Awareness Generation Programmes 2500 Water Footprinting Exercise 60 4375 manSustainability Workshops manAwareness Generation Programmes hours hours Sustainability Workshops 40 IndianOil organises national seminar on Sustainability IndianOil organized National Seminar on Sustainability: Issues, Challenges and Opportunities at Tagore Chambers, SCOPE Complex. Eminent speakers from reputed institutions and ministries like Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs, Ministry of Rural Development, Ministry of Power, CPCB, IIT-Delhi, JNU, TERI, CII etc deliberated on various aspects of sustainability. Delegates from Energy Sector like ONGC, NTPC, GAIL, CPCL, OIL, BHEL, EIL, PGCIL, PPAC and DGH participated in the seminar. In the wake of global threat arising out of climate change and the requirement of inclusive growth, the deliberations were focused on sustainability issues like policy framework, energy efficiency, water and waste management, rural livelihood, etc. The seminar was organised in an effort to spread the message to make sustainability a way of life and firm-up action plan for bringing about changes in business operations and thereby achieving sustainable development and inclusive growth. 6 Sustainability – Our Approach Use of Renewable energy against the conventional IndianOil has completed Jatropha plantation in source i.e. fossil fuel energy is the key business about 8000 ha of wasteland in the states of MP, enabler to reduce GHG. Our first on-grid wind UP and Chhattisgarh. Our joint venture company power system of 21 MW was commissioned in IndianOil-CREDA Biofuels Limited supplied 172kL 2009 at Kutch, Gujarat and first on-grid solar PV of de-metalled and degummed Jatropha oil to power plant of 5 MW capacity in 2012 at Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited for pilot Rajasthan. Our another on grid wind power studies on co-processing of vegetable oils for projects of a combined capacity of 48.3 MW are production of green diesel, which was successfully commissioned at two sites in Andhra Pradesh. The co-processed during the year using the technology grid-connected renewable energy generation developed by our R&D Centre. We have ventured during the year crossed the 100 GWh mark. into nuclear energy generation of 1400 MW capacity through a JV namely “NPCIL IndianOil Nuclear Energy Corporation Limited”, with an equity participation of 26% in the Rajasthan Total Generation of Renewable Energy (in GWh) Atomic Power Project. We are poised to commence 150.0 power generation by 2017. 105.4 100.0 44.9 37.8 38.4 50.0 7.3 0.0 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Promoting Solar Photovoltaic power system for uninterrupted power to our Retail Outlets and Kissan Seva Kendras located in rural market and remote areas, has received great success. This initiative has increased the availability of electricity during long hours of power cuts in these areas besides reducing GHG emission from DG sets, resulting saving of fossil fuel. Greening of our Retail Outlets is a leap towards environment friendly and pollution free RO operations. 1600 1486.8 1520 1400 1200 1000 800 600 400 309 316 200 0 2011-12 2012-13 Energy generated (in MWh) Emission savings During the year, 276 IndianOil Retail Outlets /KSKs have been solarized, resulting in an emission saving of 1520 tCO2. 7 Sustainability – Our Approach Sustainability Policy “IndianOil shall continuously strive to be the leading energy provider of the country and in that pursuit follow sustainable practices and technological processes that are safe, efficient and environmentally benign to the society.” In pursuit of this Policy, IndianOil is committed: • To conduct business in a sustainable manner while meeting stakeholders’ aspirations for value creation and growth • To enrich quality of life of communities around its locations • To work towards lowering waste and carbon footprint by judicious and efficient use of resources • To engage employees & business partners as change agents for sustainable practices • To be a partner in nation’s strategy for deployment of sustainability initiatives Our Sustainable Development Plan for 2013-16 Reinforcing its commitment towards Sustainability, IndianOil launched its Sustainability policy[1] together with Framework, Roles and Responsibilities for Sustainable Development, Plan and Organizational structure for monitoring Sustainability performance. Water Carbon Energy Management Management Management Water footprint of all Tree Plantation / Solarisation of buildings/ buildings / locations Carbon neutral events locations/ RO/KSKs Rain Water Harvesting across Carbon footprinting & Energy efficient lighting – all locations reduction of GHG emissions LED/ Light Pipes across all locations Watershed development at select locations Wind Projects Solar Projects Solid Oxide Fuel Cells at ROs 8 [1] Sustainability policy is also available online at: http://www.iocl.com/download/Sustanaibility_Policy_of_IndianOil.pdf Sustainability – Our Approach Corporate Sustainable Development Framework At IndianOil, we endeavour to achieve our  Promotion of robust Health, Safety and environmental, societal and economic goals Environment practices: Provide a safe and through mass awareness and change of mindset healthy environment in and around the leading to innovative sustainability practices workplace through promotion of a strong across the organisation by timely ensuring:culture of safety and care for environment  Ethical management practices:  Biodiversity: Projects and operations do Transparency, integrity and accountability not have significant impact on biodiversity. in IndianOil’s functioning  Minimal impact on Climate Change:  Shareholder Value: Sustaining the Limiting the GHG and other emissions and company’s profitability through value adopting mitigation policies in line with creation and efficient operations and India’s climate change strategy processes  Responsible Management of Waste:  Prudent use of Resources: Through Reducing, reusing, recycling and efficient use of energy, water, land, input environmentally safe disposal of waste materials and any other resource streams  Process & Product Stewardship: Supply  Awareness Generation on Sustainable and deployment of sustainable processes, Development: Generating awareness on products and services through continuous sustainability development amongst the innovation and adoption employees and business associates/stakeholders  Bio, Renewable and Clean Energy Portfolio: Enhanced focus to promote Bio,  Societal Needs: Safeguarding human Renewable and Clean energy portfolio rights within our sphere of influence, contributing to community needs, investing  Technology towards Sustainable in training and education, promoting arts Development: Absorption and adoption of and sports energy efficient and environment-friendly technology. Specific focus to develop in Monitoring & Reporting: Periodic house technology through R&D monitoring, reporting and disclosure of performance on sustainability parameters to stakeholders 9 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder groups engaged by  Investor Service Cell to address issues/ grievances/ queries of stakeholders. the organization  Dedicated email to address investors’ grievances at investors@indianoil.in. Government/ Community  Organizing seminars, workshops, coordination meetings to seek feedback and to Regulatory Bodies improve our services. NGOs  Anyone can seek information through RTI. Academia Business partners Advocacy and and Contractors Basis for identification and Advisory Groups selection of stakeholders with Shareholders Customers whom we engage Industry and Trade Stakeholder analysis helps in identifying and Employees Associates evaluating impact/influence process on the company’s strategy/actions. We routinely engage with our stakeholders to come up with Financial Media sustainable solutions to help spearhead and Institutions shape the discourse around sustainability. We are present in every corner of the country to serve our countrymen. Nature of our business has enabled us to engage with diverse range of stakeholders. Efficient Modes of Engagement Stakeholder engagement takes place in a variety of ways throughout the year. Some specific Video Conferencing is the preferred mode of examples of intentional and purposeful listening communication among officers in different of stakeholders’ issues are as following: locations. Opting technology has bought down employee travel time, cost and travel related  The Shareholders/Investors Grievance emissions, significantly. Communications from Committee (SIGC) deals with the complaints top management are broadcast through videoreceived from the shareholders. conferencing to all offices.  Publishing half yearly/ annual reports in various leading national dailies and on the corporation’s website www.iocl.com. 10 Stakeholder Engagement Approaches to Stakeholder  Periodic staff meetings to address employee issues and grievances Engagement  Transporters’ Meet Sustainable engagement with stakeholders is  Meeting with Contractors/ Vendors at based oninformation sharing and disclosure, locations. interaction/ discussion in forums or through  Regular meetings with Government bodies/ feedback, & ‘transcend and include’ on issues of Departments and Financial Institutions mutual interests. Regular meetings, seminars, workshops with our bulk customers such as Defense, Railways, We engage with key stakeholders through various Airlines, Power Plants, Cement Plants, State listed ways: Utilities, Transport Undertakings, Parliamentary  Customer Education Programmes/ Meet/ Groups etc. Grievance re-dressal forums organized  Capacity building workshops on health & frequently safety, strategic management approach etc. for  Dealer/ Distributor Conventions at regular employees and for stakeholders interval and at different locations Messages from Chairman, Directors; birthday  Gold Circle Dealer Conventions greetings to employees; information sharing  KSK Conventions through e-magazine; celebration of national  Indane Star Distributor Conventions at the events, farewell functions for superannuating State Office level employees  Chairman’s Panel at National Level Local community meetings and Community comprising high performing dealers and Development Programmes with the local distributors communities to fulfil their needs at regular interval. How ‘We’ all are benefited Stakeholder Benefits to Business Benefits to Stakeholders Customer/ Expanding network of 22372 Retail Outlets Access to fuel and services closer to the Consumer including 5535 KSKs and more than 530 customer including in villages. RGGLVY in the rural market. Employees Dissemination of important information; ‘Bottom up approach’ to formulate strategy achievement of significant milestones in prioritizing stakeholders’ need; Formation the field of operation, finance and HRD. of Quality circles and TPM groups; incorporation of suggestion schemes. Communities Low risk to business because of community Community needs are assessed and covered engagement. in Corporate Social Responsibility programmes and Community Development Projects. Shareholders Strengthening the Governance Mechanism Transparency in business operations. / Investors to take feedback from the shareholders for improvising business. Business Increase in Loyalty. Proper communication Easy approach to organization for Partners of business goals, potential investment feedbacks/ complaints/ suggestions. opportunities to business partners. There was no case of non-compliance by the Company and no penalties / strictures were enforced on the Company by Stock Exchanges / SEBI or any other statutory authority on any matter related to capital markets during the last three years. During the year, a total of 1710 complaints were received from shareholders and all have been settled. As on 31st March 2013, no complaint is pending. Further, during the year, 1192 requests for change of address, recording of nomination, issue of duplicate share certificates / dividend, warrant, etc. were received, 11out of which 39 requests were pending as on 31.03.2013, however settled subsequently. Stakeholder Engagement Our Time is Yours. Your Problems are Ours. We understand the importance of listening. It is this ability to listen that has enabled us to find newer and innovative solutions to our customers’ problems. Today, senior officials encourage to meet customers and are available thrice a week on Tuesdays, Wednesdays & Thursdays between 3-4 pm at Head Office level & State Office level. Similarly, our officials at Divisional office, Area Offices and LPG bottling plants meet the customers to understand their needs and offer them customized solutions on every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. ‘How do you rate IOC LPG cylinder booking and delivery’ – 32,11,217 customer surveyed with the following response 24% 18% 18 29% % 11% Excellent Very Good Good Satisfactory Unsatisfactory Robust system for measuring Customer satisfaction Mechanism Personal contact Over phone Through web portal Frequency Monthly Once in three months Continuous Methodology Standard format for 10 Through IVRS (Interactive Through web portal customer calls Voice Response System) Practices in place Customer contacts on regular On an experimental basis one Facility to rate distributors basis by field officers. Special time exercise undertaken permanently available for surveys by external agencies to consumers registered in the web ascertain responses on special site issues Results Lodging of complaints and Customer satisfaction survey During 2012-13, 17592 taking corrective actions through IVRS in 39 cities and customers rated their including penal actions among 1172 distributors. No of distributors on different customers surveyed parameters such as timely . 32,11,217. delivery, correct weight, correct price, courteous behavior etc. 12 Materiality Issues IndianOil has carefully identified and focused on material issues for its business processes. Economic Issues Our Initiatives Forex fluctuations: Instability in the global As a part of business strategies, various economy, forex movement and increasing lessening mechanisms are in place to deal with borrowing cost have been affecting overall the adverse impact of forex fluctuation. performance and growth of the corporation. Under recovery: Non recovery/ delays in Our constant engagement with the Government recovery of outstanding dues resulting in helps obtain under recoveries. As other Oil blockage of working capital. Marketing Companies are also facing similar situation, a common approach with the Government helps our efforts in counteracting the debilitating continuance of under recovery. Price fluctuation: Price fluctuation of crude oil Close monitoring of inventory levels of crude as well as of products, impact inventory and finished products, selling price escalation management. etc helps in implementing mitigation plan to counteract the issues associated with price fluctuation. Environmental Issues Our Initiatives Availability of Raw materials : India continues IndianOil is relentlessly putting efforts to to import major chunk of its crude intake and improve energy basket by securing indigenous LPG requirements. Timely and adequate import and overseas E&P assets. of LPG as per requirement is a matter of concern. Depletion of Natural Resources: Water About 80% of the total water in all our refineries availability for the operations and services at is reused. Effluent Treatment Plants and few water stressed locations is an area of Rainwater Harvesting are major methods of concern. water conservation. Upcoming Paradip Refinery has a desalination plant to reduce the usage of ground water. Water foot printing of locations is integral part of our water management. Social Issues Our Initiatives Safety and security of assets and people: IndianOil has adapted best in class technologies Ensure safe operating practices to avoid any and standard operating procedures at all the kind of accidents. locations. Training inputs on safety, health and environment are providing further reinforcement to our commitment for safe Geo-Politics & Speculative Activity: operations. IndianOil is committed to bridge all Geopolitical developments, instability in certain the gaps and is working towards regions, and speculative activity in oil markets institutionalizing safety as the first and foremost pose a major risk to the Corporation. During priority, at all times. the year, political instability in Middle East continued to play a role in building risk Channelizing alternate overseas crude supply premium in the price of crude. points and Acquiring versatile crude processing capabilities. 13 Precautionary approach – (a) Supply of petroleum products as per PNG regulatory Board; (b) Retails service obligations; (c) Marketing services obligations; (d) Innovative HR policies; (e) SD policy. Governance and Values Corporate Governance – Our Philosophy We believe that good Corporate Governance practices ensure ethical and efficient conduct of the affairs of the company and also help in maximizing values for all stakeholders. We have built an environment of trust and confidence among all the constituents. The Company upholds the principles and practices of Corporate Governance to ensure transparency, integrity and accountability in its functioning. IndianOil recognises that good Corporate Governance is a continuous exercise and reiterates its commitment to pursue highest standards of Corporate Governance in the overall interest of stakeholders. For effective implementation of the Corporate Governance practices, IndianOil has a well-defined policy framework. Shareholding Pattern Governance through Transparency, 2.8 2.57 Integrity & Accountability 3.49 1.91 9.29  Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management 0.34  Code of Conduct for prevention of Insider 0.67 Trading  Enterprise Risk Management Policy  Integrity Pact to enhance transparency in business 78.92  Whistle Blower Policy Central Government/State Government(s)  Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules for Mutual Funds Officers Financial Institutions/ Banks Insurance Companies Right to Information Foreign Institutional Investors Corporate Bodies Individuals eGovernance Efforts • e-Tendering • eProcurement • e-Payment • eCommunication • Employee Self Service Portal • Employee Performance Management System • File Tracking System • e-Suggestion Scheme “Values are not created by procedures but by ability of the organization to perform.” Mr. R. S. Butola, Chairman, on Corporate Governance 14 Governance and Values Board Profile As on 31st March 2013 the strength of Board of Directors the Board of Directors was 15 comprising of 8 executives (Whole-time Functional) Directors (including Chairman), and 7 part time Non Chairman Executive Directors, out of which 5 are Independent Directors. IndianOil, being a PSU, government nominates Directors and as on 31st March 2013, two Government Nominee Directors Government & Nonwere in the Board. Women executive representative in the Board is 6.67%. Directors Independent All our Directors belong to General Directors category and are above 50 years of age. The Board members are persons with proven record in diverse areas like energy, law, academics, finance, Corporate economics, marketing, administration, Office etc. The Board is the highest governance body for guiding the overall strategy, policies and oversee their implementation. To facilitate smooth Planning & Business R&D and efficient flow of decision, various Marketing Refineries Pipelines Development Centre Board Committees have been constituted. The agenda placed before the Board on various issues and details of the Board meetings held during 2012-13 are depicted in our annual report. Board Committees •Oil Price Risk Management •Planning & Projects •CSR & Sustainable Committee Committee Development Committee •Health, Safety & •Marketing Strategies •Audit Committee Environment Committee Committee •Contracts Committee •Project Evaluation •Shareholders’/ Investors •LNG Sourcing Committee Committee Grievance Committee •Remuneration Committee •Spot LNG Purchase •De-leasing of Immoveable •Establishment Committee Committee Properties Committee 15 Governance and Values Ethics & Code of Conduct tenders of the value of 10 Crore and above have been covered. 5 complaints were received during IndianOil is an equal opportunity employer. the year with regard to tender floated by the There is no discrimination for employment or company which were suitably resolved. As a part growth and development on the basis of caste, of transparency initiatives, IndianOil shares color, gender, religion or region. IndianOil information on different issues under the ‘Right focuses on improving the skills of its human to Information Act’ to a cross section of socially asset. committed individuals, NGOs and various IndianOil has a structured grievance handling stakeholders. procedure for employees. A Grievance/Complaint Record is also maintained for registering Risk Management grievances/ representations received from IndianOil has laid down the Enterprise Risk OBC/SC/ST employees and grievances so Management Policy and Procedures for risk registered are promptly considered for resolution. assessment and mitigation. As per the ‘Risk A well defined and strictly implemented policy on Management Policy’ of IndianOil, a ‘Risk prevention of sexual harassment at the Management Compliance Board’ is established. A workplace is in place. During the year, 2 meeting of Senior Officials is convened once every complaints related to sexual harassment were quarter to assess various risks (both internal & filed and were dealt as per rules. During the external, including climate change related risks) reporting period, no cases of indigenous rights and are categorized as ‘A’ and ‘B’ category risks. and discriminatory practices reported. No This committee debates these issues threadbare financial and in-kind contributions were given to and devises action plans to mitigate them. These political parties, politicians, and related are presented to the Executive Committee, which institutions. consists of Chairman and functional Directors of the Board. Sustainable Procurement IndianOil encourages participation in its Human Rights business procurement process from small and IndianOil follows high standards of human right medium enterprises as per Public Procurement values. All of our General Conditions of Contract Policy for MSMEs issued by Govt. of India. We do with our suppliers and contractors meet human not prefer any local vendors for our procurement rights requisites. It mainly covers gender process as it is done on competitive bidding. sensitive approaches like separate toilets, Also, we have sound e-procurement practices washing and bathing places, providing crèches to based on the principles of competitiveness and mothers bearing children of age below 6 years. such procurement practices are executed in a Canteen facilities and medical precautions are manner that is transparent, fair, competitive and must for both women and men. No cost effective. discrimination in the payroll is allowed on the basis of gender, caste, creed, religion and race. Transparency, Integrity & All our locations are monitored and reviewed to reduce human right risks. Under Community Accountability Development Programme for deprived section of IndianOil has entered into a Memorandum of the society, development funds towards Special Understanding (MoU) with Transparency Component Plan (SCP) and Tribal Sub Plan (TSP) International India (TII) in January 2008, for are already implemented. implementing an Integrity Pact Programme focussed on enhancing transparency in its business transactions, contracts and procurement processes. Under the MoU, IndianOil is committed to implement the Integrity Pact (IP) in all its major procurement and work contract activities. Three Independent External Monitors (IEM), being persons of eminence, are nominated by TII in consultation with the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) to monitor the activities. So far 48 IEM meetings have been held 16 since inception of the IP in IndianOil and 975 Access our code of conduct @ https://iocl.com/Talktous/Codeofconduct.aspx Governance and Values Liaison officers are appointed at various Child Labour locations/units/ installations all over the IndianOil is fully committed to abolition of child country to ensure implementation of Government labour. To implement the child labour policy, the directives. IndianOil scrupulously follows the General Conditions of Contract (GCC) make it presidential directives and guidelines issued by mandatory for all bidders to submit a written GoI regarding reservation in services for SC/ ST/ declaration that they do not engage child labour. OBC/ PH, etc to promote inclusive growth. IndianOil also ensures that no child is allowed to IndianOil has implemented the provisions of the work in any of its establishments. IndianOil has Disabilities Act 1995 by way of 3% reservation for prescribed the minimum age limit of 18 years for physically challenged and disabled persons. In employment/contract labour. IndianOil does not addition, various concessions and relaxations are support business from industries deploying child being extended to the physically challenged in labour. No complaints were reported related to the recruitment process. child labour during the year. Anti-Corruption and Forced or Compulsory Labour Anti -Competitive Behaviour IndianOil supports the elimination of all forms of IndianOil consistently works against corruption forced or compulsory labour. During the in all its forms. Our Conduct, Discipline and reporting year, no instance of forced/compulsory Appeal rules outline our approach to assessing or bonded labour was reported. fraud risks, reporting, investigating and responding to suspected incidents of fraud and As per IndianOil’s compensation policy, each corruption which is mandatory for all our category of employees is paid salary much above employees to comply with. As a responsible the minimum wages prescribed as per corporate citizen, IndianOil undertakes and Government guidelines without any distinction implements widely accepted initiatives like the between male and female employees. IndianOil, Grievance Re-dressal mechanism and the Whistle in accordance with the provisions of Minimum Blower policy. Wages Act, 1971 fixes the minimum rates at regular intervals, payable to employees employed Our Vigilance Cell carries out preventive in specified industries/ employment covered activities like increasing awareness regarding the under the Act as defined under the statute in Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) rules respective states. /guidelines, ensuring quality and quantity of products in transit as well as sales points across External Commitments and the country, conducting system studies to bring out irregularities/ inconsistencies, bringing Public Policy Participation transparency and economy in awarding as well IndianOil proactively advocates for public welfare as execution of contracts. 100% of our units are with an aim to bring positive change in analysed for anti-corruption and related risks. governance and compliant behaviour among key Number of training programs and workshops are stakeholders such as employees, customers and held for spreading knowledge related to checking business partners. and identifying corruption. IndianOil has an inbuilt mechanism to check anti competitive IndianOil continued its support to Global behavior and complies with all government Compact in implementing the ten guiding policies. Since last 5 years, two cases have been principles in United Nations’ agenda on human filed against the company relating to an antirights, labour standards, environment and anticompetitive behavior. One case is pending before corruption. As an active founder member and the Competition Commission of India (CCI) now a permanent member, IndianOil has also wherein complainant has alleged cartelization by actively participated in the meetings and Oil Marketing Companies, for collusive bidding conferences of the Global Compact Society. against tender of NACIL for ATF supplies. The IndianOil is also actively involved with the Delhi High Court has stayed the proceedings committees formed by the Government of India before CCI. In another case a party has alleged and other organizations for advancement or noncompetitive price due to cartelization by improvement of public good by contributing to Sugar Manufacturers & joint tendering by OMCs Economic Reforms, Sustainable Business for ethanol. The CCI dismissed the proceedings Principles, Energy Security, Inclusive and an appeal by the party is pending before the Development Policies, etc. 17 appellate authority. Governance and Values IndianOil has actively contributed to the other Compliance government forums. Some of the major IndianOil has carried out a Secretarial Audit of contributions include National Mission for its records and documents for the year 2012-13 Enhanced Energy Efficiency, DPE guidelines as a Good Corporate Governance practice. The for Sustainable Development and CSR, Expert Secretarial Audit Report confirms that we have Group on Low Carbon Strategy for Inclusive complied with all the applicable provisions of Growth”. the corporate laws, guidelines, rules etc. The report, duly certified by a practicing Company Secretary, is provided in the Annual Report. IndianOil has a strong system in agreement to comply with the statutory requirements of government bodies and stakeholders representing organizations. 18 Governance and Values G I F T AN RTI FULLFILLMENT WORKFLOW GIFT stands for Give Information for Transparency. This is a software for tracking and consolidating the RTI replies for all cases of IndianOil from all over India. GIFT is installed on the IOCL Intranet and so is accessible all over IOCL offices. Features • User-friendly customized software encompassing the requirements, across all Divisions, of all types of RTI cases. • Software installed to provide access through “INTRANET” (across entire IndianOil). Access secured through password, only to pre-identified officers dealing with RTI cases. • Standard SAP Codes used for Location and Employees (Users), which will enable regular updation/ integration with other SAP modules, as & when required. • Various levels of report generation i.e. Division level, and Region/State Office/Unit level. • Corp. Affairs to maintain desired single-point secured control for (a) trouble shooting, (b) ensuring periodic data updations,(c) liaison with IS group for periodic data transfer from SAP, (d) facilitating data analysis, (e) maintenance i.e. updating “Masters”, Back-up, etc. • Centralized Corporate monitoring of all RTI cases. IndianOil conferred with ICSI National Award for Excellence in Corporate Governance 2012 In a scintillating award ceremony at the plush hotel Ashoka, New Delhi, Mr. R.S Butola, Chairman IndianOil was conferred with the prestigious Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) award for Excellence in Corporate Governance 2012. “Values are not created by procedures but by ability of the organisation to perform” Mr. Butola on Corporate Governance Praising his team at IndianOil, he said, “IndianOil has its Corporate Governance intact since its inception and the transparent 360 degree evaluation for leadership assessment followed at IndianOil is a glaring example of good Corporate Governance and is revelation in the PSU circuit”. Our Group Companies & Joint Ventures Joint Ventures •Avi-Oil India Pvt. ltd. •Delhi Aviation Fuel Facility Pvt. Ltd. •Green Gas Ltd. •GSPL India Transco Ltd. Group Companies •GSPL India Gasnet Ltd. •Chennai Petroleum Corporation Ltd. •Indio Cat Pvt. Ltd. •IndianOil (Mauritius) Ltd. •IOT Infrastructure & Energy Services Ltd. •Lanka IOC PLC •IndianOil Ruchi Biofuels LLp •IOC Middle East FZE •IndianOil Skytanking Ltd. •IndianOil – CREDA Biofuels Ltd. •Indian Synthetic Rubber Ltd •IOC Sweden AB IOCL (USA) Inc. •Lubrizol India Pvt. Ltd. •NPCIL-IndianOil Nuclear Energy Corporation Ltd. •IndianOil Petronas Pvt. Ltd. •Petronet LNG Ltd. •Petronet india Ltd. •Petronet VK Ltd. 19 •Suntera Nigeria 205 Limited Awards & Accolades IndianOil received the Gold Trophy of “SCOPE Meritorious Award for Corporate Governance” for the year 2012. IndianOil was awarded the prestigious “ICSI National Award – 2012”for excellence in Corporate Governance instituted by Institute of Company Secretaries of India. International Financing Review Asia (IFR Asia), one of the most coveted capital markets agencies in Asia, awarded the ‘Indian Capital Market Deal of the Year 2012’ to IndianOil’s Singapore Dollars (SGD) denominated long term bonds and included the deal in its Roll of Honour for 2012. Dun & Bradstreet, the world’s leading source of global business information has awarded IndianOil with the Corporate Award 2012 in the Oil-Refining and Marketing sector. IndianOil became the highest ranked Indian company (88th) in the prestigious Fortune Global 500 listing. The Company also topped the Financial Express 500, Economic Times 500 and Fortune India 500 listings. IndianOil has also featured in the top 100 of the Platts Global ratings (Rank 82), Business India Super 100 companies (Rank 8), BW Real 500 (2nd biggest company) and Forbes Global 2000 (Rank 4 among Indian companies). IndianOil swept the PetroFed -2011 awards by emerging winner in following categoriesLeading Oil & Gas Corporate of the Year, Oil & Gas –Marketing Company of the Year, Project management Company of the Year and Women Executive of the Year in Oil & Gas sector. IndianOil’s household brands SERVO and Indane have been voted Consumer Superbrands for the year 2012. SERVO also retained its Master Brand status by winning it at the World Brand Congress. IndianOil bagged the second prize in the Best Enterprise (Maharatna/ Navratna) category by Women in Public Sector. IndianOil also won Best Women Employee awards in Officer and Non-Officer category during the year 2012-13 National Association FICCI Charters & ASSOCHAM PETROTECH National HRD Network (NHRD) Memberships Council of Indian Employers (CIE) Confederation Indian Industry (CII) All India Management Association (AIMA) Institute of Chartered Accounts of India (ICAI) Petroleum Federation of India (PetroFed), India International Association Indian Institution of Industrial Engineering World LP Gas Association, Paris (IIIE) Transparency International India (TII) Standing Conference of Public Enterprises United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) (SCOPE), India International collaborations (U21 Global TERI-Business Council for Sustainable Universities, Singapore, IFP France, etc.) Development (TERI-BCSD) 20 21 Economic Performance Economic Environment the US and the boom in the global LNG sector. Crude oil prices also moderated on an average The year 2012-13 was marked by challenging during the year and while natural gas prices fell economic environment both globally & in USA, they rose in Europe & Asia. On the domestically. Global economic growth demand side, consumption in OECD countries decelerated to 3.1% in 2012 from 3.9% recorded declined by 1.2 percent led by a decline of 2.8 in 2011. While US & Japan witnessed mild percent in the US. As regards, the Non-OECD acceleration in their growth, the overall countries, consumption growth decelerated to 4.2 performance of the advanced economies percent from 5.3 percent in 2011. deteriorated with output declining in the Euro Area as it continued to be in the clutches of the Sovereign debt crisis. Another setback to the Strategy global growth was the broad-based deceleration Indian energy market has a sizeable potential for for a second year in a row in the Emerging growth. In fact, India is projected to be a Economies Group. frontrunner in the global energy demand over the long term, with its energy demand projected For the Indian economy, the year was marked by to grow at a CAGR of 3.2 percent (2010-2035) as slowing growth and concerns over macrocompared to the CAGR of 1.2 percent for the economic stability. GDP growth slipped to 5 world. percent-the lowest India has seen in over a decade. Industrial slowdown and slump in investment aggravated during the year on Core Business account of infrastructural bottlenecks, high Petroleum products, after coal are the largest interest rates, delay in clearances and acted as source of meeting energy needs in India. major drag on the growth. High oil, coal and gold Petroleum products are the mainstay of the imports coupled with decline in exports Indian transportation sector, have a large market contributed significantly in the spiking of CAD in the household sector, agriculture and industry from 4.2 percent in 2011-12 to 6.7 percent of as well. The Corporation's strategy with respect GDP in Q3 of 2012-13, which was contained to to its core business operations is a two-pronged 4.8 percent of GDP for the full year 2012-13 one, where while it focuses on expansion, it also through abatement measures. The depreciation focuses on raising the efficiency bar of the of Rupee, which has intensified lately has existing and new ventures. further added to these concerns. Inflation did show signs of moderation though it continued to In the refining space, the Corporation has been elevate. During the year, WPI inflation stood at 6 continuously upgrading and expanding its percent as compared to 8 percent in the previous refineries to meet the changing product demand year. Fiscal deficit during the year provisionally patterns, environmental norms and increasing estimated at 4.9 percent of GDP was lower than demand. In addition, a major focus is on setting the Budget Estimate of 5.1percent of GDP. up new grass-root refineries with world scale capacity having higher complexity in Coastal locations to cash on the growing petroleum Energy Sector products demand in India. In line with that During 2012, global energy consumption growth Corporation's 15 MMTPA refinery at Paradip in slowed down to 1.8 percent from 2.5 percent Odisha is upcoming. On the operational front recorded in 2011 on account of deceleration in focus is on cost optimization, and accordingly the global economic activity. On the supply side, the crude basket is being expanded steadily to overall situation was mixed, while on one hand, include cheaper opportunity crudes. IndianOil geo-political uncertainties and supply outages has not received any financial assistance from did continue to disturb the energy markets, on the Government of India during the reporting the other hand, there were positive developments period. such large scale gas finds in East Africa, steady progress on the unconventional hydrocarbons production front, especially in 22 Economic Performance On the marketing front, the Corporation has a Exploration & Production stronghold over the market, with its pan India The global E&P scene has brightened over the sales network being its major strength. The year last few years with the coming in of newer fuels witnessed significant changes in the policy and newer geographies. The Corporation is domain, which are set to bring about structural gaining valuable experience as an operator in its changes in the petroleum products market in the Cambay blocks and also from its producing country. This new paradigm will be defined by assets where it has participating interest. The high levels of Competition as the retail market Corporation's journey in Exploration & opens up to the dynamics of market forces. The Production is gaining strength step by step with Corporation's strategy for maintaining its a view to establishing itself as an operator as leadership in the retail business rests on the two well as a global upstream player. Cs of Customer Loyalty & Cost Optimization. Technology solutions such as automation of Gas Business infrastructure, GPS enabled vehicle tracking The Corporation’s gas business has been growing systems, modernization of the dispensing units, steadily and awaits taking on the next level as improving Retail Visual Identities of retail outlets, opportunities are replete. The Corporation imparting training to dealers and pump envisages building its presence along the entire attendants, Infrastructure rationalization and value chain of gas business in the country. The retail network expansion are key focus areas in Corporation is in the process of setting up an pursuit of this. LNG import terminal at Ennore in Tamil Nadu and is also participating in building crossAs regards its pipeline network focus on the country natural gas pipelines and City gas crude pipelines front is to enhance capability of distribution networks. pipelines to transport heavier crude oil, on product pipelines front focus is on scaling up the LPG pipelines network and as regards gas, focus Renewable Energy is to establish a significant position in the The Corporation has been making inroads into upcoming national natural gas grid. the renewable and alternative energy space through investments in Bio-fuels, Wind, Solar & Nuclear Power. Beyond Core Beyond its core business, the Corporation has Research & Development been straddling across the energy value chain in line with its vision. The Corporation places significant thrust on knowledge and research based growth. In context of the vagaries of the international crude oil Petrochemicals prices and changing domestic pricing regime The Corporation has established itself as the R&D is viewed as a key competitive advantage second largest player in the Indian driver for the Corporation. Investment in Petrochemicals market. Indian Petrochemicals proprietary research in lubricants, catalyst, market has high growth potential and has been refinery and pipelines operations, and product growing at impressive rates. The Corporation has offerings is viewed as a thrust area for the sizeable investment plans lined up for the Corporation. R&D for its new businesses, Petrochemicals space. A major thrust is to enter especially, petrochemicals and alternative energy the import substitution market. The is emerging a major focus area for the Corporation's Butadiene Extraction Unit and corporation. Butene -1 project at Panipat are under steady progress. The Corporation is also setting up country's first Styrene Butadiene Rubber (SBR) unit in Panipat, which has reached advanced stages of implementation. In the market for polymers, where your Corporation has recently ventured thrust is to enter niche & specialized markets. 23 Economic Performance Human Capital Human Resource is the mainstay of any organization. Attracting and retaining the required talent is a continuing challenge for the Corporation. As Corporation's business in areas beyond its core expands, it has been working towards diversification of its talent pool as well. Initiatives for bringing in greater transparency, fairness and equity for the employees in respect to their career paths are thrust areas for the Corporation. A major challenge that has emerged in the context of the changing business realities that are set to play in, as competition in the market increases is to equip, train, facilitate, motivate and rationalize its manpower. 24 Operational & Financial Highlights Turnover (Inclusive of Excise Duty) Rs Profit After Tax (Rs Crore) Crore 12,000 4,50,000 10,000 10,221 4,00,000 4,14,909 3,73,926 3,50,000 8,000 3,00,000 3,03,695 7,445 2,61,849 2,50,000 2,50,065 6,000 2,00,000 5,005 4,000 3,955 1,50,000 2,950 1,00,000 2,000 50,000 0 0 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Net Worth (Rs Crore) Earnings Per Share (Rs.) 45 70,000 42.1 40 60,000 61,124 57,877 35 55,332 50,000 50,553 30 30.67 43,998 25 40,000 20 20.61 30,000 15 16.29 12.15 20,000 10 5 10,000 0 0 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Pipelines Throughput (Million Tonnes) Refineries Throughput (Million Tonnes) 80 56 75.495 55.621 75.549 70 55 68.512 54.65 65.007 60 54 59.627 50 53 52.962 40 52 51.367 30 51 50.696 20 50 10 49 0 48 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Total Domestic Sales (Million Tonnes) Manpower (no.) 74 34,400 72.49 34,363 72 71.37 34,300 70 34,233 34,200 68 67.932 66 34,100 34,105 65.423 34,084 64 63.144 34,000 33,998 62 33,900 60 58 33,800 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 25 26 Environmental Performance Addressing Climate Change Hydrogen Generation Unit each at three of the One of the greatest challenges for the 21st refineries century is the increasing temperature of the Pre-heat improvements in AU (Atmospheric planet. Carbon dioxide levels have reached its Unit)-4 at Gujarat refinery and AU (Atmospheric highest throughout human history, as per the Unit)-I/II at Barauni refinery for savings in National Oceanic and Atmospheric energy consumption Administration (NOAA), Mauna Loa observatory Better process integration for improved heat in Hawaii. The 9th May 2013 reading of the recovery at Guwahati refinery (kerosene-1 and observatory was first notified to break the (Coker Gas Oil)-CR (Circulating Reflux) streams) symbolic milestone of 400 parts per million and Panipat refinery (Naphtha Splitter) and MSQ which was later revised to 399.89. This might be (Motor Spirit Quality Up-gradation Unit) taken in the context that at 450 PPM, it is Savings in power consumption by installation of predicted that the global temperatures will rise step-less controllers for compressors in DHDT by 2°C above pre industrial levels by the (Diesel Deep Hydro-treating Unit) at Mathura International Energy Agency bringing about refinery and Once Through Hydrocracker Units widespread climate change effects. We are (OHCU) at Haldia refinery moving closer to adverse impacts of climate Optimisation in Gas/Oil ratios in DHDT at change changing landscapes, stronger storms Barauni refinery and OHCU in Haldia refinery for and increased storm related damages, higher lower power consumption of recycle gas temperatures, increased risk of drought, rising compressors seas, more heat related illness and diseases and Full back pressure mode operation of wildlife at risk. TG1(Turbo-generator1) at Barauni refinery, improvement in operating efficiency of GT(Gas As a major supplier of energy, IndianOil believes Turbine)-2 at Gujarat refinery and STGs (Steam it has a responsibility to take lead in finding and Turbo-generator) at Panipat and condenser implementing plans to counteract climate cleaning for increased power generation efficiency change. We recognises preservation of ecological at these refineries. balance as a core commitment for ensuring a better world for the future generations. Estimated savings of Standard Refinery Fuel in Tonnes (SRFTs) Energy Conservation (ENCON) 140000 Projects 120000 1,20,000 A total of 120 schemes with estimated savings of 100000 1,20,000 SRFT have been implemented during 93600 95,800 the year which have resulted in operational 80000 82000 efficiency improvement. The impact of additional 60000 savings with major ENCON investments in 201340000 14 would be approx. 83000 SRFT. Some of the major Energy Saving projects during 2012-13 20000 were: 0 Optimisation of Hydrogen use and improved 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 recovery through PSA (Pressure Swing Adsorption) systems has enabled idling of one 27 Environmental Performance  The use of variable frequency drive for Out of the direct energy consumed, mainline pumping unit and use of Drag Reducer approximately 1-2 % is generated internally Agent (DRA) in mainline to increase the flow of through captive co-generation plants using the product in pipeline facilities. steam turbines. This sustainable method of  Other activities that are spread extensively energy generation is increasing year on year. across organisation such as solar powered equipments, energy efficient gadgets, use of Direct Energy Consumption (TJ)* light pipes for day-lighting etc. 220394 223187 202313 IndianOil's relentless efforts towards Energy 167562 Conservation resulted in reduction of overall specific energy consumption to 56.3 MBTU/BBL/NRGF (MBN) during 2012-13 against the earlier lowest of 57 in 2011-12. This has been possible through implementation of various energy saving schemes and close 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 monitoring of energy parameters. Natural Gas Coke Operational Performance Fuel Gas Liquid Fuel (FO/ Naphtha/ Diesel) Through Steam Turbine/ Generators Operational performance represents Through Dual Fuel (HSD/Natural Gas Generators) performance of our refineries, pipeline facilities, and marketing facilities. IndianOil always Indirect Energy Consumption Electricity endeavours to increase its efficiency by adopting from grid (TJ)* 250.00 new cutting edge technologies to optimize its 207.345 189.93 operating efficiency, thus causing minimum 200.00 162.92 151.65 damage to the environment. 150.00 100.00 Energy Consumption Direct energy consumption includes Fuel Gas, 50.00 Coke, Natural Gas and Liquid Fuels and 0.00 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 electricity consumed from the grid. In order to enhance the gross refinery margins *Data pertains to Refinery Division and to reduce the GHG (Green House Gases) emissions, LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas) is used Specific Energy Consumption MBN increasingly as feed fuel in HGUs (Hydrogen (MBTU/BBL/ENGF)* Generation Unit) and GTs of the refineries. 64 65 62 59 Six projects are registered as CDM (Clean Development 60 57 56.3 Mechanism) projects under UNFCCC (United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) with total 55 CERs (Certified Emission Reductions) of 96943 units. Four projects are under technical review and issuance of 50 CERs is expected by Aug’13 under the aegis of UNFCCC. 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Energy generated through Steam Turbine/ Generators (TJ)* 4500.00 Source (MWH) IiPM R&D 3948.47 4000.00 3770.42 3500.00 Grid 1245.30 3111.05 3819.43 3000.00 DG(Set) 323.12 5841.67 2801.69 2500.00 Solar 3 107.58 2000.00 Total 1571.57 9060.30 1500.00 1000.00 500.00 0.00 28 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 *Data pertains to Refinery Division Environmental Performance Emissions Composition of Scope 1 Emissions (%) The crude processed for the year has decreased by 1.65% and consequently the CO2 emissions have increased by 0.64% during this year. Although tCO2 0.13 0.09 emission per MT of crude processed has increased slightly from last year; 0.256 tCO2 per MT of crude 7.90 processed in 2011-12 to 0.260 tCO2 per MT in 201213. This is attributed to our new technologies and ENCON projects that needed some time to stabilize. 32.12 Our Scope 1 emissions include the emissions rising due to the generation of electricity, heat or steam, 54.16 flaring, physical and chemical processes, transport 5.60 emissions and fugitive emissions, generated on site. Scope 2 emissions are the indirect emissions consisting of emissions due to consumption of electricity purchased from the grid. Generation of electricity, heat, or steam Other combustion processes such as flaring Scope 1 & Scope 2 emissions* Physical or chemical processing 16.00 13.99 14.15 14.23 Transportation of materials, products, and waste 12.73 Venting 14.00 12.00 Fugitive emissions 10.00 8.00 6.00 Emission Vs Crude Processed* 4.00 2.00 0.09 0.10 0.11 0.06 Million tCO2e Crude Processed (MMT) 0.00 55.60 54.70 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 52.96 50.69 Direct Emissions (Million tCO2e) Indirect Emisions (Million tCO2e) Air Pollutant* 2012-13 SO2 (Tonnes) 30621.25 NOx (Tonnes) 11470.68 14.08 12.82 14.26 14.24 Flare Gas (MT) 43724 Emissions are reported according to the internal guidelines, which follow international protocols and 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 industry guidelines. IndianOil also discloses to public about its carbon emissions through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Normalised Emissions Ozone Depleting Substances 0.27 0.266 IndianOil is consistently working towards phasing out 0.265 0.262 the use of machinery using Ozone Depleting 0.26 0.256 Substances (ODS). For the year 2012-13, the 0.255 Refinery’s consumption of the ODS stood at 7.58 0.251 tonnes. 0.25 0.245 0.24 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 tCO2e per MT crude processed 29 *Data pertains to Refinery Division Environmental Performance Emission Reduction Initiatives to Reduce SCOPE 3 Distillate Yield (% wt) Measures Emissions 78 77.8 All the refineries, pipeline locations 78 IndianOil has deployed Video and marketing locations of Conferencing System at major locations to 77 IndianOil are certified for Energy reduce travel expenditure. Management Systems, Quality Employees pro-actively participate in Car 76 75.3 75.4 Management systems, pooling and hiring of Bus services 74.6 75 Occupational Health and Safety wherever possible . Advisory Services. IndianOil has Such initiatives help in reduction of 74 accorded utmost importance to IndianOil’s SCOPE 3 emissions. 73 protection of the environment and eco-system through no. of emission 72 reduction measures. Resource utilisation & Use of low sulphur fuel oil/ sweet natural gas/ de-sulphurized its Restoration refinery gas in our boilers and heaters to minimize SO2 emission. Hydrogen Sulphide generated Productive Use of during desulphurisation of refinery Materials gas is converted to elemental sulphur in Sulphur Recovery Unit. IndianOil Refineries achieved the Sulphur dioxide emissions from crude throughput of 54.60 MMT Catalytic Crackers are controlled surpassing the target of 54.25 by effective feed sulphur MMT. Overall capacity utilisation management. of 100.7% was marked by the Cyclone separators are provided refineries and was more than in FCCU regenerators to arrest 100% for the sixth year in a row. catalyst fines. Highest ever combined distillate Low NOX burners are provided in yield of all the IndianOil refineries furnaces. is recorded at 78 wt %, Use of floating roof tanks for surpassing the previous best of crude and other light product 77.8 wt % last year. services & provision of primary and secondary seals in floating roof Slop and catalysts are tanks for minimizing fugitive reprocessed in the refining emission of hydrocarbons. process, thereby reducing the Use of mechanical seal in pumps. resource materials consumption. Use of closed blow down vessels & safety release to flare system for arresting any emission of Raw Material Components Consumption of Raw Materials Total hydrocarbons during all situationsQuantity (MTs in lakh) normal, abnormal as well as 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 emergencies. Crude Oil 529.61 544.29 530.61 Base Oil 4.32 4.31 4.01 Ethanol 0.68 1.10 0.98 Raw Materials used in Petrochemicals In tonnes Benzene 0 0.08 0.16 Raw Material used viz. Lube Base oil, Natural Gas/ RLNG 2.83 3.85 3.44 additives and other chemicals used for lubes and 4,82,660 grease manufacturing Additives 0.48 0.52 0.49 Quantity of packaging material used such Steel coils/ Sheets/ Stores/ 0.08 0.07 0.06 as containers, HDPE and LDPE materials, 14,030 Components and Spare Parts Corrugated box Raw Materials for Explosives 0.58 Foam 0.57 0.63 *HDPE High Density Polyethylene, LDPE Low Density Polyethylene 30 Application Environmental Performance Conserving Water IndianOil is making efforts for conservation of water in our facilities by IndianOil refineries fully comply with the MINAS ETP, STP, rainwater harvesting and water (Minimal National Standard) set by the Ministry conservation techniques at locations. Our of Environment & Forests, Government of India, specific water consumption at refineries and Pollution Control Board with regard to use of per metric tonne of crude processed is water resources and the quality of effluents reduced from 1.14 to 1.10 by adopting 3 R discharged. The refineries are equipped with approach. elaborate, well-designed effluent treatment plants (ETPs). Liquid effluent is collected through underground network of Oily Water Sewer (OWS), Waste Water Treatment at Refineries Contaminated Rainy Water Sewer (CRWS) and Quantity of Effluent Million M3 41.34 Generated Sanitary Sewer. The treatment comprises of physical, chemical, biological and tertiary Quantity of Reused Million M3 33.29 Water treatment sections. Simultaneously, our refineries regularly conduct Water Pinch studies Total water discharged Million M3 8.05 and come up with opportunities to reduce their water footprint. The treated effluent is Percentage of Water % 80.52 Reused reused/recycled for various purposes within the unit such as firewater & cooling towers make-up, Discharge of treated Treated waste water from coke cutting in Delayed Coker Units and also for waste water from ETP is discharged to outfall developing and maintaining green belts, ecoETP/STP channels parks and eco-ponds in the premises. This has Assumption: working of refineries is assumed to be 24*7 helped reduce discharge outside the unit as also while calculating the gross effluent. fresh water consumption for normal operations to that extent. Rainwater Harvested (in '000 kls) 285 Refinery water is sourced mainly from surface 300 water such as canals, lakes, rivers and ponds. 250 217 21.84% of water is sourced from ground and 200 172 71.84% of water is sourced from surface water at 150 refineries. Pipeline and Marketing division rely 101 mainly on the ground water and municipality 100 supplies. Withdrawal of water are within the 50 limits prescribed by the State Authorities and 0 other regulatory bodies. No significant impacts 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 found on water sources due to our operations during the year. Increasing number of locations are installing Rainwater Harvesting facilities of aquifer recharge type. The net volume of rainwater harvested during 2012-13, is 285 thousand KLs Water Consumption and which is 0.35% of total water consumed. Recycled* 90.40 88.43 100.00 82.86 82.63 The combined water consumption by 80.00 all refineries has recorded a reduction 60.00 31.49 35.54 33.35 40.00 28.92 of 2.7% from previous year’s 20.00 consumption level 0.00 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Water Consumed (Million M3) Water Recycled (Million M3) * Pipeline Division data for 2012-13 not included 31 Environmental Performance Effluent and Waste At the refineries, 19780 MT of Quantity of Organic Waste treated oily sludge was treated for oil Management recovery. 2784 MT spent (in Tonnes) IndianOil has made continuous catalyst was disposed off to 50 efforts to improve the resource CPCB/ SPCB approved partied 43 productivity through initiatives during the year. At the 40 38 like installations of Effluent marketing locations, 2464.62 Treatment Plants, Sewage KL of sludge was generated, 30 Treatment Plants, Organic 1248.12 KL was treated 25 Waste Converters and other through bio-remediation. 20 sustainable practices like bioremediation and responsible Our R&D centre has developed 11 disposal of oily sludge and spent a 'bio-innoculant' for efficient 10 catalyst. The emissions/ waste removal of oil & grease, phenol generated during the course of & sulphides that are produced 0 operations are generally within in Effluent Treatment Plants 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 the permissible limits given by (ETP) and its successful CPCB/SPCB norms. However, application at refineries is two environmental violations yielding high results. This were reported during the year, enhances the performance of which are being addressed. ETP efficiency as well. 32 Environmental Performance Marketing & Pipeline terminals have Oil-Water Maintaining Biodiversity separator systems which comprise of oily water separator control panel, process pump and electro pneumatic system design to meet the Ecological requirements of separation of oily storm water to Parks (flora Green Belts/ oil content of less than 10 ppm. Discharge from & fauna) Forest oil water separators is regularly monitored and are maintained within State Pollution Control Board norms. Most of the locations have got ISO14001 certification. Also, pipeline terminals have polishing ponds with aeration of the stagnant water in order to improve the Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD). The servicing facilities available at retail outlets have a provision of Oil Trap, from where the oil is picked up by the local municipal body and the water is re-used for servicing. Restoring Biodiversity On the environmental front, all IndianOil’s refineries, marketing terminals, pipelines divisions and R&D centre fully comply with the environmental statutory requirements. IndianOil does not have any significant activities, products and services that may have an impact on protected areas of high Biodiversity value and water bodies and related habitats. To maintain the rich biodiversity, in and around our installations, development of green belts and ecological parks have always been an important part of IndianOil’s plans. Tree plantation in the surrounding areas is undertaken on an extensive basis to develop green belt which not only looks aesthetic but also acts as a pollution sink. All the ‘ECOLOGICAL PARKS’, as they are referred to, by the people maintaining them, have been scientifically designed on the inputs from known botanists and environmentalists. Due to the diversity in the various refineries and marketing terminals in terms of the terrain and climatic conditions, there is a wide diversity in the kind of flora and fauna that enhance the beauty of the eco-parks. More than 300 species of resident and migratory birds thrive in these Eco Parks. Over 285 species of native and exotic plants and trees are growing there. Neem, Arjun and Siris are among few of the trees that are common to all the areas. As far as the fauna is concerned, the range includes terrestrial as well as aerial creatures, the Common Kingfisher and the Egyptian Vulture to name a few. The fact that our well-developed ecological parks attract a wide variety of fauna from far and near is a testimony to the world– class environmental standards that our refineries conform to. 33 Environmental Performance Biodiversity at Gujarat Refinery Biodiversity at Barauni Refinery A bridge built out of waste wood and steel, transports visitors to an island in Eco-park houses 5 Vihars depicting the five the middle of the pond. An open log hut elements of life: on the island provides the visitors an •‘JAL VIHAR’ invites hundreds of migratory panoramic view. A village hut, called birds in winters and a large variety of local Chaupal in ethnic style has been built in birds along with other marine species round this area, which sets an ambience for the year. social gathering and meetings. •‘JANTU VIHAR’ houses a large no. of rabbits etc. •‘KALA VIHAR’ inspires local sculptors top show their creativity by using scrap materials to depict the symbiotic relationship between life and nature . Biodiversity at Mathura Refinery •‘PUSHPA VIHAR’ has 31 varieties of roses apart from innumerable variety of flowering Mathura Refinery is located near the Sur and non-flowering plants enveloping the sarovar Bird Sanctuary registered under entire park . There are a large number of National Board for Wildlife (NBWL), MoEF fruit bearing trees of all seasons attracting a which is 26 kms (403 hectare) from Mathura large variety of seasonal birds. Refinery. •PRABHAT VIHAR’ its lakshman-jhula is a main attraction to the visitors . It is built by using scrap material providing an excellent landscaping. The park is frequented by domestic animals symbolizing eco-diversity in its true sense. Biodiversity at Bongaigaon Refinery As per the study conducted, the refinery complex area under the Reserve Forests Helping Egyptian Vultures to Survive accounts for less than 5 percent. These forests are Nakatti, Kakaijana and Bhumeswar located at 7.5, 9.5, 7.8 km Egyptian Vulture populations have . distance from the plant in South, South declined in most parts of its range. Indian East and South West directions subcontinent plays host to a number of respectively. migratory birds in summers as well as winters. It is estimated that over hundred Due to green initiatives of the refinery, more species of migratory birds fly to India, than 40% of the complex is under green either in search of feeding grounds or to cover. The complex has many low lying escape the severe winter of their native sites forming natural water bodies during habitat. The numerous wildlife sanctuaries the rainy season which attract different set up in the country serve as their varieties of migratory birds. An ecological temporary habitat. park inside the complex comprising of The eco-park in the Barauni refinery is a artificial water body (lake) is developed to home to a lot of migratory birds due to its regulate and control peripheral drains. The preferable climatic conditions. Egyptian refinery attracts more than 1300 different vulture’s are often spotted in the vicinity bird species, 7000 known endemic (found in winters. Egyptian Vulture populations only in a single niche habitat) plant species, have declined in most parts of its range. and 50 endemic amphibians and mammals. Indian subcontinent plays host to a Nandan Kanan a herbal and orchid garden number of migratory birds in summers as was developed which has almost 100 well as winters. It is estimated that over varieties of herbs and medicinal plants. hundred species of migratory birds fly to India, either in search of feeding grounds or to escape the severe winter of their 34 native habitat. Environmental Performance Tree Plantation Carbon Neutral Events Tree plantation and greening has always been Carbon Mitigation at IndianOil is done through a focus area of IndianOil. Till date we have tree plantation, energy efficiency and use of planted more than 17 lakh trees at our renewable energy. Since 2010 IndianOil has locations. In 2012-13 we have planted 62,724 been making its flagship events carbon neutral trees at our locations including trees planted through tree plantation. Till date, IndianOil to make events carbon neutral. However, with has planted more than 13000 trees in an effort more number of trees planted every year, to neutralise emissions from the events it availability of area for tree plantation is on organises. constant decline at our installations. In an effort to formalize the process and have pan-IndianOil implementation, a policy on making events carbon neutral is being formulated. This will be augmented by a Environment Impact Analysis (EIA) suitable Tree Plantation Policy. EIA is performed at all of our installations Carbon Neutral Eventsemission & depending upon new projects, revamp of plantation existing facilities, etc. It is carried out as per Emission (in tCO2e) Trees planted (in nos.) Environment Protection (EP) Rules by MoEF. 8192 EIA study also includes the impact assessment and risk analysis on biodiversity. Based on EIA Study Report and its recommendations, 4317 Environment Management Plan is reviewed and implemented. Any new project/revamp is approved by the Expert Appraisal Committee 778.35 1469.6 582 (EAC) of MoEF and taken up only after 113 Environment Clearance is awarded for the 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 revamp/new project. Bongaigaon Refinery Eco-Park 35 Environmental Performance Green Building As a part of sustainability drive Indian Oil is making its office buildings green and energy efficient. Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED), an international green building rating system providing a green building status / certification from Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) or US Green Building Council (USGBC). Our recently commissioned Administration Building and Learning Center Building of the Panipat Naphtha Cracker Project have been awarded the ‘Green Building Certification and Gold rating’ under LEED system of rating by IGBC. The Award heralds a new era and the first major step of IndianOil towards greening of its habitats, since these are among the first buildings of IndianOil, ever to be Green certified with a ‘Gold Rating’. The Green rating has been awarded considering several environment related attributes defined by LEED, which includes: sustainability of site, water efficiency, energy efficiency, eco-friendly materials and resources , indoor environmental quality ,innovation and design process. Some of the features that were instrumental in achieving this rare accolade include the superior architectural design, use of recyclable material such as tiles, glass, and gypsum board, building management system for controlling thermal comfort etc. P5 MW solar PV plant records Solarisation of Office Complex highest generation IndianOil, entered into the grid connected solar The 75 kWp off grid solar photovoltaic system energy sector with a 5 MW solar photo-voltaic commissioned on the rooftop of the IndianOil project at Rawra, Rajasthan. The solar power Bhavan, Pipelines HO, Noida, has generated project was a strategic pilot project to gather 1,01,544.744 units of energy during last year (as of experience and expertise in this new field. 18 Nov 2012) , which is 5.78% above the target. The IndianOil was the only PSU to be awarded this entire energy generated in the system is utilized project under Jawaharlal Nehru National solar directly during the day time and a small amount of Mission Phase I Batch I against stiff competition energy (5-7%) is for usage during night time for from 300 bidders. lighting. The plant performance continued to improve over time and has recorded highest capacity utilization factor of 18.34% with highest daily Energy Efficient Lighting generation of 29335 units. The cumulative Energy Efficient Lighting initiatives is generation has crossed 74.4 lac units till implemented at several locations February 2013. resulting in saving of 14.5 MWh/ year. Barauni Refinery has won Best Kaizen award in ‘Senior Manager Category’ at 20th National Kaizen conference for Kaizen theme ‘Improvement in efficacy of steam distribution system for reduction in energy loss by converting the existing 50 years old Russian condensing-cum-extraction turbine into back pressure turbine’. Refinery has institutionalised the innovative culture for its sustained technical growth and productivity. It gets validated with the achievement by winning three Kaizen awards at National level in last three years. Barauni Refinery has also 36 won the ‘Sona Kaizen Award’, the most coveted award in the field of innovation. 37 Research & Development At IndianOil, Research & Development is a special dimension of our efforts in pursuit of long term competitive edge and today it is broadening its scope also to diversified activities such as petrochemicals and green fuels. Our R&D efforts are increasingly striving for amalgamation of environmental and economic sustainability objectives by developing energy-efficient processes, technologies and eco-friendly product formulations. Expenditure on R&D (Rs Cr) 243.34 249.06 IndianOil's world class R&D Centre, established in 208.6 174.23 181.62 1972, has state-of –the art facilities and has delivered pioneering results in lubricants technology, refining process, pipeline transportation, bio-fuels and fuelefficient appliances. 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Scaling new heights of Innovation It is a matter of great pride that during the year 2012-13, a record number of 52 patents were filedon an average one per weekwhich reflects the collective innovative zeal of team R&D. While this is a splendid achievement, IndianOil is committed to sustain similar level of creativity and enthusiasm in reinforcing its intellectual wealth. R&D Policy “IndianOil-R&D shall strive to develop, demonstrate and deploy novel, innovative, environment friendly, customer centric products and process technologies for addressing energy related issues of national importance with sustained emphasis on rendering technical support to its sister divisions to achieve business goals. IndianOil-R&D will endeavour to make the organization future ready by actively pursuing research in alternate energy and cleaner technologies, in partnership with the government, academia, and private industry. Long-term strategies and mid & short-term actions will be in accordance with the corporate core values. All this will be accomplished by providing dynamic and challenging environment to all employees by creating an atmosphere of optimism, teamwork, creativity & resourcefulness with an aim to create a centre of excellence in the country that is admired as a benchmark petroleum downstream R&D Centre. 52 60 29 Indian 8 Record number of 52 Patents were 40 23 5 Total Foreign filed; 8 Patents were granted 20 Foreign 3 Total 0 Indian Patents Filed 38 Patents Granted Research & Development In the present scenario of high international Development of lubricity improver for Ultra crude oil prices and the price control in Low Sulphur Diesel domestic market, where margins are under Reduction in Sulphur content in diesel reduces pressure, investment in proprietary research in its lubricity, as hydroprocessing reduces the lubricants, petrochemicals, catalyst, gas & polar content of diesel. IndianOil has developed refinery operations and product offerings is diesel with high lubricity as well as Ultra Low viewed as a thrust area. We understand the Sulphur content to make it more environment importance of R&D as a key competitive friendly. advantage driver for our new businesses, especially, petrochemicals and alternative energy and has been working in building Eco-friendly Lubricants knowledge based growth in these areas. While IndianOil has developed following grades of ecoformulating products and services, Life cycle friendly, biodegradable lubricants: Textile Oils: assessment is undertaken to analyze and reduce the environmental impacts.  Scourable Knitting Machinery Oils with excellent biodegradability Product performance  Servo knit clean BD 32 having more than 70% biodegradability Auto-Fuel Quality Improvement Hydraulic Oils & Grease In addition to 13 cities already covered till now,  Biodegradable Antiwear Hydraulic Oils – Servo Bharat Stage grade IV fuel were introduced in 17 system BD 46 having more than 70% more cities as part of the MoPNG plan to extend biodegradability their availability to 50 cities by march 2015.  Biodegradable Hydraulic cum Machine tool Auto-gas (LPG) as a clean-burning fuel is now way lubricant – Servo way H 68 BD having more available at Indian Oil outlets covering across the than 70% biodegradability country  Biodegradable Greases for environment CNG is being marketed from select IndianOil sensitive applications outlets in Mumbai and Delhi as a franchisee of  Biodegradable Agricultural Spray Oil Mahanagar Gas Ltd., Mumbai, and Indraprastha Gas Ltd., Delhi, respectively Green Products & Alternate Energy Biodiesel trans esterification process Our R&D has examined and optimised the synthetic processes for the preparation of biodiesel from various vegetable oils; which includes oil from Rice bran, Jatropha Curcas, Palm, Sunflower etc. The process has been patented and scaled up to pilot plant level. Hydrogen Energy HCNG demonstration unit based on in-house Solar Energy developed low severity Steam Methane Reforming A Solar LED Lamp was designed and developed for process for production of HCNG mixture in a multi utility (5-in-1) applications such as room single step from NG has been installed and lamp, portable lantern, bulb, torch and mobile commissioned. charging. This Lamp is a cost-effective, green and The process has been successfully demonstrated environment friendly device. and scale up data has been generated. Sun Simulator, a device that provides controllable HCNG fuel mix of different composition has been indoor test facility to measure solar module produced for conducting efficiency improvement parameters like current-voltage (I-V) and emission studies. MoU is being signed with characteristics, Maximum power, Open circuit M/s. IGL for putting one demo cum commercial voltage, Short circuit current, Maximum power unit at one of their retail outlets. voltage, Maximum power current, Fill factor etc. In our endeavour to develop Oil shale as has been installed. alternative energy source, a new pilot plant facility for shale oil extraction using super critical 39 CO2 and water has been commissioned. Research & Development R&D, Where we have edge over Competitors •Development of Refinery process technologies •Licensing and commercialization of refinery technologies •Technical services to refineries •Catalysts development for refining processes •Refinery Process Modeling •Crude assay and transportation •Trouble shooting, revamp and optimization in refineries •Petrochemicals & Polymers •Material failure Analysis, Corrosion and remaining life assessment •Development of Intelligent and Caliper pigs for monitoring health of crude oil and petroleum product pipelines. •Product development – Lubricant, Greases and Specialities •Boundary Lubrication and Metal Working Tribology •Specialty bituminous products •Development of fuel additives •Fuel and Emission Studies •Alternative fuels HCNG, 2nd & 3rd Generation bio-fuels, Solar Energy •Biotechnology interventions for refinery ETP process •Nano-technological interventions for developing superior fuels and lubricants Sustainability with SERVO in Petrochemical and Refining Sector Modern Refinery and Petrochemical Units deploy wide use of Screw and Reciprocating compressors for compressing hydrocarbon gases like Propane, LPG, hydrogen and tail gases. These compressors use synthetic oils of PAO or PAG base depending upon application and gases compressed. This had been the domain of multinational oil companies who have marketing this oils at premium prices. IndianOil have made in roads into this business through performance selling of our synthetic lubricants Servosynco E Series and Servocress Series of Oils. They have not only established in fulfilling the performance requirements but also improved the reliability of the equipment by lowering bearing temperatures and life of Seals. Due to factors such as these, improved filterability and prevention of intermittent stoppages, these oils have improved both productivity and reliability of the equipments. Tail gas recovery plant using screw compressors in ONGC’s gas processing plant has been able to extend the oil drain periods up to 20000 hrs. There are other benefits like filter life, seal compatibility, and drop in bearing temperatures which indicate substantial value in terms of reduction in life cycle costs. 40 Product Responsibility Product responsibility forms our critical area focusing on consistent product quality and a continuous upgradation of product profile. For us, product responsibility means offering as much customer utility as possible while at the same time maintaining the highest safety standards and setting benchmarks when it comes to environmental and climate compatibility. No complaints were reported during the year for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Product Transport IndianOil's products are transported from the refineries to marketing terminals, depots, bottling plants through pipelines as well as by road transport. From these locations, retail outlets and KSKs receive the product by tank trucks. Transporters are one of our stakeholders. Regular interaction takes place with them during Transporters meets. Truck tanks are protected by tank locks eliminating the possibility of product adulteration. More and more transportation is being done through pipelines instead of tank trucks to reduce the carbon footprint. On various considerations like laying new pipelines, capacity enhancement and supply logistics, the augmentation of facilities are carried out which resulted into closure of 4 depots and terminal during the year. No cases of involuntary resettlement have been reported. No import and export of hazardous waste is involved in our operations and product transportation. Vehicle-tracking system was fully implemented in all States, except Northeast and J&K, during the year. Tank-truck monitoring through the new system has commenced and corrective action is being taken on exception reports as per the ITDG (Industry Transport Discipline Guidelines). Product Information & Labelling Our products like lubricants and petrochemicals are subject to product information and labelling. All packed lubricants carry necessary safety and disposal instruction on them. Petrochemical products adhere to corresponding Food Grade Certificates, compliance to Restriction of Hazardous Substances, Durability properties, BTU/lb i.e. heat capacity details, Material Safety Data Sheet. Products manufactured in line with BIS specifications which in turn is developed based on Safety, Health and end use requirement of the consumers. Products such as Petrol, Diesel and Kerosene are as per BIS specifications. However, certain products are used for further value addition as per consumer applications eg. naphtha. We are not reclaiming any of our sold products and their packaging material. However, 100% of our domestic and commercial LPG cylinders are reused. No incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling were reported during the year. Marketing Communication All marketing communications from IndianOil are designed to inform a cross section of customer segments. Periodic media campaigns provide a window to IndianOil's products and services portfolio range and are targeted at capturing both mindshare and market share in an increasingly competitive market. Such initiatives like the selection of dealers & distributors, details of customer service cell and emergency service cells operating in different areas, branding of products and services, legal matters, stakeholder communiqués and statutory notices play an important role in strengthening the close connect that IndianOil has with all its stakeholders. Customer Satisfaction Third-party audit and certification has been taken up at outlets selling more than 100 kl per month on defined parameters such as customer service, equipment maintenance, housekeeping, etc. The Marketing Division team achieved excellent performance levels on all Government MOU parameters. Version IV of eCFS, a single-point electronic customer feedback system with enhanced features, has been launched for better customer experience. Our research and development (R&D) division helps us develop the advanced technologies to unlock energy resources more sustainably, improve efficiency and offer customers better products. There is no 41 complain reported during the year regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Product Responsibility Technological Breakthrough In petrochemicals, IndianOil offers a wide range of products which includes Linear Alkyl Benzene (LAB), Purified Terephthallic Acid (PTA) and an extensive range of polymers. The per capita consumption of plastics in India (7kg) is far below the world’s average (29kg). However, the last two decades have seen an average growth of 13-15% in the Indian Petrochemicals industry, offering large potential for the future. IndianOil has implemented Petrochemical projects worth around Rs.20500 Crore (US$ 4.12 billion) upto 2011-12. Further plans are on anvil for various petrochemical projects touching capex to Rs. 32000 Crores (US$6.4 billion) by 2016-17. A world class naphtha cracker and downstream polymer unit has been set up at the Panipat refinery. It is designed to produce 857 KTA of Ethylene (from naphtha) and 650 KTA of Propylene, using technology from M/s. ABB Lummus, USA. Several Information Technology initiatives such as web and mobile based data access applications for field officer and centralised Indsoft software package for LPG distributors, helped us to further improve our business processes. 42 Product Responsibility Sustainable Technology Development – Enhancing our Productivity, Planning, Accuracy and Reporting On-line stock visibility and In-transit Monitoring •Current Stock position as well as stock on a particular date can be viewed any time. Standard and Custom Reports are available in SAP for this. Central Pricing •Pricing is maintained at central level instead of location level. This avoids delay in maintaining price. Pricing in SAP is highly flexible and changes can be incorporated swiftly to take care of business needs. C Form Process •Implemented across India w.e.f. 1st April 2010. The C form control has helped bring down pendency of C forms drastically. It has also resulted in financial gain for the Corporation. B2B with BPC/HPC/ONGC •This ensures seamless electronic data flow between IOCL and the transacting companies. This has resulted in quicker and more accurate reconciliation with OMCs. Automation of uploading of strapping data of storage tanks •All tanks are having their strapping data in SAP. This would reduce time delay because instead of sending data to us, user would be able to do it online. On-line stock check for all locations •This has ensured correct stock visibility in the system with correct and prompt transactions being done by the users. Stock card for HO S&D •Stock card report was provided for HO S&D after developing checks in SAP to ensure accuracy of stocks data in SAP. IndianOil’s SAP support centre certified as ‘Customer Centre of Excellence’ IndianOil’s SAP Support Desk with central operations from Corporate IS, Gurgaon has been adjudged among the best 10% in the world. The ratings have been provided by M/s SAP, China in their audit report for certification of IndianOil’s Customer Centre of Excellence (CCoE) for SAP Support and Operations. IndianOil’s CCoE is also continuously engaged in providing regular training to end-users, implementation of innovative SAP solutions to bring value in company’s Business operations. It also plays an active role in championing the requirements of Oil Industry and India specific customisation as well as using the domain knowledge of its expertise in taking consulting assignments to bring revenue and leadership position for the company in SAP software arena. 43 Social Responsibility Approach towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) IndianOil’s CSR related objectives are aptly Policy guidelines provided by the Board enshrined in its CSR goals is …to help enrich the Committee on CSR and Sustainable quality of life of the indigenous communities and Development (SD) are implemented in a focused preserve ecological balance and heritage through a and structured manner. A dedicated CSR cell is strong environment conscience...”. At present, functioning at Corporate Office to specifically IndianOil has a policy of setting aside upto 2% of its plan and monitor/co-ordinate the CSR activities. retained profit of the previous year towards CSR Additional manpower in middle management and activities. Health & Medical Care, Education and senior management cadre have been deployed at Clean Drinking Water are the CSR thrust areas of Divisional, Regional and Unit levels to implement IndianOil. The key objectives of IndianOil CSR CSR activities. initiatives are as under: •Initiatives to enrich quality of life in the All CSR programmes / projects are implemented communities around IndianOil’s operating with impact assessment carried out in line with locations. CSR guidelines issued by Department of Public •Efforts towards sustainability of CSR projects. Enterprises, Government of India. Various social •To positively impact economic conditions and welfare initiatives viz. health & medical care, livelihood. education and clean drinking water with focus on •Foster a culture of ‘CSR’ amongst employees, welfare of the economically and socially deprived business associates and stakeholders. sections of society are implemented, mostly in •Make business associates responsible for the vicinity of installations/establishments for undertaking CSR activities around their improving quality of life of the community. No workplaces/ operational areas. case is reported during the year where •Create community goodwill for IndianOil through indigenous communities are affected by our CSR initiatives and help establish/ retain image of operations. During 2012-13, IndianOil’s CSR IndianOil as a Responsible Corporate Citizen. investment was Rs. 78.97 crore. No significant •Provide leadership and industry benchmark in CSR fines were reported for non-compliance with laws initiatives. and regulations during the reporting year. Socio economic status has improved due to development of region around installations. Environmental impacts are also within the stipulated limits. CSR Policy’s Social Expenditure Utilization 35% 30% 5% 30% National causes/ Natural Calamities Donations/ Contributions IndianOil’s 27 year old Assam Oil School of Nursing, Digboi, IndianOil Scholarships Assam. Community Development Activities 44 Social Responsibility IndianOil Sachal Swasthya Seva: Mobile Medical Unit stationed at a Kisan Seva Kendra near Kusinagar, UP Various CSR Schemes in operation during 2012-13 IndianOil Sachal Swasthya Seva in 52 Mobile Medical Units (MMU) cover 672 villages in 13 districts; 10,76,385 patients were Andhra Pradesh & Uttar Pradesh checked by these MMUs during 2012-13. Assam Oil School of Nursing, Digboi, Since inception in 1986, 334 students have successfully completed 4½ year diploma in Assam General Nursing & Midwifery. IOC bears the entire expenditure for 20 girls selected for the course each year. AOD Hospital, Digboi, Assam This 107 year old 200-bed modern hospital, catering to a population of 2 lakh, treated 1.06 lakh patients (non-employee patients: 17,377) in 2012-13. Swarna Jayanti Samudaik Hospital, This 14 year old 50-bed hospital treated 55,595 patients (OPD:52,490; IPD: 3,105) during Mathura, Uttar Pradesh 2012-13. IndianOil Education Scholarship During 2012-13, 2600 scholarships were awarded (from about 38,000 applications ) on Scheme merit-cum-means basis: [300 Engineering (4 yrs), 200 MBBS (4 yrs), 100 MBA (2 yrs) @ Rs.3000/month and 2000 10+/ITI (2 yrs) @ Rs.1000/month. IndianOil Sports Scholarship Scheme 150 scholarships (19 sports) are awarded to upcoming junior players (14-19 years of age). MoC with Tata Institute of Social MoC was signed with TISS-Mumbai for conducting Baseline Survey in about 280 villages, Science (TISS), Mumbai conduct Impact Assessment of various CSR projects, etc. Contribution to LPG Scheme of As per MoP&NG guidelines, Rs.15.82 crore (20% of 2% previous year’s Net Profit) was MoP&NG contributed towards new LPG connection to BPL families under RGGLVY. IndianOil (AOD) Industrial Training ITC has 68 seats in various trades. During 2012-13, 63 students were admitted & 22 Centre (ITC), Digboi, Assam completed various courses. So far, 1148 students have successfully completed various courses. Automated (computer) Learning ALC offers 13 computer courses viz. MS Office, Tally, C, C++, JAVA, HTML, Visual Basic, Centre (ALC), Digboi etc. So far, 741 students have successfully completed various courses. IndianOil Shikshak Dakshata Vikas ISDVA, organized in coordination with district education department, Govt. of Assam, aims Abhiyan (ISDVA) to improve soft skills of government school teachers. During 2012-13, 61 teachers were trained and so far, 87 teachers have been trained. Sarve Santu Niramaya This unique project was launched in villages near Digboi in Dec-2012 with an aim of “Good health to all”. This project’s objective is to provide free health consultation and medicines for human beings and livestock population. During 2012-13, 284 human beings and 3064 animals were treated. So far, 860 human beings and 6478 animals have been treated under this program. Solar lanterns distribution in villages 154 IOCL co-branded solar lanterns with mobile charging facility were donated to villagers of near Guwahati Ramching Chapori near Guwahati refinery. • Drinking Water Project at Mathura, • IndianOil Sachal Swastha Seva in • IndianOil Education Scholarship Uttar Pradesh AP & UP Scheme • Water Distribution Network in • Swarna Jayanti Samuhik Hospital, • Assam Oil School of Nursing, Digboi Nashik, Maharashtra Mathura, UP • IndianOil Sports Scholarship • Provision of Arsenic Free Drinking • IndianOil’s Assam Oil Division Scheme water Hospital, Digboi • IndianOil Industrial Training • Drinking water project in Ramgarh, • IndianOil Tata Care Centre, Kolkata Center, Digboi Rajasthan • Sarve Santu Niramaya • Automated (Computer) Learning • Drinking Water Project in Kriparam Centre (ALC), Digboi pura, Rajasthan • IndianOil Shikshak Dakshata Vikas • Drinking Water Project in Naliya Abhiyan Timbo, Gujrat Physical Education & Skill Infrastructure Healthcare Development &Livelihood Creation 45 Social Responsibility IndianOil Sachal Swasthya Seva in operation Generating awareness about CSR activities amongst officers/staff IndianOil CSR policy has been made available at IndianOil website (www.iocl.com) as well as at the intranet site. IndianOil communicates its CSR activities through a separate CSR section in its Annual Report. IndianOil publishes Sustainability Report every year (which meets GRI-G3 guidelines). IndianOil communicates about its CSR activities to its employees through its in house daily e-journal, IndianOil Xpress. IndianOil conducts in house workshops on CSR for its employees with in-house faculty, assistance from leading Institutes/PSUs/Private sector, etc. Employees are often nominated for workshops and training program on CSR conducted by external agencies. IndianOil Education Scholarship Swarna Jayanti Samudaik Industrial Trade Centre, Digboi, Sarve Santu Niramaya project, Scheme Hospital, Mathura, UP Assam Digboi, Assam Subir Raha Centre CSR Corporate Public Relations Award for Corporate Governance Award Society of India Governance to 2012 for significant National Award for contribution in various ‘Concern for Health’ by CSR Project Assam areas of CSR by Oil School of Nursing Institute for Public Institute for Public (AOSN), Digboi Enterprises, Enterprises, Hyderabad Hyderabad 46 Social Responsibility Preserving our Past: Indian Oil Foundation IOCL’s Indian Oil Foundation (IOF) formed in alliance with Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and National Culture Fund (NCF) of the Government of India, was formed with the objective to protect, preserve and promote national heritage. Having initially taken up the project of installing a Swatantrya Jyot (flame of freedom) in the Cellular Jail at Port Blair, Andaman & Nicobar Islands in remembrance of hundreds of brave Indians who suffered incarceration in this jail during the freedom struggle, IOF has been assisting ASI & NCF in maintaining and upgrading facilities at Konark (Odisha), Khajuraho (MP), Vaishali (Bihar) and Warangal Fort (AP). Simultaneous efforts are also being made to involve students of class 9th and 10th through heritage Swatantrya Jyot in Cellular Jail, awareness programs, imbibing the importance of heritage and the Andaman & Nicobar Islands need to preserve it among the participants. History and our cultural heritage give us directions and lessons to many of the problems we still face. The knowledge is passed from generations to generations and often diluted in the process. The need is to preserve the past in the form of books, artifacts and monuments, which will remain a beacon of inspiration for our future generations. 47 48 A Great Place to Work A Premier Employer Country’s best people working together to make a difference. IndianOil provides an environment that attracts and motivates competent employees Ethics: Workplace Performance To meet the need of manpower in new Setting high and growing businesses, IndianOil standards for IndianOil has made rapid strides to recruits from respective talent from achieve significant milestones in the premier institutions all over the ethics and entire spectrum of human resource values country. development. IndianOil’s work culture encourages transparency and trust combined with a commitment to Recruitment enhance the triple-bottom-line With business interests traversing the People: performance. IndianOil has been core areas of refining, marketing and continuously benchmarking HR extending to newer verticals such as Leading with processes and has won recognition as a exploration & production, passion to pioneer in evolution of the robust petrochemicals, natural gas, alternate excel human resource development system for energy, etc., there is a mounting need recruiting, training & development, for manpower in IndianOil, especially employee engagement and succession in the new and emerging areas. planning. In pursuance of the best IndianOil mostly recruit engineering Innovation: practices of Corporate Governance and & management graduates and to ensure greater transparency in the chartered accountants through open Pioneering functioning, a ‘Whistle Blower Policy’ and campus recruitment. the spirit of and ‘Right To Information (RTI)’ are in creativity and place. research The Big family With increasing demand of competent manpower, the Indian Oil family has been growing big in size and number. As of 31st March 2013, we had 34084 permanent employees. Part time/ contract labour are generally hired at local level in accordance with labour laws. IndianOil awards job contracts to contractors at its various locations for its several ongoing projects as well as operational needs. The contractors in turn engaged 70,215 contract workers during the year. IndianOil as a principle employer ensures that all statutory requirements are duly complied with. 49 A Great Place to Work Remuneration and Inclusive Manpower Allowances IndianOil encourages employees to represent and lead women IndianOil employee’s welfare organization in national and measures are recognized as among international fora and platforms. one of the best in public sectors. Regular workshops, training As a caring organization, it also programs and talks by eminent provides exciting opportunities to women rights activists on gender employees and full welfare sensitivity, prevention of sexual coverage to retired persons. There harassment at workplace etc are is no difference in remuneration of organized in the offices and units women and men employees. In of IndianOil. Female employees are IndianOil, job contracts are also entitled for many additional awarded in non-core/ nonbenefits other than general perennial activities relating to civil allowances and benefits. construction & maintenance, housekeeping, security, material handling, shut down/ revamp jobs, lifting & movement of materials, providing transport services, Age group wise break up catering services, etc. For all these <30 activities, contract workers are years engaged by various contractors 14% within the purview of Contract >50 Labor (Regulation & Abolition) Act, years 1970 and their service conditions 39% are regulated as per the terms and conditions of engagement by their 30-50 respective employer i.e. years contractors. The terms and 47% conditions of the contract stipulate coverage of contract labor under various Social Securities Schemes, % Gender by Age Group such as PF, ESI etc. As a principal 105 employer, the locations ensure strict adherence by the contractors 100 5.98 to the provisions of EPF & MP Act, 95 10.52 8.43 1952/ ESI Act 1948 etc. and to 90 other schemes. 94.02 85 89.48 91.57 Employee Category – Age group wise 80 <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Age <30 30-50 >50 Group year year year % Male % Female Nos 4600 16178 13306 Employee Category : Gender and Type of Maternity Leave 2012-13 2011-12 Contract Employee Number of 48 40 Type Total Male Female employees availing maternity leave (nos) Permanent 34084 31441 2643 Employees Number of 51 35 Contract employees returning 59* 54 5 to work after availing Employees maternity leave (nos) * Figures pertain to persons engaged directly by IndianOil as Special Consultants/Liaison 50 officers/ Specialist Doctors etc A Great Place to Work Learning @ Workplace To further enhance the scope of training, elearning initiatives are made available to the entire IndianOil is known for the training workforce to provide access of knowledge bank. capabilities and state of the art training infrastructure provided throughout the career We have collaboration with leading international of its employees. A well defined training policy institutions such as Universitas-21 Global (U-21) that is custom designed to remain aligned to of Singapore, iFP-France, IIMs, MDI, etc. for the fast changing dynamics of business is developmental and functional need of IndianOil adopted. Training processes are employees. institutionalized with need identification, evaluation and feedback, post course quiz, Sessions on addressing concerns of retirement and project work and action planning as a means old age, psychological aspects of retirement, to implement learning at the workplace. We investment and tax planning, post retirement have 20 in-house centers of learning for benefits are offered by IndianOil. Leading a healthy meeting the Training & Development needs of lifestyle are regularly conducted for ex-employees the employees. Of these, seven are located at as well as for employees. its various Refineries, four at respective marketing regional offices, three at pipeline regions, one at R&D Centre Faridabad. Besides other learning centers, we have three premier centers for higher learning: •IndianOil Institute of Petroleum Management (IiPM), Gurgaon •IndianOil Management Centre for Learning (IMCL), Mumbai Mentoring Programme •IndianOil Management Academy (IMA), One year long unique mentoring programme is Haldia provided for new recruits, guided by mid level managers to promote professional excellence, In house and external training is imparted to leadership development and career exploration. various stakeholders besides employees like The mentor/mentee relationship is designed to contract workers, security personnel, retail meet the personal and professional development outlet operators, transporters etc. needs of the mentee. Mentoring inherently About 1140 training programmes were involves personal change and growth. As such conducted for the employees during the year changes occur, friendships also grow. These resulting in 6.13 lakh training manhours. friendships last a lifetime. Approximately, 18 average hours of training were given to each employee during 2012-13. Training Areas Functional Domain IndianOil employees on an average receive about three to five days of training per year, which is comparable with the best companies Technical quarters of Refineries and Pipelines. Personal Development Training : Division-wise total man-hours Health & Safety Pipeline 9% Human Rights RnD 3% IIPM 27% Anti-Corruption Environmental & Sustainability Marketing 33% Career Development Refinery 28% 51 A Great Place to Work IndianOil Woman Power to the fore! IOCians were conferred with ‘Outstanding Woman’ Award 2012, Best Women Employee in the Officers Category and WIPS award for the Best Women Employee in the non-officer category for their contribution in the oil industry by IWPA (Indian Women Pilots Association). Employee Engagement challenges and expectations from collectives in achieving the goals. Benefits to Female Employees Through Collective Bargaining, the Major demands of the recognized emphasis has always been on unions like revision of wages and Maternity Leave sharing information with the allowances are negotiated with all •Maternity leave for a period collectives in seeking their the recognized unions at Divisional of 135 days continuous support and colevel and settled through a operation at various levels in tripartite Long Term Settlement Child Care Leave managing the challenges being (LTS). The employees’ right to •Child Care Leave for a faced by the Corporation. Over exercise freedom of association or period not exceeding 2 99% of the employees (noncollective bargaining is taken care years in entire service (in executive and executive) are of and is regulated under the Trade spells of 6 months or more), members of the recognised unions without pay. Union Act 1926. Collective and officers association. bargaining is bilateral and also Child Adoption Leave tripartite under the Industrial IndianOil has always encouraged Dispute Act, 1947. As per statute •Child Adoption leave with collectives’ participation in in this regard, under section 9A of pay for a period of 135 days Management. The participative in order to facilitate them to Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, take care of the adopted culture is augmented through the employer can propose to effect any child. constitution of various fora and change in the conditions of service committees like Joint Management applicable to any workman in any Husband Joining Leave Council, Works Committee, matter within 21 days of giving •To join their husbands at Management Safety Committee, such notice. outstations/abroad for Grievance Committee, Canteen period not exceeding three Committee, Total Productive years Employee engagement usually Maintenance (TPM) etc among takes place in ‘Open House’ others in which the employees/ sessions during which, the Benefits to OBC/SC/ST collectives nominate their collectives raise queries or make employees representatives. The unions/ suggestions related to business collectives are 'recognized' as per strategies, employee related issues Reservation in Recruitment and the Code of Discipline. There are etc. The queries are directly Promotions 23 recognized unions in IndianOil responded to by the Chairman and representing workmen from Directors. These meetings are also Relaxation/ Concession in independent establishments, webcast for the benefit of a large Recruitment and Promotions refinery units and plants. To number of employees connected develop an inclusive, collaborative Pre promotional inputs for online. There is no operation where Grade VI to Grade A promotions and shared mindset amongst the the right to exercise freedom of in Marketing Division employees, the management holds association and collective Structured Communication bargaining may be at significant SC/ST cell, Complaint Register, Meeting with both Workers’ Unions risk. Liaison Officer to address and Officers’ Association at regular issues intervals. The information shared Specific Trainings in these meetings is about Corporate and Financial Employee Performance Management System Performance highlights, future Indian Oil brought in new structural changes to the existing PMS in order to enhance transparency. IOCL plan outlay, progress of major has been able to successfully link the departmental promotions, incentives for individuals and the PRP to projects, new frontiers, the ratings of the PMS. In following the guidelines of the DPE, IOCL had modified its PMS by aligning the performance year with the financial year. The IOCL e-PMS is transparent, involves goal setting across all globalization and diversification, grades through KRAs with specific weightages and the appraisal is based on role based KRA and key corporate competencies and level based values and potential. All employees are covered under performance management system. Performance link incentives are payable to whole time functional directors as employees of the companies as per the policy applicable to employees. 52 MAITRI … a portal dedicated to ‘women IOCians’ A Great Place to Work Benefits to Physically There are initiatives taken for the Employees’ families are invited to Challenged employees implementation of Total Productive participate in functions like Maintenance (TPM) in the IndianOil Day, Republic Day, Reservation in Recruitment and Refineries for leveraging the Independence Day, where Long Promotions inherent strengths of the people, Service Awards, meritorious changing the work culture and children awards are given to Relaxation/ Concession in improving operating & eligible employees and their Recruitment and Promotions maintenance practices. children. These functions are held Various Allowances such as each year covering all the units Conveyance allowance, medical A well-designed system for and employees. IndianOil also equipment acceptance, evaluation and engages with a wide range of Special training, special rewarding the creative ideas organizations like Industry Bodies, equipment aid coming from employees has been Government Bodies, NGOs, and laid out under the ‘IndianOil Charitable Trusts to help provide a Provision of Barrier free access' Suggestion Scheme’. During the focus and leadership in different Preference in terms of posting year, employee suggestion scheme areas. Moreover, we work with a to the extent possible generated about 2,800 host of organizations through suggestions, out of which 57 are engagement. IndianOil is implemented. Saving of Rs nominated by the Government of 85,38,124 could be realized India on numerous occasions as a Manpower Summary through 185 awarded suggestions, nodal agency to work on an for which an overall amount of Rs industry basis in different research Total no. of Male Female 4,30,452 was disbursed among the works and implementation of Employees hired winning entry contributors. projects of national interests. 1386 89 in 2012-13 Total no. of Employees hired by Division in 2012-13 Division wise % of Total Employees 139 Employment Category for Total Pipeline Employees 880 1% Marketing 1% 7% 355 Refinery 5 44% R&D 96 42% Corporate Office 49% 56% Total no. of Employees hired by Age Group Officers Staff Pipelines Marketing Refineries 1186 <30 years R&D IBPD 30-50 years 287 >50 years 2 Equal opportunity Division wise Category for Employees hired 18.05 % Gender by Division 6.51% 0.34% 4.17 9.42% 5.16 7.57 10.47 10.43 9.30 24.07% 61.49 11.36 95.83 94.84 89.53 89.57 90.70 1.53 Schedule Class 59.66% Schedule Tribe Other Backward Class Phusically Handicapped Pipeline Marketing Refinery R&D CO Others % Male % Female53 Safety and Occupational Health At IndianOil, safety of the personnel at the work % of employees places is of utmost importance and our Category of Employees given safety & skill Integrated Safety Management System focuses on up-gradation training the elimination and minimization of risks for all stakeholders. All IndianOil refineries are Permanent Male employees 74.2 accredited for Occupational Health and Safety assessment Series (OHSAS – 18001) and also rated under International Safety Rating Systems Permanent Female employees 61.6 (ISRS). Panipat and Gujarat Refineries are also rated “Level9” in the scales of 1 to 10. Permanent Employees with 21.03 Disability Occupational Health Casual/ Temporary/ 94.03 IndianOil believes that the man behind the Contractual Employees machine is very important and considers their health as an asset to the Corporation. The aim of occupational health management system is to detect any adverse effect of various hazardous substances on the health of the employees when the condition is still reversible. In the event of sickness or injury relating to Occupational workplace, there is bound to be man-hours loss, loss in production, increase in medical costs and loss of goodwill but IndianOil ensures care to all its employees. All IndianOil refinery units have well equipped Occupational Health Centers. Doctors and paramedics are specially trained to monitor health of employees working in hazardous areas. At locations where these facilities are not available, employees’ health check up is carried out through retainer doctors. All Occupational Health Centers are certified under Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series OHSAS-18001. The employees are regularly exposed to training programmes in work-related hazards and ways and means of protection from such hazards. The health care personnel regularly interact with shop floor and staff in the shop floor meetings on health and safety issues. Various media of communication like House Journals, Posters, Video Films, etc. are extensively used for creating awareness. Hazira Bottling Plant (BP) received the prestigious certificate Health, Safety and Environment department is a of appreciation from Gujarat Safety Council (GSC) and well established department across IndianOil. Directorate, Industrial Safety & Health, Gujarat State for HSE department establishes and maintains good achieving milestone of one million accident free manstandards for safety of the people, the processes hours during the year 2011 among the State level industrial and the assets of IndianOil installations. It also units. Hazira BP has been receiving the award from the Gujarat Safety Council for the last 20 years. complies with all rules and regulations on safety, occupational health and environmental protection. 54 Safety and Occupational Health 2012-13 Refineries Marketing Pipelines Total & PNCP & R&D Nos. Fatal 5 8 1 14 Safety Clinic through Magic Show Accidents Fatalities 9 15 4 28 Near miss 53112 470 39 53621 Mandays 331 299 0 630 lost No of loss 2 10 0 12 time accidents Major Fire 3 3 1 7 incidents Minor fire 2 8 1 11 incidents Safety Committee To co-ordinate the Health, Safety and Environment activities of all the divisions, a department is headed by Executive Director (HSE) who directly reports to the Chairman of the Corporation. The refineries, pipelines, marketing divisions and R&D centre have independent HSE departments. A designated Safety Officer is placed at all the marketing and pipelines installations. IndianOil has two tiers Safety Committee: Management Safety Committee & Shop-floor Safety Committee. Management safety Committee is headed by unit head consisting of other members upto HOD levels and workmen representatives. Shop floor committees are formed at various sections in the refinery with intensive participation from the workmen side. To ensure continuity and personnel involvement, designated person from the non-executive cadre represent the shop floor committees. 100% of our employees are represented by Safety committees. 55 Safety and Occupational Health Oil Spills skimmers, floating tanks, OSD spray arms, In the business like Refining & Marketing of beach cleaning equipments, etc. are Crude Oil, Oil spills are inevitable. IndianOil has demonstrated. placed measures for Oil spill response. Oil spill No significant Oil Spills reported during the response facilities are provided at IndianOil port year. locations. Tier I facilities are being maintained by respective Port Trusts. For Tier II (1000 tonnes) and Tier III (beyond 1000 tonnes), the services of East Asia Response Limited, Singapore are being used. In refinery and NPC 36 on site drills and 8 off site drills were conducted during the year. Oil spill response facilities such as oil dispersant liquid & absorbent pads are made available at all installations. Oil spill mock drills are conducted on high seas at the Single Point Mooring (SPM) system. Associated oil spill equipments like 56 Safety and Occupational Health Fire & Safety personnel. The security arrangements at all Marketing & Pipeline locations is through National Safety Day and Fire Service Day are Directorate General Resettlement except for observed on 4th March and 14th April each year, Hyper sensitive Locations, which are manned by respectively at all our installations. On site and CISF or State Guards. All security personnel are off site mock drills are carried out at all our trained in the organization's policies or locations as per the schedule. These drills are procedures concerning aspects of human rights aimed at assessing the in-house preparedness that are relevant to operations. External Safety and alertness during the crisis situation. A Audit (ESA) in all the refineries, pipelines and scenario of leakage of crude oil and subsequently marketing installations is carried out by Oil culminating into minor fire are also envisaged. Industry Safety Directorate (OISD) to audit the Operation and maintenance of fire extinguishers, compliance of Safety Systems and Procedures ensuring electrical safety at pump island, sales as per the norms set by the Central Pollution building, regular checks of equipments like air Control Board (CPCB) and State Pollution compressor are some of the topics covered during Control Board (SPCB), identify areas of specific the training modules, both classrooms as well as potential hazards, if any, and suggest necessary mock drill session. corrective actions. Operations having significant potential are Near Misses are often less obvious than provided with safety and security measures to accidents. Despite their limited impact, near Prevent and mitigate negative impacts on local misses provide insight into potential accidents communities, employees, or property. that could happen. At IndianOil each and every Our all establishments are provided with incident including nearmiss incident is security arrangements inline with threat analyzed to ascertain the underlying causes. perception. Our major establishments like Such findings are not only disseminated among refineries, R&D etc are guarded by CISF security the concerned personnel but also shared with all others units. Disaster Management Pre-monsoon and pre-winter stocking of petroleum products at designated storage points located in difficult hilly terrain areas ensures product availability in the areas which experience isolation through seasonal disruptions in transportation links. We have a transport emergency management plan to effectively handle supply crisis situations. As a part of our commitment towards defence services, we maintain adequate supplies during normal as well as for emergency situations. Emergency Response & Disaster Management Plan (ERDMP) Material Safety Datasheets of Hazard identification Preventive and risk Demographic details hazardous chemicals & risk assessment mitigation measures used Infrastructure for Emergency emergency response Emergency preparedness Response procedure Organization Resources for Control measures of emergency Evacuation Procedure for procedures recovery 57 LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS AFS Aviation Fuel Station AIMA All India Management Association AOSN Assam Oil School of Nursing AR Annual Report ASSOCHAM Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry AU Atmospheric Uit BOD Biological Oxygen Demand CC Corporate Communication CCI Competition Commission of India CDM Clean Development Mechanism CDP Carbon Disclosure Project CERs Certified Emission Reductions CIE Council of Indian Employers CII Confederation Indian Industry CISF Central Industrial Security Force CPCB/SPCB Central Pollution Control Board/ State Pollution Control Board CPSE Central Public Sector Enterprise CR Circulating Reflux CREDA Chhattisgarh Renewal Energy Development Authority CSP Concentrated Solar Power CSR Corporate Social Responsibility CVC Central Vigilance Commission DHDT Diesel Deep Hydro-treating DPE Department of Public enterprises DRA Drag Reducer Agent E&P Exploration and Production EBP Ethanol blended Petrol Eco Parks Ecological Parks ED Executive Director ENCON Energy Conservation EPF & MP Act Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act ERM Enterprise Risk Management ESA External Safety Audit ESI Employees’ State Insurance ETP Effluent Treatment Plants FCC Fluidised Catalytic Cracker FICCI Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry FO Fuel Oil GCC General Conditions of Contract GHG Greenhouse Gases GoI Government of India GRI Global Reporting Initiatives GRM Gross Refining Margin GT Gas Turbine GWh Gigawatt hour HBA House Building Advance HCNG Hydrogen-Compressed Natural Gas HDPE High-density polyethylene HGU Hydrogen Generation Unit HRD Human Resource Development HSD High Speed Diesel HSE Health, Safety and Environment ICAI Institute of Chartered Accounts of India ICSI Institute of Company Secretaries of India IEM Independent External Monitors IGL Indraprastha Gas Limited IIIE Indian Institution of Industrial Engineering IIM Indian Institute of Management IiPM Indian Institute of Petroleum Management, Gurgaon IMA IndianOil Management Academy, Haldia IMCL IndianOil Management Centre for Learning, Mumbai IndianOil IndianOil Corporation Ltd ISRS International Safety Rating Systems ITDG Industry Transport Discipline Guidelines 58 ITI Industrial Training Institutes IVRS Interactive Voice Response System IWPA Indian Women Pilots Association KSK Kishan Seva Kendra KW – Kilowatt LAB Linear Alkyl Benzene LDO Light Diesel Oil LDPE Low-density polyethylene LED Light-emitting Diode LFA Leave Fare Assistance LNG Liquefied Natural Gas LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas LTC Leave Travel Concessions LTS Long Term Settlement It refers to total heat value of fuel and loss in thousand BTU, BBL refers to barrel of crude processed and NRGF is a MBTU/BBL/NRGF (MBN) MBTU derived factor that depends upon actual intake in both primary and secondary processing units as per industry standard MDI Management Development Institute MINAS Minimal National Standard MMT million metric tons MoP&NG Ministry Of Petroleum and Natural Gas MoU Memorandum of Undertaking MoU Memorandum of Understanding MSME Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises MSQ Motor Spirit Quality MT Metric Tonne MW Mega Watt NELP New Exploration Licensing Policy NGO Non Governmental Organisations NHRD National Human Resource Development Network NOAA National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NREL National Renewable Energy Laboratory OHCU Once Through Hydrocracker Unit OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety assessment OISD Oil Industry Safety Directorate OMC Oil Marketing Company PetroFed Petroleum Federation of India PF Provident Fund PIS Performance Incentive Scheme PLI Performance Linked Incentive PPM Parts per million PSA Pressure Swing Adsorption PTA Purified Terephthalic Acid PV Photovoltaic R&D Research and Development RE&SD Renewable Energy & Sustainable Development RGGLVY Rajiv Gandhi Gramin LPG Vitran Yojana RO Retail Outlets RTI Right To Information S,H&E Safety, Health & Environment SC / ST / OBC Scheduled Caste / Scheduled Tribe / Other Backward Castes SCOPE Standing Conference of Public Enterprises SCP Special Component Plan SD Sustainable Development SEBI Securities and Exchange Board of India SIGC Shareholders’ / Investors Grievance Committee SKO Superior Kerosene Oil SRFT Standard Refinery Fuel in Tonnes STEPS Sustainable Transportation Energy Pathways Program STG Steam Turbo-generator TBL Triple Bottom Lime TERI The Energy Research Institute TERI-BCSD TERIBusiness Council for Sustainable Development TG Turbo-generator TII Transparency International India TPM Total Productive Maintenance TSP Tribal Sub-Plan UNFCCC United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change UNGC United Nations Global Compact WIPS Forum of Women In Public Sector 59 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCL) has commissioned Emergent Ventures India Private Ltd. (EVI) to undertake an independent assurance of its Corporate Sustainability Report for the year 2012-13. The assurance process has been conducted in accordance with AA1000AS (2008). The assurance principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, as outlined in AA1000AS (2008) and GRI G3.1 guidelines & GRI Oil & Gas Sector Supplement (OGSS) guidelines have been used as criteria against which to evaluate the Report. The intended users of this assurance statement are the readers of IOCL's Sustainability Report 2012-13. The management of IOCL is responsible for engagement with stakeholders, identification of material issues and the collection and presentation of the information contained in the report. In performing the assurance activities, EVI's responsibility is to the management of IOCL only and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed with the company. We do not therefore accept or assume any responsibility to a third party for decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based on this assurance statement. SCOPE OF ASSURANCE EVI has been engaged to provide Type 2 Moderate level of assurance as set out in AA1000AS (2008). The scope of the assurance includes the following: 1. Evaluate the adherence to the AA1000AS (2008) principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness and the principles of Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 guidelines & GRI Oil & Gas Sector Supplement (OGSS) guidelines. OUR APPROACH The assurance process was planned and carried out in September October 2013. Our conclusions are based on the review of processes & practices for identification and collation of relevant information, report content and performance data, which included a review of the stakeholder engagement and materiality determination process followed by IOCL. Relevant documentation, our observations with respect to process and systems in place and interaction with respective departments engaging with different stakeholders have formed the basis of our assurance on the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness required for assurance under AA1000AS (2008). We undertook the following key steps: 1. Site Visits: The EVI team visited a representative set of IOCL's facilities comprising Corporate Office, Refinery at Panipat, Hindon AFS, Marketing Terminal and Pipeline Terminal at Bijwasan, Lube Blending Plant at Asaoti, Research and Development Centre at Faridabad, LPG Bottling Plant and IndianOil Institute of Petroleum Management (IiPM) at Gurgaon. 2. Interviews: In addition to interviewing data owners at the sites we visited, we also interviewed the sustainability team at head-quarters to understand the process of stakeholder engagement and materiality determination at IOCL. LIMITATIONS AND EXCLUSIONS 1. Scope of assurance is limited to the boundary defined in the report and the period of 1st April 2012 to 31st March 2013. 2. Assurance relied on the documentation maintained by the company or provided to the company by another third party. 3. The scope of assurance does not cover the statements in the report that describe companies approach, strategy, aim, expectation, aspiration or beliefs or intentions. 61 CONCLUSION Based on our review we have come to the following conclusions: In our opinion, IOCL's sustainability report gives an appropriate representation of the sustainable development initiatives undertaken by the company. IOCL has is built processes that allow them to identify the material aspects of the company, collect performance data for majority of its facilities and report the information in adherence to the principles of GRI G3.1 guidelines and GRI Oil & Gas Sector Supplement (OGSS). Our observation on the adherence of the three principles under AA1000AS (2008) is as follows: Inclusivity: We have not come across any material evidence that would lead us to conclude that IOCL has not applied the principle of inclusivity in engaging with its stakeholders. Different departments engage regularly with their relevant stakeholders through multiple engagement channels. Materiality: IOCL has followed a structured process of materiality determination. Based on our scope of work and the activities undertaken for the purpose like interactions and observations, we have not come across any material aspect of sustainability performance that has been excluded from the report. Responsiveness: Based on our observation, interviews and documentation we believe that IOCL has applied the principle of responsiveness with respect to its stakeholders. We have not come across any material evidence that would lead us to believe that responsiveness principle is not being applied in dealing with the stakeholders. GRI G3.1 Guidelines & GRI Oil & Gas Sector Supplement Based on the information in the report and the independent assurance sought from us we have found that the company meets the requirement of A+ level of reporting as specified by GRI G3.1 Guidelines & GRI Oil & Gas Sector Supplement. Observations and Recommendations Without affecting our overall conclusions on the sustainability report, we would like to bring to notice the following observations and recommendations for the report:  As IOCL prepared its sustainability reports, it has potential to include a broader base of stakeholders in the reporting process for two-fold benefits, namely capacity building and enhanced inclusivity.  IOCL should work towards enhancing the understanding of GRI aspects and overall sustainability issues amongst the employees of the organisation for the purpose of sustainability reporting.  It is suggested that IOCL should review the process of defining the boundary of the sustainability report in accordance with the GRI Reporting Guidance For Boundary Setting.  IOCL should work towards the improvement of data management systems to increase the accuracy and efficiency of data collection process. For Emergent Ventures India Private Ltd. Ashutosh Pandey Chief Executive Officer Emergent Ventures India Private Ltd. Gurgaon, 22nd of October, 2013 62 GRI INDEX GRI Reference Reported Report Reference SR AR Page Page No. No. Strategy & Analysis 1.1 CEO Statement Fully A word from Chairman 1 1.2 Key Impacts Fully A word from Chairman, SustainabilityOur Approach,, Governance & 1, 4, 16 Values Risk Management Organisation Profile 2.1 Name of reporting Fully Front Page organization 2.2 Major brands & products Fully Company’s Profile 3 2.3 Operational structure Fully Company’s Profile 3 2.4 Location of headquarters Fully Back Page 2.5 Countries of operation Fully Company’s Profile 3 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal Fully Company's Profile , Governance and values Shareholding Pattern 3, 14 form 2.7 Markets served Fully Company's Profile, Stakeholder Engagement 3, 10 2.8 Scale of organization Fully Operational and Financial Highlights 25 2.9 Major changes to operation Fully About the Report, Company’s Profile, Product Responsibility Product 2, 3, 41 Transport 2.10 Awards received in Reporting Fully Awards & Accolades 20 Period Report Parameters Governance, Commitments & Engagement 3.1 Reporting period Fully About the Report 2 3.2 Date of previous report Fully About the Report 2 3.3 Reporting cycle Fully About the Report 2 3.4 CR Contact person Fully A word from Chairman 1 3.5 Defining report content Fully About the Report 2 3.6 Boundaries of report Fully About the Report 2 3.7 Limitations on report scope Fully About the Report 2 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint Fully About the Report Limitations 2 ventures 3.9 Data measurement techniques Fully About the Report 2 3.10 Restatements of information Fully About the Report 2 3.11 Significant changes from Fully About the Report 2 previous report 3.12 Tables for standard Fully GRI Index 63 disclosures 3.13 Assurance Fully Assurance Statement 61 GRI Reference 4.1 Governance structure Fully Governance & Values – Board Profile 15 4.2 Chair/executive officer status Fully Governance & Values – Board Profile 15 4.3 Number of independent/nonFully Governance & Values – Board Profile 15 executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for providing Fully Stakeholder Engagement 12 recommendations 63 4.5 Link between compensation and performance Fully A Great Place to Work Employee Performance 51 72 Management System 4.6 Determining board qualifications Fully Governance & ValuesGovernance through 14 Transparency, Integrity & Accountability 4.7 Process to address conflict of interest Fully Governance & Values Board Profile 15 68-76 4.8 Internal mission/values statement Fully Back side of the front page 2 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance Body Fully Governance & Values Board Profile 15 4.10 Evaluating board performance Fully A Great Place to Work Employee Performance 51 Management System 4.11 Precautionary approach Fully Materiality Issues 13 4.12 External initiatives endorsed Fully Awards & Accolades 20 4.13 Principal membership Fully Awards & Accolades 20 4.14 List of stakeholders Fully Stakeholder Engagement 10 4.15 Basis for identification Fully Stakeholder Engagement 10 4.16 Approaches to engagement Fully Stakeholder Engagement 11 4.17 Key issues raised through engagement Fully Materiality Issues 13 Disclosure of Management Approach Aspects Economic Fully Economic Performance 22 Environment Fully Sustainability – Our Approach : Sustainability 27 Policy Labour Practices Fully A Great Place to Work 49 Human Rights Fully Governance & Values, Sustainability – Our 17, 27 Approach : Sustainability Policy Society Fully Social Responsibility 44 Product Responsibility Fully Product Responsibility 41 64 Economic Performance Indicator * Rows highlighted in grey depicts Core Indicators EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Fully Social Responsibility Approach towards CSR 44 including revenue, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Partially Environmental performance 27 opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to reported climate change EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan Fully A great place to Work50 obligations Remuneration and Allowances EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Fully Corporate Governance – Our Philosophy 14 government EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage Fully Governance & Values17 compared to local minimum wage at significant Forced or Compulsory Labour locations of operation EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Fully Governance & Values16 locally-based suppliers as significant locations of Sustainable Procurement operation EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Partiall A Great Place to Work – Recruitment 49 management hired from the local community at y locations of significant operation EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Fully Social Responsibility44 investments and services provided primarily for Approach towards CSR public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Fully Social Responsibility Approach towards 44 economic impacts, including the extent of impacts CSR OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and Fully About the Report 2 production. Environmental Performance Indicators * Rows highlighted in grey depicts Core Indicators EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Fully Environmental Performance,-Resource 30 utilisation & its restoration EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Fully Environmental PerformanceResource 30, 31 materials utilisation & its restoration, Environmental PerformanceConserving Water, EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy Fully Environmental Performance28 source Operational Performance EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Fully Environmental Performance28 Operational Performance OG2 Fully About the report 2 Total amount invested in renewable energy. OG3 Total amount of renewable energy generated by Fully Sustainability Performance Our Approach 4 source. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Fully Our Approach – ENCON Projects 27 improvements EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Fully Sustainability Performance Our Approach; 7, 39 energy based products and services, and reductions R&D Product Performance in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 65 Environmental Performance Indicators * Rows highlighted in grey depicts Core Indicators EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Fully Environmental Performance – Initiatives to reduce 30,35 reduction achieved SCOPE 3 emission, Carbon Neutral Events EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Fully Environmental Performance Conserving Water 31 EN9 Water sources significant affected by withdrawal of Fully Environmental Performance Conserving Water 31 water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and Fully Environmental Performance Conserving Water 31 reused EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, Fully Environmental PerformanceRestoring Biodiversity 33 or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, Fully Environmental PerformanceRestoring Biodiversity 33 products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored Fully Environmental PerformanceRestoring Biodiversity 33 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Fully Sustainability Our Approach Sustainability policy 8 managing impacts on biodiversity OG4 Number and percentage of significant operating sites Fully Environmental Performance Environmental Impact 34 in which biodiversity risk has been assessed and Analysis monitored. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national Fully Environmental PerformanceRestoring Biodiversity, 33, 35 conservation list species with habitats in areas Egyptian Vulture affected by operations, by level of extinction risk EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emission by Fully Environmental PerformanceOperational 29 weight Performance, Emissions EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emission by Fully About the report 2 weight EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emission and Fully Environmental Performance Energy Conservation 27, 39 reductions achieved Projects; R&D Product Performance EN19 Emission of ozone-depleting substances by weight Partially Environmental Performance Emissions 29 Reported EN20 NO, SO, and significant air emission by type and Fully Environmental PerformanceOperational 29 weight Performance, Emissions EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Fully Environmental Performance Conserving Water 31 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Partially Environmental Performance Effluent and Waste 32 Management OG5 Not About the reportOut of the boundary 2 Volume of formation or produced water. Applicable EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully Safety and Occupational Health Oil Spills 56 OG6 Fully Environmental Performance Operational 29 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon. Performance, Emissions OG7 Amount of drilling waste (drill mud and cuttings) and Fully About the report 2 strategies for treatment and disposal. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated Fully Product Responsibility Product Transport 41 waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I,II,III & IV, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. 66 Environmental Performance Indicators * Rows highlighted in grey depicts Core Indicators EN 25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water Fully Environmental performance 33 bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the Restoring Biodiversity reporting organisation’s discharges of water and runoff. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and Fully R&D Product Performance 39 services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN 27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials Fully Product Responsibility Product 41 that are reclaimed by category Information & Labelling OG8 Benzene, Lead and Sulfur content in fuels. Fully R&D Product Performance 39 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonFully Environmental Performance Effluent 32 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental and Waste Management laws and regulations. EN29 Significant environmental impact of transporting products Fully Environmental Performance 30, 41 and other goods and materials used for the organisation’s Initiatives to Reduce SCOPE 3 operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Emissions, Product Responsibility – Product Transport EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments Partially Sustainability Our Approach 4 by type. Labour Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators * Rows highlighted in grey depicts Core Indicators LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, Fully A Great Place to Work The Big family 49 and region. LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, Partially A Great Place to Work Inclusive 50 gender, and region manpower LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Fully A Great Place to Work The 50 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major Remuneration & Allowances operations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Fully A Great Place to Work Employee 51 agreements Engagement LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, Fully A Great Place to Work Employee 51 including whether it is specified in collective agreements Engagement LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Fully Safety & Occupational Health safety 55 management worker health and safety committees that help Committee monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, Partially Safety & Occupational Health safety 55 and number of work-related fatalities by region Committee LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control Fully Safety & Occupational Health safety 55,52 programs in place to assist workforce members, their Committee, A Great Place to Work families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Learning @ Workplace LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with Fully Safety & Occupational Health safety 55 trade unions. Committee LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee Fully A Great Place to Work Learning @ 52 category Workplace LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that Fully A Great Place to Work Learning @ 52 support the continued employability of employees and assist Workplace them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Fully A Great Place to Work Employee 51 career development reviews Engagement LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Fully Governance and Values Board Profile 15 employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group members, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Fully Governance and Values Ethics & 16 Code of Conduct LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by Partially A Great Place to Work Inclusive gender. manpower 67 Human Rights Performance Indicators * Rows highlighted in grey depicts Core Indicators HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment Fully Governance & Values Human 17 agreements that include human rights clauses or that have Rights undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that Fully Governance & Values 16 have undergone screening on human rights and action Transparency, Integrity & taken. Accountability HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Partially A Great Place to work52 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are Learning @ Workplace relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions Fully Governance & ValuesEthics 16 65 taken and Code of Conduct HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise Fully A Great Place to work51 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at Employee Engagement significant risk, and action taken to support these rights. HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for Fully Governance & ValuesChild 17 incidents of child labour, and measures taken to Labour contribute to the elimination of child labour. HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for Fully Governance & ValuesForced & 17 incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to Compulsory Labour contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Fully Safety & Occupational Health57 organisation’s policies or procedures concerning aspects Fire & safety of human rights that are relevant to operations. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Fully Governance & ValuesEthics 16 indigenous people and actions taken. and Code of Conduct HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been Fully Governance & ValuesHuman 17 subject to human rights reviews and/or impact Rights assessments. OG9 Operations where indigenous communities are present or Fully Social Responsibility 44 affected by activities and where specific engagement Approach towards CSR strategies are in place. HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, Fully Governance & ValuesEthics 16 addressed and resolved through formal grievance and Code of Conduct mechanisms. 68 Society Performance indicators * Rows highlighted in grey depicts Core Indicators SO1 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and Fully Social Responsibility 44 practices that access and manage the impacts of Approach towards CSR operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. SO2 Percentage and total of business units analyzed for risk Fully Governance & values Anti17 related to corruption. corruption & anti-competitive behaviour SO3 Percentage and employee trained in organisation’s antiFully Governance & values Anti17 corruption policies and procedures. corruption & anti-competitive behaviour SO4 Action taken in response to incidents of corruption. Fully Governance & Values Transparency, 16 Integrity & Accountability SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Fully Governance & Values External 17 development and lobbying. Commitments and Public Policy Participation SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to Fully About the Report 2 political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive Fully Governance & values Anti17 behaviour, ant-trust, and monopoly practices and their corruption & anti-competitive outcomes. behaviour SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Fully Social ResponsibilityApproach 44 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws towards CSR and regulations. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative Fully Social ResponsibilityApproach 44 impacts on local communities. towards CSR SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in Fully Social ResponsibilityApproach 44 operations with significant potential or actual negative towards CSR impacts on local communities. OG9 Operations where indigenous communities are present or Fully Social Responsibility Approach 44 affected by activities and where specific engagement towards CSR strategies are in place. OG10 Number and description of significant disputes with local Fully Ethics & Code of Conduct 18 communities and indigenous peoples. OG11 Number of sites that have been decommissioned and sites Fully Product Responsibility – Product 41 that are in the process of being decommissioned. Transport OG12 Operations where involuntary resettlement took place, the Fully Product Responsibility – Product 41 number of households resettled in each and how their Transport livelihoods were affected in the process. OG13 Number of process safety events, by business activity. Fully Safety & Occupational Health Oil 56 Spills 69 Product Responsibility Performance Indicators * Rows highlighted in grey depicts Core Indicators PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Fully R&D 39 products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Fully Product Responsibility 41 regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. PR3 Type of product and service information required by Fully Product Responsibility – Product 41 procedures and percentage of significant products and Information services subject to such information requirements PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Fully Product Responsibility – Product 41 regulations voluntary codes concerning product and Information and Labelling service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Fully Product Responsibility – Customer 41 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Satisfaction PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and Fully Product Responsibility – Marketing 41 voluntary codes related to marketing communication, Communication including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Fully Product Responsibility -Product 41 regulations voluntary codes concerning marketing Information & Labelling communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Fully Product Responsibility Customer 41 breaches of customer privacy and losses customer data. Satisfaction PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance Fully Product Responsibility 41 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. OG14 Volume of Biofuels produced and purchased meeting Fully Sustainability Our Approach 7 sustainability criteria. 70 71
