IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 IMI plc INSIDE THIS REPORT IMI plc, the specialist engineering company, designs, manufactures and services highly engineered products that control the precise movement of fluids. Its innovative technologies, built around valves and actuators, enable vital processes to operate safely, cleanly, efficiently and cost effectively. The Group works with industrial customers across a range of high growth sectors, including energy, transportation and infrastructure, all of which are benefiting from the impact of long-term global trends including climate change, urbanisation, resource scarcity and an ageing population. IMI employs over 12,000 people, has manufacturing facilities in more than 20 countries world-wide and operates a global service network. The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is a member of the FTSE100. Further information is available at www.imiplc.com STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP BUSINESS PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW 02-17 REVIEW 18-27 REVIEW 28-35 A welcome from our Chairman, an overview of Meeting our new Chief Executive, an overview We take a look at our 2013 results, division who we are and what we do, the markets we of our business model and growth strategy and by division. work in, how we do business in a responsible way how we performed against our targets. and our people. 04 Chairman’s statement 20 Chief Executive’s review 30 Severe Service division 08 Group overview 22 Our strategy and business model 32 Fluid Power division 10 Responding to global trends 24 Measurements and targets 34 Indoor Climate division 12 Understanding our niche markets 26 Principal risks and uncertainties 14 How we do business The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 35 has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on their behalf by: Mark Selway Chief Executive 5 March 2014 MEGA-FACTS CORPORATE FINANCIAL Section dividers GOVERNANCE 36-79 STATEMENTS 80-157 All ‘mega-facts’ found on the contents We introduce our Board and explain our Our financial statements for the year, redesigned pages were provided by kind permission governance structure and how it operates. from the prior year to be presented in a more of Frost & Sullivan. user-friendly format. 38 The Board 82 Introduction 40 Letter from the Chairman 84 Primary statements 41 Corporate Governance Report 92 Section 1 Basis of preparation 48 Audit Committee Report 93 Section 2 Results of the year 50 Nominations Report 106 Section 3 Operating assets and liabilities 51 Directors’ Report 112 Section 4 Capital structure  137 Section 5 Other supporting notes 154 Five year financial summary 156 Shareholder information and financial calendar Front cover photo: Hong Kong, China. Fact: c IMI pl Report ONLINE Annual counts and Ac “There will be 35 Mega Cities in 2025 with 2013 a population over eight million and a GDP The IMI plc website of over $250 billion.” www.imiplc.com Annual Report and Accounts 2013 1 HIGHLIGHTS Group Overview “2013 was a year of significant progress on a number of fronts. We continued to deliver positive results for our shareholders and during the course Business Review of the year, reshaped our business creating a strong platform for future growth.” Roberto Quarta, Chairman All items are shown on a continuing basis (excluding the results of the Beverage Dispense and Merchandising divisions which were sold on 1 January 2014). Revenue Adjusted basic earnings per share Highlights Performance Review £1,743m +3% 72.6p +12% • The  disposal of Beverage Dispense and Merchandising creates specialist 2000 80 flow control business • Announced the return of £620m 1500 60 of cash to shareholders 1000 40 • Transitioned the Group’s leadership 500 20 following the retirement of Martin £1,694m £1,743m 64.7p 72.6p Lamb and the appointment of Mark 2012 2013 2012 2013 Selway as new Chief Executive • Delivered another set of positive results with organic revenue growth Adjusted profit before tax Segmental operating margin Corporate Governance of 1% and adjusted EPS up 12% £297.7m +8% 18.4% +70bps • Recommended  a 9% increase in the full year dividend 300 20 15 200 10 100 5 £274.8m £297.7m 17.7% 18.4% 2012 2013 2012 2013 Reported profit before tax Total dividend for year Financial Statements £249.3m +8% 35.3p +9% 300 40 30 200 20 100 10 £229.9m £249.3m 32.5p 35.3p 2012 2013 2012 2013 2 IMI plc GROUP OVERVIEW In this section we give an overview of our results and take a look at the significant strategic developments that have taken place over the past 12 months. We give a summary of the Group, details of our international reach and an outline of global trends and how they are creating growth opportunities across our businesses. Our core corporate values of integrity, innovation and excellence underpin everything we do and you will learn more about our business approach and our people in this section of the Report. CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Significant strategic developments Chairman, Roberto Quarta, takes us through IMI’s year of significant progress. Page 04 GROUP RESPONDING TO OVERVIEW GLOBAL TRENDS A summary of IMI’s three fluid controls We highlight the opportunities businesses and a map of our locations arising from climate change, around the world. urbanisation, resource scarcity and an ageing population. Page 08 Page 10 UNDERSTANDING OUR HOW WE DO NICHE MARKETS BUSINESS We focus on the key niche markets We believe that we have a duty to behave which are helping support IMI’s growth. responsibly towards all our stakeholders including our employees, our customers, our suppliers and the communities in which we operate. Page 12 Page 14 OUR PEOPLE Main photo: Chicago, USA. The Group’s performance and values depend on our people who are our Fact: key asset. “97% of climate scientists agree that climate-warming trends over the past century are very likely due to human activities, and most of the leading scientific Page 16 organisations world-wide have issued public statements endorsing this position.” Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 4 IMI plc Chairman’s Statement A YEAR OF SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS “2013 was a year of significant progress on a number of fronts. We continued to deliver positive results for our shareholders and during the course of the year, re-shaped our business, creating a strong platform for future growth.” Continuing operating margin Results overview +70bps 2013 was a year of significant progress on a number of fronts. We continued to deliver positive results for our shareholders and, during the course of the year, reshaped our business through the disposal of the Beverage Dispense and Merchandising divisions which completed % 20 on 1 January 2014. 15 On a continuing basis, excluding the Beverage Dispense and Merchandising divisions, reported revenues were £1,743m, up 1% on an organic basis 10 5 (2012: £1,694m). Segmental operating profits grew 7% to £321.6m 17.7% 18.4% 2012 2013 (2012: £300.1m), and operating margins improved from 17.7% to 18.4%. Adjusted basic earnings per share increased 12% to 72.6p (2012: 64.7p). The Severe Service division delivered a strong performance with organic Dividend per share revenue growing 8% to £394m in the second half (2012 H2: £360m) +9% and 3% to £716m for the full year (2012: £686m). In the year orders were up 12% with good momentum in the Petrochemical sector and we won Pence a record single order in Oil & Gas. Operating margins improved from 14.0% 40 in 2012 to 16.3% in 2013 with a significant uplift to 17.2% in the second 30 half. While Fluid Power revenues at £723m were down 1% on an organic basis for the full year (2012: £717m), momentum improved in the second 20 half when organic revenues increased 3% to £360m (2012 H2: £344m). 10 Operating margins were slightly down at 19.4% (2012: 19.8%). Indoor 32.5p 35.3p Climate saw a return to growth in the second half with organic revenues 2012 2013 up 2% to £159m (2012 H2: £151m) and increasing 1% for the full year to £305m (2012: £293m). Operating margins were slightly ahead of last year at 21.1% (2012: 21.0%). Full results Turn to page 80 The Beverage Dispense and Merchandising divisions delivered mixed results during the year. Merchandising performed strongly but the Beverage Dispense business saw a decline in revenues. The segmental operating profit from these discontinued businesses increased 11% to £81.0m (2012: £72.9m), and the operating margin increased to 15.9% (2012: 14.7%). Given the strong overall results, the Board is recommending that the final dividend be increased by 9% to 22.5p (2012: 20.7p). This makes a total dividend for the year of 35.3p, an increase of 9% over last year’s 32.5p. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 5 Group Overview Strategic developments During the year, the Group also bought back £164m In March 2013 we announced our objective to focus of shares, in the share repurchase programme that more of the Group’s business in those areas where was announced in March 2013. This programme we would achieve higher returns and faster growth. was introduced to ensure that net debt was maintained at an efficient level. At the end of 2013 Business Review As part of this strategy, we began exploring options the Group’s net debt was £199m, with the ratio of to divest the majority of our Merchandising business. net debt to continuing EBITDA at 0.6 times. A further During this process we received an unsolicited offer programme of share buy backs is not proposed for from The Marmon Group, a Berkshire Hathaway the time being. company, for both our Beverage Dispense business and our Merchandising business for an enterprise Following the sale of our Beverage Dispense and value of $1,100m (£690m). Merchandising divisions, IMI is now a specialist flow control business focused entirely on industrial end We successfully concluded this transaction in early markets, all of which are set to benefit from favourable January 2014 and, in line with our capital allocation long-term growth trends. This is a strong platform for policy and the Board’s commitment to maintain future growth. an efficient balance sheet, £620m of cash is being Performance Review returned to shareholders. An additional cash contribution of £70m is being made to the IMI UK Pension Fund (the Fund) to support the on-going strategy to reduce the Fund’s volatility risk, and move towards self-sufficiency funding levels over the next few years. “During 2013 we made good progress in terms of our financial and strategic agendas. The Group delivered another strong set Corporate Governance of results and, following the completion of the disposal of the Beverage Dispense and Merchandising divisions, IMI is now a specialist flow control company focused entirely on industrial end markets.” Financial Statements 6 IMI plc Chairman’s Statement (cont’d) Martin Lamb Another significant event during the year was the announcement of Martin Lamb’s retirement. Martin has been with IMI for 33 years. He has served on the Board for 17 years and was Chief Executive for 13 years. He joined the business in 1980 at the age of 18 on a work placement as part of his four year engineering degree. In the early stages of his career, Martin worked for the Beverage Dispense division including running the UK business. At the same time as he was appointed President of Beverage Dispense “I have been enormously privileged to lead IMI. It is an outstanding business in 1996, he was also appointed to the Board and he became Chief at the heart of which are exceptional Executive in 2001. people and world-class technologies. All of our employees have contributed During his time as Chief Executive, Martin did a tremendous job to what we have achieved over the transforming IMI from a lowly rated building materials conglomerate into years and I would like to thank a specialist engineering business, with an innovative product portfolio, them for their unswerving loyalty, commitment, and energy. And looking leading positions in a number of attractive end markets and a truly to the future I would also like to wish global footprint. Over the period, operating margins more than doubled, Mark and everyone at IMI earnings more than trebled, and market capitalisation increased by the greatest of success.” nearly six fold, with IMI entering the FTSE100 for the first time in its history in December 2010. As a result of Martin’s strategic vision, his hard work and his relentless dedication, IMI is now widely recognised as one of the UK’s leading engineering companies. We have a healthy balance sheet, a strong platform for future growth and excellent prospects for the long-term. We owe Martin a huge debt of gratitude for what he has done for our Company throughout his long career. On behalf of everyone at IMI and all our shareholders I would like to thank him for the enormous contribution he has made to IMI’s success. Operating margins Earnings per share Market capitalisation more than doubled more than trebled increased almost six fold +132% +237% +479% % Pence Millions 20 100 5000 4000 15 75 3000 10 50 2000 5 25 7.7% 17.9% 26.7p 90.1p 1000 £833m £4,823m 2001 2013 2001 2013 31 Dec 2000 31 Dec 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 7 Group Overview Chief Executive succession Martin’s successor is Mark Selway, a very experienced chief executive with a proven track record, who is well placed to build on the platform for growth Martin has been instrumental in creating. Business Review Mark was Chief Executive at Boral Limited, Australia’s leading building materials company between 2010 and 2012. Prior to that, between 2001 and 2009, he was Chief Executive of The Weir Group PLC. During his tenure at Weir he led the transformation of the business into an international engineering company with leadership positions in high “I am delighted to take up this opportunity. Martin and his team growth attractive end markets. He has significant UK and international have built a great business which engineering experience, exceptional leadership skills, extensive has significant opportunities for experience of global markets and a deep knowledge of many of the further growth. I am excited about sectors in which IMI operates. These skills and experience, together taking IMI forward and leading it into its next phase of development.” naturally, with a fresh perspective, will help drive IMI forward. Performance Review Corporate governance shareholders in line with the Company’s on-going We have made a number of changes in the format commitment to transparency and openness. We and content to this Annual Report and Accounts would be grateful to receive any feedback from compared with previous years. This includes the shareholders on this new structure so that we can introduction of a business model on page 23, and continue to improve the document in future years. new formats for the Corporate Governance section and the Financial Statements which start on page Our people 36 and page 38 respectively. The objective of these In the past year the Board and I have visited a changes is threefold: firstly to ensure that we meet number of our operations around the world and have all of the latest regulatory standards relating to had the opportunity to meet many of our employees. annual reports; secondly to help the reader easily Our people are our key asset. Their first class skills, Corporate Governance navigate their way around the document; and thirdly knowledge and commitment are a critical factor in and most importantly, to improve understanding for IMI’s success and the entire Board and I are grateful for their hard work. The Outlook As IMI moves into the next phase of its development a review of all parts of the Group has been initiated. While this review work is ongoing, positive early findings are already emerging. These findings, together with IMI’s inherent strengths, including its robust balance sheet, indicate that the Group is well positioned to exploit a range of growth opportunities over the medium term. Financial Statements Looking at the year ahead: in 2014, based on current market conditions and excluding the adverse impact of exchange rates, we expect the Group to deliver modest organic revenue growth in the first half with margins slightly lower than Performance Review in the first half of last year and an improved overall performance in the year. Turn to page 28 Roberto Quarta Chairman 8 IMI plc GROUP OVERVIEW IMI plc IMI now operates through three divisions – Severe Service, Fluid Power and Indoor Continuing revenue by division Climate – all of which are focused on industrial end markets. Prior to their disposal the Group included two other divisions – Beverage Dispense and Merchandising (together ‘Retail Dispense’). Severe Service The sale of the Retail Dispense business was negotiated during 2013 and completed Fluid Power Indoor Climate on 1 January 2014. Full details of the Retail Dispense businesses performance during 2013 and information about the disposal are provided on pages 104 and 105. SEVERE SERVICE FLUID POWER INDOOR CLIMATE Revenue Revenue Revenue £716m £723m £305m % of continuing Group revenue % of continuing Group revenue % of continuing Group revenue 41% 42% 17% Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit £116.8m £140.5m £64.3m Number of employees Number of employees Number of employees 4,300 6,000 2,000 The Severe Service division is a world The Fluid Power division specialises The Indoor Climate division designs and leading provider of highly-engineered flow in developing motion and fluid manufactures technologies which deliver control solutions for critical applications control technologies for applications optimal and energy efficient heating and that are able to withstand temperature where precision, speed and reliability cooling systems inside buildings. and pressure extremes and intensely are essential. abrasive and corrosive cyclical operations. Key brands Key brands Key brands CCI, BTG, IMI Nuclear, Orton, Truflo Rona, STI, Norgren, FAS, Kloehn, Herion, Buschjost, TA Hydronics, Heimeier, Pneumatex, FDI Z&J, THJ, Remosa, InterAtiva Maxseal Main markets Main markets Main markets Liquefied natural gas (LNG); petrochemical and Commercial vehicle; food and beverage; life Water based heating and cooling systems for refining; fossil power, nuclear power and iron sciences; rail; energy and industrial pneumatic commercial buildings; and temperature control & steel applications. for residential buildings. Major operational locations Major operational locations Major operational locations Belgium, Brazil, China, Czech Republic, Germany, Brazil, China, Czech Republic, Germany, Mexico, Germany, Poland, Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland India, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Sweden, Switzerland, UK and USA. and USA. Switzerland, UK and USA. Find out more about Severe Service Find out more about Fluid Power Find out more about Indoor Climate Turn to page 30 Turn to page 32 Turn to page 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 9 Group Overview GLOBAL FOOTPRINT Business Review North America Europe Sites 18 Sites 68 Asia Sites 22 Performance Review South America Africa Sites 3 Sites 2 Key Australasia Severe Service Fluid Power Sites 2 Indoor Climate This map illustrates locations with more than ten employees and includes manufacturing sites and sales offices Corporate Governance Continuing revenue by geography RoW Western Europe 6% 40% UK 6% Emerging North markets America 29% 19% SEVERE SERVICE FLUID POWER INDOOR CLIMATE Financial Statements RoW 11% Western Europe Western Europe RoW 20% RoW 45% 1% UK Western Europe 4% 2% UK 74% 6% UK Emerging 7% Markets North 18% Emerging America Markets 20% North North Emerging America 43% Markets America 24% 5% 20% 10 IMI plc RESPONDING TO GLOBAL TRENDS The world today is being THE GLOBAL TRENDS shaped by a number of longterm global trends including climate change, resource CLIMATE CHANGE scarcity, urbanisation and By 2030 greenhouse gases are expected to increase by between 25% and 90% from the an ageing population. These levels they were at in 1990. trends are driving heightened Carbon dioxide in the atmosphere will also demand for increasingly continue to increase and the market for lowsophisticated engineering carbon energy products is likely to be worth at least $500bn by 2050. solutions which deliver cleaner energy, greater fuel efficiency and more effective resource utilisation. This on-going demand for RESOURCE SCARCITY Demand for energy will continue to increase. innovative products and A 40% increase is forecast by 2030 and to engineering expertise plays support that increasing demand, 26 trillion dollars of investment will be required. to our core strengths and is creating increased growth In particular, China and India will require significant amounts of extra power over the opportunities across next decades, adding between them 50 giga the Group. watts of installed capacity each year. URBANISATION Between 2009 and 2050 the number of people living in cities will have doubled to 6.4bn. By 2050 there will be 75 cities with a population of more than one million people. AGEING POPULATION Between the years 2000 and 2050, the proportion of people over 60 will double to 22%. Today two-thirds of health care spending now relates to people over 65 years old. These statistics were provided by Frost & Sullivan Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11 Group Overview HOW WE ARE HELPING CUSTOMERS RESPOND TO THE GLOBAL TRENDS Climate change is The concerns around excessive carbon dioxide levels are driving demand for cost effective ways to Business Review driving demand for increase fuel economy and cut CO2 emissions. Nowhere is this more evident than in the Commercial better environmental Vehicle sector, where our Fluid Power division is developing technology which enables heat to be taken control and improved from the vehicle exhaust and recycled into energy to power the vehicle. This innovative waste heat energy efficiency recovery process helps reduce engine emissions and improves fuel efficiency. Resource scarcity is Resource scarcity is underpinning a rapid growth in a number of new sources of energy including liquefied Performance Review driving demand for natural gas (‘LNG’). However, the capital costs associated with building and running an LNG plant are better environmental extensive and increasing. The energy industry has responded by developing floating LNG platforms, a control and improved modular approach which substantially cuts capital costs and lowers the break-even point for investment. energy efficiency These floating LNG platforms require lighter weight components which still meet every technical requirement and performance criteria. Using its engineering expertise and proprietary technologies, our Severe Service division has designed and manufactured new control valves of the optimum size and weight for incorporation in floating LNG platforms. During 2013, the division won the contract to supply all critical application valve packages for Prelude, the first floating LNG facility in the world. Corporate Governance Urbanisation is As the number of people living in cities continues to increase and the size of the world’s cities grow, driving demand for energy efficiency within buildings, which consume around 40% of the world’s energy, is critical. energy efficiency In response to the requirement for greater energy efficiency and lower energy costs, our Indoor Climate division works with building designers to create optimal indoor heating and cooling systems incorporating our sophisticated valve products. Most recently TA Hydronics delivered an energy efficient and sustainable heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) solution to the Spine Tower in Turkey – set to become the second tallest building in Istanbul. Not only does the solution ensure all users can work and reside in a comfortable and well managed environment, but it also significantly reduces annual energy consumption by up to 30%. Financial Statements An ageing population An ageing population is putting increasing demands on global health care provision. This demand is driving demand for is leading to substantial increases in health care costs which is driving an increasing trend towards better management out-of-hospital treatment and a greater focus by healthcare providers on prevention rather than of resources cure. As a result, our Fluid Power division is seeing an increasing demand for miniature, lower power and yet more robust valves, such as Chipsol, for point-of-care devices such as portable ventilators. The compact 8mm footprint, Chipsol, was developed for critical fluid applications where space and power are at a premium. 12 IMI plc UNDERSTANDING OUR NICHE MARKETS IMI is focused on developing clear leadership positions in a number of well-defined global market niches, which have good exposure to the key global trends which are driving growth. We work closely with industry and sector leading customers, to develop a deep knowledge of their markets and the challenges they face. We use this knowledge to design and manufacture highly engineered fluid control solutions that deliver real value and competitive advantage for our customers. The key niche markets for our three divisions are as follows: SEVERE SERVICE Oil & Gas Fossil Power Nuclear Power Petrochemical Anti-surge valve and For combined cycle, Valves and other flow Integrated flow control actuator systems and fossil power plants, control solutions for systems for critical highly engineered combined heat and both the primary and applications in fluid isolation valves for critical power and renewable secondary cycles of the catalytic cracking (FCC), processes in liquefied industries with a focus nuclear reactor and fuel ethylene and polypropylene natural gas (LNG) plants. on turbine bypass and enrichment plants with production processes and de-superheating. particular focus on safety delayed coking. related applications. FLUID POWER Industrial Automation Commercial Vehicle Energy Life Sciences Rail Food & Beverage A broad range of Customised flow High integrity solenoid Bespoke fluid handling Pneumatic applications Differentiated and actuators, valves and control solutions for valves, air preparation and control solutions for the rail industry unique valving solutions air preparation products engine management, and instrumentation for customers in the including internal door for manufacturing PET designed for increased transmission control, equipment for the global medical device, analytical, systems, brake controls, bottling equipment, ink automation in factories. and chassis cab air energy markets, including and clinical diagnostic and auxiliary air systems jet printing equipment management applications upstream Oil & Gas, equipment markets. to improve rail car and and commercial coffee for the Commercial Refining, Petrochemical, engine performance machines. Vehicle industry. Chemical and Power and life. Generation. INDOOR CLIMATE Hydronic Balancing Hydronic Conditioning Thermostatic Control Balancing hydronic Solutions that deliver Thermostatic radiator systems critical to the the correct pressure and valves (TRVs), to ensure overall performance water quality in hydronic the overall system and energy efficiency of HVAC systems, and performance, and heating, ventilation and control overall system deliver optimal comfort air conditioning (HVAC) performance, energy and temperature at a solutions in buildings. efficiency and life. room level. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13 Group Overview CASE STUDIES Business Review The IMI Severe Service business, CCI Air inlet throttle technologies for passenger Brazil’s famous Maracanã stadium in Rio was recently awarded a contract by cars are unable to meet the more severe de Janeiro has undergone a complete Korean building contractor Hyundai Heavy operating conditions required by heavy renovation in preparation for the hosting Industries (HHI), to supply nine severeduty engine applications. Fluid Power’s of the 2014 World Cup finals. IMI Indoor service control and choke valves for Statoil’s Norgren business has designed a new air Climate designed and installed a new Aasta Hansteen field. The production choke throttle technology which meets a number cooling system which helped deliver Performance Review valves will be some of the most advanced of key design parameters including speed, energy savings of 4% and improved ever designed and manufactured by CCI, resolution, repeatability and durability operational efficiency. utilising our bespoke solid tungstenrequired for commercial vehicles. carbide multi-stage trim technology to meet extremely stringent noise requirements of less than 75 dBA. Production of the choke valves will take place in our state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in the Czech Republic. Corporate Governance IMI Severe Service companies have Fluid Power’s Norgren business designed The Tuxer Fernerhaus, a multipurpose designed and manufactured a range and manufactured a complex fluidic building nestled at the heart of the glacier of severe service valves for Prelude, circuit incorporating its industry leading ski resort of Hintertux, Austria, underwent the world’s first floating liquefied natural precision valves in a multi-layer, multia complete overhaul and extension in 2013. gas (FLNG) platform. At 600,000 tonnes, channel manifold for Bio-Rad, a customer The IMI Indoor Climate team, working Prelude is the largest man made floating operating in the life science research and together with the designer and installer, vessel ever built. Valves supplied to clinical diagnostics sectors. The manifold provided a complete hydronic concept Financial Statements the project include ball and butterfly for the autosampler system is used in including the revolutionary new TA-FUS1ON isolation valves for the cryogenic process, the analysis of DNA. Norgren’s solution combined control and balancing valve which are required to operate safely at helped to reduce the size and weight range. The new system delivered improved temperatures as low as -162°C, and of the overall device while enhancing operational efficiency, better energy usage anti-surge valves for the liquefaction accuracy, throughput and the overall and consistent and accurate temperature compressors. IMI has designed new fluid control performance. regulation, all of which were key priorities bespoke solutions for this FLNG project for the customer. to minimise size, weight and noise while ensuring our technology continues to provide world-class precision and response to ensure the most efficient and reliable performance. 14 IMI plc HOW WE DO BUSINESS: OUR APPROACH Our ambition is to become the most admired innovative engineering company of our size anywhere in the world. We aspire to be admired for what we do, the products and services we provide to our customers, and for the way we do it – how we approach business. Our core corporate values of integrity, innovation and excellence underpin everything we do. We believe that we have a duty to behave responsibly towards all our stakeholders including our employees, our customers and suppliers and the communities in which we operate. We also believe that sound ethical principles and high standards of responsibility impact positively on profitability, returns to shareholders, reputation and growth. RobecoSAM is the Swiss sustainable investment company responsible for production of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. In January 2014, it published its sustainability yearbook, which focuses on corporate sustainability drivers and lists the world’s most sustainable companies. IMI was included in the top 15% of sustainable businesses in the global machinery electrical equipment sector. IMI is also a member of the FTSE4Good Index and a signatory to the UN Global Compact. ENVIRONMENT Becoming more energy efficient and minimising the environmental impact of what we do is an integral part of our day-to-day business operations. Our energy and carbon efficiency programme ‘Project 20:20’ continued throughout 2013 and has led to further reductions in our CO2 emissions. Collectively, the initiatives completed in 2013 will bring savings of some 1,500 tonnes of CO2 and £400k per annum. Our key locations continue to identify further improvement opportunities to enable our reduction targets to be met by the end of 2015. Our Norgren facility in Queretaro, Mexico recently installed a high efficiency aluminium re-melt furnace that is expected to save 120 tonnes of CO2 per annum in gas consumption. IMI Components in Birmingham, UK has taken advantage of a voltage optimisation system to reduce energy usage. The installation has been a success with a payback period of less than five years and an estimated saving of 150 tonnes of CO2 by the end of 2014. TA Hydronics, in Olkusz, Poland replaced a welding machine for a more efficient model, which has a payback of one year and estimates annual savings of 120 tonnes of CO2. While waste generation varies across all of our businesses depending on activity we made further progress in the year and recycling levels increased to 81% compared with 80% in 2012. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15 HEALTH AND SAFETY Group Overview The health and safety of our employees is paramount. In 2013 we made good progress towards achieving our objective of becoming a world-class health & safety operation, under the banner of our ‘From Compliance to Competitive Advantage’ campaign. In particular, during the year we further reduced the time lost to accidents by 17% year-on-year and achieved our internal target for the year. To ensure that we continue to improve our performance in this very important area, we have launched a new programme which will run until the end of 2015 at which time our aim is to have reduced time lost to accidents even further. Throughout the year our businesses continued to develop and run projects to reinforce the importance of health and safety at all times. By way of example, Norgren’s Queretaro facility in Mexico ran a safety campaign which was extended to employees’ family members to cultivate a ‘24-hour safety mentality’. Family members Business Review were given the opportunity to record videos, which were shared with the workforce, reminding them to be safe, follow proper procedures and wear the necessary personal protection equipment. BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND ETHICS The IMI Way, our code of conduct, sets out the standards we expect everyone in the Group to comply with. E Every employee at their induction is provided with a copy of Y Performance Review the IMI Way, which to date has been translated into 21 local INTE CE LEN languages. In addition, on-going and refresher training in GR EL relation to ethical practices and procedures takes place every IT CORE XC year on what has become known as the IMI Way Day. On this date every employee across the Group participates in a faceto-face training session which focuses on how to apply the code in everyday situations. VALUES Through our whistleblowing policy we encourage employees to speak up where they see behaviours that are inconsistent with our values. Where employees feel that they are unable to raise issues with their relevant manager or someone in the Human Resources team, they can contact the IMI Hotline – a service provided by a third party. Issues raised are reviewed INNOVATI ON by an appropriate member of the senior management team Corporate Governance and where necessary, an investigation is undertaken and appropriate action taken. COMMUNITY We have a significant local presence in over 20 countries around the world. As well as contributing to these local communities by providing employment, we actively participate in charitable and educational programmes that are run adjacent to our facilities. On the afternoon Financial Statements of the IMI Way Day, following the training that takes place in the morning, employees across the Group spend time supporting local charities and causes. The team at our Norgren facility in Louisville, USA, held a bike building competition for local under-privileged children from the charity ‘Big Brothers, Big Sisters’ and gifted the bicycles built during the day to the children. In the Czech Republic, the 300 CCI employees at our manufacturing facility in Brno helped renovate a day centre for children and adults with disabilities. The momentum of the IMI Way Day community activities is maintained through the year with employees in each of our businesses devoting time to support their chosen charities including arranging fund-raising activities and running initiatives such as food and toy collections. 16 IMI plc HOW WE DO BUSINESS: OUR PEOPLE Our performance and our ability to harness the Group’s full potential rely heavily on having the right people in the right places at the right times. This means recruiting and developing the best people, who have excellent relevant skills and who are clearly aligned to both our values and our ambitions. To achieve this, and to ensure we have a strong talent pipeline and a world-class well motivated team with good leadership skills, we operate a number of development programmes at all levels of the Group. Looking ahead, we will continue to improve and expand these programmes to ensure that they continue to support our growth agenda and provide our employees with the most relevant training and learning opportunities. In 2014 we will continue to develop and enhance our core framework of people processes, including elements such as performance management, communication, induction and reward systems. RESOURCING We recruit on an on-going basis for key skill sets in the geographies that reflect our customer and marketplace footprints. Working closely with operational management, we assess our recruitment needs alongside our business plans and then work to identify and recruit excellent candidates. Our Global Graduate Programme is focused on providing a talent pipeline of future senior leaders for the Group. Through this programme, in 2013 we hired 14 graduate engineers including three Chinese graduates who joined us via the bespoke programme we operate there. Over a two year period, graduates participate in a series of varied assignments and development programmes before taking a permanent role in the business. Previous projects have included a programme to assist with the integration of a newly acquired company in Canada and a project focused on production transfers across geographies. On completion of the programme, the graduates become a member of the IMI Academy, which is one of our talent pipelines, that provides on-going learning, mentoring and training opportunities to support their retention and career path progression. To boost the quality of the mentoring in the IMI Academy and more generally across the organisation, a new training programme focused on mentoring skills was launched during the course of 2013. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17 DEVELOPMENT Group Overview In terms of on-going development and, in addition to the IMI Academy, which is focused on our graduate employees, we operate a wide range of training and learning initiatives across the Group at all levels to ensure we have motivated people with world-class skills and a pool of potential leadership talent. At the most senior level, we run an annual ‘IMI Leaders Boot Camp’ for our senior business leaders. This took place in May 2013 and is designed to help our managers and directors achieve excellence in both their current and future roles. It also creates a network through which 80 business leaders can develop and share best practice. Each year we also run our Management Fundamentals Programme, which is focused on our high potential middle managers and aims to prepare them for senior management roles. In total, around 210 managers Business Review participated in this programme which runs across Europe, Asia and the Americas. In addition, over 100 employees attended our Emerging Managers Programme, designed for more junior managers, which took place across the Group. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT AND COMMUNICATION In 2013 we commissioned our third Employee Engagement Survey and over two-thirds of our employees participated. Performance Review While the feedback suggested that there are a number of factors that contribute to making IMI a great place to work, including our approach to health and safety and our clear business strategy, it also indicated that more could be done to strengthen our performance management framework and boost support around career and personal development. These will be key areas of focus this year. Furthermore, later this year we plan to introduce a Group-wide intranet to help with collaboration, knowledge sharing and teamwork and to greatly improve communications across IMI. Corporate Governance DIVERSITY We select the very best people to help deliver our ambitions and to reflect the global footprint in which we operate. At the graduate level, 36% of our graduates are female and we will continue to focus our efforts to recruit more diverse international business leaders across the Group. A more detailed explanation of Financial Statements our diversity policy is given in the Corporate Governance section of this Report on page 50. Human Rights This Report does not contain further information about policies of the Company in relation to human rights issues since our approach is enshrined in The IMI Way and our support for the UN Global Compact. Further detail is available on the Company’s website. 18 IMI plc BUSINESS REVIEW In this section we review our results and take a look at the significant strategic developments that have taken place over the past 12 months. We give an overview of the Group, details of our global reach and an outline of how we are responding to the global trends of climate change, resource scarcity, urbanisation and an ageing population. Our core values of integrity, innovation and excellence underpin everything we do and you will be able to learn more about these important values here. CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Mark Selway reports on his first few months at IMI Page 20 OUR STRATEGY AND MEASUREMENTS & BUSINESS MODEL TARGETS We explain how our strategy can We track our Key Performance deliver long-term profitable growth Indicators which we judge to and illustrate our business model be the best measures of our that supports this. performance. Page 22 Page 24 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES We have in place a well-established risk management structure and Main photo: framework which is designed to London, UK. identify, manage and mitigate the business risks we face. Fact: “Urban population will account for 81% of Page 26 total population in developed regions and 54% in the less developed regions by 2025.” Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 20 IMI plc Chief Executive’s Review A STRONG FOUNDATION FOR THE FUTURE “Building on the Group’s inherent strengths, the positive early findings emerging from the review indicate the Group is well placed to exploit a range of growth opportunities over the medium term.” The three month Chief Executive transition plan, Assessing full potential formulated by the Board, provided me with an ideal As the refocused IMI business enters the next phase of its opportunity to visit our operations around the world development, which coincides with my appointment as Chief and, very importantly, meet with many of our employees. Executive and the fresh perspective I bring, now is the ideal time Since October I have visited our operations in Europe, to undertake a review of all parts of the Group. The purpose the Americas and Asia Pacific including key sites for the of this review is to ensure we have the plans and strategy in Severe Service, Fluid Power and Indoor Climate divisions. place to enable us to outperform in our chosen markets, deliver These visits, and particularly the discussions I have had sustainable accelerated top and bottom line growth and build with our teams around the world, have confirmed to long-term shareholder value. me that we have a skilled and passionate workforce, who are committed to making IMI a success. This review, which I initiated shortly after my arrival, is currently underway and is covering every IMI company. It is primarily being undertaken by our employees, in order to secure A strong foundation maximum buy-in and garner their enthusiasm for the future In January 2014, we completed the disposal of our non-core direction of the Group, with input from a small number of Beverage Dispense and Merchandising divisions and in doing expert consultants. It includes a number of key work streams so became a specialist flow control company concentrated on as follows: industrial end markets. This more focused business provides • a review of our existing markets, customers, products, peers a firm foundation for future growth and for the next phase in and competition. The findings of this work will ensure that as the Group’s development. the Group moves forward, we fully leverage our geographic, We have many strengths: we have a committed workforce, great product and process strengths; engineering expertise and deep end market knowledge. We also • an assessment of the Group’s current capabilities with have strong long-term relationships with world-class customers particular emphasis on our manufacturing operations, product across all of our businesses and, by providing these customers development processes, operating systems and controls; with products and technologies that deliver tangible benefits, we have successfully deployed a value-based pricing strategy. • an assessment of how we can improve collaboration and exploit synergies and economies of scale across the whole Furthermore, the Group has some excellent financial of IMI regardless of geographic or divisional boundaries; and characteristics: a disciplined approach to financial performance and a balance sheet that is in excellent shape which provides • a process to identify where future investment could be both headroom and flexibility to support a range of organic best deployed, both within our existing businesses and and acquisitive growth opportunities. through strategically complementary acquisitions focused on delivering growth and attractive returns to shareholders. My objective as Chief Executive is to build on this strong foundation to ensure that the Group harnesses and delivers its full potential. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21 Group Overview Assessing full potential – early findings BUSINESS MODEL While the review is not yet complete, it is appropriate to highlight some of its early findings: • o  perational performance: to date we have undertaken a sample assessment of major manufacturing plants across a spread of geographies THE IMI WAY in the Group’s three divisions. These assessments which include product E ENC INV development processes, operational performance and operating systems, NA LE XC ELL ve ES TIN G F nnovati products a ng i have been benchmarked against both best-in-class world standards and OR AT elli nd se ds IO TH rvi ER an ce EF OP g Ma UT best current IMI practice. Findings based on this sample benchmarking s nu ide URE ING fac sio n Ind -w D RI V tu rld oo rin ivi Fluid wo exercise indicate that there are significant opportunities to improve the Pow er D lim ate Division rC Group’s operational performance which will result in improved efficiencies and better working capital utilisation; Business Review Se on WOR g v er e S e r vi c e D i visi se ERS rin rvi ce KIN ptu OM Ca •  collaboration: until this year, throughout its history IMI has operated as af nd te a ST GT rm rt po CU ark sup OG et o TO ET pport res, R unities for spa SE a diverse engineering group with significant autonomy provided to each HE R AS LO ON GC EI MI TIN GET of the underlying businesses. Given this structure there has been limited incentive or requirement for inter-divisional collaboration. Our more focused THE IMI WAY portfolio now provides an opportunity to improve how our businesses work together. A project to develop greater collaboration amongst our talented Our business model supports group of engineers has already been initiated and has identified considerable our strategy to deliver long-term opportunities for synergies and economies of scale which promise to enhance profitable growth the competitiveness of many of our companies; For more information Turn to page 23  roduct development: the Group’s competitive advantage and leading • p position at the forefront of flow control technology is reliant on the continued development of the existing product portfolio and an innovative new product Performance Review pipeline. Investment in new products will be a key priority, as will focusing on those products and technologies which deliver sustainable competitive advantage; and • customer alignment: the Group has strong long-term customer relationships with some of the world’s leading companies. The competitive dynamics of the industries we serve demand a continued focus on the value and benefits we bring to these customers including responsiveness to market demand and geographical alignment in terms of manufacturing. Looking forward Mark Selway visiting a Severe Service facility in China. Building on the Group’s inherent strengths, the positive early findings emerging from the review indicate that the Group is well placed to exploit Corporate Governance a range of growth opportunities over the medium term. The review is planned to be completed around the time of the Group’s 2014 interim results at which time we expect to share the key findings and provide an update on the Group’s future direction. I would like to close by thanking all those who have helped and supported me since I joined IMI. I look forward to leading a great team as we work together to ensure that the Company achieves its full potential to the benefit of all IMI’s stakeholders. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Financial Statements Mark Selway Douglas Hurt Roy Twite Brendan Colgan Peter Spencer Paul Roberts Geoff Tranfield John O’Shea Chief Executive Financial Director Divisional Managing Divisional Managing Divisional Managing Group Business Group Human Company Secretary Director, Severe Director, Fluid Power Director, Indoor Climate Development Director Resources Director Service 22 IMI plc OUR STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL STRATEGY We are focused on delivering long-term profitable growth. We plan to achieve this by deploying our market-leading fluid control expertise in attractive industrial FLUID NICHE markets where we have or can aspire TECHNOLOGIES LEADERSHIP to leadership positions and where there is long-term demand for our solutions driven by sustainable global trends. We believe that responsible business impacts positively on profitability, returns GROWTH to shareholders, reputation and growth. DRIVERS Our internal standards demand sound management of our responsible business agenda and aim to integrate this thinking within all aspects of our business. FLUID NICHE GROWTH TECHNOLOGIES LEADERSHIP DRIVERS For over forty years we have been at the IMI is focused on developing clear leadership Environmental and demographic trends are forefront of flow control technology. We positions in a number of well-defined global shaping our future and driving growth. These combine technical expertise, application knowmarket niches which have good exposure to trends are increasing demand for sophisticated how and innovative custom designed products the key global trends that are driving growth. engineering systems to help respond to the to deliver value and competitive advantage for We invest considerable time and energy challenges presented by global trends, namely our customers. Our highly engineered products working closely with industry and sector climate change, resource scarcity, urbanisation provide precise and reliable control of fluids leading customers, develop deep knowledge and an ageing population. and gases, often in critical applications. of the markets they serve and the challenges they face. • Climate change • Valves • Resource scarcity • Actuators • Market leadership in global niches • Urbanisation • Controllers and positioners • Blue chip clients supported by world-class • Ageing population Key Account Management • Customised solutions delivered through Engineering Advantage • Extensive aftermarket Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23 Group Overview BUSINESS MODEL THE IMI WAY E NCE INV Business Review ELL ES TIN XC LE G F NA ve nnovati products a AT lling i nd OR e se ds IO TH n rvi ER a ce EF OP g Ma s UT nu ide URE ING fac sio n Ind -w D RI V tu rld oo rin ivi Fluid wo Pow Division ate Performance Review er D lim rC Organisational structure Se on How we generate WOR g v er e S e r vi c e D i visi se ERS revenue rin rvi ce KIN ptu OM Ca af nd Growth te a ST GT rm rt strategies po CU OG ark p et o su TO ET pport res, R unities for spa E Purpose and HE R AS L OS values Corporate Governance ON GC EI MI TIN GET 1 2 3 4 THE IMI WAY DRIVING OPERATIONAL INVESTING WORKING TOGETHER GETTING CLOSER EXCELLENCE FOR THE FUTURE AS ‘ONE IMI’ TO CUSTOMERS Financial Statements Efficient processes help drive The Group’s focused portfolio Realising the Group’s existing Through our engineering down costs, protect profits of flow control businesses potential through improved expertise and dynamic and deliver competitive besttogether with the excellent collaboration, the pooling of customer-focused in-class engineering solutions shape of the Group’s balance technical and management organisation we add tangible for customers. sheet provide the headroom expertise and the exploitation value to our customers’ to support our ambitions for of synergies and economies operations. growth, both by reinvesting of scale will create substantial in the existing businesses opportunity for future growth. and by acquiring strategically complementary businesses elsewhere. 24 IMI plc MEASUREMENT AND TARGETS Business performance is measured through Group-wide targets and improvement measures. Each IMI business unit participates in an annual round of planning meetings with the Executive Committee, during which performance and future plans for that business are reviewed and updated. These business plans are all aligned with the Group business strategy and include specific local, regional and sector targets and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). In addition, individual business reviews take place throughout the year on a regular basis enabling the Board to assess performance against tactical and strategic milestones. Unless otherwise indicated, the KPIs shown below are presented on a continuing basis, excluding the Beverage Dispense and Merchandising businesses. Organic revenue growth Segmental operating margins Economic value added % % Millions 6 20 200 5 15 150 4 3 10 100 2 5 50 1 6% 4% 1% 18.7% 17.7% 18.4% £138.7m £131.7m £148.7m 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Organic revenue growth excludes the Operating margins are defined as the Economic value added (EVA) is defined impact of acquisitions, disposals and ratio of segmental operating profit as a as the segmental operating profit (before foreign exchange rate movements. percentage of segmental revenues. IMI exceptional items) after tax less a capital The revenues from acquisitions are only has a strong track record of improving charge. The capital charge is calculated included in the current year for the period margins over the last decade. In March by applying the Group’s after tax weighted during which the revenues were also 2011, we raised our long-term objective average cost of capital of 8% to the included in the prior period. In 2013, for operating margins to 20% for Severe average invested capital. Invested capital the Group’s continuing businesses grew Service, Fluid Power and Indoor Climate. is net assets plus net debt, accumulated by 1% on an organic basis, reflecting In 2013, Group operating margins on a acquired intangible amortisation previously more challenging first half conditions in continuing basis were 18.4% compared written off, and the IAS19 pension deficit certain markets. In the second half, the to 17.7% in 2012. Total operating (net of deferred tax) and excluding Group’s continuing businesses achieved margins (including Beverage Dispense exceptional items in the balance sheet an organic growth of 5%. Organic growth and Merchandising) were 17.9% (being restructuring provisions and net for the total Group (including Beverage (2012: 17.0%). derivative liabilities). The 2013 EVA for Dispense and Merchandising) was also the continuing businesses was £148.7m, 1% in 2013 (2012: 3%). which is an increase of 13% over 2012 (£131.7m). For the total Group, 2013 EVA was £185.6m (2012: £161.1m). Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 Group Overview Lost time accident rates CO2 emissions 3 day LTA rate* CO2 tonnes Business Review Tonnes (000) 0.3 100 0.25 75 0.2 0.15 50 0.1 25 0.05 0.19 0.18 0.11 66,500 71,000 69,000 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Performance Review 1 day LTA rate* CO2 tonnes / 1000 hours worked Tonnes 0.3 4 0.25 3 0.2 0.15 2 0.1 1 0.05 0.31 0.13 3.0 2.9 2.9 Corporate Governance 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 To mark the successful achievement Our 2013 gross CO2 emissions have of our previous target and the inclusion reduced by 2.8% relative to 2012; to of our new subsidiaries, we launched 69,000 tonnes (2012: 71,000 tonnes). a new three-year target at the start Of this amount, 47,500 tonnes resulted of 2013 to reduce our lost time from the purchase of electricity, heat, accident (LTA) rate by 15% by the steam or cooling by IMI for its own use end of 2015. We have seen a very (2012: 50,500 tonnes). Normalised strong performance again this year against hours worked our improvement and our 2013 rate for >3day LTAs for is 1.7%. This further reduction over 2012 the continuing businesses is some is very encouraging as we are in the first 36% down on 2012. As reported last year of our new three-year target period; Financial Statements year, we have also started tracking following great progress from 2009 to our >1day LTA rate and have seen a 2012. Our Group-wide energy efficiency very significant reduction in the first programme ‘Project 20:20’ is continuing year of this metric; a 60% reduction. and our key locations are identifying Although we have already achieved this further improvement opportunities to target, we will retain the current target enable our 7.5% reduction target to rates until we are confident that this be met by the end of 2015. Our CO2 improvement is being sustained. accounting methodology follows DEFRA guidelines and includes all material * LTAs per 100,000 hours worked. emissions across IMI. 26 IMI plc PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES We have in place a well-established risk management process and framework which together are designed to identify, manage and mitigate the business risks we face. We operate an integrated top down and bottom up approach to identifying and assessing business risks and a full summary of our risk management framework and process is given on page 46. In addition to the risks described here, we are also exposed to a number of financial market risks including credit risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. A description of these risks and our centralised approach to managing them is described in Section 4.4 of the financial statements. The Board has identified the top ten risks facing the Group, which are shown in the table below. For each risk, the current risk rating and change in risk during 2013 is shown, the latter by means of an arrow. If we fail to manage the risks appropriately in such areas as compliance with legislation, health & safety, product integrity and supply chain, this results in both financial and reputational consequences for the Group which would divert resources away from activities required to fulfill our strategic objectives. Similarly our strategy is built around a steady stream of new product introductions and value enhancing acquisitions which, if not delivered successfully, could result in the Group failing to achieve its growth objectives. RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK AND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH We have set ourselves very high standards • Commitment to good governance practices which are embodied in LEGISLATION AND A BREACH in our approach to ethics and corruption The IMI Way, our code of conduct, providing a guiding set of values OF OUR OWN HIGH in business. We need to ensure, as we that exemplify how IMI employees should behave. STANDARDS OF ETHICAL expand our operations in emerging markets, • T he annual corporate IMI Way Day was held in June which included BEHAVIOUR that we fully maintain these standards face-to-face training for all employees. even though the local legal and regulatory RISK LEVEL: requirements and business standards may • Policies, manuals, training, business processes and monitoring of key HIGH compliance, tax and legal risks. be very different. We face legislation around anti-bribery, fair competition, fraud and tax • Group platform and specific territory resources dedicated to legal, tax, law and need to ensure compliance. The and regulatory compliance. consequences of non-compliance include • Training of employees focusing on how to apply The IMI Way in everyday serious financial and reputational damage. situations and key risk areas such as competition law, fraud and antibribery and corruption. • A vailability and promotion of the whistle blowing policy and the IMI hotline to report concerns anonymously. • Internal control audits by Group Assurance. WE FAIL TO DELIVER SOME We will need to undertake a number of major • Upgrade of resources and talent in project management. MAJOR TRANSFORMATIONAL change projects in line with our strategic PROJECTS SUCCESSFULLY • Regular review of project progression by the Executive Committee. objectives including; business reorganisations and implementation of IT systems. If we fail to • Enhanced risk assessment process including full mitigation action plans RISK LEVEL: deliver the desired objectives it could have an for all major change projects. HIGH adverse financial impact on the Group. • Group Assurance reviews. FAILURE OF OUR HEALTH, We recognise that we have a duty of care • Established global process in place to ensure that health, safety and SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL to our employees. We have made great environmental matters are appropriately addressed and any such risks (HSE) CONTROLS RESULTING IN HARM TO EMPLOYEES OR progress in recent years but understand are minimised including monthly reporting to, and review at the OTHER STAKEHOLDERS the impact on our employees from the failure Executive Committee. of this obligation. This could result in injury • Sharing of best HSE practice through regional HSE forums. or death to our employees or others and RISK LEVEL: • P latform level HSE resource to proactively manage and audit platform MEDIUM environmental damage with the consequential impact of reputational damage and risk of HSE performance. regulator action. • Group Environment, Health and Safety function with experienced specialist employees to provide support and guidance to businesses including the conduct of regular risk control and health and safety audits. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27 Group Overview RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK AND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION FAILURE OF PRODUCTS We pride ourselves on our innovative • Continued focus on quality and safety, including audits to AND TECHNOLOGY engineering solutions we provide for our appropriate quality standards. customers. The quality and safety of our • Processes to identify risk and mitigate the reputational and legal RISK LEVEL: products is of the highest importance and implications of any failure. MEDIUM if we fail to deliver quality and safe products or advanced technical solutions then we • Upgrade of talent and focus on functional excellence in quality face a financial and reputational impact. and product development. • The Group has a robust approach to managing contractual liabilities to protect us from undue financial exposures. LOSS OF A KEY FACILITY A temporary or permanent loss of a key • Risk control surveys undertaken annually at all key sites to ensure manufacturing site or warehouse as a result compliance with best practice in property risk management. RISK LEVEL: of a natural catastrophe or any other reason • Development and regular testing of robust business continuity plans. MEDIUM would have a material adverse impact on our Business Review ability to meet our customers needs. FAILURE TO DEVELOP A Our growth drivers around climate change, • C  ontinued investment in research and development working with our key PIPELINE OF NEW PRODUCTS resource scarcity, urbanisation and an account management teams to ensure we meet our customer needs. ageing population, require us to deliver new • Centres of design and technological excellence established in a number RISK LEVEL: innovative products for our end customers. MEDIUM of locations. Failure to maintain new product momentum will impact our ability to grow. MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (M&A) An important part of our growth agenda is • Resourced central M&A function working with our divisions to identify to make acquisitions which compliment or acquisition opportunities. Performance Review RISK LEVEL: extend our product portfolio. If we acquire • Robust due diligence. MEDIUM businesses which do not deliver the expected synergies or have significant liability exposures it could have a negative financial impact on the Group and restrict our ability to meet growth targets. FAILURE TO ATTRACT Our success as a business will depend on • Succession plans in place and regularly reviewed. AND RETAIN TALENT ensuring we get the right people in key positions • Group-wide training and development programmes. in the organisations. If we lose key personnel or RISK LEVEL: cannot recruit and retain high calibre managers • Increased resources in emerging markets. MEDIUM and engineering talent, this may lead to the • Regular Group-wide employee surveys and action plans targeted by Group not being able to effectively implement its Company or geography. business plans and strategy. Corporate Governance FAILURE TO MANAGE We have a significant number of contracts • G  lobal Procurement function that co-ordinates IMI’s approach to supply THE SUPPLY CHAIN with a broad base of suppliers. If we fail chain risk management. to meet our customers requirements in • M  onitoring of risks and development of contingency plans to mitigate the RISK LEVEL: respect of quality or delivery as a result of an MEDIUM impact of a supplier failure or increased prices. interruption in the supply chain then it could have a material impact on the Group’s results. • Review of supply base to reduce over-reliance on key suppliers. • M  oves to lower cost manufacturing facilities, on-going review of alternative low cost suppliers and, where appropriate, supplier consolidation. • T  raining and audit programme to validate suppliers’ business processes, quality and standards. IT FAILURE/ SYSTEM COLLAPSE AND LOSS OF DATA We utilise a significant number of IT • Development and regular testing of business continuity plans. systems to support the Group’s production, • E  nsuring business continuity plans are robust and address technology, marketing, sales and financial temporary unavailability of IT systems. RISK LEVEL: functions. Failure of any of the systems or Financial Statements LOW • C  yber security risk assessments undertaken and appropriate corruption or loss of data could have a major impact on operations. actions taken. • Strategy to upgrade or replace key systems. Risk Appetite The Board has considered the Group’s risk appetite and it is considered appropriate to achieve our strategic objectives. Risk appetite is higher for new product development, emerging market growth and acquisitions, in keeping with our growth strategy and is lower for employee safety and regulatory compliance. Our risk appetite has been communicated to the Divisional Managing Directors to ensure their decision making behaviour is consistent with the risk appetite set by the Board. 28 IMI plc PERFORMANCE REVIEW In this section we provide a commentary on IMI’s performance by division in 2013 including a summary of key achievements, a market review and outlook. References to organic growth are on a consistent basis and exclude the results of acquisitions during the period for which there is no comparator. OPERATIONAL REVIEW: Severe Service division Strong profit growth in our Severe Service division reflects the impact of careful project selection and efficiency improvements in our manufacturing processes and supply chain. Page 30 Fluid Power division During the year we announced two technology acquisitions to support Fluid Power’s sector strategy. Page 32 Indoor Climate division Operating profit in our Indoor Climate division increased, driven by new products, efficiency improvements in our operations and more cost effective procurement activities. Page 34 Main photo: Dubai, UAE. Fact: “Water scarcity affects one in three people on every continent of the globe. The situation is getting worse as needs for water rise along with population growth, urbanisation and increases in household and industrial uses.” Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 30 IMI plc Operational review SEVERE SERVICE DIVISION Revenue Severe Service is a world leading provider of flow control £716m technologies that enable vital industrial and energy production processes to operate safely, cleanly and more Up 4% efficiently. The division designs and manufactures highly engineered valves, actuators and controls which are able Operating profit to withstand temperature and pressure extremes and £116.8m intensely abrasive and corrosive cyclical operations. The division is a market leader in a number of growing Up 21% end markets including Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG), Combined-Cycle Gas Power and Petrochemical. We have design and manufacturing facilities in 12 countries, more than 400 qualified engineers, a global service network and over 200 dedicated aftermarket specialists. Performance The full year order intake at £741.7m was up 12% year-on-year (2012: £660.1m). A number of our end markets performed particularly well, including Oil & Gas, where orders were up 27% and we were successful in winning one of the largest ever orders in our history, which was for a high integrity pressure protection system (HIPPS) for Roy Twite installation on a gas field in the Middle East. In the Petrochemical sector, orders were Divisional Managing Director up 11%. Fossil Power orders were also up 16% on the prior year, with good growth in China, India and Korea. Nuclear orders were up 19%, despite the on-going difficult Roy joined IMI in 1988 on the Graduate Engineering scheme. During his career with IMI, he has run all of market conditions following the Fukushima incident, as more safety upgrade projects IMI’s divisions, including the Severe Service business, become available. Orders to support the aftermarket were up 9%. While the majority which he has led since 2011. Roy gained his Masters of our markets saw good bookings momentum in 2013, order intake in Iron & Steel degree from Cambridge University. was down 49%, reflecting the on-going challenges in that market. Revenues increased 3% to £716m on an organic basis (2012: £686m) and operating profit grew 21% to £116.8m (2012: £96.3m). This strong profit growth reflects the impact of careful project selection and efficiency improvements achieved in our manufacturing processes and supply chain. As a result, margins increased to 16.3% from 14.0% in 2012. Oil & Gas Fossil Power Nuclear Petrochemical We are the global market leader in the IMI Severe Service supplies critical, We supply products for new reactors IMI Severe Service is the global leader supply of anti-surge valve and actuator customised turbine by-pass valves and upgrades to existing facilities to in the design and manufacture of systems to the world’s largest LNG to the world’s most efficient power improve safety levels. To date we have integrated flow control systems for the compression facilities, like Gorgon in stations. Our valves control high supplied products to over half the critical applications in Fluid Catalytic Australia. Our systems operate below pressure super-heated steam at world’s reactor fleet. Cracking (FCC). We also supply -160°C, with ultra-fast response to temperatures up to 650°C, protecting bespoke valves into the ethylene maximise liquid natural gas production the turbine and optimising power yield. and propylene production processes, while protecting the compressor. Globally, we have an installed base of as well as for delayed coking at over one hundred thousand valves and temperatures up to 1,600°C. we are recognised as the leader in the combined-cycle gas sector. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31 Group Overview Key Achievements • W  inning the HIPPS order for a gas field in the Middle East, one of the largest single orders in Severe Service’s history • Increasing Fossil Power orders by 16% by targeting the Business Review growth regions of China, India and Korea • Achieving an increase in global Petrochemical orders of 11%, helped by securing a number of orders in the US where opportunities have increased as a result of shale oil and gas activity CASE STUDY • Shipping 84 large bespoke valves, from our Zimmermann CCI helps to keep Alaska pipelines flowing & Jansen business in Germany to a Catofin petrochemical project in Houston, US • Improving significantly the operational performance Requirement: As winters can be very long and cold in of our Brno manufacturing facility and our supply Alaska, keeping the oil sufficiently heated is critical for chain management pipeline services. • Bringing to market two new product ranges: highly Performance Review Solution: In order to ensure production is optimised and engineered ball valves for Oil & Gas applications and flow rates are maintained when temperatures drop to below quarter turn actuators -50°F, Alyeska Pipeline Services sought to develop a way of mechanically heating the crude oil by cycling the fluid Market Review through a pump. Activity in the Oil & Gas sector, particularly LNG, and in the A solution was found in a design that could allow large Petrochemical sector is expected to remain at the current particles to flow through the valve disk stack which could high levels, led by projects in the US. Growth in the Fossil also withstand the seismic activity that occurs in the region. Power sector will come from the emerging markets, where The team designed, built and shipped a custom design we will continue to be selective in the projects we undertake. which helped raise the temperature by nearly 14°F, giving In the short-term, the Nuclear market is likely to continue to be the emergency crews the necessary time to repair any faults impacted post-Fukushima, but longer term prospects remain before the oil pressure decreased or froze. good, particularly in the safety upgrade market. Corporate Governance Our continued focus on delivering the best possible solution for our key global customers in their critical applications, using all the appropriate Severe Service technologies and applications expertise, demonstrates our commitment to excellent quality, long-term business. This, in conjunction with a focus on the aftermarket, improving project management effectiveness, the increasing utilisation of our cost competitive factories in the Czech Republic, India, Korea and China, as well as the deeper integration of our recent acquisitions will help further improve profits. Outlook Financial Statements The substantial opening order book combined with good operating performance and the effect of the large HIPPS order is expected to deliver good revenue growth on an organic basis in both the first half and the full year. Full year margins are expected to show continued progress on last year with first half margins slightly ahead of the first half last year despite increased investment in growth initiatives. 32 IMI plc Operational review FLUID POWER DIVISION Revenue Fluid Power specialises in the design and manufacture £723m of flow control solutions for applications where precision, speed and reliability are essential. The division’s Up 1% engineered pneumatic and fluid control solutions support and enhance the performance of customers’ equipment. Operating profit The division is a market leader in a number of attractive £140.5m niche sectors including Commercial Vehicles, Energy and Life Sciences as well as a major player into the Industrial Down 1% Automation market. It operates four global technical centres of excellence and has manufacturing operations in the US, Mexico, Brazil, China, Germany, the UK, Switzerland and the Czech Republic, as well as sales and service networks in 75 countries. Performance Fluid Power markets improved in the second half of 2013, with revenues growing 3% on an organic basis £360m (2012 H2: £344m), following a challenging first half of the year. Overall revenues for the full year were £723m (2012: £717m), a 1% rise on a Brendan Colgan reported basis and a 1% decline on an organic basis. Divisional Managing Director Our sector business, which focuses on providing engineering solutions to leading original equipment manufacturers operating in global niche markets, was flat on an Brendan joined IMI in September 2013 as Divisional Managing Director of Fluid Power. Before joining organic basis. Following a soft first half, our Commercial Vehicle sector grew 1% in IMI, he held a number of finance and general the second half with our European truck business up 18%, benefiting from some management roles in the engineering sector with pre-buy before the introduction of Euro VI engines in 2014. In contrast, the North Charter International plc, most recently as the Global CEO for ESAB. He has extensive experience of global American truck market continued to be challenging throughout the year and as engineering having lived in Mexico, Australia, USA a result, overall, Commercial Vehicle revenues were down 4% for the year. We saw and Europe and undertaken global roles with ESAB good revenue growth in the Energy sector, up 7%, and in the Rail sector, up 11% and Howden. He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, an alumni of Harvard while the Food & Beverage sector was flat and Life Sciences lower. (AMP) and holds a degree in Accounting from the University of Ulster. Industrial Automation Commercial Vehicles Energy Life Sciences Rail Food and Beverage Our Fluid Power business We are a global leader Our business designs We are a key supplier Our business focuses Our business focuses on manufactures a broad in engine management, and manufactures into the medical device, on key Rail applications the important niches of range of pneumatic transmission control, high integrity solenoid analytical, and clinical including internal door PET bottling equipment, actuators, valves and and chassis cab valves, air preparation diagnostic equipment systems, brake controls, ink jet printing equipment air preparation products air management and instrumentation markets. Our strong and auxiliary air systems and control valves for designed for increased applications for the equipment for the portfolio of fluid handling to improve rail car and commercial coffee automation in factories. Commercial Vehicle global Energy markets. and control products engine performance and machines. We offer Through our dedicated industry. We provide a Our applications span enable us to provide life. We work with train unique and differentiated aftermarket channel, variety of customised Upstream Oil & Gas, differentiated, engineered builders, major Tier One solutions to major global Norgren Express, we solutions for use on Refining, Petrochemical, solutions to major OEM customers and the train customers in all three have a compelling value medium and heavy duty Chemical and Power customers. operating companies. niche areas. proposition combining trucks and buses in all Generation. rapid delivery with major global markets. technical expertise and market-leading on-line capabilities. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 33 Group Overview During the year we acquired two small technology companies to support our sector strategy. In August we acquired Analytical Flow Products, which has an innovative range of chromatography valves which will enhance our capabilities in the Life Science and Energy sectors, and in October we Business Review acquired Nano-Porous Solutions Ltd, a UK based company which has patented technology for high performance air dryers for the Rail sector. The Industrial Automation business was down 3% on an organic basis with Europe lower, North America flat, Asia Pacific slightly up and good growth in Latin America. CASE STUDY Operating profit was £140.5m (2012: £142.3m) and operating Norgren’s solution helps petrochemical manufacturer margins at 19.4% (2012: 19.8%) were slightly down reflecting avoid costly interruptions to their plant operation the lower level of sales. Key Achievements Requirement: Braskem, Latin America´s largest • Growing revenues in the Energy sector by 7% and in the petrochemical manufacturer, identified solenoid valves as Performance Review Rail sector by 11% an area for improvement in the safety network at production units in Bahia, Brazil. The solenoid valves pilot pneumatic • Good progress on two major new product initiatives: actuators which control shut down valves for reactors, high performance dryers for Rail and waste heat recovery furnaces and boilers. Braskem required a solution with a systems for Commercial Vehicles low probability of failure in order to maximise safety • Continued investment in Norgren Express, our marketstandards and also to avoid any unnecessary costly leading internet, phone and catalogue-based aftermarket interruptions in the operation of the plant. solution Solution: Braskem is currently testing a solution integrating • Acquiring Analytical Flow Products and Nano-Porous two of our best-in-class Maxseal solenoid valves, into an Solutions Ltd to enhance sector strategy explosion proof redundant valve manifold (RVM) with the required safety integrity level. The RVM allows fluids to Market Review flow even if one of the solenoid valves fail, ensuring a high The economic outlook for 2014 is more positive than in recent level of availability and reducing unscheduled interruptions. Corporate Governance years with the world’s major economies continuing to recover Additionally Norgen designed the RVM to reduce its footprint from the global economic crisis of 2009-12. The Purchasing and incorporated a visual valve status indicator to enable Managers Indices (PMIs) have all increased above the 50 quicker and safer maintenance in the field. After the valves mark since the middle of 2013 (in December the Eurozone successfully complete the test phase, this solution will be was at 52.7, Germany 54.3, China 50.5 and US 57.0). In used as a reference at Braskem’s other sites in Brazil. Commercial Vehicles, the North American market is expected to show some improvement after a challenging environment in 2013, while the European truck market is expected to be stable with some impact in the first half resulting from the pre-buy of trucks in the second half of 2013 ahead of the new emissions legislation. Outlook Financial Statements The PMIs, which are typically a good lead indicator for the Fluid Power business, suggest improving prospects in the general industrial sector. In the Commercial Vehicle sector growth in the first half will be impacted by the Euro V pre-buy in Europe last year and the ending of a large contract in North America. Based on this market environment and current order trends we expect modest organic revenue growth in the first half with margins broadly similar to the first half last year. 34 IMI plc Operational review INDOOR CLIMATE DIVISION Revenue Indoor Climate is the leading global provider of £305m technologies that deliver operational and energy efficient heating and cooling systems inside buildings. The division Up 4% is the recognised expert in the design and manufacture of hydronic distribution systems and room temperature Operating profit controls, with experience in more than 100,000 £64.3m construction projects world-wide. Indoor Climate has design and manufacturing facilities Up 5% in six countries and employs just under 2,000 people. Performance Revenues of £305m were up 1% on an organic basis (2012: £293m) and 4% higher on a reported basis. Growth in Europe of 4% was partially offset by declines in the emerging markets (including China where we have seen a number of construction projects delayed into 2014) and in our automatic balancing valve business in North America. Since the yearend we have scaled back our interest in a number of the smaller, less profitable emerging markets and focus our efforts on those markets, such as China, Brazil and Russia, where we see the best opportunities for future growth. Operating profit at £64.3m increased 5% (2012: £61.5m) driven by efficiency improvements in our operations and more cost effective procurement activities. Operating margins of 21.1% increased marginally when compared to last year (2012: 21.0%). Key Achievements Peter Spencer • Bringing to market nine new products including a complete new range of pressure Divisional Managing Director independent balancing and control valves, branded TA-FUS1ON, and a new technology for automatic thermostatic control, the A-Exact Peter Spencer joined IMI in November 2010 as • Filing four new patents, significantly enhancing the new product pipeline Business Development Director and was promoted to lead IMI Merchandising in January 2012. In March • Achieving good sales growth in the key German market 2013, Peter was appointed Divisional Managing • Continuing to win flagship projects around the world, including two high value state of Director of Indoor Climate. Prior to joining IMI, Peter was the CEO at LPC tissue products and the art multi building hospital developments in Belgium and Sweden Teleflex Automotive. Market Review As global energy prices continue to rise government and regional initiatives, including Kyoto, EU 20/20/2, and Europe 2030, will continue to drive increased focus on ensuring buildings, both old and new, are energy efficient and sustainable. 80% of the buildings that will exist in the world in 2050 have already been built and the importance of energy efficient renovation of these buildings will be a cornerstone of the growth of Indoor Climate in the coming years. Outlook We expect the European construction market to stabilise in 2014 in both residential and non-residential buildings with some countries, including Germany, growing while others continue to weaken. During the first half of 2014, the benefit from new product launches in the core European markets is expected to largely offset the impact of the Group’s decision to scale back our interest in a number of smaller lower margin emerging markets. Consequently, Indoor Climate’s first half revenues in 2014 are expected to be broadly flat on an organic basis. Operating margins in the first half are expected to be lower compared to the first half of 2013 reflecting additional costs relating to the new product launches and the emerging market exits. In the second half of the year, operating margins are expected to return to more normal levels. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35 Group Overview second largest Spanish bank embarked on a new project for its headquarters in Madrid. Energy efficiency and a green working environment were of critical importance in the new design which included large windows to provide each work space with a ‘green’ view. As a result the HVAC system not only had to be sustainable, but also overcome the issues of solar gain whilst guaranteeing the ability to control the precise temperature inside. Solution: TA Hydronics not only provided high performance balancing and control valves, but also full design support, including technical advice and assistance with component Business Review selection and positioning within the system to ensure accurate water flow. CASE STUDY TA Hydronics ensures optimal indoor comfort at Banco With the solution provided by TA Hydronics the precise water de Bilboa Vizcaya’s (BBVA) new headquarters control requirements of the building were achieved, whilst reducing energy consumption from pumping, cooling and Requirement: In order to accommodate the growing needs of heating. As a result, TA Hydronics has been specified for the internationally expanding BBVA bank, and provide a more phase two of the construction. efficient, innovative and collaborative working environment, the Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Non-Residential Buildings Residential Buildings Indoor Climate delivers hydronic solutions globally for the new construction Indoor Climate delivers leading thermostatic control, pressurisation and water and refurbishment of airports, hotels, hospitals, colleges, commercial offices quality solutions both for new and renovation residential projects. Our user friendly and apartment blocks. Recent projects include delivering products and system and easy to install products, not only provide quality and reliable household design support for energy efficient HVAC systems in Heathrow Terminal 5, brands, but also help to deliver energy efficiency in markets where consumers the Burj Khalifa, Marina Bay Sands Hotel, Valencia Opera House and Radet are increasingly feeling the strain of rising energy prices. Our range of Heimeier District Energy. The division promotes its hydronic expertise by running seminar thermostatic heads have been awarded the highest energy efficiency classification programmes for HVAC consultants, installers and building owners. under the new European labelling system TELL. 36 IMI plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Here we outline information on how the Company is governed and the activities of the Board and its Committees. THE LETTER FROM BOARD THE CHAIRMAN Our business is managed by our Board Our Chairman, Roberto Quarta, of directors. Biographical details of talks about a busy year for the the non-executive directors and the Group including significant Executive Directors can be found here. changes in its structure. Page 38 Page 40 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Company Secretary, John O’Shea, explains the standards of corporate governance that IMI follows, including the division of responsibilities and composition of the Board. Page 41 AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS REPORT COMMITTEE REPORT Chairman of the Committee, Phil Bentley, Roberto Quarta, Chairman of the outlines the structure, composition and Committee, outlines the structure, activities of the Audit Committee. composition and activities of the Nominations Committee. Page 48 Page 50 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT REPORT This report sets out other statutory and Bob Stack, Chairman of the Committee, regulatory information required to be introduces a new style of report which provided by the Company. gives a full and transparent picture of remuneration at IMI. Page 51 Page 55 Main photo: Tokyo, Japan. Fact: “Asia is expected to account for 53.3% of total global urban population by 2025.” Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 38 IMI plc BOARD OF DIRECTORS ROBERTO QUARTA MARK SELWAY DOUGLAS HURT ROY TWITE MARTIN LAMB Chairman (64) Chief Executive (54) Finance Director (57) Executive Director (46) Former Chief Executive (54) Roberto Quarta has significant Mark Selway joined IMI and Douglas Hurt joined IMI and Roy Twite has been Managing Martin Lamb was Chief management experience the Board in October 2013 the Board as Finance Director Director of IMI’s Severe Service Executive of IMI from 2001 to spanning a broad range of as Chief Executive designate in 2006. He was previously division since 2011. Roy joined 2013, having been appointed manufacturing and service and became Chief Executive with GlaxoSmithKline where IMI as a graduate in 1988. to the Board in 1996. Martin, businesses with global on 1 January 2014. Mark was he held both financial and From 2001 Roy held roles who has an engineering operations. Roberto is currently previously Chief Executive operational roles including a including Managing Director background, worked for IMI Chairman elect at Smith & at Boral Limited, Australia’s number of US and European of IMI Norgren UK (2001), for over 33 years and held a Nephew plc, a partner and leading building materials senior management positions. President of IMI Indoor Climate number of senior management European Chairman of the company between 2010 and He has a degree in Economics (2004), President of Retail roles across the Group during private equity firm Clayton, 2012. Prior to that he served from Cambridge University and Dispense (2007) and President this time. In September 2013, Dubilier & Rice, where he has as Chief Executive of The Weir is a member of the Institute of Fluid Power (2009). Roy Martin announced his intention worked since 2000. He is Group PLC for eight years of Chartered Accountants in has a Masters degree from to retire as Chief Executive at Chairman of the Supervisory between 2001 and 2009. England and Wales. Douglas Cambridge University. the end of 2013 and from the Board of Rexel SA, and a Before joining Weir he was an is also a non-executive director Board at the AGM in May 2014. non-executive director of executive director at Britax of Tate & Lyle PLC. He is a non-executive director Spie SA. His previous board International plc between of Severn Trent Water plc. positions include Chairman 1996 and 2000. For two years of BBA Group plc (where he between 2009 and 2011 he was also Chief Executive) and was a non-executive director Italtel SpA, executive director of Lend Lease the Australian of BTR plc, and non-executive listed property and construction director of BAE Systems plc, company. Mark was awarded Foster Wheeler AG, PowerGen an honorary doctorate from plc, Azure Dynamics Corp and the University of West Scotland Equant NV. in 2008. Nationality American Italian Australian British British British Committee membership Nominations Committee – Chair Executive Committee Executive Committee Executive Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Date of appointment Joined the IMI Board in 2011. 2013 2006 2007 2001 Expertise Significant UK and international Experienced and proven Chief Experienced finance leader, Proven operational and Experienced business leader board experience Executive having held senior finance roles engineering expertise Considerable knowledge of Deep knowledge of both Solid track record running in global businesses Management capability having IMI’s businesses engineering and manufacturing international engineering General management run all of IMI’s divisions Deep understanding of the Strong track record in private businesses experience gained in UK and Extensive knowledge of end flow control sector equity, mergers and acquisitions In-depth knowledge of relevant Europe markets and customer base end markets including oil & gas Mergers and acquisitions, and energy tax and pensions Key external appointments Chairman elect at Smith & Nephew Non-executive director of Tate Non-executive director of plc & Lyle PLC Severn Trent Water plc Partner and Chairman Europe of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Rexel SA Non-executive director of Spie SA Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39 Group Overview ANITA FREW BOB STACK PHIL BENTLEY CARL-PETER FORSTER BIRGIT NØRGAARD Senior independent Non-executive director (63) Non-executive director (55) Non-executive director (59) Non-executive director (55) non-executive director (56) Business Review Anita Frew is Chairman of Bob Stack is on the Board Phil Bentley is Chief Carl-Peter Forster has worked Birgit Nørgaard serves as nonVictrex plc, the FTSE 250 of Earthwatch International Executive of Cable & Wireless in the automotive industry for executive director on a number global manufacturer of high and a non-executive director Communications Plc. over 25 years. He currently holds of boards including the listed performance polymers, having of Signet Jewellers Ltd. Previously, Phil served as the non-executive director positions companies DSV A/S, WSP inc. previously been the senior Past directorships include Managing Director of British at Geely Automobile Holdings, a and Lindab AB as well as being independent director. She is also J Sainsbury where he was Gas from 2007 to 2013 and Hong Kong listed company and non-executive Chairman of the senior non-executive director chairman of the Remuneration prior to this, was on the Board Volvo Cars Corporation. the engineering company NNE of Aberdeen Asset Management Committee for eight years and at Centrica plc from 2000, Carl-Peter is the Chairman of Pharmaplan A/S. Previously, plc and a non-executive director Cadbury plc where he was an holding the roles of Group ZMDi AG in Dresden, an analogue/ Birgit has held a number of of Lloyds Banking Group plc. executive director for 12 years. Finance Director (2000-2004) digital semiconductor company senior executive positions in She was previously an Executive He was formerly a Trustee of and Managing Director, Europe and cofounder of Lead Equities, consulting engineering, the Director of Abbott Mead Vickers Earthwatch Europe. (2004-2007). He was previously a small cap private equity fund most recent being as Chief plc, and Director of Corporate Finance Director for Diageo management company in Vienna. Executive of Grontmij Carl Bro, Development at WPP Group plc. plc’s spirits division, and Group Denmark, and Chief Operating Performance Review Treasurer. He has also served Previously he was Group Chief Officer of its parent company in several senior international Executive Officer and Managing Grontmij NV in the Netherlands. management roles at BP plc Director of Tata Motors Ltd from Prior to that she held senior and lived and worked in China, February 2010 to September management positions with Egypt and the USA. 2011 and has held a number of Danisco, having started her senior management positions with career as a consultant with He has a Masters Degree from both General Motors and BMW. Oxford University and an MBA McKinsey & Co. Birgit has He was also a non-executive an MSc in Economics from from INSEAD in France. director of Rolls-Royce Group Copenhagen Business School plc between 2003 and 2006. and an MBA from INSEAD. He started his career in 1982, as a consultant for McKinsey & Company in Munich. He has a Diploma in Economics from the Bonn University and a Diploma in Aeronautical Engineering from Technical University in Munich. Corporate Governance Nationality British American British German Danish Committee membership Audit Committee Nominations Committee Audit Committee – Chair Audit Committee Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee – Chair Remuneration Committee Date of appointment 2006 2008 2012 2012 2012 Expertise Experienced non-executive Experienced non-executive Former plc group finance Experienced business leader Experienced non-executive Extensive business experience Significant international director In-depth knowledge of the director including 14 years on industrial business experience Senior business leader in both automotive sector Held senior executive positions in boards Specialist capability in human finance and operational roles Expert in operational excellence engineering consultancy In-depth knowledge of resources In-depth understanding of and lean manufacturing Wide ranging sectoral experience Financial Statements investment and asset energy sector Significant experience in including energy, water, management sectors technology management infrastructure and building industries Extensive experience in strategy as well as finance and accounting Key external appointments Chairman of Victrex plc Non-executive of Earthwatch Chief Executive of Cable & Chairman of ZMDi AG Non-executive director of DSV International Wireless Communications Plc A/S, WSP inc. and Lindab AB Non-executive director of Non-executive director of Geely Aberdeen Asset Management Non-executive director of Automobile Holdings, Hong Non-executive Chairman of Signet Jewellers Ltd Kong NNE Pharmaplan A/S Non-executive director of Lloyds Banking Group plc Non-executive director of Volvo Cars Corporation, Gothenburg, Sweden 40 IMI plc Corporate Governance introduction CHAIRMAN’S GOVERNANCE LETTER Dear Shareholder The perennial imperatives for the Board are reinforcing the Group’s values, its responsible business agenda and supporting the executive leadership in realising the challenging 2013 was a significant year in the history of IMI. As explained business plans and performance targets agreed by the Board. in my statement on page 4 through the sale of our Beverage Looking ahead to 2014, the Board has set three additional Dispense and Merchandising businesses, IMI’s largest ever specific objectives: corporate transaction, we re-shaped the Group creating a strong platform for future growth. We also saw the retirement • e  mbedding the new executive leadership and establishing of Martin Lamb, after 33 years with IMI, and the appointment strong links between them and the Board, investors and of our new Chief Executive, Mark Selway. other key stakeholders; Such major developments test the capabilities of a Board and • supporting  the new executive leadership in formulating clear I am pleased to report that throughout both the Chief Executive strategic objectives and plans for the next phase of IMI’s transition and sale process the Board operated at the highest development; and level of integrity and effectiveness. • further  strengthening management talent and creating the organisational structure required to drive sustainable business outperformance. As ever, I am keen to engage with shareholders and during the last year have met with a significant number of IMI’s larger institutional investors. I look forward to meeting individual shareholders again at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Yours faithfully Roberto Quarta Chairman 5 March 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41 Group Overview THE BOARD’S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Set out below is the Board’s formal report on Corporate Governance and separate reports from the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees. Business Review Compliance statement Dates of appointment The Board is committed to high standards of corporate Name Date of Date of current Anticipated expiry governance and confirms that throughout the year ending appointment letters of current term 31 December 2013 the Company has applied the principles Phil Bentley 1 October 2012 1 October 2013 30 September 2015 of good governance contained in the UK Corporate Carl-Peter Forster 1 October 2012 1 October 2013 30 September 2015 Governance Code (the ‘Code’) and complied with its best Anita Frew 2 March 2006 27 January 2014 11 March 2015 practice provisions as set out below. The Board is able to Birgit Nørgaard 6 November 2012 1 February 2013 5 November 2015 report compliance with the Code throughout 2013, save Roberto Quarta 1 June 2011 1 September 2011 1 November 2014 that it was decided during the year to postpone until 2014 Bob Stack 13 June 2008 1 February 2013 13 June 2014 the externally facilitated Board evaluation exercise due to have been held in 2013. The decision was made due to the Chief Performance Review Executive transition during the year and the wish to optimise Role of the Board the value of the externally facilitated exercise. • Promote the success of the Company • Guardian of stakeholders’ interests THE BOARD • Set/monitor leadership behaviour and culture • S  election and appointment of the executive Composition management team At the end of the year the Board comprised ten directors: • Supportive challenge of the executive management team the Chairman; the Chief Executive and a Chief Executive • Approval of business plans and strategy designate; five independent non-executive directors; the Finance Director and one operational executive director. • Oversee governance, risk and the control environment Sean Toomes ceased to be an executive director with effect • P  erformance monitoring and oversight of the businesses from 6 March 2013. Terry Gateley retired as a non-executive and management Corporate Governance director on 9 May 2013. The Board provides leadership, direction and governance In line with the Code, all continuing directors submit for the Company and oversees business and management themselves for re-election at Annual General Meetings. performance. The Board has adopted a Corporate Martin Lamb is not continuing in office after the Annual Governance Framework which defines Board roles and General Meeting to be held on 8 May 2014. includes the list of matters reserved to it and written delegations of authority for its committees and the executive Independence of non-executive directors management. Board reserved matters include strategy and key The five non-executive directors are all free from any business areas of policy, major operational and strategic risks, significant or other relationship which could materially interfere with the investment decisions and material changes in the organisation exercise of their independent judgement. All non-executive of the Group. The Board reviews budgets, forecasts and directors meet the criteria for independence under the Code plans for the businesses of the Group on an annual basis. and are regarded by the Board as independent of executive Quarterly meetings of the Board consider detailed financial and management. The Chairman, Roberto Quarta, was also management reports on the operational and strategic progress Financial Statements regarded as independent at the date of his appointment of the Group, as well as tracking changes in risk assessment to the Board. The non-executive directors are from varied and controls. Senior executives from across the Group are backgrounds and bring with them a wide range of skills and regularly invited by the Board to attend meetings to make experience of senior management in commerce and industry. presentations and participate in discussions. Biographical details of the continuing directors, including the experience they bring to the Board, are shown on pages 38 and 39. 42 IMI plc Corporate Governance Report (cont’d) Division of responsibilities Meetings Chairman: The Board met on ten occasions during the year including four • Building a well-balanced Board quarterly reviews, strategy discussions and meetings convened for special purposes as the need arose. • Chairing meetings, setting the agenda and ensuring the best use of time Board and Committee attendance • Ensuring effectiveness of the Board including the quality of debate and decisions Director Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee Committee • Promoting the right environment and relations for effective 10 meetings 4 meetings 5 meetings 4 meetings engagement and challenge around the boardroom table Roberto Quarta 10 5 4 • Setting the tone and high standards of governance practice Phil Bentley 9 4 5 • Getting the right executive leadership and succession plans Carl-Peter Forster 9 4 4 in place Anita Frew 9 3 4 3 There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman Terry Gateley (i) 4 1 2 1 and Chief Executive, which is reflected in the written Corporate Birgit Nørgaard 10 5 4 Governance Framework approved by the Board and available Bob Stack 10 4 5 4 on the Company’s website. In summary, the Chairman is Martin Lamb 10 3 responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board Mark Selway (ii) 2 but does not have any executive powers or responsibilities. Douglas Hurt 10 The Chief Executive leads the executive management team Sean Toomes (iii) 1 in running the businesses and implementing operational and Roy Twite 10 strategic plans under authority delegated by the Board. The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board meetings (i) Retired from the Board in May 2013 operate to an appropriate agenda, and that adequate information (ii) Joined the Board in October 2013 (iii) Left the Board in March 2013 is provided sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration. He is supported by the Company Secretary, who also assists in ensuring that the Board operates in accordance Induction and continuing development programme with good corporate governance under the Code and relevant A formal induction process for new directors has been wellregulatory requirements. The Company Secretary acts as secretary established for several years and is the responsibility of the to all of the standing committees of the Board. The Board has Chairman with support from the Chief Executive and Company a recognised procedure for any director to obtain independent Secretary. The induction programme for new directors was professional advice at the Company’s expense and all directors refreshed by the Chairman following his own experience of have access to the Company Secretary who is a solicitor. joining the Board and is periodically revised to reflect changes in Group businesses and management structure. During and Chief Executive: after induction directors are expected to visit business units • Leadership of the executive management team around the Group and, most critically, to meet with senior • Formulating strategy, business plans and budgets operating management and key corporate staff. Non-executive • Delivering the business plans and performance objectives directors are supported in becoming familiar with the businesses • Ensuring the highest compliance and internal control during and after induction and there is regular contact between standards are maintained management and non-executive directors during site visits, • Developing organisation structure formal meetings and events. Appropriate coaching and access to training and other continuing professional development is • Resourcing, talent development and succession plans available to all directors and all directors participated in some The three executive directors are: the Chief Executive, Mark appropriate updates during the year at Board and committee Selway; Finance Director, Douglas Hurt; and Roy Twite, an meetings. There is also a committee induction process designed Operational Executive Director. Mark Selway leads the executive to brief new committee members on the relevant committee’s team and has direct responsibility for corporate development activity and the issues facing it. including M&A. Each of the three divisions is led by a Managing Director who reports to Mark: Roy Twite is responsible for Three new non-executive directors joined the Board in the latter Severe Service, Brendan Colgan is responsible for Fluid part of 2012 and went through the stages of induction during Power and Peter Spencer for Indoor Climate. Martin Lamb, that year and through 2013. Business familiarisation is at the the former Chief Executive, will be a director until the Annual core of induction and continuing development for non-executive General Meeting on 8 May 2014 and, whilst he does not retain directors at IMI is based around gaining an understanding of executive responsibilities, he continues to be available to provide the business and getting to know the wider management team. transitional support to the Company. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 Group Overview Board evaluation Key Board activities in 2013 In line with the Code, the Board has agreed that the Chairman Following the sale of the Beverage Dispense and should arrange an externally facilitated evaluation process at Merchandising divisions IMI became a business focused on least once every three years. As highlighted above, the 2013 specialist flow control industrial markets. At the same time, process was postponed due to the Chief Executive transition. the transition to a new Chief Executive has been completed Business Review A full externally facilitated Board evaluation exercise is planned and a Board process for mapping out the next stage of the to be conducted in 2014. Group’s development has been established. An internal evaluation of the Board and its committees was Business performance and risk are regularly reviewed during carried out between November 2013 and January 2014. the year and the annual business planning and strategic risk This augmented the Board effectiveness improvements review meetings of the Board took place in December. The identified in workshops facilitated by an external consultant approach to the Group’s risk management process and the in 2012. The internal evaluation process involved face-to-face Board’s review of strategic risks were further strengthened discussions including individual meetings between the with particular emphasis on more detailed mitigation action Chairman and the other directors. The principal actions arising plans including robust business continuity plans and a are increasing the visibility of the wider management team and reduction in exposure to supply chain dependencies. bringing more subject specialist presentations to the Board in areas relevant to long-term strategy. The Board received 2014 Board objectives the findings of the evaluation in March 2014 and the directors Performance Review As explained in the Chairman’s governance letter, the Board confirmed that the Board is fulfilling its responsibilities has three specific objectives for 2014, which are as follows: appropriately. The evaluation also concluded that the Board and its committees were effective and that each continuing • e  mbedding the new executive leadership and establishing director demonstrated a valuable contribution. The contribution strong links between them and the Board, investors and and performance of the directors standing for election or other key stakeholders; re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, is further • s upporting the new executive leadership in formulating clear commented on in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting. strategic objectives and plans for the next phase of IMI’s In addition, the senior independent director, Anita Frew, met development; and with the other non-executive directors and consulted the • further strengthening management talent and creating executive directors regarding the performance of the Chairman the organisational structure required to drive sustainable and provided appropriate feedback to him. business outperformance. Corporate Governance Management of conflicts of interest Standing committees of the Board The Company’s articles of association include certain The standing committees of the Board are shown overleaf and provisions relevant to the activity of the Board and its include the Audit Committee, the Nominations Committee, the committees and can be viewed on the IMI website. Remuneration Committee and the Executive Committee. Each These provisions include requirements for disclosure and of these committees operates under written terms of reference approval by the Board of potential conflicts of interest. These which clearly set out their respective delegated responsibilities procedures apply, inter alia, to external directorships and it is and authorities. The full terms of reference of these committees the Board’s view that they operated effectively during 2013. were updated in the year and are part of the Corporate Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 Governance Framework which appears on the IMI website. to avoid a situation in which they have or may have a direct The committees report to the Board on their work, normally or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict through their respective chairman, quarterly or more frequently with the interests of the Company. This duty is in addition as appropriate. to the duty that they owe to the Company to disclose to the Financial Statements Separate reports from the following committees appear as Board the nature and extent of any interest in any transaction follows: Audit Committee on pages 48 and 49; Nominations or arrangement under consideration by the Company. Committee on page 50; and Remuneration Committee on If any director becomes aware of any situation which may pages 55 and 56. potentially give rise to a conflict of interest, that director informs the rest of the Board and the Board is then permitted under the articles of association to decide to authorise such conflict. The information is recorded in the Company’s register of conflicts and a conflicts authorisation letter is issued to the relevant director. 44 IMI plc Corporate Governance Report (cont’d) BOARD AUDIT NOMINATIONS REMUNERATION EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Phil Bentley Roberto Quarta Bob Stack Mark Selway Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Membership: Membership: Membership: Membership: • Anita Frew • Anita Frew • Anita Frew • Douglas Hurt – Finance Director • Birgit Nørgaard • Bob Stack • Roberto Quarta • Roy Twite – Managing Director of • Carl-Peter Forster • Mark Selway • Birgit Nørgaard Severe Service • Carl-Peter Forster • B rendan Colgan – Managing Director of Fluid Power • Peter Spencer – Managing Director of Indoor Climate • Paul Roberts – Group Business Development Director • G eoff Tranfield – Group Human Resources Director • J ohn O’Shea – Company Secretary and Head of Legal Four meetings Five meetings Four meetings Twelve meetings Main responsibilities: Main responsibilities: Main responsibilities: Main responsibilities: Financial reporting • Board and committee composition • Define and recommend the • Operational management and • O versight role in relation to financial • S uccession plans for Board remuneration policy for approval by implementation of plans and policies statements and senior management and shareholders set by the Board • R eviewing significant areas of corporate roles • Determine the individual • M onitoring and managing business judgment and accounting policies • S earch for and recommendation of remuneration packages for the most performance candidates for appointment as nonsenior executives within the policy to • D evelopment of strategy, plans and • A dvising the Board on whether the executive directors, Chief Executive be put to shareholders for approval budgets for review and approval by draft Annual Report is fair, balanced and other executive director in 2014 the Board and understandable positions • Set annual and long-term incentive • Monitoring and management of risk • M onitoring announcements in • D iversity policy and monitoring metrics and awards and determine and internal controls respect of financial performance of progress the outcomes with support from the Audit Committee • T alent development and succession Financial controls and risk • R eview and recommendation of for senior roles • M onitoring the effectiveness of proposals for the assignment of • Report on remuneration matters and constructively engage with • F ormulation of corporate policies internal financial controls major executive responsibilities and compliance programmes and appointment and removal of shareholders • R eviewing financial risk including divisional business leaders • Assess risk in respect of • O versight and management of health fraud risk remuneration and incentive and safety, environmental matters, • Oversight of internal audit legal affairs and compliance structures in particular • Managing the external audit exercise, its objectivity and effectiveness • R eviewing the system for confidential whistleblowing and the reports received Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 Group Overview Executive Committee relations with shareholders and all resolutions proposed at The Executive Committee of the Board is chaired by the the 2013 Annual General Meeting received strong support. Chief Executive and consists of all the executive directors, In addition to the Annual Report, the Company issues the Divisional Managing Directors, and it is also attended preliminary results and interim results announcements, as by the Group Business Development Director, Paul Roberts, well as two interim management statements between results Business Review the Group Human Resources Director, Geoff Tranfield and announcements. The IMI website includes recordings of the Company Secretary and Head of Legal, John O’Shea. certain key presentations made by senior management, The secretary to the Committee is the Company Secretary recent Annual and Interim Reports, interim management and Head of Legal. Senior executives and line managers from statements, other corporate announcements and links to around the Group are regularly called upon to attend meetings the websites of the Group’s businesses. The Company has of the Executive Committee. It normally meets monthly and arranged a dealing service for the convenience of shareholders more often as may be required and all members attended with Equiniti (details are shown on page 156). A sponsored all but one or two meetings during their tenure in the year. Level 1 American Depositary Receipt programme has been The Committee is the senior management body and as part established for which Citibank, N.A. acts as depositary of its broad remit it will monitor and manage performance, (details can be found on page 156). review progress against strategic objectives, consider The Board as a whole seeks to maintain a balanced business management issues and formulate budgets and understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders proposals on strategy, policy and resource allocation for Performance Review and to assist them in the stewardship of their investments. consideration by the Board. Dialogue is maintained with shareholders and the executive The Committee is also the risk Committee of the Board and directors meet regularly with institutional investors. receives regular reports on health and safety, compliance and The Chairman routinely meets with investors and the senior legal and corporate affairs. The annual risk review meeting was independent director is also available to shareholders. The Chief attended by the Chairman of the Audit Committee and there Executive and Finance Director have primary responsibility at were two further risk update meetings in the year with detailed board level for investor relations and report to the Board on reports to the Board on all three occasions. The Committee shareholder issues at least quarterly. They are supported by minutes are available to all members of the Board. the Investor Relations Director, Will Shaw. During 2013, IMI continued its programme of capital market day presentations, The Committee reviewed its own performance and terms the materials for which are on the IMI website. of reference and approved the foregoing report on its work. Changes to the Committee in 2014 include the involvement Financial analysts’ notes are circulated to the directors and Corporate Governance of all Divisional Managing Directors as members and regular feedback reports for the Board from the Company’s incorporating operational reviews into the meetings. brokers are supplemented by periodic, independent surveys of major investors’ views, the most recent of which was in Investor relations 2013. The Chairman, senior independent director and other non-executives meet with major shareholders upon request The Annual General Meeting is regarded by the Board as and several meetings of this type took place during the year. an important opportunity to meet and communicate with There were also consultations with the larger shareholders and shareholders, particularly private investors. The 2013 Annual institutional shareholder representative bodies in respect of General Meeting was chaired by the Chairman, and attended remuneration matters. by the chairmen of the standing committees of the Board and all of the other directors. The Chairman encouraged debate Information about share capital, substantial shareholdings, and questions at the formal meeting and informally during voting and other rights of shareholders, directors’ refreshments afterwards. appointments, removal and powers is set out in the Directors’ Report on pages 51 to 56. Financial Statements Each substantially separate issue was put to the 2013 Annual General Meeting as an individual motion and the meeting was invited to adopt and approve the financial statements and the Directors’ Report for 2012. A separate resolution for the approval of the Remuneration Report was also put to the meeting. Notice of the 2013 Annual General Meeting was issued more than twenty working days in advance and the level of proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution, together with details of abstentions, were disclosed at the meeting and are shown on the IMI website. The Board values its good 46 IMI plc Corporate Governance Report (cont’d) Risk management processes Through these processes significant risks are identified, The Board has assigned specific responsibility to the Executive assessed and ranked according to their probability and Committee to act as the risk Committee of the Board. materiality and, following Executive Committee review, the Board This is a key feature of the remit of the Executive Committee, considers what measures are appropriate in order to mitigate, which is part of the IMI Corporate Governance Framework. transfer or avoid such risks. Risk appetite across the range The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing of strategic objectives of the Group was also reviewed by the and monitoring internal controls and other elements of risk Board. The top ten risks identified by the Board at its annual risk management systems in respect of which the Board has review in December 2013 are described on pages 26 to 27. oversight. The Executive Committee acts in its risk role in conjunction with the Audit Committee, which has primary Financial reporting processes responsibility for oversight of financial controls, the Nominations The use of the Group accounting manual and prescribed Committee, which has primary responsibility for succession reporting requirements by finance teams throughout the Group risk, and the Remuneration Committee, which has primary are important in ensuring that the Group’s accounting policies responsibility for remuneration and incentive structure risk. are clearly established and that information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process. The The annual strategic risk review process is integrated into the use of a standard reporting package by all entities in the Group annual forecasting and business planning requirements of the ensures that information is presented in a consistent way that Group. Risk monitoring and updates are carried out between facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements. annual reviews. Each operating unit and corporate function is therefore required to undertake a regular process of business risk Internal control assessment and reporting. Each individual Divisional Managing The Board has responsibility for oversight of the Group’s system Director has appointed a risk champion with responsibility for of internal control and confirms that the system of internal embedding the Group risk assessment process in their business. control takes into account the Code and relevant guidance The businesses’ risk reports, including mitigation action plans for as updated in 2005 by the Financial Reporting Council (the significant risks, are reviewed by the most senior executive within ‘Turnbull Guidance’). the relevant business. These are then considered by the Group Assurance Director, Paul Roughsedge, who compiles regular In the IMI Corporate Governance Framework the Board has reports for the Executive Committee, which in turn submits a clearly defined in writing those matters which are reserved full annual risk review and at least two updates each year to to it and the respective delegated authorities of its committees the Board. The other corporate functions go through a similar and it has also set written limits of authority for the Chief process and their input is reflected in these reports. Phil Bentley, Executive. The Group has a clear organisational structure and the Chairman of the Audit Committee, attended the Executive well-established reporting and control disciplines. Managers Committee’s annual risk review meeting. The Divisional Managing of operating units assume responsibility for and exercise a high Directors present their strategic risks to the Board as part of the degree of autonomy in running day-to-day trading activities. annual business plan session and the Board explicitly considers They do this within a framework of clear rules, policies and the risks associated with the Group’s strategic objectives. The delegated authorities regarding business conduct, approval Executive Committee also reports to the Board on major business of proposals for investment and material changes in operations and other risks involved in specific investment decisions including and are subject to regular senior management reviews acquisitions and divestments. of performance. During the year the Board received reports on risk issues from All operating units prepare forward plans and forecasts the Executive Committee and reviewed the effectiveness of which are reviewed in detail by the Executive Committee and the Group’s system of internal control in relation to financial, consolidated for review by the Board. Performance against operational and compliance controls and risk management. forecast is continuously monitored at monthly meetings of the In addition, the Audit Committee considered and reported to Executive Committee and, on a quarterly basis, by the Board. the Board on the financial aspects of internal control and Minimum standards for accounting systems and controls, which monitored progress in addressing financial control issues and are documented and monitored, are promulgated throughout implementing remediation plans where necessary. Fraud risks the Group. Certified bi-annual reports are required from senior were considered as part of this review of the control environment. executives of operating units, confirming compliance with The Audit Committee reviewed the nature and scope of both the Group financial reporting requirements. The internal audit external audit and the internal audit work carried out by Group function, Group Assurance, operates a rolling programme of Assurance. The Remuneration Committee conducted a risk internal assurance on site reviews at selected operating units. review of incentive arrangements with particular reference to their Additionally, visits to operations are carried out by senior Group alignment with strategic objectives and appropriate risk-taking. finance personnel. These internal assurance processes are co-ordinated with the activity of the Company’s external auditor. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47 Group Overview Capital investments are subject to a clear process for investment appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review, with major investment proposals referred for consideration by the Executive Committee and, according to their materiality, to the Board. In addition, the Executive Committee and the Board regularly Business Review review the operation of corporate policies and controls including those relating to ethics and compliance matters, treasury activities, environmental issues, health and safety, human resources, taxation, insurance and pensions. Compliance and internal Audit Reports are made to the Board, the Audit Committee and the Executive Committee, to enable control issues and developments to be monitored. Control processes are dynamic and continuous improvements are made to adapt them to the changing risk profile of operations and to implement proportionate measures to address any identified weakness in the internal control system. In the year we made significant improvements in our control environment in the Severe Service and Indoor Performance Review Climate businesses in Europe and we are committed to further strengthen the key financial control processes. More information in relation to risk is given on page 46 under the heading ‘Risk management processes’. Through the procedures outlined above the Board has considered the effectiveness of all significant aspects of internal control for the year 2013 and up to the date of this Annual Report. The Board believes that the Group’s system of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. Corporate Governance Responsible business A major ethics and compliance programme, known as ‘The IMI Way’, has been in place across the Group since 2009. Reports on compliance and The IMI Way programme are considered at regular meetings of the Board and the Executive Committee. The Board takes account of the social, environmental and ethical impact of its decisions and has established a series of corporate policies and standards for responsible business across the Group. At a Group level, responsible business activity is co-ordinated through a steering group and key issues of corporate responsibility are identified, monitored and addressed through the Group’s general business processes Financial Statements and risk management framework. More information on corporate social responsibility matters is given on pages 14 to 17 and on the Company’s website. By order of the Board John O’Shea Company Secretary 5 March 2014 48 IMI plc AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder of, firstly, the majority of the Merchandising business as originally envisaged and then latterly, a number of issues surrounding the accounting treatment for the eventual disposal of both the Main areas of activity in 2013 Merchandising and Beverage Dispense businesses. Issues The Audit Committee had four meetings in 2013 and some reviewed and discussed included treatment of these businesses major financial events to consider in 2013. Significant accounting as discontinued operations and the associated tax implications issues arose from corporate activity including the divestment of of the transaction. the Beverage Dispense and Merchandising divisions and plans The Committee also discussed the valuation of the IMI Pension to return £620m to shareholders. The accounting treatment Fund’s investment in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership; for these matters in the 2013 financial statements was fully the accounting treatment of exceptional items (including considered with the financial accounting team and the external restructuring costs); the impairment testing of intangible assets, auditor and was agreed by the Committee. for which no material impairment charge was taken in the year; The Committee remit was extended in 2013 to require it the adoption of the revision to IAS19: Employee Benefits; the to advise the Board in relation to the fair, balanced and timing of revenue recognition on some of the Group’s larger understandable requirements in respect of the Annual Report contracts; the costing and valuation of inventory and the and Accounts. Additional work undertaken in connection with accounting treatments for the acquisitions made during the year. this included a review of the new requirements and training for relevant staff, the submission of draft Annual Report content Members to the Committee in December 2013, followed by a final draft I chair the Audit Committee. I am a qualified Chartered submission two weeks earlier than in previous years to allow Accountant and have significant recent and relevant financial more time for comments and improvements. The language, experience including twelve years on the board of Centrica plc, layout and financial statements have all been made more the first seven as Finance Director, and seven years as chair accessible as a result of this work. of the Audit Committee of Kingfisher plc. Anita Frew and Bob Stack were members of the Audit Committee throughout the The Committee also reviewed the programme for improvement year. Bob stepped down at the year end and Carl-Peter Forster of the capabilities of people in the finance function. Finance roles joined the Committee on 1 January 2014 and Birgit Nørgaard around the Group were categorised and assessment centres joined on 1 March 2014. Terry Gateley was a member and were used to help establish competencies and put in place Chairman of the Committee until 8 May 2013 at which time appropriate individual plans to meet development needs. New he retired. divisional finance leaders were brought into a number of key positions including the divisional finance roles in Severe Service The Committee generally asks the Chairman, the Chief and Indoor Climate. Executive, the Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller and the Group Assurance Director to attend its meetings but Financial controls continued to be a key focus area for the holds at least part of several meetings each year alone with Committee and during the year management made significant the external auditor and Group Assurance Director. The head progress in strengthening controls and addressing action points of Group Compliance attends meetings regularly and the raised by external and internal audit. Committee has the powers to call on any employees to As highlighted above, in relation to accounting issues for the come before it. 2013 full-year and half-year results, the Committee reviewed and discussed the accounting treatment for the proposed disposal Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49 Group Overview Oversight of financial reporting Assurance work is primarily directed towards financial control The Committee acts in an oversight role in respect of the audits but is broadening into other areas, including in 2013, financial statements and reports that are prepared by major business change project planning and implementation. executive management. The Committee received reports from the external auditor who attended its meetings when Whistleblowing Business Review required to do so. The Committee’s work included reviewing The Committee also reviews the operation of the Group the financial statements, accounting policies, significant whistleblowing policy and the independent hotline and the issues of judgement and, as described below under the most serious reports received and investigated. section headed Internal Audit looking at the effectiveness of internal financial controls. The Committee reviewed its own performance and terms of reference and approved the foregoing report on its work. The Committee approved the proposed external audit approach and its scope as well as the internal audit Yours faithfully programme. The Committee takes a risk based approach to audit and other assurance activity. Phil Bentley Chairman of the Audit Committee External audit independence and performance review 5 March 2014 The Committee considered the independence and objectivity Performance Review of the external auditor. In assessing auditor independence the Committee had regard to the Smith Guidance for Audit Committees and required the auditor to confirm that its ethics and independence policies complied with the requirements of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. The Group policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit work is monitored by the Committee and requires approval by the Chairman of the Committee for any non-audit engagement where fees exceed £150,000 and does not allow work to be placed with the auditor if it could compromise auditor independence, such as functioning in the role of management or auditing its own work. Non-audit fees paid to the auditor were £0.2m (2012: £0.5m), which demonstrated the tight Corporate Governance control which is maintained in this area. The Committee surveyed the main subsidiaries to assess the performance and efficiency of the external auditor and believes the performance has been satisfactory although some improvement actions were identified and addressed in the year. A change in lead audit partner was agreed by the Committee and arrangements were put in place to ensure the new lead audit partner had been in place on the team through at least one full cycle before handover. The Committee recommended and the Board approved the proposal to re-appoint Ernst & Young as the external auditor at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Ernst & Young was first appointed as auditor in 2009 following a formal selection process after which Financial Statements it replaced the previous auditor. The term of appointment is annual and there are no contractual restrictions on the Committee’s choice of auditor. Internal Audit The Committee also receives reports from and monitors the work of the internal audit function, known as Group Assurance, and oversees the timely remediation of action areas resulting from the review visits that Group Assurance undertakes. Group 50 IMI plc NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder Diversity We continue to monitor our diversity metrics and to promote Main areas of activity in 2013 fairness and equal opportunities across our businesses. The Committee spent a substantial part of its time on executive Our policy is to recruit the very best people to execute our talent development and succession planning. A confidential strategic priorities and to reflect the diverse nature of the global search process was commissioned by the Committee global footprint of our businesses, reflecting the location of to find a new Chief Executive. Russell Reynolds were engaged our customers and markets. We are an equal opportunities to assist with this process. Committee members (excluding employer so we do not discriminate on the grounds of race, Martin Lamb) interviewed a range of candidates and the sex, disability or sexual orientation. At Board level, there are six Committee made recommendations to the Board for the nationalities, two of the non-executives are female and there is appointment of Mark Selway as Chief Executive. a broad mix of backgrounds and experience. The Board remains committed to increasing diversity by voluntary measures. We will The Committee also reviewed the composition of the Board continue to review the composition of our management teams and its committees. It recommended changes in executive and the Board to ensure that we have the right mix of skills and responsibilities and the Executive Committee as well as changes experience while maintaining our effectiveness and execution to the membership of the Audit Committee and the Committee capabilities. We will continue to seek a diverse pool of the itself. The Board approved these recommendations. best quality candidates to draw from, both internally and when recruiting externally, to maximise the continuing effectiveness Non-executive director appointments are linked to the strategic of the Company. At the same time, the Committee has agreed priorities of the Group and would generally involve external to measure progress on diversity metrics including gender and consultants. No new non-executive directors were appointed nationality mix although specific targets have not been set at this in the year. stage. In 2013 the percentages of male and female employees across the Group were as follows: Members Anita Frew, Bob Stack and Mark Selway and I are the current All Managers Senior Board Employees Managers Directors members of the Nominations Committee. In May 2013, Terry Gateley ceased to be a member of the Committee when he Female % 28% 23% 14% 20% retired from the Board and at the end of the year Martin Lamb, Male % 72% 77% 86% 80% Carl-Peter Forster, Phil Bentley and Birgit Nørgaard also stepped down as Committee members. In line with our recruitment practices, the Group produces diverse shortlists for internal and external candidates and Review of time commitments and contributions requests this of external providers, with the aim of encouraging Appointments of non-executive directors are made on the basis and promoting diversity. of a standard form letter of appointment. Each non-executive director and I, as Chairman were appointed on the basis of The Committee reviewed its own performance and terms of a stated minimum time commitment judged appropriate by reference and approved the foregoing report on its work. the Committee. The Committee considers that the time given by each non-executive was sufficient. Anita Frew took the lead Yours faithfully in reviewing the governance and other implications for IMI of my Roberto Quarta proposal to become Chairman of Smith & Nephew plc from Chairman of the Nominations Committee April 2014, which was then approved by the Board. I have since stepped down from the board of Foster Wheeler AG. 5 March 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51 Group Overview DIRECTORS’ REPORT The directors present their report, together with the audited financial statements, for the year ended 31 December 2013. The Strategic Report is on pages 2 to 35. Business Review Results and dividend The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary The Group consolidated income statement is shown on page 84. shares are set out in the Company’s articles of association, copies Segmental operating profit amounted to £321.6m (2012 restated: of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK, from £300.1m) and profit before taxation and discontinued operations the Company’s website or by writing to the Company Secretary. amounted to £249.3m (2012 restated: £229.9m). Changes to the articles of association must be approved by a special resolution of the shareholders (75% majority required) The directors recommend a final dividend of 22.5p per 28 4/7p in accordance with the legislation in force at the time. Subject share (2012: 20.7p per 25p share) on the ordinary share capital to applicable statutes, shares may be issued with such rights payable, subject to shareholder approval, on 19 May 2014 to and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution shareholders on the register at the close of business on 11 April decide or (if there is no such resolution or so far as it does 2014. Together with the interim dividend of 12.8p per 25p share not make specific provision) as the Board may decide. paid on 11 October 2013, this final dividend will bring the total distribution for the year to 35.3p per share (2012: 32.5p per Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Company’s Performance Review 25p share). report and accounts, to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company, and to appoint proxies to exercise Research and development their rights. Holders of ordinary shares may receive a dividend Expenditure on research and development in the year was £50.0m and on a liquidation may share in the assets of the Company. (2012 restated: £45.4m), in addition to this an amount of £3.3m Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares (2012: £3.9m) has been capitalised. may requisition a general meeting of the Company or propose resolutions at Annual General Meetings. Voting rights for ordinary Shareholders’ funds shares held in treasury are suspended and the treasury shares Shareholders’ funds decreased from £635.5m at the end of 2012 carry no rights to receive dividends or other distributions of assets. to £600.9m at 31 December 2013. There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: Share capital • c  ertain restrictions as may from time to time be imposed by As at 31 December 2013, the Company’s share capital comprised Corporate Governance laws and regulations (for example insider trading laws); and a single class of share capital which was divided into ordinary shares of 25p each. Details of the share capital of the Company • p  ursuant to the Company’s share dealing code whereby the are set out in section 4.6 to the financial statements on pages 131 directors and certain employees of the Company require and 132. The Company’s ordinary shares are listed on the London approval to deal in the Company’s shares. Stock Exchange. The Company is not aware of any arrangements between The Company has a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt (‘ADR’) shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of programme for which Citibank, N.A. acts as depositary. The ADRs ordinary shares or on voting rights. None of the ordinary shares are traded on the US over-the-counter market under the symbol carries any special rights with regard to control of the Company. IMIAY, where each ADR represents two ordinary shares. The only restrictions on voting rights are those that apply to the ordinary shares held in treasury, as described above. Electronic As at 31 December 2013, 1,796,043 shares were held in an and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must employee trust for use in relation to certain executive incentive plans be received by the Company’s registrars not later than 48 hours representing 0.6% of the issued share capital (excluding treasury Financial Statements (excluding any non-working days) before a general meeting, shares) at that time. The independent trustee of the trust has the or (subject to the Company’s articles of association) any same rights as any other shareholder. Participants in option schemes adjournment thereof. do not hold any voting rights on the shares until the date of exercise. During the year, 316,950 new ordinary shares were issued under Return of cash and share capital consolidation employee share schemes: 292,175 under save as you earn plans On 21 January 2014, the Company announced the terms of a and 24,775 under executive share plans. Shares acquired through return of cash to shareholders of 200p per existing ordinary share Company share schemes and plans rank equally with the shares in of 25p each and a share capital consolidation of every 8 existing issue and have no special rights. ordinary shares of 25p each into 7 new ordinary shares of 28 4/7p each. 52 IMI plc Directors’ Report (cont’d) The return of cash was structured as a ‘B and C share’ scheme. 28 4/7p each. This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Under its terms, shareholders (subject to restrictions in respect next Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 May 2014. At the of US shareholders and certain other overseas shareholders), next Annual General Meeting of the Company, shareholders will were able to elect whether to receive their cash proceeds as: be asked to give a similar authority, details of which are contained (i) an immediate income payment (the ‘Income Option’); (ii) an in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting. immediate capital payment (the ‘Immediate Capital Option’); As at 31 December 2013, 30,883,095 ordinary shares (nominal (iii) a capital payment deferred until after 6 April 2014 (the value £7,720,774) were held in treasury representing 9.96% of the ‘Deferred Capital Option’); or (iv) any combination of the above. issued share capital (excluding treasury shares) at that time. This The resolutions required for the return of cash and share capital was also equal to the maximum number of shares held in treasury consolidation (including to amend the articles of association of during the year ended 31 December 2013. On 16 January 2014, the Company) were approved by shareholders at a general the Company cancelled 14,598,706 ordinary shares of 25p each meeting of the Company held on 13 February 2014. The new held in treasury and on 13 February 2014 the Company cancelled ordinary shares of 28 4/7p were admitted to the Official List and 5 ordinary shares of 25p each held in treasury. As at the date of to trading on the London Stock Exchange’s main market for listed this Report, 14,248,836 ordinary shares of 28 4/7p each (nominal securities on 17 February 2014. value of £4,071,096) were held in treasury, representing 5.25% of the issued share capital. On 17 February 2014, the Company issued a total of: (i) 228,744,051 C shares to satisfy elections (or deemed Substantial shareholdings elections) for the Income Option; (ii) 75,928,619 redeemable B shares to satisfy elections for the Immediate Capital Option; Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Disclosure and (iii) 5,475,074 redeemable B shares to satisfy elections for and Transparency Rules is published on a regulatory information the Deferred Capital Option. On 18 February 2014, a dividend service and on the Company’s website. As at 31 December 2013, of 200p was declared on each C share issued to satisfy an the following voting interests in the ordinary share capital of the election (or deemed election) for the Income Option and all such Company, disclosable under the Disclosure and Transparency shares were then automatically reclassified as deferred shares Rules, had been notified to the Company: (which were later purchased by the Company, for an aggregate consideration of 1p). On the same date, each B share issued % Held 1 to satisfy an election for the Immediate Capital Option was Standard Life Investments Limited 5.98% redeemed by the Company for 200p per share. Each B share issued to satisfy an election for the Deferred Capital election 1 As of the date in the notification to the Company is expected to be redeemed for 200p per share on a date between 7 and 14 April 2014. Subsequent to 31 December 2013 and up to the date of this Report, the Company was notified that the interests of Further details can be found in the circular dated 21 January Amerprise Financial, Inc were 5.011%. 2014, available on the Company’s website. As far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with Own shares acquired by the Company significant direct or indirect holdings in the Company other than those noted above. In its preliminary results announcement made on 7 March 2013 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2012, the Company announced its intention to commence a share buyback Statement on corporate governance programme over the following 12 months of up to £175m to The required disclosures are contained in the Corporate ensure that net debt remained at or above the then current level. Governance Report on pages 41 to 47 and are incorporated into this report by reference. In 2013 the Company made market purchases of a total of 11,758,395 of its own ordinary shares of 25p each, representing Employment policies 3.7% of the shares in issue at the beginning of 2013 (excluding treasury shares) at an aggregate cost of £164.3m (nominal The Group continues to support employee involvement at all levels value £2,939,599) pursuant to the authorities granted by the in the organisation and strongly encourages each of its businesses shareholders at the Annual General Meetings held on 4 May to keep its employees informed on Group and individual 2012 and 9 May 2013. business developments and to make its employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the The authority granted to the Company at the Annual General business in which they work, using their own consultation and Meeting held on 9 May 2013 to purchase up to 47,863,330 of its communication methods. A European Works Council has been in ordinary shares of 25p each was replaced by a new authority for operation since 2003 and meets at least once a year to exchange the Company granted at the general meeting held on 13 February views on pan-European issues facing the Group. At the date of 2014 to purchase up to 40,675,770 of its new ordinary shares of this Annual Report, there are 17 members of the European Works Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 Group Overview Council comprising 15 employee representatives nominated Health, safety and the environment from among employees from each of our European businesses, It is Group policy to maintain healthy and safe working conditions covering 11 countries, with the balance being Company and to operate in a responsible manner with regard to the appointees. The Group’s financial results and important initiatives environment. Information on our key performance indicators in such as health and safety, training and development, and this area is given on pages 24 and 25 and further information Business Review employee engagement are communicated through a number is available on page 15 and on our website www.imiplc.com. of mechanisms including the Works Council, newsletters and intranets for the individual businesses and the Company’s Donations website and ‘town hall’ meetings. No political donations were made during the year. Share schemes are a long established and successful part of our total reward package, encouraging and supporting employee Directors share ownership. Full details of employee share schemes are set The membership of the Board and biographical details of the out in the Remuneration Report on page 60 and in section 4.7 directors are given on pages 38 and 39 and are incorporated of the financial statements on pages 133 to 136. into this report by reference. Sean Toomes and Terry Gateley A number of people development initiatives are co-ordinated retired from the Board with effect from 6 March 2013 and across the Group, which are based on the Company’s values 9 May 2013 respectively. Phil Bentley assumed the chair of of excellence, innovation and integrity. These initiatives include the Audit Committee and Anita Frew became the senior succession and development planning, leadership development independent director from 9 May 2013. Mark Selway was Performance Review programmes, the IMI Global Graduate Development Programme appointed to the Board as Chief Executive designate on and the embedding of the ‘Leadership Blueprint’, our 1 October 2013. Martin Lamb stepped down as Chief competency model, in recruitment and selection, performance Executive on 31 December 2013 and will retire from the management processes, succession planning and training Board at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 May programmes. In 2013 we launched the Emerging Managers 2014. Mark Selway succeeded Martin Lamb as Chief Executive Programme to develop our first line leaders and established on 1 January 2014. a formal mentoring programme for our high potentials. These The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors initiatives and the Company’s approach to employee investment are set out in the Company’s articles of association. Each new and talent development are explained on pages 16 and 17. appointee to the Board is required to stand for election at the Our policy on employee diversity and equal opportunity is to next Annual General Meeting following their appointment and comply with relevant legislation in the countries in which we Mark Selway will seek election having been appointed to the operate and to actively promote our diversity goal to recruit the Board during the year. In addition, the Company’s articles of Corporate Governance very best people to execute our strategic priorities and to reflect association require each director to stand for re-election at least the diverse nature of our global business. We ensure that our once every three years. However, in accordance with the UK ‘talent pipelines’ are diverse, for example our Global Graduate Corporate Governance Code, all directors wishing to serve again Development and Alumni Programme includes people from will submit themselves for re-election at the next Annual General more than 20 countries, with, in recent years, over 30% of Meeting and are recommended for re-election. our graduate intake being female. The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance At all levels we are focused on increasing our diversity as reflected and all directors of the Company benefit from qualifying third in the composition of our Board; with the addition of Mark Selway, party indemnity provisions which were in place during the Chief Executive designate in 2013, our Board makes up a highly financial year. At the date of this Annual Report there are such international and diverse team (including our two female nonindemnity arrangements with each director in respect of the executive directors). When recruiting we strive to ensure that costs of defending civil, criminal and regulatory proceedings our shortlists of candidates are diverse and that our people are brought against them, in their capacity as a director, where not trained to avoid bias in the process in order to ensure fair selection covered by insurance and subject always to the limitations set Financial Statements criteria. Our Masterclass in Selection is now part of our on-going by the Companies Act 2006. training curriculum and in 2013 we launched our on-line toolkit for recruitment and selection. The engagement of our employees is measured though our Employee Engagement Survey, which we ran again in 2013. Every effort is made to ensure that applications for employment from disabled employees are fully and fairly considered and that disabled employees have equal opportunity in training, succession planning and promotion. 54 IMI plc Directors’ Report (cont’d) Directors’ powers Going concern The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation and The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to the articles of association of the Company in force from time to affect its future development, performance and position are set out time. The directors were authorised to allot and issue ordinary in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 35. The financial position of shares and to make market purchases of the Company’s ordinary the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities shares by resolutions of the Company passed at its Annual are described in the Financial Statements. In addition, section General Meeting held on 9 May 2013. These authorities were 4.4 to the Financial Statements includes the Group’s objectives, replaced at the general meeting held on 13 February 2014 by policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk the passing of new resolutions, in a similar form to those passed management objectives; details of its financial instruments and at the Annual General Meeting, in respect of the new ordinary hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk. shares of 28 4/7p each. The current authorities will expire at the Section 4.5 to the Financial Statements addresses the management conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting to be held on of the funding risks of the Group’s employee benefit obligations. 8 May 2014, at which new authorities will be sought. The Group has considerable financial resources together with Further details of authorities the Company is seeking for the long-standing relationships with a number of customers, suppliers allotment, issue and purchase of its ordinary shares are set and funding providers across different geographic areas and out in the separate Notice of the Annual General Meeting. industries. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show Directors’ interests that the Group is able to operate within the level of facilities either The interests of the persons (including the interests of any connected in place on 31 December, or renewed since, without the need to persons) who were directors at the end of the year, in the share renew any further facilities before March 2014. As a consequence, capital of the Company, and their interests under share option the directors believe that the Group is well-placed to manage its and incentive schemes, are shown on pages 76 to 78. business risks successfully despite the uncertainties inherent in the current economic outlook. Change of control After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable The Company and its subsidiaries are party to a number of expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate agreements that may allow the counterparties to alter or terminate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable the arrangements on a change of control of the Company future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts and basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements. employee share plans. Other than as referred to in the next paragraph, none of these is considered by the Company to be Disclosure of information to the auditor significant in terms of its likely impact on the Group as a whole. Each director confirms that, so far as they are each aware, there In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Group’s is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor main funding agreements allow the lenders to renegotiate terms is unaware; and each director has taken all the steps that he or or give notice of repayment for all outstanding amounts under the she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself relevant facilities. In the current economic climate this could have aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the a significant effect on the liquidity of the business. Company’s auditor is aware of that information. The Company does not have agreements with any director or Annual General Meeting employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Hilton Birmingham employment specifically resulting from a takeover, although the Metropole Hotel, National Exhibition Centre, Birmingham on provisions of the Company’s share schemes include a discretion Thursday 8 May 2014. Notice of the meeting will be published to allow awards granted to directors and employees under such on the Company’s website. schemes to vest in those circumstances. Auditor Information included in the Strategic Report Resolutions for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP Important events since the year-end are described on page 5 as auditor of the Company and to authorise the directors to of the Strategic Report. All disclosures concerning greenhouse determine their remuneration will be proposed at the next gas emissions (as required to be disclosed by the Companies Act Annual General Meeting. 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013) are contained in page 25 of the Strategic Report. Likely future By order of the Board developments are also covered in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 35. John O’Shea Company Secretary 5 March 2014 IMI plc is registered in England No. 714275 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55 Group Overview Directors’ Remuneration Report ANNUAL STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE COMMITTEE “The Remuneration Committee has worked hard this year to provide a report which balances the need for increased Business Review transparency in a format which is more readable and understandable whilst reflecting the complexity of what has been a busy and successful year.” Dear Shareholder For Martin, the overriding principle was that we should treat him fairly and honour the contractual commitments; we did I am pleased to present to you the 2013 Directors’ not use any discretion to pay him more than he was entitled to under his service contract. We thought it was important Performance Review Remuneration Report. It looks different to last year’s report because we have taken on board the new legal disclosure that he was aligned with shareholders and the Board in obligations, but more importantly, it reflects our desire to ensuring a smooth handover to Mark, so we used our power provide you with a full and open picture of how we pay under the share plan rules to defer pro-rated vesting of all directors at IMI. Similar to the 2012 report I would like to start awards to their third anniversary of grant, rather than the by giving you a concise summary of what the Committee earlier date of Martin’s retirement. Corporate performance decided during 2013. will be measured over three years up to these later dates, thus ensuring that Martin is rewarded according to IMI’s What were the most significant issues that we dealt with performance after he has passed the leadership baton this year? to Mark. Clearly, Martin Lamb’s decision to retire and the consequential For Mark, it was reassuring to find that our remuneration appointment of Mark Selway were the most high profile issues policy was sufficient to attract him to IMI. We did not make that we addressed during 2013. There were two critical issues: any awards outside of our existing plans and there was no Corporate Governance (a) how should Martin be remunerated during the period up to buy out of awards from his previous employment. his retirement, and (b) how should Mark be remunerated. We give full disclosure of their pay arrangements below, but in this letter I think it would be helpful if I gave you some background to how we reached our decisions. What did the executive directors get paid for 2013? Salary Pension Value of Annual bonus Vesting of 2011 Vesting of 2011 Gain on vesting Total 2013 Paid (£000) benefits for 2013 results performance matching share of 2011 share pay and (£000) (£000) (£000) share award and award and and dividend reward dividends (number dividends (number award (£000) (£000) of shares) of shares) Financial Statements M W Selway 188 56 109 237 n/a n/a n/a 590 M J Lamb 765 386 27 711 67,962 232,228 4,465 6,354 D M Hurt 417 146 20 323 37,275 106,198 2,134 3,040 R M Twite 417 146 19 299 35,199 92,275 1,897 2,778 S Toomes 165 58 94 0 14,282 28,772 640 957 Mark’s remuneration as shown above is for the three months that he worked for us in 2013. Full details of all payments made to executive directors are included in the table on page 68. 56 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) The 2013 annual bonus was paid against a pre-set range of and expect to be putting new share plans and a revised policy targets being profit before tax, adjusted EPS, organic revenue forward for approval at the 2015 Annual General Meeting. growth, cash conversion, health, safety and environment measures and compliance with The IMI Way. As you have read, What about staff pay? IMI has performed well against these measures and an overall In 2013 our average staff salary increase was 2.96%. bonus score of 61.3% (at IMI Group level) was recorded. Approximately one million options vested in 2013 under The 2011 matching share award and performance award the Share Option Plan (these were granted in 2010 to our vested at 100% and 82.6% respectively. The EVA and TSR managers) and the gain per share option on vesting was performance conditions (2011 matching and performance £6.21 each. We continue to offer UK SAYE, UK Share Incentive share award were met in full, with EPS and ROCE targets Plan and Global Employee Share Purchase Plans in USA (2011 performance share award) being partially met (see page and Germany. 70 for further details). This is a clear demonstration of ‘pay for performance’. How was our corporate performance reflected in pay? In 2013 IMI made significant progress on a number of fronts. As previously announced, Sean Toomes stepped down as a Segmental revenue increased by 3% to £1,744m. Furthermore, director in March 2013 and ceased employment on 30 June 2013; adjusted profit before tax and adjusted basic EPS increased by the figures shown in the table on page 55 show his remuneration 8% and 12% respectively, performance that is reflected under up to that date. He had a contract with a twelve month notice our annual bonus plan. Shareholders will also benefit from a 9% period and we agreed to pay him nine months’ worth of increase in the total dividend for the year, which when combined remuneration as a termination payment. This together with his with IMI’s strong share price growth has resulted in market repatriation expenses from Switzerland back to the UK, totalled beating returns (see page 132 for further information). £461,806. A breakdown of this amount is provided on page 76. What is in the rest of this report? What did the non-executive directors get paid in 2013? As a result of the UK’s new remuneration voting and disclosure The Chairman was paid a fee of £250,000. Each non-executive regulations, this report must follow a fairly prescribed format. director received an annualised base fee of £55,000. I received We have sought to make it more readable by including tables an additional £15,000 for chairing the Remuneration Committee. and charts where we can. The following two sections of the Terry Gateley and Phil Bentley were paid incremental fees report include: of £15,000 (pro-rated) for chairing the Audit Committee (chairmanship changed at the 2013 Annual General Meeting). • T he Directors’ Remuneration Policy which summarises all Finally, Terry Gateley and Anita Frew shared the £5,000 the elements of remuneration at IMI, detailing their purpose, additional fee that is paid for being the senior independent the parameters within which they operate and the extent to director (which also passed hands at the 2013 Annual General which they are linked to performance. This policy will be put Meeting). These extra fees reflect the greater time commitment to you for binding approval at the Annual General Meeting of these roles. Non-executive directors do not receive annual on 8 May 2014. bonuses or participate in the share plan incentives. • An Annual Report on Remuneration which provides details of the remuneration earned in respect of performance during What is changing for 2014? the 2013 financial year, along with details of any awards Consistent with the approach we are taking across the whole made during the year and any other relevant remuneration Group, the salaries of the continuing executive directors have decisions. This report will be put to you for non-binding been increased by 3.1%. The Committee agreed to increase approval at the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2014. the Chairman’s remuneration by £50,000 to £300,000 on the basis that the amount is fixed for two years from 1 January Looking forward 2014 and 25% would be taken as shares to be retained until As a Committee we seek to ensure that the remuneration his retirement from the Board. The non-executive and senior framework at IMI provides clear alignment to the strategy independent director fees are being reviewed. No changes and shareholders’ interests, while fairly rewarding for the have been made to IMI’s incentive policy. performance delivered. We are confident that the Directors’ Remuneration Policy we are putting to you for approval meets Review of incentive arrangements these requirements. I hope you will support it at the Annual We chose to defer our review of all incentive arrangements General Meeting. to 2014 as a result of Martin’s announcement to retire and the corporate transactions that we announced in 2013. With Bob Stack Mark’s appointment, and some share plans due to expire in Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on behalf of the Board 2015, we will undertake this review in 2014. We will tell you our conclusions and recommendations in next year’s report 5 March 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57 Group Overview Directors’ Remuneration Report DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY Introduction IMI’s remuneration philosophy The Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’) The Committee aims to ensure that remuneration presents the Directors’ Remuneration Policy generally, and incentives in particular, Business Review Report, which will be put to shareholders for provide strong alignment between individual a binding vote at the Annual General Meeting performance, business performance and to be held on 8 May 2014 (Resolution 2). Subject shareholder interests. The remuneration policy to shareholder approval, the effective date of this also recognises that IMI operates in global and policy will be 9 May 2014. highly competitive markets with the vast majority of its activities outside the UK. The intention of the Committee is that the policy would normally remain in place for three years. The policy is to provide competitive remuneration However, as some of the share plans are due packages to attract, motivate, reward and to expire in 2015 and a review of all our incentive retain executives of the calibre required, and to arrangements is underway in 2014, we will need align their interests with those of shareholders to return to shareholders at the 2015 Annual by relating a significant component of the Performance Review General Meeting. remuneration package to performance. The remuneration policy that we summarise in The Committee believes it is important to this section is consistent with the policy that has maintain the flexibility to respond to individual been in place at IMI for a number of years. circumstances. However, its normal approach This policy is broken into a number of sections: has been to pay salaries within appropriate market competitive ranges, combined with • a  future policy table for executive directors, realistic potential for above-market total which sets out the components of our annual compensation if performance is outstanding. remuneration; The policy of the Committee is to set performance • a  n illustration of the sensitivity of pay conditions for incentives which are both stretching outcomes to IMI’s performance; Corporate Governance but also reasonably attainable in the environment • o  ther relevant policies relating to executive in which the Company is then operating. director remuneration, including recruitment, service contracts, appointments and terminations; • remuneration policies that relate solely to the Chairman and non-executive directors; and • the contextual information the Committee considers, when making decisions on executive directors’ remuneration. Financial Statements 58 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) Illustrations of the application of M W Selway IMI’s remuneration policy Long-term incentives Bonus To illustrate the opportunity available to our executive directors, Fixed pay and the sensitivity of pay to performance, the adjacent graphs set out pay outcomes for three performance scenarios: £000 5,000 • m inimum where pay is limited to fixed, non-performance 4,084 related components (based on 2014 salaries and the 4,000 corresponding pension and benefits as disclosed in 2013); 37% • ‘on-target’ where bonus vests at target levels for each 3,000 executive, and long-term incentives vest at threshold 2,151 (assuming targets are calibrated such that the lower end of 2,000 15% 37% the vesting schedule is representative of ‘on-target’); and 1,084 35% 1,000 • maximum, where all variable pay components vest in full. 100% 50% 26% The charts adjacent are based on actual SMP and PSP awards Minimum On-target Maximum for 2014 vesting in 2017 in order to best reflect the application of the policy in that year. No share price growth or dividend Salary 750 750 750 assumptions are made and all-employee share plans are Pension 30% 30% 30% excluded. Benefits 109 109 109 Please note that Martin Lamb has been excluded from the Annual Bonus 0% 100% 200% information along side as he will not be a serving director at SMP 0% 5% 51% the date the policy takes effect. PSP 0% 37% 149% D M Hurt and R M Twite Long-term incentives Bonus Fixed pay £000 3,000 2,643 2,500 2,000 57% 1,500 1,084 1,000 20% 20% 600 25% 500 100% 55% 23% Minimum On-target Maximum Salary 430 430 430 Pension 35% 35% 35% Benefits 19.5 19.5 19.5 Annual Bonus 0% 63% 125% SMP 0% 25% 250% PSP 0% 25% 100% Percentages in the above tables are percentages of salary. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59 Group Overview Future policy table – executive directors Component & purpose Operation Annual opportunity Fixed elements of executive remuneration Business Review Salary Reviewed annually with any change normally effective from Salaries effective 1 January 2014: Reflects individual 1 January. £750,000 M W Selway performance and When setting salary, the Committee takes into account the level personal contribution £430,000 D M Hurt and R M Twite of increase for a reference group of comparable employees in to delivering the Group the senior leadership team, market data, business performance, £765,000 M J Lamb (until retirement) strategy. They are set in external economic factors, the complexity of the business and the context of total pay the role, cost, and the incumbent’s experience and performance. The policy is that normally any salary increase for an levels. executive director will be in line with those of the wider workforce. Increases beyond this may be awarded in certain circumstances, such as a change in responsibility after taking into account the factors noted alongside. Pension A cash allowance in lieu of pension is paid monthly. To the extent Up to 30% of salary Provides for retirement required by law, part of this allowance will be paid into a defined Legacy obligations of 35% of salary for appointments to the and supports succession contribution pension arrangement. With the Committee’s approval Board before October 2013 will continue to be honoured. planning. the executive directors may redirect all or part of the balance of this Performance Review allowance into a defined contribution pension arrangement. Benefits The policy provides a normal range of benefits to executive The values of benefits vary significantly year-on-year Protects the welldirectors. These include but are not limited to: depending on the age and health of the individual, the cost being of executives of providing them and the country in which the executive is non-cash: private healthcare for themselves and their family, and to provide fair and based. However, the range of the benefits is not expected life insurance, and other minor ancillary benefits; and reasonable market to change from year to year. competitive benefits. cash and taxable allowances: car and fuel allowance, personal tax Should it be appropriate to relocate an executive director advice and two annual round trips for the Chief Executive and his or to recruit an executive director from overseas, flexibility spouse to return to his home location. Where it is in IMI’s interests is reserved to provide benefits that ensure that the individual to request that executives work in a different country or region then and IMI can both achieve this commercial purpose. we will pay relocation and provide benefits and allowances in line with IMI’s Global Mobility Policy. Expenses that are incurred by an executive director in undertaking their role are reimbursed. All-employee share plans (all-employee share plans do not have an associated performance framework) Corporate Governance All-Employee UK Plans Share Plans UK SAYE: an HMRC approved Savings Related Share Option In line with the statutorily defined limits with respect to Encourages share Scheme which is open to all of the Group’s UK employees, including investments, awards and discounts on the price of ownership amongst the UK-based executive directors. share options. the broader employee population and Employee Share Ownership Plan: a HMRC approved Share aligns interests of IMI Incentive Plan which is open to all of the Group’s UK employees, employees with those of including the UK-based executive directors. shareholders. In addition provides a tax efficient Global Plans: All-employee share purchase plans operate in Eligible employees (including executive directors) can invest investment vehicle for countries outside the UK. The vehicle and manner of award varies subject to the plan limits that apply to all participants, which employees. by country depending on local market restrictions and the plan vary by local market and plan. operated in the region. Financial Statements 60 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) Future policy table – executive directors (cont’d) Component Purpose Operation Variable components of executive remuneration Annual Incentive Bonus Drives and rewards performance against annual financial, strategic The payment of awards under the plan is determined by the and operational goals, which are consistent with the medium to Committee based on annual performance relative to set targets long-term strategic goals of IMI, also taking into account individual which are reviewed at the end of the year. behaviours and contributions. Share Matching Plan Incentivises long-term value creation, aligning the interests of Executives can invest a value up to a maximum of their Annual (‘SMP’) executives and shareholders through the delivery of awards in shares. Incentive bonus. The selected performance metrics support the long-term strategy Compulsory investment is required annually to the value of of IMI and the vehicle and time horizon provides a retention tool for up to 50% of any net Annual Incentive Bonus earned if the key executives. executive has not achieved their share ownership guideline. The use of matching shares further aligns the interests of executives Invested shares attract the grant of a matching share award, with those of shareholders by both requiring and encouraging which can take the form of nil-cost options or deferred awards. investment in IMI shares. This complements the share ownership Invested shares are returned to the participant in full at the guideline which is set out on page 62. end of the three-year performance period or sooner at the participant’s request. The matching shares vest at the end of the three-year vesting period provided the performance conditions are satisfied and the participant remains an IMI employee (or is a ‘good’ leaver) and has retained the invested shares. Dividends (or equivalent value payments) accrue and are payable in cash or shares in respect of vested awards up to the point of exercise. Clawback provisions are included in the plan rules. Performance Share Incentivises long-term value creation, aligning the interests of The Committee can make annual share-based awards, which Plan (‘PSP’) executives and shareholders through the delivery of awards in shares. can take the form of nil-cost options. Dividends (or equivalent The selected performance metrics support the long-term strategy value payments) accrue and are payable in cash or shares in of IMI and the vehicle and time horizon provides a retention tool respect of vested awards up to the point of exercise. for key executives. Clawback provisions are included in the plan rules. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61 Group Overview Annual opportunity Performance Business Review The policy is to pay annual bonuses up to a maximum of 200%. In respect The payment of bonus will depend on performance relative to pre-determined of 2014, the chief executive’s bonus maximum will be 200% of salary; measures and targets over the course of a financial year. for the other executive directors it will be 125% of salary. The Committee determines the measures and targets annually to ensure As a percentage of maximum opportunity, the following amounts are alignment with strategy. Normally these will be a combination of measures payable for the corresponding levels of performance: linked to the financial and non-financial performance of IMI. For 2014 the measures and their weightings are profit before tax and exceptional Threshold (minimum): 0% items (35%); Group adjusted earning per share (‘EPS’) (15%); organic revenue Target: 50% growth (15%); cash conversion (15%); health, safety and environment (5%); and personalised non-financial measures (15%). Maximum: 100% The level of opportunity depends on the role, the level of investment and whether or not an executive has met the share ownership requirements. The maximum opportunity is 400% of salary for the Chief Executive. The different permutations are summarised below: Performance Review Maximum match Investment Compulsory Voluntary Chief Executive 1.25:1 2:1 Others 1:1 2:1 In 2014 this equates to the following maximum value as a percentage of salary: Investment Compulsory Voluntary The release of matching and performance share awards will depend on Chief Executive 250% 400% performance relative to pre-determined measures and targets over three consecutive financial years. Others 125% 250% The Committee will determine measures and targets annually to ensure continuing alignment with strategy. As a percentage of maximum opportunity, the following amounts are Corporate Governance For 2014 the measures and their weights are the same as in 2013, namely: payable for the corresponding levels of performance: SMP: Growth in Economic Value Added (‘EVA’) (100%) Threshold (minimum): 10% PSP: EPS growth (50%); relative total shareholder return (‘TSR’) (25%); Maximum: 100% and organic revenue growth (25%). Other points on the vesting schedule will be set by the Committee when the performance targets are set. Normal award: 100% of salary Maximum award: 200% of salary The proportion of the award that vests for achievement of the performance targets are: Threshold (minimum): 25% Maximum: 100% Financial Statements Other points on the vesting schedule will be set by the Committee when the performance targets are set. 62 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) Additional notes to the future policy table OTHER EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION POLICIES Setting of performance measures and targets The Committee reviews and selects performance measures annually, being Share ownership guideline informed by the short and long-term priorities of IMI at the time. The Committee All executive directors are subject to the guidelines which require therefore considers the strategic plan and the key performance indicators associated with this. Details of these are included in the Annual Report each year. them to build a shareholding worth 125% of salary within a five At the time of selecting performance measures, the Committee determines the year period of being appointed to the Board. When assessing performance targets that will apply in respect of each measure. Factors that the compliance with this guideline the Committee reviews both the Committee may consider include the strategic plan, the annual budget, analysts’ forecasts, economic conditions, individuals’ areas of responsibilities and the level of beneficial share ownership and vested but unexercised Committee’s expectations over the relevant period. share incentive awards on a post-tax basis. Principles for the impact of corporate transactions To the extent an individual does not meet their share ownership In light of the sale of the Beverage Dispense and Merchandising divisions during guideline, up to half of any annual bonus is automatically 2013, the Committee reviewed and approved principles that determine the way payable in shares. Further encouragement to meet the guideline in which such a corporate transaction will impact remuneration. It is clear that any is that a higher level of match is available under the Share corporate transaction, which is in the best interests of IMI and its shareholders, should not have an adverse impact on remuneration. The principles included the Matching Plan to those executives that own the desired level need for management to be treated in a manner consistent with shareholders in of shares compared to those who do not. respect to the rights to equity, that performance should be measured on a likefor-like basis, that there should be no compensation for adverse or favourable tax consequences and that any changes to performance computations will be Exceptional circumstances reviewed by the Company’s auditors. The Committee retains the authority to make ‘emergency’ payments on terms outside of those set out elsewhere in this policy Differences in the remuneration policy for executives relative to the broader to the extent they are needed in truly exceptional circumstances employee population and are genuinely unforeseen. Any such payments will be fully The remuneration framework in place for the executive directors is informed by the structure that sits beneath it for the broader employee population. While disclosed on a timely basis. absolute levels and the provision of certain components, benefits and allowances vary by country and level, the overarching themes are consistent: Appointments to the board • s alaries are reviewed annually with any increases made on a discretionary basis Base salary will be set taking into account factors including and informed by factors such as those set out in the policy table; market levels, experience, internal relativities and cost. • c onsistent with executive directors, senior managers participate in annual bonus The Committee may determine that an initial positioning below plans with measures linked to corporate, divisional and/or local performance depending on their level; market is appropriate and; in those circumstances, realign base salary in the years following appointment, which may result in • s enior managers can be considered for awards under the Share Matching Plan, albeit subject to lower matching levels. This is intended to encourage an exceptional rate of increase in the short-term. Any reliance share ownership in IMI. Senior managers and the broader employee on this principle will be noted at the time of appointment. population can also be considered for discretionary share option awards without performance conditions. The all-employee plans described in the Other components of annual remuneration will be set in line with policy table are offered on consistent terms to all employees in the countries the future policy table (on pages 59 to 61). The maximum bonus where the plans operate; and opportunity is 200% of salary, with a maximum opportunity under • w ith respect to benefits and allowances, eligibility and provision varies by the Share Matching Plan of 400% of salary and a maximum level and local market practice. For senior managers, it is standard to receive a company car allowance. Pension provision below the Board is accrued at award under the Performance Share Plan of 200% of salary. a lower rate, and can take the form of a cash allowance. In aggregate, the theoretical maximum variable pay opportunity that can be awarded in one year will be 800% of salary. As part of the appointments policy the Committee may also: • continue with the provision of existing remuneration components relating to pension, benefits and allowances for internal appointments; • provide benefits, allowances and/or payments related to relocation; and/or • m ake a long-term incentive award on appointment, outside of the annual cycle, under existing shareholder approved share plans and/or an individual award agreement to provide an immediate interest in company performance. The Committee will determine the level of any award, performance conditions and time horizon informed by the business circumstances at the time. The maximum value of such an award will be 200% of salary. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63 Group Overview Service contracts will be entered into on terms summarised Terms for Martin Lamb, Douglas Hurt and Roy Twite in the service contract policy (see below). As noted above, The key terms (as they relate to remuneration) not otherwise the Committee would authorise the payment of a relocation mentioned that are included in service contracts are as follows: allowance as well as other associated international mobility terms in line with IMI’s Global Mobility Policy. Notice period 12 months’ notice each way Business Review The Committee may consider ‘buying–out’ incentive awards, Payment in lieu Martin Lamb – no provision up to an equivalent value, that an individual forfeits in accepting of notice Douglas Hurt, Roy Twite – at the Committee’s discretion the appointment. To achieve this, the Committee’s preference Change of control Bonus entitlement if a change in control has taken has been to use the existing shareholder approved plans. place within the 24 months prior to termination When making their decision, the Committee will be informed Entitlements on No entitlement if dismissed for cause or resignation by the vehicles, time horizons, value and performance targets termination associated with any forfeited awards. A timely announcement with respect to any appointment and the appointee’s remuneration will be made to the regulatory Termination and loss of office news services (‘RNS’) and posted on IMI’s website. Full As noted above, it is the Committee’s policy that notice periods details will then also be included in the relevant report on in executive directors’ contracts shall be set at a period of remuneration in the Annual Report (as is the case for Mark up to 12 months, based on factors considered at the time Selway this year, see page 59). of the appointment. The primary principle underpinning the Performance Review determination of any payments on loss of office is that payments Service contracts for failure will not be made. Service contracts and plan rules have been drafted in such a way that the Committee has the During the year the Committee took the opportunity to review necessary powers to ensure this. the standard contractual terms for new appointments to the Board. Mark Selway’s contract reflects this and it is in On departure, the Committee will take into account factors line with the following policy that will apply to future Board including the reason for the executive leaving, performance appointments: during the time served in the year and contractual obligations when approving any payments. When an executive is Notice period 12 months’ notice each way terminated for cause there is no entitlement to salary, pension, Payment in lieu As determined by the Committee, but restricted to salary, benefits or an annual bonus and unvested awards under the of notice benefits and pension. Directors have a duty to mitigate SMP and PSP lapse. Change of No incremental payments or protection Any enhanced pension commitments that exist below the Corporate Governance control Board (under the arrangement described earlier for Martin Entitlements No entitlement if leaving as a ‘bad leaver’ as set out in on termination the contract Lamb) will continue to apply should an individual be appointed Salary, contractual benefits and pension allowance as per to the Board. The following table provides a summary of the notice period treatment of each component of pay. It should be noted that Committee power to make phased payments that would be the Committee applies judgement in determining whether reduced or stopped if alternative employment is taken up an individual is classed as a good leaver or otherwise under the share plans and is authorised to reach compromise agreements with departing executives. Agreed departure Pension terms specific to Martin Lamb can include death, ill health, redundancy or retirement. The key terms subject to Committee determination are As a consequence of the closure of the IMI Pension Fund summarised on the following page. (‘the Fund’) with effect from 31 December 2010, the Company made alternative arrangements in lieu of certain contractual entitlements to pension benefits which, but for the closure, Financial Statements would have been provided through the Fund to all members in the same membership category as Martin Lamb (Chief Executive at the time). Prior to leaving service or death, these alternative arrangements include annual (as at 31 December) augmentation of Fund benefits (up to the level that would have been provided save for closure) or an equivalent cash payment in lieu. Accordingly an augmentation of £2,694 was made to Martin’s benefit as at 31 December 2013 and no payment in lieu arose. 64 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) Payment Agreed departure Differences in a change in control situation Salary, pension* The Committee may make payment in lieu of notice. None. and benefits Annual bonus Individuals can be considered for a bonus; factors such as time Performance to the date of the event taking place will be considered in served during the performance period and performance can be determining whether any bonus should be payable, subject to the overall taken into account. maximum applicable to the relevant individual. Deferred bonuses vest. For directors appointed prior to September 2013, there remains a bonus entitlement if a change in control has taken place within the 24 months prior to termination. In this scenario, the director is entitled to a bonus, or compensation in lieu of bonus, in respect of the relevant calendar year. Share Matching Invested shares: Similar to agreed departure. Plan Invested shares are transferred back on cessation or at the end A reduction in the exercise period for vested but unexercised awards. of the investment period. Matching shares: Performance and time elapsed will be taken into account, but the Committee Performance measured at the end of the performance period, may enable awards to vest in full. or at the date of cessation of employment. In certain situations (as defined in the plan rules) rollover awards can be Pro-rating for time elapsed at cessation of employment will be offered, taking into account performance and time elapsed, although these considered by the committee. can be disapplied by the grantor. The Committee can reduce or increase the exercise period for unvested and vested but unexercised awards. Performance Performance measured at the end of the performance period, Similar to agreed departure. Share Plan or at the date of cessation of employment. A reduction in the exercise period for vested but unexercised awards. Pro-rating for time elapsed at cessation of employment will be Performance and time elapsed will be taken into account, but the Committee considered by the Committee. may enable awards to vest in full. The Committee can reduce or increase the exercise period for In certain situations (as defined in the plan rules) rollover awards can be unvested and vested but unexercised awards. offered, taking into account performance and time elapsed, although these can be disapplied by the grantor. Other The Committee may approve other limited payments which Similar to agreed departure. may include legal fees connected to the departure, untaken holiday, out-placement and repatriation. * Enhanced As described above in respect of Martin Lamb’s service contract. This does not apply to any other director. Pension Existing arrangements that apply to persons who are appointed as executive director will continue to apply. Considerations taken into account when setting our The Committee did not consult with employees when preparing directors’ remuneration policy the Directors’ Remuneration Policy for this report. Employment conditions at IMI Shareholder views When setting the salaries for executive directors the Committee The Committee has a standard annual agenda item whereby takes into account a number of factors (as noted in the future the feedback from shareholders and investor advisory bodies is policy table on pages 59 to 61) and these include the broader presented and discussed following the Annual General Meeting. employment conditions within IMI. More specifically: This feedback is sought and collated by the Company Secretary. The feedback that the Committee receives then informs • the Committee reviews budgeted salary increases across the discussions for the formulation of future policy and subsequent Group on a country-by-country basis when assessing the remuneration decisions. For example, following feedback in appropriateness of any increases for the Directors; and 2013 the Committee chose to reduce pension contributions from 35% of salary to 30% of salary for new appointments to • in making decisions the Committee also takes account the Board. of the internal relativities against the reference group and within the wider senior management team and general Furthermore, as appropriate, representatives of the Committee employee population. will meet with shareholders on specific matters, which may be prompted by either party. Details of these comparison metrics will be included in the Annual Remuneration Report each year. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65 Group Overview Future policy table – Chairman and non-executives Terminations policy for the Chairman and non-executive The table below summarises the policy with respect to the directors remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive directors. There are no provisions for the Company to pay compensation No component of remuneration is linked to performance and on early termination. there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the Business Review withholding of any payments. Appointments to the board policy for the Chairman and non-executive directors Letters of appointment for the Chairman and nonAny contractual terms will be consistent with those currently executive directors adopted for existing non-executive directors. The Chairman The letters of appointment set out key duties, including and non-executive directors are not eligible to receive any appropriate time commitments, provisions for induction variable pay. and familiarisation with the businesses and wider senior On appointment, fees for non-executive directors will be management team and require approval for other directorships consistent with the policy in place at the time of appointment. and potential conflicts of interest. If necessary, to secure the appointment of a new Chairman There are no provisions for the Company to give notice, but who is not based in the UK, payments relating to relocation the Chairman is required to give three months’ notice to the and/or housing may be provided. Company and non-executives one month. Subject to annual election at the Annual General Meeting, the initial period to first Performance Review Exceptional circumstances renewal is three years. After six years, renewal is considered on an annual basis. The Committee retains the authority to make payments outside of those set out elsewhere in this Policy to the extent they are The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the needed in truly exceptional circumstances and were genuinely Annual General Meeting and the Company’s registered office. unforeseen and thus are of an emergency nature. Any such Details of the dates and unexpired terms are included in the payments will be fully disclosed on a timely basis. Corporate Governance Report on page 41. Component Purpose Operation Annual Opportunity Base Fees To attract and retain high-calibre Fees are reviewed annually (or less frequently where The Chairman’s fee is fixed at £300,000 Corporate Governance individuals by offering marketnoted) and can be paid in cash and/or shares. (£225,000 in cash with the balance payable in competitive fees, commensurate IMI shares) until 31 December 2015, at which Benchmarked against companies of a similar size and to the time commitment and point it will be subject to review. complexity. experience that is required. At 31 December 2013 base fees for the nonWhen setting fees, factors considered include the level executive directors were £55,000, although this of increase for employees more generally, market data, is subject to review with any change effective business performance, external economic factors, the in 2014. skills required, time requirements and cost. In respect of the Chairman, IMI also consider the individual’s profile and experience. Additional To reflect the additional time Fees are reviewed annually and can be paid in cash Fee levels in place at 31 December 2013 and Fees required when an individual chairs and/or shares. subject to review in 2014: a committee or is appointed as The Chairman is not eligible to receive additional fees. Committee chairman: £15,000 senior independent director. Fees are benchmarked and set in a manner Senior independent director: £5,000 consistent with base fees (see above). Financial Statements Benefits To reimburse reasonable business Reimbursement in cash on production of receipts or Expenses incurred by the Chairman and nonexpenses. other proof of payment of business expense. executive directors in undertaking their role are reimbursed as a business expense and are not a personal benefit in kind. Typically these might include business travel, meals and entertainment. 66 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT Introduction • a  n overview of how the performance measures The Remuneration Committee presents the that were used in the executive incentive plans Annual Remuneration Report, which will be put in 2013 align with the strategic objectives of IMI; to shareholders as an advisory (non-binding) vote • a  full breakdown and explanation of the at the Annual General Meeting to be held on individual remuneration elements paid during or 8 May 2014. in respect of the 2013 financial year, along with Given the pay policy of IMI has been broadly details of delivered performance relative to the unchanged for a number of years, the targets that were set; remuneration paid in respect of 2013 is aligned • d  etails of share awards made during with the Directors’ Remuneration Policy that will 2013 under the Share Matching Plan and apply in the future. Performance Share Plan; This report comprises a number of sections: • a  summary of directors’ beneficial interests and • firstly, an introduction to your Committee along their progress towards IMI’s share ownership with a reminder of the voting outcome at our guidelines; and 2013 Annual General Meeting; • information on changes to pay, in line with • details of the remuneration paid in respect of our policy that will apply in the 2014 financial the 2013 financial year; year, including a summary of the payments associated with Martin Lamb’s retirement. • information on the comparative data, including a comparison of employment costs to other major cash distributions, the percentage change of elements of the Chief Executive’s remuneration relative to other employees, the historical performance and the Chief Executive’s pay at IMI; The Remuneration Committee (‘the Committee’) A copy of the terms of reference is available from the corporate governance section of the IMI website, where it appears as part Composition of IMI’s Corporate Governance Framework. As a matter The members of the Committee during the year were Bob Stack of course, the terms of reference are reviewed annually. (Chairman), Carl-Peter Forster, Anita Frew, Birgit Nørgaard, Terry During the year, the terms of reference were updated to Gateley (until 9 May 2013), and Roberto Quarta. In accordance reflect the Committee’s new reporting responsibilities and the with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the foregoing additional processes required in the future for formally approving non-executive directors were regarded by the Board as payments. More generally, the Committee recognises its independent and Roberto Quarta was considered independent responsibility for considering the risk implications of incentives on his appointment as Chairman of the Company. and the remuneration structure at IMI. Responsibility Internal advisors to the committee The Committee determines the remuneration policy and rewards During the year, the Committee consulted the Chief Executive, for the executive directors and, in his absence the Chairman. Martin Lamb, regarding the remuneration policy and the The Committee also reviews the remuneration packages of packages of the other executive directors and senior managers. those at the next most senior level of management and has It also received the advice and services of the Finance regard to levels of pay across the Group. Director, Douglas Hurt, the Group Human Resources Director, Matt Huckin (until 30 June 2013), the interim Group Human Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67 Group Overview Resources Director, Susan Hall (from 1July 2013), Group • review of the engagement of independent remuneration Reward Manager, Liz Rose, and the Company Secretary, John consultants and other advisers to the Committee; O’Shea, who is secretary to the Committee. None of these • a  review of the Committee’s own performance, constitution executives were involved in determining their own remuneration. and terms of reference; and Business Review External advisers to the Committee • review and approval of the retirement terms for Martin Lamb Independent remuneration advisers, Towers Watson, are and the recruitment terms for Mark Selway. formally appointed by the Committee and provided advice on directors’ remuneration to the Committee in 2013. Voting outcome at the 2013 Annual General Meeting Towers Watson notified the Committee that the firm are The following table summarises the details of votes cast actuaries and administrators for the IMI Pension Fund. in respect of the resolution to approve the Directors’ The Committee was comfortable that this did not represent Remuneration Report at the 2013 Annual General Meeting. a conflict of interest and that objective and independent advice would continue to be received by the Committee from Towers While the Committee was pleased with the level of support Watson. During 2013, Towers Watson has also supported shown by shareholders in respect of this resolution, management on some broader reward and human resource consideration was given to those shareholders that did not matters. The fees charged by Towers Watson in respect of vote in favour of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. In Committee advice and services totalled £190,000 in 2013. particular, the Committee was briefed on why Aviva (a major Performance Review shareholder) voted against the resolution and this feedback Towers Watson are signatories to the Remuneration informed the reduction in pension provision for new hires. Consultants’ Code of Conduct in the UK and the terms of engagement with Towers Watson are available on request As in previous years, details of the voting on all resolutions from the Company Secretary. at the 2014 Annual General Meeting will be announced via the RNS and posted on the IMI website following the Annual Finally, in conjunction with the retirement of Martin Lamb General Meeting. and the appointment of Mark Selway as Chief Executive the Committee engaged the services of Covington & Burling LLP. Covington & Burling LLP have previously represented Votes for Votes against Total votes cast Votes withheld (abstentions) IMI in the USA and were appointed based on both this and external recommendations. In respect of their services to the 211,345,514 7,230,257 218,575,771 2,320,001 Committee, Covington & Burling LLP charged £24,930 in 2013. 96.69% 3.31% 68.50% of ISC Corporate Governance ISC: Issued Share Capital A summary of the Committee activities during 2013 The Committee had four meetings during the year. The principal agenda items were as follows: • a review of total compensation packages of the executive directors and the most senior management of the Company; • approval of achievements and outcomes under the incentive plans; • setting the framework and target levels for the 2013 incentive cycle; • approval of the granting of share awards to other levels Financial Statements of management; • discussing the new remuneration regulations, reviewing policies and draft disclosures; • a review of the UK corporate governance environment; • a risk review of the remuneration framework; • consideration of the Chairman’s fees; 68 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) Executive single figure table (audited) The following table summarises the remuneration received by the executive directors in respect of the financial years ended 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012. The relevant explanatory details and supporting notes are included on the subsequent pages of this report and cross referenced in the table below. Annual Other items in the nature Fixed pay variable pay Long-term variable pay of remuneration (£000) (£000) (£000) (£000) Share Subtotal Annual matching Performance Long-term AllDividend Loss of Taxable incentive plan share variable Employee Equivalent office Total Director Base salary Pension benefits bonus (SMP) plan (PSP) pay Share Plans Payments payments (£000) See Page Page 70 Page 70-71 Page 71 Page 71-73 Page 73 Page 74-75 Page 75 Page 76 Page 76 2013 188 56 109 237 590 M W Selway 1 2012 2013 765 386 27 711 3,454 1,011 4,465 5 329 6,688 M J Lamb 2012 740 259 31 524 4,716 1,380 6,096 5 299 7,954 2013 417 146 20 323 1,580 554 2,134 3 180 3,223 D M Hurt 2012 405 142 24 238 2,281 757 3,038 3 111 3,961 2013 417 146 19 299 1,373 524 1,897 3 55 2,836 R M Twite 2012 405 142 23 222 1,869 716 2,585 4 28 3,409 2013 165 58 94 428 212 640 22 462 1,411 S Toomes 2 2012 330 116 190 174 481 481 20 1,311 These figures have been calculated as follows: Performance share plan: the value on vesting of shares that were subject to performance over the three-year period ending on Base salary: the actual salary receivable for the year 31 December in the relevant financial year. For shares Pension: the cash allowance paid in lieu of pension. The vesting in 2014, that related to performance in the prior figures for Martin Lamb also include the value of the three years to 31 December 2013, the share price over augmentation to his benefits under the IMI Pension the final three months of 2013 (1,487.41 pence) is used Fund, details of which are given on page 71. to determine an estimate of the value on vesting. For shares vested in 2013, relating to performance in the Taxable benefits: the gross value of all taxable benefits (or benefits prior three years to 31 December 2012 the share price that would be taxable in the UK) received in the year. on the date of vesting (1,266.00 pence) is used Annual incentive bonus: the value of the annual incentive payable for to determine their value. performance in respect of the relevant financial All-employee share plans: the value of free shares and dividends (SIP) at award year (half of this is automatically delivered in shares made in the relevant financial year and the intrinsic when the executive does not meet the share value of share options on the date of grant (SAYE) in ownership requirement). the relevant financial year (applying a 10% discount). Share matching plan: the value on vesting of the matching shares that were Dividend payments: the value of dividend equivalent shares on vested but subject to performance over the three-year period unexercised awards under the share plans, valued at ending on 31 December in the relevant financial year. the price on the dividend payment date. For shares vesting in 2014, that related to performance in the prior three years to 31 December 2013, the share Loss of office payments: amounts due in relation to the loss of office of a director. price over the final three months of 2013 (1,487.41 pence) is used to derive an estimate of the value on vesting. For shares vested in 2013, relating to performance in the prior three years to 31 December 2012 the share price on the date of vesting (1,266.00 1 Mark Selway was appointed on 1 October 2013 and the table reflects pence) is used to determine their value. payments from this date 2 Sean Toomes stepped down from the Board on 6 March 2013 and left the Company on 30 June 2013. The table reflects payments to the date of departure from the Company Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69 Group Overview Comparative data Historical performance and remuneration The following information is intended to provide additional In addition to considering executive remuneration in the context regarding the total remuneration for executive directors. context of internal comparisons, the Committee reviews annually the historical outcomes under the variable pay plans. Relative importance of pay spend In previous years the Committee has, for example, disclosed Business Review In 2013, the total dividend for the year of 35.3p represented historical bonus outcomes and relative total shareholder return an increase of 9% over last year’s 32.5p. Furthermore, as a (‘TSR’) performance. result of the sale of the Beverage Dispense and Merchandising In accordance with the new regulations, this section presents divisions a special return of £620m will be made to shareholders IMI’s performance, as measured by TSR (relative and in 2014 (not captured below). During the same period the total absolute) alongside the ‘single figure’ for the Chief Executive’s pay spend increased by 2% reflecting the salary inflation for remuneration over the last five years and a summary of the the Group. variable pay outcomes relative to the presiding maximum at the time. The following table summarises the major cash distributions during the year as set out in the operating review (see pages IMI’s TSR performance is compared to that of the FTSE 100. 51 to 52), compared to the total pay spend for the Group: This comparison has been chosen because the FTSE 100 represents the broad market index within which IMI shares 2013 2012 Change are traded. TSR is the measure of the returns that a company Performance Review £m £m has provided for its shareholders, reflecting share price Acquisitions 7.8 83.1 -91% movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends Dividends 106.2 97.8 9% (source: DataStream). Data is averaged over 30 days at the end of each financial year. Purchase of own shares 195.7 10.0 1857% As the graph below illustrates, IMI’s absolute and relative Total employment costs for Group 630.1 616.6 2% (see section 2.1.3 to the Accounts) TSR performance since 2008 has been strong, reflected in the outcomes under the variable pay programmes, which are largely driven by the financial performance of the Group. Relative percentage change in remuneration for Chief Executive The following table summarises the change between 2012 and 2013 in three elements of remuneration for Martin Lamb, in comparison to the average for a reference group of Total return from a hypothetical £100 investment employees, comprising those people in the senior management Corporate Governance team. This reference group is selected because data is held £ centrally meaning it is readily available for comparisons, 800 and it also covers a global and diverse population which £680 is representative of IMI as a whole. To avoid distorting the 700 comparisons, those members of the senior management team 600 that are on international assignment have been excluded. 500 While the Committee considers the increase in base pay 400 for the Chief Executive relative to the broader employee population; benefits are driven by local practices and eligibility 300 determined by level and individual circumstances which makes 200 £188 comparison difficult. Similarly, bonus payments are driven by different factors throughout the organisation and so typically 100 Financial Statements are not compared. 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2013 % change Base pay Taxable benefits Annual bonus IMI Chief Executive 3.4% -13% 36% FTSE 100 Reference Group 3.4% 4% 18% 70 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) The following table summarises the total remuneration for the Chief Executive over the last five years, and the outcomes of short and long-term incentive plans as a % of maximum. Financial Year ended 31 December 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total Remuneration 2,547 4,439 12,289 7,954 6,688 (single figure, £000) Annual variable pay 91% 95% 85% 47% 62% (% of maximum) Long-term variable pay 64% 97% 95% 100% 100% (% of maximum) Share Matching Plan Long-term variable pay 45% 100% 100% 100% 82.6% (% of maximum) Performance Share Plan Three-year increase in share price 2% 140% 180% 112% 61% (Based on three-month average before relevant date) Executive remuneration received in respect of 2013 policy across both the PSP and share matching plan (‘SMP’). In this sub-section we summarise each element of remuneration Given that Mark is not eligible to receive an award under the set out in the single figure table (page 68). However, first we detail SMP on appointment, an EVA measure will apply to the PSP the elements and contractual terms relating to Mark Selway’s award. In aggregate four measures will apply weighted as appointment as Chief Executive. follows: EPS growth (40%), relative TSR (20%), organic revenue growth (20%) and EVA (20%). The targets are Mark Selway’s appointment as Chief Executive consistent with those applied to PSP and SMP awards made Mark Selway’s remuneration package and contractual terms were to other executive directors in 2013, apart from TSR which informed by IMI’s remuneration philosophy, his prior experience will be measured from 1 October 2013, consistent with and feedback from shareholders. Mark’s appointment. From his appointment in October 2013 Mark’s key elements Mark’s service contract is in line with the policy set out on of remuneration were as follows: pages 59 to 61 of the directors’ remuneration policy for new appointments. • a n annual base salary of £750,000 (with the next review to be considered effective 1 January 2015); Base salary • a pension cash allowance of 30% of salary; Salaries effective in January 2013 were agreed taking into account the financial performance of the Group, uncertain • a standard benefits package in line with other executives, economic conditions, comparative market data and the need including a cash car and fuel allowance, death in service to balance internal relativities across the IMI Group. Martin Lamb’s cover, personal accident insurance and private health cover. salary increased 3.4% to £765,000, while the salaries of Douglas In addition, Mark receives two annual round trips between Hurt and Roy Twite increased by 3.0% to £417,150. Sean the UK and Australia for him and his spouse. Linked to his Toomes was not considered for an increase and so his salary relocation from Australia, the Committee approved a one-off remained unchanged at £330,000. relocation payment of £100,000; Pension (audited) • M ark is eligible to participate in the annual incentive plan immediately and will have a pro-rata bonus opportunity of Executive directors are entitled to receive a taxable cash 200% of salary (target of 100% of salary). Bonus is subject allowance instead of pension benefits. With the Committee’s to the rules of the IMI Annual Incentive Plan and 2013 targets approval the executive directors may, at their discretion, mirrored those in place for other executive directors (see redirect part or all of their allowance into any defined below); and contribution pension arrangement in the country in which they are contracted. Mark Selway receives a cash allowance of 30% • o n appointment, Mark received an award under the of salary and the other executive directors were eligible for performance share plan (‘PSP’) worth 200% of salary. a cash allowance of 35% of salary. The performance measures that apply to this award reflect IMI’s Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71 Group Overview Pension benefits for past service Benefits Martin Lamb, Roy Twite and Sean Toomes were previously During the year the executive directors received a number of active members of the defined benefit IMI Pension Fund (‘the benefits, which are in line with the policy that will apply from Fund’). Martin Lamb opted out with effect from 6 April 2006; the Annual General Meeting. These are summarised below. Roy Twite opted out with effect from 1 February 2007 and Amounts less than £10,000 per annum are combined. Business Review Sean Toomes from 31 August 2010. As a result they retain past pensionable service up to these dates. The nature of these MW MJ DM RM S benefits is more complicated than the pension benefits provided Selway Lamb Hurt Twite Toomes in respect of 2013, but the key elements are summarised below: Non-cash benefits (£000) Accrued pension in the Accrued pension in the Total 3 1 2 8 IMI Pension Fund as at IMI Pension Fund as at 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 Cash benefits and taxable allowances (£000) £000pa £000pa Company 2 20 17 17 9 M J Lamb 331 318 car and fuel allowance R M Twite 65 64 Relocation 100 77 S Toomes 74 72 Performance Review Other 7 4 2 • the normal retirement age under the Fund is 60 for Martin Lamb and 62 for Total 109 27 20 19 94 Roy Twite and Sean Toomes. Martin Lamb may elect to retire from employment with IMI and receive a pension at any time after age 57 without any actuarial discount, and Roy Twite may retire from employment with IMI any time after age 60 without actuarial discount. In addition to the above benefits and allowances that are included in the single figure (refer to table on page 68), the executive • on death after retirement, a dependant’s pension is provided equal to two-thirds directors are also beneficiaries of company policies that have of the member’s pension for Martin Lamb and 50% of the member’s pension for Roy Twite and Sean Toomes. no taxable value, including directors’ insurance, death in service cover, travel insurance, the use of a company driver and personal • should Martin Lamb die within the first five years of retirement, a lump sum is also paid equal to the balance of five years’ pension payments. For Roy accident cover. The figures published in respect of 2012 have Twite and Sean Toomes, the dependant’s pension is increased to 100% of the been updated to exclude all-employee share plan awards, which member’s pension for the remainder of the five year period. are now captured separately in the single figure table. • p  ensions in payment, in excess of any guaranteed minimum pension, are Corporate Governance increased each year in line with price inflation up to a maximum of 5% in respect Annual incentive bonus of pension built up before 1 January 2006, and 2.5% in respect of pension built up after 1 January 2006. During 2013, all of the executive directors participated in the • M  artin Lamb’s past pension benefits generally continue to be linked to final annual bonus plan (including Mark Selway from 1 October salary inflation (averaged over the past three years) and equivalent benefits 2013). The plan is focused on the financial performance of to those provided for under the Fund rules immediately prior to closure are IMI during the year, with 80% of the outcome linked to profit preserved in relation to ill-health retirement, death in service and early retirement at the Company’s instance. The difference between these benefits and those before tax (35%), Group adjusted EPS (15%), revenue growth automatically provided under the Fund, the enhanced protection member (EPM) (15%) and cash conversion (15%). The remaining 20% is benefits, is assessed as at 31 December each year until death in service or based on non-financial measures linked to health, safety and retirement on ill-health grounds or at the Company’s instance and there may be the environment (5%), compliance with The IMI Way (5%) and a payment to the Fund (to augment Fund benefits) or a payment in lieu to Martin Lamb (or his estate) or by way of contribution to another pension arrangement personal objectives (10%). shortly after each year end until a final augmentation or payment is made following death in service or relevant early retirement event. EPM benefits were During the year, significant progress was made on a number payable as at 31 December 2013 and Martin Lamb received additional Fund of fronts. We continued to deliver positive results for our pension of £2,694 pa in respect of these benefits. This amount is included in shareholders. In particular: Financial Statements the table above. No EPM benefits were payable as at 31 December 2012 or 31 December 2011. • a  djusted profit before tax grew to £297.7m, an increase of 8% on 2012; • adjusted basic earnings per share increased by 12% compared to 2012; • o  rganic revenue growth was 1% in 2013, reflecting more challenging first half conditions in certain markets. In the second half of the year the Group achieved an organic growth of 4%; 72 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) • c ash conversion targets were met in full; and Commercial sensitivity is not defined in the regulations and so the Committee identified the following: • w e have seen a very strong performance again in 2013 for Health and Safety. Our rate for >3day LTAs is some 36% down • information that is price sensitive; compared to 2012. • information that would give insights to competitors that could The new directors’ remuneration regulations have increased be damaging to the business; and/or disclosure requirements with respect to performance measures • information that would enable outsiders to replicate budget and targets under incentive plans. One of the areas of discussion setting and forecasting processes. for the Committee in 2013 and early 2014, under the authority delegated by the Board, was the extent to which any of this It is the opinion of the Committee that detailed disclosure, information is deemed to be ‘commercially sensitive’, and if either on a forward looking or retrospective basis of financial and so over what period of time. operational bonus targets is commercially sensitive. This position will be kept under review. However, to give shareholders a sense of delivered performance in the context of the ranges set at the start of the financial year, the following graph illustrates actual outcomes relative to the ranges set: Below Above Bonus Threshold Target Maximum Threshold Maximum earned Profit before tax 19.8% Earnings per share 9.5% Organic revenue growth 0.0% Cash conversion 15.0% Health & Safety 5.0% In addition to these quantifiable financial and non-financial measures, each executive director has a number of personal objectives, some linked to The IMI Way. These personal objectives and the Committee’s assessment of individuals’ performance against them is described below, to the extent the Committee does not believe the information to be commercially sensitive. Measures and Committee’s assessment of performance Level of award (% of salary) MW In light of Mark Selway’s short time on the Board during 2013, the Committee determined that Mark’s personal 20% Selway1 contribution to the business over the period would be an assessment by the Committee and the Chairman. The Committee reviewed his first few months and agreed that their expectations had been met in full. M J Lamb The performance measures fell into eight areas which included leadership, strategic progress, organisational design, 11.1% succession planning and M&A. Key achievements identified by the Committee included recruiting key individuals to the Executive Committee and leading the strategic development of the Group with the sale of the Beverage Dispense and Merchandising businesses. D M Hurt The performance measures fell into five areas including financial controls, major projects, M&A and tax. The 9.1% key achievements identified by the Committee included improvement in financial controls across the Group and successful management of the sale of the Beverage Dispense and Merchandising businesses in conjunction with supporting the recent technology acquisitions announced earlier in the year. R M Twite The performance measures fell into nine key areas, which included people development, Severe Service margins, 9.4% cash conversion and corporate development. The key achievements identified by the Committee included delivering improved bookings, margins and inventory reduction within the Severe Service division and progress in terms of corporate development. 1 Pro-rated bonus opportunity since appointment on 1 October 2013. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73 Group Overview The aggregate resulting annual bonuses achieved as a result of the delivered performance which is described on the previous page is as follows: 2013 Maximum Total bonus Total bonus Achievement of share Bonus delivered Bonus delivered bonus opportunity awarded (£000) awarded (% of ownership guidelines in form of cash in form of shares (% of salary) salary) at 31 Dec 2013 (£000) (£000) Business Review M W Selway1 200% 237 127% 237 M J Lamb 150% 711 93% 440% 711 D M Hurt 125% 323 77% 708% 323 R M Twite 115% 299 72% 470% 299 1 Pro-rated bonus opportunity since appointment on 1 October 2013. Awards vesting under the share matching plan three financial years from 2011 to 2013 compared to EVA in the preceding three financial years. Awards lapse for negative In March 2011, awards were made to the executive directors compound growth. However for positive growth between under the Share Matching Plan (‘SMP’). At the date of awards, 0% and 6%, 10% to 25% of matching shares vested; and all executives exceeded their individual share ownership for growth between 6% and 17%, 25% to 100% of matching Performance Review requirement and as such were invited to invest up to the shares vested. Within each band, vesting is calculated on a maximum permitted. straight-line basis. Over the period IMI delivered compound The vesting of the awards was subject to the achievement annual EVA growth of 19% based on three-year EVA from of an Economic Value Added (‘EVA’) performance condition 2011 to 2013 of £635.6m compared to three-year EVA from (see page 24 for definition), measured over the three-year 2008 to 2010 of £377.1m. This is reflective of the value that period ending 31 December 2013. The calculation of EVA is IMI Management has delivered to its shareholders. Under the based on segmental operating profit after tax with appropriate SMP, matching awards attract dividend equivalent payments adjustments, less a capital charge on the invested capital in in the form of shares to the date of exercise. The total awards the business reflecting IMI’s cost of capital. The performance vesting in March 2014 were as follows: measure considered compound annual growth in EVA over the Shares Initial Value on date Number of Additional Total matching Value of matching Corporate Governance invested by the matching of award1 matching shares dividend shares vesting shares on vesting2 executive award (£000) vesting equivalent (£000) shares M J Lamb 52,070 212,530 2,159 212,530 19,698 232,228 3,454 D M Hurt 23,812 97,190 987 97,190 9,008 106,198 1,580 R M Twite 20,690 84,448 858 84,448 7,827 92,275 1,373 S Toomes 3 11,469 26,332 268 26,332 2,440 28,772 428 1 The mid-market price on the date of award was 1,016.00 pence. 2 Awards will vest on 28 March 2014. The price on vesting is unknown at this time and so the total number of shares vesting is valued at the average price over the last quarter of 2013 (1,487.41 pence). Awards take the form of nil-cost options and can be exercised over a period of up to seven years following vesting, unless reduced under the terms of an individuals’ departure. Financial Statements 3 Sean Toomes’ initial award of 35,109 shares was time pro-rated to reflect the terms of his departure. 74 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) Awards vesting under the performance share plan The 2011 peer group comprised the following companies, adjusted to take account of merger and acquisition activity In March 2011, awards were also made to executive directors during the performance period in line with the Committee’s under the Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’). The vesting of the established guidelines: awards was subject to the achievement of three independent performance conditions, measured over the three-year period ending 31 December 2013. These measures and the actual UK USA performance delivered is described below. BBA Aviation Borgwarner • EPS growth Bodycote Eaton  Half of each award was subject to the achievement of an Cobham Emerson Electric EPS growth performance measure. Under the PSP, EPS GKN Flowserve Corp is defined as adjusted basic earnings per share before the post-tax impact of any reported exceptional items, which may Halma Honeywell include rationalisation costs, intangible amortisation and IAS39 Johnson Matthey IDEX charges or credits for changes in the fair value of financial Invensys Illinois Tool Works instruments. EPS was chosen as an appropriate measure because it rewards absolute growth in underlying earnings and Meggitt Ingersoll-Rand because the Committee believed it worked well in combination Rotork Manitowoc with TSR which is an external, relative measure of performance. Spectris Parker-Hannifin  rowth of 6% per annum would trigger the minimum level of G Spirax-Sarco Engineering Pentair vesting (25% of the EPS element), increasing on a straightVesuvius (formerly Cookson) Tyco International line basis such that awards were eligible to vest in full for EPS growth of 15% per annum. Over the period IMI delivered EPS Weir Group growth of 12.3% p.a. increasing EPS from 63.6p in 2010 to Finland a comparable 90.1p at the end of 2013. Japan Metso Corporation • Relative TSR Amada 2  5% of each award was subject to the achievement of a Fanuc Germany relative Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) performance measure. NSK TSR is defined as the movement in share price during Heidelberg Druckmaschinen the performance period, measured in local currency, with SMC adjustments to take account of changes in capital structure THK and dividends, which are assumed to be reinvested in shares Sweden Yaskawa Electric on the ex-dividend date. TSR was chosen as a measure as it Atlas Copco is an external, relative benchmark for performance that aligns executives’ rewards with the creation of shareholder value. Sandvik SKF B Switzerland Sulzer AG At the end of the three-year performance period, the Company ranked in the top quartile of the peer group. This reflects the strong absolute and relative performance of the Group. Furthermore, the Committee was in agreement that the outcome under the TSR measure was reflective of the general underlying financial performance of the Company. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 75 Group Overview • R  eturn on operating capital employed ROCE of 65% would trigger the minimum level of vesting (25% of the ROCE element); increasing on a straight-line  5% of each award was subject to the achievement of a 2 basis such that awards were eligible to vest in full for ROCE return on operating capital employed (‘ROCE’) performance of 85%. Over the period IMI delivered ROCE of 78.2%. measure. ROCE is defined as segmental operating profit divided by segmental net assets excluding intangible assets. In aggregate, 82.6% of the initial number of shares awarded Business Review ROCE was adopted as a performance measure for these were released to the executives. Under the PSP, awards awards to incentivise sustained working capital improvement. attract dividend equivalent payments in the form of shares and the total awards vesting in March 2014 are as follows: Initial award Value on date of Number of initial Additional dividend Total shares Value of shares on award1 shares vesting equivalent shares vesting vesting2 (£000) (£000) M J Lamb 75,300 720 62,198 5,765 67,963 1,011 D M Hurt 41,300 395 34,114 3,161 37,275 554 R M Twite 39,000 373 32,214 2,985 35,199 524 S Toomes3 15,825 151 13,071 1,211 14,282 212 Performance Review 1 The mid-market price on the date of award was 956.17 pence. 2 A  wards will vest on 10 March 2014. The price on vesting is unknown at this time and so the total number of shares vesting is valued at the average price over the last quarter of 2013 (1,487.41 pence). Awards take the form of nil-cost options and can be exercised over a period of up to seven years following vesting, unless reduced under the terms of an individual’s departure. 3 Sean Toomes initial award of 21,100 shares was time pro-rated to reflect the terms of his departure. All-employee share plans The executive directors are entitled to participate in the allemployee share plans on the same terms as other eligible employees at IMI, as set out in the policy report. In 2013, Martin Lamb, Douglas Hurt and Roy Twite all received free Corporate Governance share awards under the Employee Share Ownership Plan. No grants were made under the SAYE in 2013, although Martin Lamb and Roy Twite received awards in 2012. Share Incentive Plan SAYE Total value under Number of shares Value of free Number of options Value of SAYE Dividends the all-employee awarded share award1 awarded options2 (£000) share plans (£000) (£000) (£000) 2013 240 3 2 5 M J Lamb 2012 323 3 1,011 1 1 5 2013 240 3 3 D M Hurt Financial Statements 2012 323 3 3 2013 240 3 3 R M Twite 2012 323 3 1,011 1 4 1 In 2013 free shares were awarded at a share price of 1,249.33 pence (927.36 pence in 2012). 2 In 2012 SAYE awards were made at a 10% discount and the value shown is the intrinsic gain at the date of grant, calculated in accordance with the single figure requirements (on page 68). 76 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) Dividend payments Share interests granted to executive directors during Under the share matching plan (‘SMP’) and performance share 2013 (audited) plan (‘PSP’), dividend equivalent payments are made on vested Grants made under the share matching plan but unexercised share awards, which take the form of nil-cost options. These dividend equivalents, while notionally tracked Grants under the SMP were made on 9 April 2013. The by IMI from grant to exercise, are not paid or transferred to the Committee invited those eligible to participate at the maximum participant until the point of exercise. These dividend equivalents level permitted in respect of 2013. Mark Selway and Sean have been included in the single figure (the table on page 68) Toomes were not eligible to participate during 2013. Awards based on the number of dividend equivalents notionally accrued take the form of nil-cost share options and the size of the award in any financial year, valued at the price on the dividend payment reflects an individual’s bonus opportunity and the extent to which date. Any residual cash is rolled over and applied to the they had achieved the share ownership guideline. subsequent dividend equivalent purchase. Achievement of Initial Value on Award as a Loss of office payments (audited) Share Ownership matching date of percentage Guideline as at award award 1 of salary During 2013 Sean Toomes resigned as a director of IMI. Sean’s 31 Dec 2013 (£000) loss of office payments were calculated in accordance with his M J Lamb Yes 185,898 2,353 298% entitlements under his service contract and the relevant incentive plan rules. D M Hurt Yes 84,784 1,073 249% The aggregate payment shown in the single figure table was R M Twite Yes 78,000 987 229% £461,806. This comprised: 1 The mid-market price on the date of award was 1,226.00 pence. • £247,500 payment in lieu of notice for salary, reflecting nine months of his 12 month notice period; Matching awards will vest subject to the achievement of an EVA • £  86,625 payment in lieu of notice for pension, reflecting nine performance condition over the three financial years ending 31 months of his 12 month notice period; December 2015. The definition of EVA is unchanged from that used in previous years. • £  45,274 payment in lieu of notice for benefits, including reimbursement for untaken holiday; and Grants made under the performance share plan • £  82,407 in respect of relocation and outplacement costs, Grants under the PSP were made on 12 March 2013 to Martin in line with the IMI Global Mobility Policy and International Lamb, Douglas Hurt and Roy Twite; and on 22 October 2013 Assignment Framework. to Mark Selway. As described at the start of this section, In addition, Sean was not eligible for a bonus in respect of 2013, Mark Selway’s award is subject to a slightly different mix of nor any awards under the long-term incentive plans. Outstanding performance measures and targets to reflect both the timing awards under the SMP and PSP will vest in accordance with the of his appointment and the inclusion of the EVA target applying plan rules. In respect of those awards where the performance to 2013 SMP awards. period was not completed by 30 June 2013, awards were proPerformance share awards will vest subject to the achievement rated to that date and will vest subject to performance on the of EPS, relative TSR, organic revenue growth and, in the case normal vesting date. Exercise periods will be shortened for any of Mark Selway, EVA performance over a three-year period. nil-cost options and vested but unexercised awards under the The definitions of EPS and TSR are consistent with previous Share Option Plan. years. However, in light of Mark Selway’s appointment during the year, TSR performance will be measured over the three-year Payments to past directors (audited) period from his date of appointment (as opposed to the three It is the Committee’s intention to disclose any payments to past financial years from 1 January 2013 as is the case for the directors, including the vesting of share-based awards post other executives). departure on a basis consistent with the executive directors. Organic revenue growth (calculated as an average annual growth During the year no payments were made to past directors. rate) has been adopted as a performance measure for the 2013 In particular, the Committee can confirm that under the terms PSP awards to encourage continued focus on organic growth. of his departure, Ian Whiting’s 2011 share matching plan and Revenue is defined as published revenues before exceptional performance share plan awards lapsed. items adjusted, at the Committee’s discretion, to exclude the impact of material acquisitions and disposals by the Company completed during the performance period and to remove the impact of exchange rate movements. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 77 Group Overview All of the performance measures are defined in such a manner to allow the Committee discretion to make further adjustments to these definitions as it determines is fair and reasonable. The performance targets that apply to the 2013 PSP awards are as follows: EPS growth Relative TSR Organic revenue Level of vesting EVA Level of vesting Business Review growth (EVA only) Threshold 6% p.a. Median 2.7% 25% 0% 6% 10% 25% Maximum 15% p.a. Upper quartile 8% 100% 17% 100% Weight for M W 40% 20% 20% 20% Selway Weight for other 50% 25% 25% N/A executive directors The following grants were approved and made during 2013: PSP shares Value on date of Award as a awarded award1 percentage of Performance Review (£000) salary M W Selway 98,792 1,500 200% M J Lamb 57,800 765 100% D M Hurt 31,500 417 100% R M Twite 31,500 417 100% 1 The mid-market price on the date of award for Martin Lamb, Douglas Hurt and Roy Twite was 1,324.00 pence and for Mark Selway was 1,518.33 pence. Chairman’s and non-executive directors’ single figure table (audited) The following table summarises the total fees and benefits paid to the Chairman and non-executive directors in respect of the Corporate Governance financial years ending 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012. Director 2013 (£000) 2012 (£000) Base Fees Additional Fees Total Base Fees Additional Fees Total R Quarta 250 250 250 250 P Bentley1 55 10 65 13 13 C P Forster 2 55 55 13 13 A M Frew3 55 3 58 53 53 T M Gateley 4 20 7 27 53 15 68 B Norgaard 5 55 55 8 8 Financial Statements R J Stack 55 15 70 53 10 63 1 Appointed as a non-executive 1 October 2012 and as Audit Committee chairman 9 May 2013 (fee pro-rated) 2 Appointed as a non-executive 1 October 2012 3 Appointed senior independent director 9 May 2013 (fee pro-rated) 4 Resigned from the Board 9 May 2013 5 Appointed as a non-executive 6 November 2012 78 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) Directors’ shareholdings and achievement of share ownership guidelines (audited) The following table summarises the share interests of any director who served during the year as at 31 December 2013. Director Total Beneficial Scheme interests interests interests With performance Nil-cost options All-employee conditions share plans With performance conditions Unvested Vested but unexercised M W Selway 98,792 98,792 98,792 M J Lamb 1,880,341 223,555 1,650,647 951,269 699,378 6,139 D M Hurt 1,204,137 196,851 1,002,416 454,585 547,831 4,870 R M Twite 721,602 127,328 587,902 419,962 167,940 6,372 S Toomes 90,957 90,957 90,957 R Quarta 4,000 4,000 P Bentley 8,000 8,000 C-P Forster 3,000 3,000 A M Frew 7,500 7,500 T M Gateley 7,500 7,500 B Nørgaard 3,000 3,000 R J Stack 15,000 15,000 As described in the policy report (see page 62), the Committee requires executive directors to build up a shareholding of at least 125% of salary over five years from the date of their appointment. At the end of the year Martin Lamb, Douglas Hurt and Roy Twite all significantly exceeded the share ownership guideline. Mark Selway, who was appointed on 1 October 2013, did not purchase any shares during 2013. In line with the guideline, Mark Selway has a period of five years from his date of appointment to build up a shareholding worth 125% of his salary. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 79 Group Overview Application of the directors’ remuneration policy in 2014 Annual incentive bonus Below we set out details of how the directors’ remuneration Mark Selway’s and Martin Lamb’s bonus opportunity was not policy will be implemented in 2014. In addition we summarise subject to review in 2014. Douglas Hurt’s bonus opportunity the terms of Martin Lamb’s retirement payments which will be was unchanged at 125% of salary. Roy Twite’s bonus due during the course of 2014. opportunity increased to 125% of salary to take account Business Review of the scope of the role, performance, internal relativities Martin Lamb’s retirement payments and comparative market data. The measures and weightings As announced in 2013, Martin Lamb notified the Board in are as described in the policy table. The Committee has September 2013 of his intention to retire. It was agreed that determined that the targets associated with the performance Martin would remain as a director until the Annual General measures are commercially sensitive and therefore is not Meeting, at which point he will step down as a director and disclosing them on a prospective basis. This position will be retire, with the cessation of employment taking effect at the reviewed at the end of the financial year to determine whether end of his 12 month notice period in September 2014. any information will be disclosed at that time. In line with his contractual rights, the Committee has approved Grants to be made under the share matching plan and agreed the following terms and payments which will be fully disclosed in next year’s single figure table: The executive directors, other than Martin Lamb, are eligible to participate in the SMP in 2014. As in previous years, • p  ayment of salary (frozen at £765,000), contractual benefits individuals may invest up to 100% of their maximum annual Performance Review and pension allowance until cessation of employment; bonus opportunity into IMI shares; the limit being set on an  ligible for a pro-rata annual bonus in respect of the time • e annual basis by the Committee. The Committee intends to served as a director in 2014, payable at the usual time allow such a maximum level of investment in 2014. around March 2015; Mark Selway will invest his entire 2013 bonus into IMI shares • under the terms of the plan rules, the Committee has under the SMP, but will not make any further investment. pro-rated the outstanding 2013 share awards under both Douglas Hurt and Roy Twite will participate in the SMP the Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan on under the normal terms of the plan. a financial year basis to 31 December 2014. Performance Vesting will continue to be based on an EVA performance over will be measured and applied in the normal manner to a three-year period, with the measure, targets and vesting determine vesting, with the shares released on the normal schedule consistent with grants made in 2013. vesting date for each award; and Grants to be made under the performance share plan • pension benefits are being provided as described elsewhere Corporate Governance in this report, on the basis of service up to the date of The executive directors, other than Martin Lamb, are eligible retirement. The pension payable from the IMI Pension Fund to participate in the PSP in 2014. As part of Mark Selway’s (‘the Fund’) is reduced for early payment, in accordance with appointment the Committee agreed to make an aggregate the Fund rules, as Martin Lamb is retiring prior to age 55. long-term incentive award in 2014 worth 200% of salary. The Company has, however, asked the Trustee to defer As such, he will receive a PSP award worth 149% of salary pension payments until Martin Lamb reaches age 55 and an SMP award worth 51% of salary in 2014. Performance (January 2015), and to increase the pension that would share awards of 100% of salary will be made to Douglas Hurt otherwise have been payable from that date to reflect this and Roy Twite, but not to Martin Lamb. Vesting of these awards period of deferral. The exact sums will be disclosed in an will be subject to EPS growth (50%), relative TSR (25%) and appropriate manner when they are known. organic revenue growth (25%), with measures, targets and the vesting schedule consistent with grants made in 2013. Executive director fixed pay Fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors Salaries effective in January 2014, or at date of appointment The Chairman’s sole remuneration consists of a fee from Financial Statements in respect of Mark Selway, were agreed taking into account a range of factors including the performance of the Group, 1 January 2014 of £300,000 per annum inclusive of all comparative market data and salary increases for other Committee and other work. This is the first time the Chairman’s employees. The average increase for employees was 3.2%, fee has been reviewed since his appointment on 1 November compared to 3.1% for the executive directors. Mark Selway’s 2011. It was agreed to increase the Chairman’s remuneration and Martin Lamb’s salaries were not subject to review in 2014; on the basis that the amount is fixed for two years from the salaries for Douglas Hurt and Roy Twite increased by 3.1% 1 January 2014 and 25% would be taken as shares to to £430,000. be retained until retirement. Other elements of fixed pay (benefits and pension) will A review of the non-executive directors’ base fees, committee be unchanged. chairman and senior independent director fees will be carried out in 2014. 80 IMI plc FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In this section we set out our financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 in compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards. We have reformatted the financial statements this year to make them easier to navigate and provide user-friendly explanations in plain English. INTRODUCTION PRIMARY An explanation of the financial impacts STATEMENTS of the key events during the year from The primary statements for the our Finance Director, Douglas Hurt, Group, including the consolidated together with a more detailed index income statement, balance sheet to the financial statements. and statement of cash flows. Page 82 Pages 86-91 SECTION 1 SECTION 2 BASIS OF PREPARATION RESULTS FOR THE YEAR A description of the key factors Further information relating to the underpinning the Group financial performance of the Group during statements and significant changes the year, providing supporting in comparison to the prior year. analysis for items reported in the income statement. Page 92 Pages 93-105 SECTION 3 SECTION 4 OPERATING ASSETS CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND LIABILITIES Information relating to equity, debt Further information relating to the assets and retirement benefit obligations and liabilities of the Group at the year-end, in the year-end balance sheet, which providing supporting analysis for operating together form our capital base. items reported in the balance sheet. Pages 106-111 Pages 112-136 SECTION 5 COMPANY FINANCIAL OTHER SUPPORTING NOTES STATEMENTS Other supporting notes to the Group The financial statements for the holding financial statements, including the company of the Group, IMI plc. accounting policies. Pages 137-143 Page 148-152 Main photo: Rio de Janerio, Brazil. Fact: “India, China and Brazil are expected to trade negatively on agriculture over the next decade as domestic productivity declines against the increasing demands of a growing population.” Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 82 IMI plc Financial statements FINANCE DIRECTOR’S INTRODUCTION Dear Shareholder Welcome to the Financial Statements section of our Effect of the disposal of our retail dispense businesses Annual Report. on the Annual Report Structural changes to this year’s Group Financial The disposal on 1 January 2014 of the Beverage Dispense Statements and Merchandising businesses (together, ‘the Retail Dispense businesses’) was a major event for the Group and whilst it To help with the Corporate Governance requirement to make our completed shortly after the year of this report, the consequence Annual Report fair, balanced and understandable, we have taken of the Board’s decision during 2013 to sell these operations has the opportunity to restructure this section of the Annual Report. a major impact on our Income Statement and Balance Sheet. Rather than including my Financial Review in a separate section, The Income Statement for 2013 and 2012 now includes the you will now find this commentary set out alongside the primary results of the Retail Dispense businesses outside of the normal statements. This should allow easier cross referencing between revenue, segmental profit, profit before tax and taxation lines the primary statements and the commentary. and instead includes the whole of its income and expenses, Whilst the accounting policies adopted by the Company are an including taxation, in one line net of tax at the foot of the Income important part of our Annual Report, we recognise that many Statement, under the caption ‘Discontinued Operations’. This readers of the Financial Statements prefer to use these as a presentation serves to present a picture of what the Group’s reference tool. These policies are now included towards the Income Statement for 2013 would have looked like without end of the Financial Statements rather than at the beginning. these businesses and presents 2012 on the same basis. We included 28 notes to the Group Financial Statements in Similarly, the Balance Sheet includes the assets and liabilities to the previous year and while all of this information is necessary be sold in this transaction in separate ‘held for sale’ categories to ensure we comply with International Financial Reporting on the face of the Balance Sheet, although, as required by Standards, it does not always make it easy to find what you are International Financial Reporting Standards, the comparative looking for. We have therefore restructured the notes into five figures in the Balance Sheet for 2012 are not restated on a new categories (as outlined in the table of contents on the comparable basis. following page) for easier navigation. I trust that you find these changes helpful and would be At the beginning of each section you will find a short note pleased to receive any feedback on how we might further explaining the contents of the section and throughout the improve the communication of our financial results and sections you will find a text box which attempts to explain some statements in the future. of the more complicated items in more user-friendly language. Douglas Hurt Finance Director Annual Report and Accounts 2013 83 Financial statements INTRODUCTION AND TABLE OF CONTENTS What you will find in this section Primary Statements These financial statements have been presented in a Consolidated Income Statement and commentary thereon............ 84 manner which attempts to make them less complex Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, and more relevant to shareholders, and in particular, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and to give consideration to the Financial Reporting Council’s commentary thereon.................................................................. 86 requirement for the financial statements to be fair, balanced Consolidated Balance Sheet and and understandable. We have grouped notes in sections commentary thereon.................................................................. 88 under five headings: ‘Basis of Preparation’, ‘Results for the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and Year’, ‘Operating Assets and Liabilities’, ‘Capital Structure commentary thereon.................................................................. 90 and Financing Costs’ and ‘Other Notes’. The purpose of this format is to provide readers with a clearer understanding Section 1 – Basis of Preparation............................................ 92 of what drives the financial performance of the Group. Section 2 – Results for the Year Text in boxes provides commentary on each section in plain English. 2.1 Segmental operating profit.................................................... 93 2.2 Exceptional items................................................................. 98 2.3 Earnings per share................................................................ 99 Notes to the financial statements provide additional information required by statute, accounting standards or the Listing Rules 2.4 Taxation.............................................................................. 101 to explain a particular feature of the financial statements. The 2.5 Discontinued operations..................................................... 104 notes that follow will also provide explanations and additional Section 3 – Operating Assets and Liabilities disclosure to assist readers’ understanding and interpretation of the Annual Report and the financial statements. 3.1 Working capital................................................................... 106 3.2 Intangible assets................................................................. 107 3.3 Property, plant and equipment............................................ 109 3.4 Acquisitions........................................................................ 110 3.5 Provisions........................................................................... 111 Section 4 – Capital Structure and Financing Costs 4.1 Net cash/(debt)................................................................... 112 4.2 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings................................ 113 4.3 Net financing costs............................................................. 114 4.4 Financial risk management................................................. 115 4.5 Retirement benefits............................................................. 124 4.6 Share capital...................................................................... 131 4.7 Share-based payments...................................................... 133 4.8 Non-controlling interests..................................................... 136 Section 5 – Other Notes 5.1 Contingent liabilities............................................................ 137 5.2 Related party transactions.................................................. 137 5.3 Subsequent events............................................................. 137 5.4 Significant accounting policies............................................ 137 Statement of Director’s Responsibilities............................. 144 Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of IMI plc (Group).................................................. 145 Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of IMI plc (Company)............................................ 147 IMI plc Company Financial Statements............................... 148 Subsidiary undertakings....................................................... 153 Five year summary................................................................ 154 Shareholder and general information.................................. 156 84 IMI plc CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT For the year ended 31 December 2013 2013 2012 (restated) Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m Revenue 2.1.1, 2.1.2 1,744 (1) 1,743 1,696 (2) 1,694 Segmental operating profit 2.1 321.6 321.6 300.1 300.1 Reversal of net economic hedge contract gains 2.2.1 (5.1) (5.1) (6.8) (6.8) Net credit on special pension events 2.2.5 10.9 10.9 Restructuring costs 2.2.2 (14.2) (14.2) (18.9) (18.9) Preparatory costs for sale of Retail Dispense businesses 2.2.3 (8.0) (8.0) Acquired intangible amortisation 2.2.2 (21.9) (21.9) (29.6) (29.6) Other acquisition-related costs 2.2.4 (1.9) (1.9) (6.3) (6.3) Operating profit 321.6 (51.1) 270.5 300.1 (50.7) 249.4 Financial income 4.3 4.2 20.2 24.4 3.5 13.9 17.4 Financial expense 4.3 (20.2) (17.5) (37.7) (21.0) (8.1) (29.1) Net finance charge relating to defined benefit pension schemes 4.5.3.3 (7.9) (7.9) (7.8) (7.8) Net financial (expense)/income (23.9) 2.7 (21.2) (25.3) 5.8 (19.5) Profit before tax 297.7 (48.4) 249.3 274.8 (44.9) 229.9 Taxation 2.4.5 (65.5) 9.8 (55.7) (66.0) 10.4 (55.6) Profit from continuing operations after tax 232.2 (38.6) 193.6 208.8 (34.5) 174.3 Profit from discontinued operations, net of tax 2.5 33.4 33.4 44.7 44.7 Total profit for the year 232.2 (5.2) 227.0 208.8 10.2 219.0 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 223.9 215.9 Non-controlling interests 4.8 3.1 3.1 Profit for the year 227.0 219.0 Earnings per share 2.3 Basic from profit for the year 71.0p 67.9p Diluted from profit for the year 70.1p 67.0p Basic from continuing operations 60.4p 53.9p Diluted from continuing operations 59.6p 53.2p Basic from adjusted profit for the year 72.6p 64.7p Diluted from adjusted profit for the year 71.7p 63.9p Annual Report and Accounts 2013 85 COMMENTARY ON THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Results summary relation to the AFP and NPSL earn-outs. The remaining £0.9m other Reported revenues increased by 3% to £1,743m (2012 restated: £1,694m). acquisition-related costs in 2013 comprised deal costs relating to AFP After adjusting for an exchange rate impact of £31m and the contribution from and NPSL. acquisitions, the organic revenue increase was 1%. Segmental operating profit was £321.6m, compared to £300.1m (restated) in 2012. At constant exchange Financing costs rates and excluding acquisitions segmental operating profit rose by 6%. Continuing interest costs on net borrowings were £16.0m (2012 restated: The segmental operating margin was 18.4% (2012 restated: 17.7%). £17.5m). These were covered 21 times (2012 restated: 18 times) by continuing earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation of £332m (2012 Disposal of Retail Dispense businesses and discontinued operations restated: £318m).The net pension financing charge under IAS19 was £7.9m As noted in my introductory letter, on 1 January 2014 our Retail Dispense (2012 restated: £7.8m). In 2014, this charge is expected to decrease to businesses were sold to the Marmon Group (‘Marmon’), a Berkshire Hathaway about £3.3m. A net gain arose on the revaluation of financial instruments Company, for cash consideration of $1,100m (£666.7m at year-end rates), and derivatives under IAS39 of £2.7m (2012: £5.8m) principally reflecting subject to adjustments for working capital, cash and debt in the business at movements in exchange rates during the year on forward foreign exchange completion. The transaction was priced in US dollars, but the return of cash contracts, net of the £3.0m cost of the deal contingent element of the forward from these proceeds was announced in sterling, which exposed the Group to contract relating to the Retail Dispense disposal, as this element of the the risk of movements in the sterling to US dollar exchange rate, from the date instrument is not an effective hedge for accounting purposes. of exchange of contracts in October 2013. This exposure was hedged using a deal-contingent forward exchange contract. Taxation The effective tax rate for the Group before exceptional items reduced to 22% The Retail Dispense businesses sold represent a ‘major class of business’ for (2012 restated: 24%) as a result of further business reorganisation, a strong the Group and because this disposal was considered to be highly probable prior focus on claiming Government-approved tax incentives around the world and to the end of the accounting period, these businesses have been classified as the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate. In addition, an exceptional tax discontinued operations. Accordingly, the results of these businesses have been credit of £9.8m (2012 restated: £10.4m) arose in connection with business reported in one line, net of tax, below profit after tax in the Income Statement. restructuring and other exceptional costs. The total tax charge for the year Comparatives have been restated on the same basis and a full analysis of the on continuing operations was therefore £55.7m (2012 restated: £55.6m) and results of these discontinued operations is given in section 2.5 on pages 104 to continuing profit after tax was £193.6m (2012 restated: £174.3m). Taxes of 105. The effect of this restatement on 2012’s adjusted earnings per share is a £41.7m (2012: £102.9m) were paid in the year. The Group seeks to manage reduction of 15.0p from 79.7p (as restated for IAS19 revised – see below) to 64.7p. its tax affairs within its core tax principles of compliance, fairness, value and transparency, in accordance with The IMI Way, which is explained further in Acquisitions section 2.4 on page 101. On 21 August the Group completed the acquisition of Analytical Flow Products (‘AFP’) for initial consideration of £2.2m and potential future payments of up to Earnings per share (EPS) £32.4m based on future performance. On 29 October the Group completed the Basic EPS increased 5% to 71.0p (2012 restated: 67.9p) and diluted EPS acquisition of Nano-Porous Solutions Limited (‘NPSL’) for initial consideration of was 70.1p (2012 restated: 67.0p). The Board considers that a more meaningful £5.4m and potential future payments of up to £2.4m based on revenue in 2016. indication of the underlying performance of the Group is provided by earnings before charging/(crediting) exceptional items after tax. Details of this calculation Restatement for adoption of IAS19 are given in section 2.3 to the Group financial statements on page 99. On this The consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2012 have been basis the adjusted EPS from continuing operations was 72.6p, an increase of restated to take account of the adoption of IAS19: Employee Benefits (revised 12% over last year’s 64.7p (as restated). 2011). The principal impact on the Group has been that the return on plan assets included in the income statement is now based on the discount rate Exchange rates applied to the liabilities. Prior to this revision, the plan assets’ expected return The most important foreign currencies for the Group remain the Euro and the was included in the income statement. US dollar and the relevant average rates of exchange for the consolidated income statement were: The effect of this restatement on 2012’s adjusted earnings per share was a reduction of 4.6p from 84.3p to 79.7p. As noted above, the effect of the restatement of 2012’s results for discontinued operations reduced adjusted EPS 2013 2012 by a further 15.0p to result in a restated adjusted EPS of 64.7p for 2012. Euro 1.18 1.23 US dollar 1.56 1.59 The principal impact of the other amendments to IAS19 for the Group relates to new disclosure requirements, which are included in section 4.5 on pages 124 to 131. The movement in average exchange rates between 2012 and 2013 resulted in our reported 2013 segmental revenue and segmental operating profit each Exceptional items being 2% higher as the average Euro and US dollar rates against Sterling were Operating profit was £270.5m (2012 restated: £249.4m) after the deduction 4% and 2% stronger, respectively. of exceptional items. Restructuring costs in the year reduced to £14.2m (2012 If the average exchange rates to the end of February 2014 of US$1.65 and restated: £18.9m) following the completion of a number of projects, with the €1.21 had been applied to our 2013 results, it is estimated that segmental 2013 spend principally comprising a German site closure in our Fluid Power revenue and segmental operating profit would have both been 4% lower. business and strategic cost reduction exercises in our Indoor Climate and Severe Service businesses. Dividend Acquired intangible amortisation decreased to £21.9m (2012: £29.6m) because The Board has recommended a final dividend in respect of 2013 of 22.5p the first year charge relating to AFP and NPSL was considerably lower than (2012: 20.7p) per share, an increase of 9% over the 2012 final dividend. This the first year charges for Remosa and InterAtiva in 2012. Pre-closing costs makes the total dividend for 2013 35.3p (2012: 32.5p). The cost of the final associated with the disposal of the Retail Dispense businesses amounted to dividend is expected to be £60.7m (2012: £66.1m) leading to a total dividend £8.0m and have been disclosed as exceptional in accordance with our policy cost of £100.9m (2012: £103.6m) in respect of the year ended 31 December due to their one-off nature. Other acquisition-related costs were £1.9m (2012: 2013. Dividend cover based on adjusted earnings (continuing) is 2.1 times £6.3m). £4.0m was accrued in 2012 relating to InterAtiva earn-out amounts (2012 restated: 2.0 times). payable to the vendors and an amount of £1.0m has been accrued in 2013 in 86 IMI plc CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME For the year ended 31 December 2013 Restated (Section 1) 2013 2012 £m £m £m £m Profit for the year 227.0 219.0 Other comprehensive income/(expense) that may be recycled to profit and loss Change in fair value of effective net investment hedge derivatives 3.4 1.3 Related taxation effect (0.7) (0.3) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations net of hedge settlements and funding revaluations (16.9) (14.1) Related taxation effect 1.0 (0.1) Fair value gain on deal contingent forward relating to disposal proceeds 14.2 Related taxation effect (3.0) Fair value (loss)/gain on available for sale financial assets (0.5) 0.2 Related taxation effect 0.2 (0.1) (2.3) (13.1) Other comprehensive income/(expense) that will not be recycled to profit and loss Re-measurement gain/(loss) on defined benefit plans 41.4 (56.0) Related taxation effect in current year (11.4) 12.7 Effect of taxation rate change on previously recognised items (9.9) (5.6) 20.1 (48.9) Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of taxation 17.8 (62.0) Total comprehensive income for the year, net of taxation 244.8 157.0 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 241.7 153.9 Non-controlling interests 3.1 3.1 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of taxation 244.8 157.0 COMMENTARY ON THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AND THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Movements in shareholders’ equity income, along with the settlement of net investment hedge derivatives and Shareholders’ equity at the end of 2013 was £601m (2012: £636m). revaluations of foreign debt, which are used to protect the Group from this Movements in shareholders’ equity can be split into 3 categories: exposure. These items (including the related taxation effect) amounted to a • the profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders of £224m loss of £15.9m in 2013 (2012: £14.2m). (2012 restated: £216m). This is discussed on the page opposite the The net investment hedge derivatives used for this same purpose which have Income Statement. not settled by the year-end are marked to market on the balance sheet at the • other comprehensive income movements in the year, which increased year-end and booked to hedging reserves. This movement is also included in shareholders’ equity by £18m (2012 restated: reduced £62m). other comprehensive income and in 2013, amounted to income of £2.7m These are discussed below. (2012: £1.0m) including the related taxation effect. • movements taken directly to equity in the year, which reduced shareholders’ As noted earlier in this report, the $1.1billion proceeds of the disposal of the equity b­­y £277m (2012: £83m). These are discussed overleaf. Retail Dispense businesses were hedged using a deal-contingent forward contract. The forward element of this contract, valued at £14.2m at the year-end, Other comprehensive income represents an effective hedge for accounting purposes and this unrealised gain, When the Group makes unrealised gains or losses on assets and liabilities, net of tax of £3.0m is credited to other comprehensive income. instead of being recorded in the income statement, they are credited or charged to reserves and recorded in the statement of other comprehensive income. Movements in available-for-sale assets, which are principally used to fund defined In accordance with the amendment to IAS1, these items are now allocated benefit obligations in the US, are also booked to other comprehensive income between those items that may and those items that may not eventually be and amounted to a loss of £0.3m (2012: income of £0.1m) including the related recycled to the income statement. taxation effect. The Group’s foreign denominated net assets are translated into sterling using Actuarial movements in the Group’s defined benefit pension obligations are also exchange rates prevailing at the year-end. To the extent that these differ from the booked to other comprehensive income. These are explained in detail in section rates used at the previous year-end to translate net assets at that date and from 4.5 on page 128 and together with the taxation effect for the movement in the the average exchange rate used to translate foreign denominated income during year, in addition to the taxation effect of the UK taxation rate changes enacted in the year, a difference on reserves arises, which is included in other comprehensive the year, amounted to an income of £20.1m (2012 restated: expense of £48.9m). Annual Report and Accounts 2013 87 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY For the year ended 31 December 2013 Restated Restated Total Restated Share Capital Retained parent NonTotal Share premium redemption Hedging Translation earnings equity controlling equity capital account reserve reserve reserve (Section 1) (Section 1) interests (Section 1) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m As at 1 January 2012 85.0 169.3 7.9 4.1 46.8 251.7 564.8 49.4 614.2 Profit for the year 215.9 215.9 3.1 219.0 Other comprehensive income 1.0 (14.2) (48.8) (62.0) (62.0) Total comprehensive income 1.0 (14.2) 167.1 153.9 3.1 157.0 Issue of share capital 0.2 1.0 1.2 1.2 Dividends paid (97.8) (97.8) (0.1) (97.9) Share-based payments (net of tax) 16.0 16.0 16.0 Shares acquired for: employee share scheme trust (2.6) (2.6) (2.6) Income earned by partnership (4.4) (4.4) As at 31 December 2012 85.2 170.3 7.9 5.1 32.6 334.4 635.5 48.0 683.5 Changes in equity in 2013 Profit for the year 223.9 223.9 3.1 227.0 Other comprehensive income/(expense) 13.9 (15.9) 19.8 17.8 17.8 Total comprehensive income/(expense) 13.9 (15.9) 243.7 241.7 3.1 244.8 Issue of share capital 0.1 1.5 1.6 1.6 Dividends paid (106.2) (106.2) (0.1) (106.3) Share-based payments (net of tax) 16.8 16.8 16.8 Shares acquired for: employee share scheme trust (24.2) (24.2) (24.2) share buyback programme (164.3) (164.3) (164.3) Income earned by partnership (4.4) (4.4) As at 31 December 2013 85.3 171.8 7.9 19.0 16.7 300.2 600.9 46.6 647.5 Items recognised directly in equity Effect of the return of cash on shareholders’ equity Movements in reserves which represent transactions with the shareholders of As envisaged in the announcement of the disposal of the Retail Dispense the Group are recognised directly in equity rather than in the income statement businesses, we are returning cash of about £620m to shareholders via a ‘B or through other comprehensive income. and C share scheme’, which was approved in the general meeting in February 2014; and contributing an extra £70m to the IMI UK Pension Fund. £53.2m of 0.3m (2012: 0.5m) shares were issued during the year, realising £1.6m (2012: this amount was paid to the Fund in January 2014 and a further £16.8m will be £1.2m). The nominal value of £0.1m (2012: £0.2m) representing 25p per share paid in July 2014, having already accelerated into December 2013 the £16.8m was recognised in share capital and the premium over the nominal value of payment to the Fund scheduled for July 2014. £1.5m (2012: £1.0m) was included in the share premium account. The B and C share scheme was accompanied by a share consolidation, which The 2012 final dividend of 20.7p (2011: 19.0p) per share and the 2013 interim is a commonly used arrangement to ensure that the Group’s share price after dividend of 12.8p (2012: 11.8p) per share were paid during the year, which the return of cash is broadly equivalent to the share price prior to the return of reduced equity by £106.2m (2012: £97.8m). cash, which ensures that targets and prices in the Group’s various share-based The credit for share-based payments, which reverses the amount charged remuneration schemes remain appropriate. The cost of the final dividend and through the income statement in the year, thereby deferring the reduction in dividend cover have therefore both been calculated on the estimated number reserves until such time as the options are exercised, is also recognised here, of shares held on the record date, on a post-consolidation basis. which together with its tax credit, amounted to £16.8m (2012: £16.0m). Retained earnings in 2014 will benefit from the profit on disposal of the Retail The charge to reserves relating to the purchase of shares by the employee trust Dispense businesses, estimated to be in the region of £475m. The return of to satisfy share options, net of amounts received from employees representing cash will reduce retained earnings in the 2014 Balance Sheet by about £620m. the price on exercise for those options was £24.2m (2012: £2.6m). The Group announced a share buyback programme of up to £175m with its 2012 preliminary results. During 2013, £164.3m of share purchases were made and this amount was therefore charged directly to reserves in the year. 88 IMI plc CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET At 31 December 2013 2013 2012 Notes £m £m Assets Intangible assets 3.2 430.3 544.5 Property, plant and equipment 3.3 222.8 245.3 Employee benefit assets 4.5 0.3 Deferred tax assets 2.4.7 43.9 65.6 Other receivables 6.3 6.0 Other financial assets 4.4.6 0.2 1.8 Total non-current assets 703.8 863.2 Inventories 3.1 245.5 301.3 Trade and other receivables 3.1 345.3 407.3 Other current financial assets 4.4.6 22.2 6.3 Current tax 3.4 23.1 Investments 4.4.6 20.2 20.4 Cash and cash equivalents 4.1 71.7 102.8 Total current assets 708.3 861.2 Assets in disposal group held for sale 2.5 289.4 Total assets 1,701.5 1,724.4 Liabilities Bank overdraft 4.1 (7.9) (6.3) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 4.2 (80.8) (3.1) Provisions 3.5 (20.1) (19.3) Current tax (18.4) (7.4) Trade and other payables 3.1 (355.6) (430.1) Other current financial liabilities 4.4.6 (3.1) (2.7) Total current liabilities (485.9) (468.9) Liabilities associated with disposal group held for sale 2.5 (77.3) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 4.2 (208.9) (237.2) Employee benefit obligations 4.5 (158.2) (232.2) Provisions 3.5 (18.8) (19.8) Deferred tax liabilities 2.4 (34.3) (36.7) Other payables (70.6) (46.1) Total non-current liabilities (490.8) (572.0) Total liabilities (1,054.0) (1,040.9) Net assets 647.5 683.5 Equity Share capital 4.6.1 85.3 85.2 Share premium 171.8 170.3 Other reserves 43.6 45.6 Retained earnings 300.2 334.4 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 600.9 635.5 Non-controlling interests 4.8 46.6 48.0 Total equity 647.5 683.5 Approved by the Board of Directors on 5 March 2014 and signed on its behalf by: Roberto Quarta Chairman Annual Report and Accounts 2013 89 COMMENTARY ON THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Impact of the Retail Dispense Disposal The last formal triennial actuarial valuation of the Fund was carried out as During the year, because it became clear that the value of the assets and at 31 March 2011 and the next will be conducted as at 31 March 2014. liabilities of the Retail Dispense businesses were expected to be recovered The statement of funding principles agreed with the Trustee during the 2011 through their sale, rather than from their continuing use, these were classified valuation resulted in an actuarial deficit of £120m whereupon it was agreed to as assets and liabilities held for sale and are shown separately in current assets pay contributions of £16.8m each July from 2012 to 2016 inclusive as part of and liabilities on the balance sheet. These assets and liabilities amounted to, the recovery plan to close the deficit by 2016. The 2014 payment under this respectively £289.4m and £77.3m as at 31 December 2013. plan was accelerated into December 2013. Following the disposal of the Retail Dispense businesses, the Company is making a further one-off payment of £70m Net debt into the UK Fund in two tranches in 2014, the first of which, £53.2m, was made Net debt (including net cash of £26.5m shown as held for sale) at the year-end in January 2014. The Group continues to explore various options with the Trustee was £199m compared to £144m at the end of the previous year. The yearto reduce further the funding and investment risk in respect of the Fund. end net debt to EBITDA ratio was 0.6 times based on continuing net debt and EBITDA. At the end of 2013 the US loan notes totalled £225m (2012: £231m), The deficit in the overseas funds as at 31 December 2013 was £95m (2012: with a weighted average maturity of 4.1 years (2012: 5.1 years) and other loans £121m). The principal reason for the decrease was an increase in the discount totalled £74m (2012: £16m). Total committed bank loan facilities available to the rates used to determine the liabilities, however funded plans experienced Group at the year-end were £275m (2012: £273m), of which £60m (2012: £nil) strong asset returns and a number of plans saw returns in excess of the was drawn. current service and financing costs. Foreign exchange and interest rate risk Intangible assets Further information on how the Group manages its exposure to these financial The value of the Group’s intangible assets decreased to £430m at 31 risks is shown in section 4.4 of the financial statements on page 115 to 118. December 2013 (2012: £545m) principally as a result of the transfer of the The most important foreign currencies for the Group remain the Euro and the net book value of intangible assets relating to Retail Dispense of £117.5m to US dollar and the relevant closing rates of exchange for the Balance Sheet were: assets held for sale during the year. Additions to intangible assets in the normal course of business and from the two acquisitions in the year broadly offset the As at 31 December continuing amortisation charge, foreign exchange movements and disposals. 2013 2012 Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’) The net book value of the Group’s investment in PPE at 31 December 2013 Euro 1.20 1.23 was £223m (2012: £245m) after transfers to assets held for sale of £23.5m. US dollar 1.65 1.62 Capital expenditure on PPE of £44.3m (2012: £39.1m) represented 117% (2012: 95%) of depreciation of £37.9m (2012: £41.3m). Economic value added Economic value added (EVA) is defined as segmental operating profit (before Working Capital exceptional items) after tax less a capital charge. The capital charge is arrived The working capital movements during the year are discussed in the narrative at by applying the after-tax weighted average cost of capital to the average opposite the consolidated cash flow statement, where the cash movements invested capital. Invested capital is defined as net assets plus net debt, in these balances are shown, including movements on the components of accumulated acquired intangible amortisation previously written off, the IAS19 working capital included in assets and liabilities held for sale. pension deficit (net of deferred tax) and exceptional items in the balance sheet (being restructuring provisions and net derivative liabilities). Prior year figures Pensions have been restated in line with the treatment of the Retail Dispense activities The Group has 74 (2012: 79) defined benefit obligations in operation as as discontinued. at 31 December 2013. Ten of these schemes were divested with the Retail Dispense businesses on 1 January 2014. The Group recognises there is a For 2013 the segmental operating profit was £321.6m (2012 restated: £300.1m), funding and investment risk inherent within defined benefit arrangements and and after applying the effective tax rate on pre-exceptional profits of 22% seeks to continue its programme of closing overseas defined benefit plans (2012 restated: 24%) the Net Operating Profit after Tax (NOPAT) was therefore where they are neither mandatory nor an operational necessity and providing £250.8m (2012 restated: £228.1m). in their place appropriate defined contribution arrangements. After adjusting for the treatment of the Retail Dispense businesses as The net liability for defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2013 was discontinued, the Group’s invested capital at the end of 2013 was £1,270.9m £158m (2012: £232m). In addition £1m relating to the ten schemes divested (2012 restated: £1,045.0m) comprising £1,044.9m (2012 restated: £1,124.5m) as part of the Retail Dispense disposal is included in liabilities held for sale. net assets and £225.9m (2012 restated: £157.4m) net debt. The average invested capital was £1,276.4m (2012 restated: £1,204.5m). Applying the The overall deficit is split between the IMI Pension Fund in the UK (‘the Fund’) 2013 WACC of 8.0% (2012: 8.0%) to the average invested capital gives a which has been closed to future accrual since 31 December 2010, and charge of £102.1m (2012 restated: £96.4m).The economic value added in overseas schemes. The UK fund deficit was £63m as at 31 December (2012: 2013 was therefore £148.7m (2012 restated: £131.7m) an increase of 12.9%. £111m) and constituted 83% (2012: 82%) of the total defined benefit liabilities and 89% (2012: 89%) of the total defined benefit assets. The decrease in the Return on Invested Capital deficit in the Fund in 2013 principally arose from strong asset returns in the year Post tax return on invested capital (ROIC) from continuing operations was supplemented by additional cash contributions of £33.6m. This was offset by 19.7% compared to 18.9% as restated in 2012. an increase in liabilities as the impact of an increase in the inflation assumption of 0.5% exceeded the reduction resulting from the 0.2% increase in the Share price and shareholder return discount rate. The share price at 31 December 2013 was 1,525p (2012: 1,097p) and the average for the year was 1,347p (2012: 922p) representing increases of 39% and 46% respectively. Based on the 2013 average share price, the proposed total dividend of 35.3p represents a yield of 2.6%. 90 IMI plc CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS For the year ended 31 December 2013 Restated 2013 2012 £m £m Cash flows from operating activities Operating profit for the year from continuing operations 270.5 249.4 Operating profit for the year from discontinued operations 73.0 68.5 Adjustments for: Depreciation 37.9 41.3 Impairment/(reversal) of impairment of PPE and intangible assets 1.3 0.7 Amortisation 28.4 34.0 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.8 2.0 Equity-settled share-based payment expense 11.2 10.1 Decrease in inventories 1.4 29.4 Increase in trade and other receivables (10.0) (19.4) Decrease in trade and other payables (17.0) (40.6) Decrease in provisions and employee benefits (1.2) (31.9) Cash generated from the operations 396.3 343.5 Income taxes paid (41.7) (102.9) 354.6 240.6 CCI investigation costs (2.8) Additional pension scheme funding UK (33.6) (16.8) Additional pension scheme funding Overseas (1.7) Pension transfer incentive payments (9.6) Net cash from operating activities 319.3 211.4 Cash flows from investing activities Interest received 4.4 3.7 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 2.3 1.7 Sale of investments 0.1 0.6 Purchase of investments (0.4) (1.4) Settlement of transactional derivatives 3.8 5.5 Settlement of currency derivatives hedging balance sheet (6.0) 8.4 Acquisitions of controlling interests (7.8) (83.1) Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (44.3) (39.1) Capitalised non-acquired intangibles (9.1) (7.8) Net cash from investing activities (57.0) (111.5) Cash flows from financing activities Interest paid (20.4) (21.4) Payment to non-controlling interest (4.4) (4.4) Shares acquired for employee share scheme trust (24.2) (2.6) Share buyback programme including acquisition expenses (164.3) Proceeds from the issue of share capital for employee share schemes 1.6 1.2 Net drawdown/(repayment) of borrowings 51.0 (25.1) Dividend paid to non-controlling interest (0.1) (0.1) Dividends paid to equity shareholders (106.2) (97.8) Net cash from financing activities (267.0) (150.2) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (4.7) (50.3) Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 96.5 147.5 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held (1.5) (0.7) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year* 90.3 96.5 * Net of bank overdrafts of £9.6m (2012: £6.3m) of which £1.7m (2012: £nil) is included in liabilities held for sale and including £28.2m (2012: £nil) cash and cash equivalents presented in assets held for sale. Notes to the cash flow appear in section 4.1. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 91 COMMENTARY ON THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT Reconciliation of EBITDA to movement in net debt Closing net debt The Group’s consolidated statement of cash flows is shown on the opposite The opening net debt was £144m (2012: £108m). The debt from the page, which reconciles the profit for the year to the change in cash and acquisitions of AFP and NPSL added £2m (2012: £21m) and there were overdrafts in the Balance Sheet as required for financial reporting purposes. exchange rate gains of £3m (2012: £10m), principally on US dollar-denominated borrowings. After the net cash outflow in the year of £56m (2012: £25m) closing However, because the Group’s debt financing also includes other interestnet debt was £199m (2012: £144m). bearing liabilities, it is more insightful to consider the effect of the transactions in the year on the net debt in the Balance Sheet. Accordingly, a reconciliation between EBITDA and net debt is shown in the column opposite, upon which Restated this section provides commentary. 2013 2012 Movement in Net Debt £m £m Operating cash flow EBITDA* from continuing operations 331.5 317.7 The operating cash flow for the total Group was £345m (2012: £298m). EBITDA* from discontinued operations 79.6 76.2 This represents a conversion rate of total Group segmental operating profit after Total EBITDA* 411.1 393.9 restructuring costs of £385m into operating cash flow of 89% (2012: 85%). Working capital movements (25.6) (30.6) Net working capital balances increased by £26m (2012: £31m) during the year. Capital and development expenditure (53.4) (46.9) Payables decreased by £17m (2012: £41m) due to the timing of payments Other 12.8 (18.9) to suppliers, receivables increased by £10m (2012: £19m) and inventories decreased by £1m (2012: £29m increase). A strong sales performance Operating cash flow** 344.9 297.5 towards the end of the year contributed to the increase in receivables Tax paid (41.7) (102.9) and the decrease in inventory, the latter also benefiting from Group-wide Interest/derivatives (18.2) (3.8) inventory management programmes undertaken during the year. Operating cash flow after interest and tax 285.0 190.8 Cash spent on property, plant and equipment and other non-acquired Severe Service investigation costs and fine (2.8) intangibles in the year was £53m (2012: £47m) which was equivalent to Additional pension scheme funding UK (33.6) (16.8) 1.2 times (2012: 1.0 times) depreciation and amortisation thereon. Additional pension scheme funding Overseas (1.7) The continuing cost of research and development expenditure charged Pension transfer incentive payments (9.6) directly to the income statement was £50m (2012 restated: £45m). Free cash flow before corporate activity 249.7 161.6 Across the Group in total, £5m (2012: £5m) was capitalised. Acquisitions (7.8) (83.1) After payment of interest and tax, the free cash flow generated from Dividends paid to equity shareholders (106.2) (97.8) operations was £285m (2012: £191m). The reduction in net tax paid in the Dividends paid to non-controlling interest (0.1) (0.1) year resulted from tax refunds and payment reductions due to accelerated Payment to non-controlling interest (4.4) (4.4) tax payments in prior years following various restructuring programmes. Share buyback programme (164.3) Free cash flow before corporate activity Net purchase of own shares (22.6) (1.4) As noted in the Balance Sheet commentary, a £17m additional pension Net cash flow (excluding debt movements) (55.7) (25.2) contribution was brought forward from July 2014 to December 2013, Opening net debt (143.8) (108.2) therefore doubling this amount in comparison to the prior year. A smaller Debt acquired (2.5) (20.8) additional payment was also made in the US, following which the free Foreign exchange translation 2.6 10.4 cash flow before corporate activity was £250m (2012: £162m). Closing net debt (199.4) (143.8) Net cash outflow (excluding debt movements) The cash outflow on acquisitions of £8m comprised £2m and £6m in respect * Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment. of the acquisitions of AFP and NPSL respectively. These acquisitions are also ** Operating cash flow is the cash generated from the operations shown subject to earn-out arrangements, which are described in section 3.4 on in the consolidated statement of cash flows less cash spent acquiring page 110. property, plant and equipment, other non-acquired intangible assets Dividends paid to shareholders totalled £106m (2012: £98m) and there was and investments; plus cash received from the sale of property, a total cash outflow of £187m in respect of the share buyback programme plant and equipment and the sale of investments. announced in early 2013 and the purchase of shares to satisfy employee share options, net of the proceeds from options exercised during the year. The total net cash outflow (excluding debt movements) was £56m (2012: £25m). 92 IMI plc SECTION 1 – BASIS OF PREPARATION 1.1 1.3 Introduction Basis of accounting IMI plc (the ‘Company’) is a Company domiciled in the United Kingdom. The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling (which is the The consolidated financial statements of the Company comprise the Company Company’s functional currency), rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’). The Company financial except revenues, which are rounded to the nearest whole million. They are statements present information about the Company as a separate entity prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and and not about the Group. The consolidated financial statements have been liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments; availableprepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as for-sale financial assets; financial assets and liabilities identified as hedged adopted by the EU and applicable law (IFRSs). The Company has elected to items; and assets and liabilities acquired through business combinations. prepare its Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK GAAP Non-current assets and liabilities held for sale are stated at the lower of their and these are presented on pages 148 to 152. The financial statements were carrying amounts and their fair values less costs to sell. approved by the Board of Directors on 5 March 2014. The policies described in this section and in the accompanying notes have In our financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012, we referred been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of these to enquiries made by the conduct division of the Financial Reporting Council consolidated financial statements except as discussed below. into the accounting treatment of the IMI Pension Fund’s investment in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership. These enquiries were closed in early 2014, i) New or amended EU Endorsed Accounting Standards adopted with no prior year adjustments made to reported amounts. by the Group during 2013 The following standards were adopted in these financial statements during 1.2 2013 with impacts as analysed below: Restatements and changes in Presentational and accounting impact: accounting estimates • IAS19 ‘Employee Benefits (Revised 2011)’ (see above) Restatement in respect of the treatment of the Retail Dispense Presentational impact only: businesses as discontinued operations • IFRS13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ (see section 4.4.6) Because the sale of the Retail Dispense businesses, which completed on • IAS1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ (see consolidated statement 1 January 2014, represents the disposal of a ‘major class of business’ for the of other comprehensive income) Group and because this disposal was considered to be highly probable from a point prior to the end of the accounting period, these businesses have been No impact: classified as discontinued operations in accordance with IFRS5 ‘Non-current • IFRS10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ assets held for sale and discontinued operations’. Accordingly, the results of these businesses are now reported in one line, net of tax, below profit after tax • IFRS11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ and the comparative figures have been restated. A full analysis of the financial • IFRS12 ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’ effect of this restatement is given in section 2.5 on page 104. • IAS28 ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’ IFRS5 also requires that the assets and liabilities associated with these • IAS31 ‘Interests in Joint Ventures’ discontinued operations should be shown in separate lines in current assets and liabilities in the Balance Sheet, but that the prior year information is not ii) Issued Accounting Standards which are not effective for the restated to be shown on a similar basis. year ended 31 December 2013 • IFRS9 ‘Financial Instruments’ (2009), IFRS9 ‘Classification Restatement in respect of IAS19 ‘Employee Benefits (Revised 2011)’ and Measurement’ The consolidated Financial Statements as at 31 December 2012 have been restated for the adoption of IAS19 ‘Employee Benefits’ (Revised 2011). IAS19 The standard is being issued in phases as the IASB completes each part of its as revised includes a number of amendments to the accounting for defined project to replace IAS39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’. benefit plans, but the principal impact on the Group is that the return on plan The first elements of IFRS9 were issued in November 2009 and October 2010 assets recognised in the income statement is now based on the discount rate to replace the parts of IAS39 that relate to the classification and measurement applied to the liabilities. Prior to the revision, the expected return on assets was of financial instruments. In November 2013 an amendment was issued to recognised through the income statement. address hedge accounting and to remove the previously determined effective date of 1 January 2015. Instead, the IASB proposes to set the effective date The retrospective impact on the Group for the 2012 full year comparatives was of IFRS9 when it completes the impairment phase of the project. a decrease in the net financing credit of £19.2m and an associated reduction The European Union has already indicated that it will not begin the process in the tax charge of £4.5m. The equivalent credits and associated taxation of considering the adoption of IFRS9 until the standard has been published impacts to these income statement charges have been recognised in other in its final form. The Group is yet to assess IFRS9’s full impact and will comprehensive income, consequently there was no overall net balance sheet determine the date to adopt IFRS9 once it is endorsed for use in the EU. effect. The principal impact of the other amendments to IAS19 for the Group relate to the new disclosure requirements, which have been included in section 4.5 on pages 124 to 131. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 93 SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR What you will find in this section This section focuses on the results and performance of the Group. On the following pages you will find disclosures explaining the Group’s results for the year, including segmental information, exceptional items, taxation and earnings per share. 2.1 2.1.1 Segmental operating profit Segmental information Segmental information is presented in the consolidated financial statements Operating margin and organic revenue growth are the two short-term key for each of the Group’s operating segments. The operating segment reporting performance indicators or measures that reflect the way the performance format reflects the Group’s management and internal reporting structures and of the Group is managed and monitored by the Executive Committee. represents the information that is presented to the chief operating decisionIn this section the key constituents of these two KPI’s, being the Group’s maker, being the Executive Committee. Inter-segment revenue is insignificant. revenues and segmental operating profits, are analysed by reference The Group comprises the following five operating segments and activities, to the performance and activities of the Group’s segments and their but as discussed earlier in these financial statements, the Retail Dispense operating costs. businesses were disposed of on 1 January 2014, subsequent to the year-end, Operating margin is derived by dividing segmental operating profits by and consequently their results are shown as discontinued operations in the segmental revenues. Organic revenue growth is the growth in segmental Income Statement, while their assets and liabilities are presented as held revenues on a like-for-like basis excluding the effects of acquisitions, for sale in the Balance Sheet. disposals and exchange rate movements. Fluid Controls – continuing operations Severe Service The Severe Service division is a world leading provider of highly-engineered flow control solutions for critical applications that are able to withstand temperature and pressure extremes and intensely abrasive and corrosive cyclical operations. Fluid Power The Fluid Power division specialises in developing motion and fluid control technologies for applications where precision, speed and reliability are essential. Indoor Climate The Indoor Climate division designs and manufactures technologies which deliver optimal and energy efficient heating and cooling systems inside buildings. Retail Dispense – discontinued operations Beverage Dispense Design, manufacture and supply of still and carbonated beverage dispense systems and associated merchandising equipment for brand owners and retailers. Merchandising Design, manufacture and supply of permanent point of purchase display systems for brand owners and retailers. Performance is measured based on segmental operating profit which is the profit reported by the business, stated before exceptional items including the reversal of economic hedge contract gains and losses, the net credit on special pension events, restructuring costs, preparatory costs associated with the disposal of the Retail Dispense business, acquired intangible amortisation and other acquisition-related costs. Businesses enter into forward currency and metal contracts to provide economic hedges against the impact on profitability of swings in rates and values in accordance with the Group’s policy to minimise the risk of volatility in revenues, costs and margins. Segmental operating profits are therefore charged/credited with the impact of these contracts. In accordance with IAS39, these contracts do not meet the technical provisions required for hedge accounting and gains and losses are reversed out of segmental profit and are recorded in net financial income and expense for the purposes of the consolidated income statement. 94 IMI plc SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR Continued Segment reporting The Group has three reportable segments which are reported in a manner that is consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker (considered to be the Board). Further details on the nature of these segments and the products and services they provide are contained in the Directors’ Report. Revenue Operating profit Operating Margin 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 £m £m £m £m % % Fluid Controls continuing operations Severe Service 716 686 116.8 96.3 16.3% 14.0% Fluid Power 723 717 140.5 142.3 19.4% 19.8% Indoor Climate 305 293 64.3 61.5 21.1% 21.0% Total continuing segmental revenue/operating profit 1,744 1,696 321.6 300.1 18.4% 17.7% Reversal of net economic hedge contract gains (1) (2) (5.1) (6.8) Net credit on special pension events 10.9 Restructuring costs (14.2) (18.9) Preparatory costs for sale of Retail Dispense businesses (8.0) Acquired intangible amortisation (21.9) (29.6) Other acquisition-related costs (1.9) (6.3) Total revenue/operating profit reported 1,743 1,694 270.5 249.4 Net financial expense (21.2) (19.5) Profit before tax 249.3 229.9 Retail Dispense discontinued operations Beverage Dispense 337 349 51.2 53.5 15.2% 15.3% Merchandising 174 147 29.8 19.4 17.1% 13.2% Total discontinued segmental revenue/operating profit 511 496 81.0 72.9 15.9% 14.7% Total Group segmental revenue/operating profit 2,255 2,192 402.6 373.0 17.9% 17.0% The following table illustrates how the segmental assets and liabilities reconcile to the overall total assets and liabilities reported in the Balance Sheet. Assets Liabilities 2013 2012 2013 2012 £m £m £m £m Fluid Controls continuing operations 1,239.4 1,243.0 342.7 337.2 Severe Service 642.4 675.6 187.3 184.7 Fluid Power 434.6 409.0 102.9 94.4 Indoor Climate 162.4 158.4 52.5 58.1 Retail Dispense (Classified as held for sale in 2013) 257.1 264.4 61.6 75.6 Beverage Dispense 158.4 125.7 37.3 44.8 Merchandising 98.7 138.7 24.3 30.8 Total segmental assets/liabilities 1,496.5 1,507.4 404.3 412.8 Corporate items 32.4 5.1 79.8 72.9 Employee benefits 0.3 159.0 232.2 Investments 20.3 20.4 Net debt items 99.9 102.8 299.3 246.6 Net taxation and others 52.1 88.7 111.6 76.4 Total assets and liabilities in Group Balance Sheet 1,701.5 1,724.4 1,054.0 1,040.9 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 95 The table on the previous page includes the following assets and liabilities classified as held for sale: Assets Liabilities 2013 2012 2013 2012 £m £m £m £m Total segmental assets/liabilities held for sale 257.1 61.6 Employee benefits 0.8 Investments 0.1 Net taxation and others 32.2 14.9 Total assets/liabilities held for sale (section 2.5) 289.4 77.3 The following table includes other information to show how certain elements of cost reported in the income statement are allocated between the segments of the Group. The restructuring costs, depreciation and amortisation for the Retail Dispense businesses are reported in discontinued operations (depreciation and amortisation ceased from the date of classification as held for sale) and the capital expenditure for these businesses has been added to assets held for sale. Restructuring Capital costs Expenditure Amortisation* Depreciation 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Fluid Controls continuing operations 14.2 18.9 44.8 38.9 27.1 32.3 33.5 34.9 Severe Service 2.1 13.8 14.9 12.8 20.4 26.6 10.8 10.6 Fluid Power 8.8 1.6 22.9 16.4 5.2 4.5 15.8 17.8 Indoor Climate 3.3 3.5 7.0 9.7 1.5 1.2 6.9 6.5 Retail Dispense discontinued operations 3.0 4.4 8.4 6.8 1.3 1.7 3.9 6.0 Beverage Dispense 1.7 1.4 6.7 4.1 1.3 1.6 3.4 4.6 Merchandising 1.3 3.0 1.7 2.7 0.1 0.5 1.4 Subtotal 17.2 23.3 53.2 45.7 28.4 34.0 37.4 40.9 Corporate 0.2 1.2 0.5 0.4 Total 17.2 23.3 53.4 46.9 28.4 34.0 37.9 41.3 * The amortisation figures above include the amortisation of acquired intangibles. £18.9m (2012: £26.1m) is included in respect of Severe Service, £2.7m (2012: £3.1m) is included in respect of Fluid Power and £0.3m (2012: £0.4m) is included in respect of Indoor Climate. 96 IMI plc SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR Continued The following table shows a geographical analysis of how the Group’s revenue is derived by destination. Continuing Continuing Segmental Discontinued Segmental Discontinued Revenue Operations Total Revenue Operations Total 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 £m £m £m £m £m £m UK 104 38 142 101 42 143 Germany 247 23 270 268 14 282 Other Western Europe 439 30 469 426 39 465 Western Europe 686 53 739 694 53 747 USA 314 346 660 277 312 589 Canada 24 7 31 29 11 40 North America 338 353 691 306 323 629 Emerging Markets 504 60 564 462 67 529 Rest of World 112 7 119 133 11 144 Total segmental revenue 1,744 511 2,255 1,696 496 2,192 Reversal of economic hedge contract gains (1) (1) (2) (2) Total 1,743 511 2,254 1,694 496 2,190 Continuing revenue by destination (2013) Continuing revenue by destination (2012) Rest of the UK Rest of the UK World 6% World 6% 6% 8% Western Europe Western Europe Emerging 40% Emerging 41% Markets Markets 29% 27% North America North America 19% 18% The following table shows a geographical analysis of the location of the Group’s property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (‘PPE&IA’) and assets held for sale (‘AHFS’). PPE&IA AHFS Total Total 2013 2013 2013 2012 £m £m £m £m UK 69.7 41.9 111.6 101.1 Germany 147.0 3.3 150.3 159.5 Rest of Europe 254.1 1.0 255.1 254.6 USA 114.2 89.3 203.5 208.7 Asia Pacific 32.4 3.2 35.6 40.1 Rest of World 35.9 0.5 36.4 25.8 Total 653.3 139.2 792.5 789.8 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 97 2.1.2 The aggregate employment cost charged to operating profit for the year was: Operating costs by function 2013 2012 £m £m The following table is included to show how much of the operating costs Wages and salaries* 514.8 507.0 deducted from revenue to arrive at the Group’s post-exceptional operating Share based payments 11.2 10.1 profit, relate to cost of sales, selling and distribution costs, administrative expenses and exceptional items. Social security costs 88.0 85.5 Pension costs** 16.1 14.0 Total 630.1 616.6 Restated 2013 2012 * Wages and salaries include a £1.0m (2012: £4.0m) accrual for contingent £m £m consideration payments to the vendors of AFP and NPSL (2012: InterAtiva), Segmental revenue 1,744.0 1,696.0 as described in section 3.4. Cost of sales (948.8) (950.6) **In 2012, pension costs above include a £3.2m exceptional credit in respect Segmental gross profit 795.2 745.4 of the changes to the Swiss plans and a £1.3m exceptional charge in respect Selling and distribution costs (220.0) (208.7) of the exit of the Japanese state-sponsored arrangement but exclude the Administrative expenses (253.6) (236.6) £9.0m credit on the UK pension increase exchange exercise, because this Operating profit before exceptional items 321.6 300.1 latter payment was in respect of former rather than current employees. Exceptional items* (51.1) (50.7) The aggregate gains made by directors on the exercise of share options was Operating profit 270.5 249.4 £13.4m (2012: £5.7m). The remuneration, as defined in Schedule 5, for the executive directors’ comprises fixed and annual variable pay as set out in the table on page 68 of the Remuneration Report. For details of non-executive * The exceptional costs are analysed in detail in section 2.2. directors’ remuneration please refer to page 77 of the Remuneration Report. 2.1.3 Operating lease charges and operating lease commitments Specific elements of operating costs The Group enters into leases for property, plant and equipment assets when doing so represents a more cost-effective or lower risk option than Certain specific items of operating expenses are disclosed to provide the purchasing them. This leads to an income statement charge for the year reader of financial statements with more information regarding these costs. and future commitments for the Group in respect of these leases. This section provides this analysis. Continuing operating costs include a charge of £14.3m (2012 restated: £13.4m) Employee information relating to the lease of properties and a charge of £7.1m (2012 restated: £6.2m) relating to the lease of plant and machinery. The continuing commitments in The average number of people employed by the Group during the year was: respect of non-cancellable operating leases in place are shown in the following table by time period: 2013 2012 Severe Service 3,845 3,777 2013 Restated 2012 Fluid Power 5,760 5,823 Land and Land and Indoor Climate 1,926 1,951 buildings Others buildings Others Corporate 176 180 £m £m £m £m Total continuing 11,707 11,731 Within one year 14.3 6.7 13.0 5.5 Retail Dispense 2,759 2,861 In the second to fifth year 41.6 11.1 38.9 11.2 Total Group 14,466 14,592 After five years 34.0 2.0 37.6 2.5 89.9 19.8 89.5 19.2 The disclosures above exclude commitments for the Retail Dispense businesses, which the Group disposed of on 1 January 2014. Research and development expenditure The continuing cost of research and development expenditure charged directly to the income statement was £50.0m (2012 restated: £45.4m). Across the Group in total, £4.7m (2012: £5.2m) was capitalised. Exchange gains on operating activities net of hedging arrangements The transactional foreign exchange gains in the Group were £0.6m (2012 restated: £0.6m loss). 98 IMI plc SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR Continued Audit Fees The Group engages its auditors, EY, to perform assignments in addition to their statutory audit duties where their expertise, experience and knowledge of the Group should enable them to perform these assignments more efficiently than other similar service providers. The Group’s policy on such assignments is set out in the Audit Committee Report. Fees earned by EY and its associates during the year are set out below: 2013 Restated 2012 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued Business Business Total Business Business Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Fees earned by the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 2.6 0.5 3.1 2.4 0.4 2.8 Tax compliance services 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Other assurance services 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3 Total 3.0 0.5 3.5 3.1 0.4 3.5 2.2 2.2.3 Exceptional items Preparatory costs for sale of Retail Dispense businesses The Group uses the exceptional items category in the income statement to classify separately items of both income and expense which are sufficiently Preparatory costs for sale of Retail Dispense businesses amounted to £8.0m large, volatile or one-off in nature to assist the reader of the financial statements and principally represented costs payable to the legal and financial advisors to gain a better understanding of the underlying performance of the Group. assisting with the origination and completion of the transaction, in addition to the advisory costs borne in 2013 relating to the return of cash, which is described in the Directors’ Report on page 51. The following items are considered to be exceptional in these financial statements. 2.2.4 2.2.1 Other acquisition-related costs Reversal of net economic hedge Other acquisition-related costs comprise the following: contract gains • The accrual of £0.1m and £0.9m for additional consideration payable to the vendors of respectively, the NPSL and AFP acquisitions, which are For segmental reporting purposes, changes in the fair value of economic discussed in detail in section 3.4. hedges which are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes, together • Acquisition costs of £0.6m and £0.3m respectively in relation to with the gains and losses on their settlements, are included in the segmental these acquisitions. revenues and operating profit of the relevant business segment. The exceptional item at the operating level reverses this treatment. The financing exceptional items reflect the change in value or settlement of these contracts with the 2.2.5 financial institutions with whom they were transacted. The former amounted to Net credit on special pension events a charge of £5.1m (2012: £6.8m) and the latter amounted to a credit of £2.7m (2012: £5.8m). The £2.7m credit reported in 2013 includes a charge of £3.0m In 2012, the net credit on special pension events of £10.9m comprised: for the cost of the deal-contingent element of the forward contract hedging the • A £9.0m past service credit arising on a pension increase exchange exercise proceeds of the disposal of the Retail Dispense businesses. relating to the UK pension scheme. • A £3.2m past service credit in two of our Swiss schemes, resulting from 2.2.2 a change in these schemes’ rules during the year. Restructuring costs and acquired • A £1.3m cost arising in Japan relating to the exit of a state-sponsored intangible amortisation scheme during the year. The restructuring costs of £14.2m (2012 restated: £18.9m) arising in the 2.2.6 year principally comprise a German site closure in our Fluid Power business and strategic cost reduction exercises in our Indoor Climate and Severe Taxation Service businesses. An analysis of these costs by segment is included in section 2.1.1 on page 95 along with an analysis by segment of acquired The tax effects of the above items are included in the exceptional column of the intangible amortisation. income statement. In addition, in 2013, exceptional tax charges of £14.7m have been incurred in association with the pre-sale restructuring of certain of the sold Retail Dispense businesses and included in discontinued operations. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 99 2.3 Earnings per ordinary share Earnings per share (‘EPS’) is the amount of post-tax profit attributable to each share (excluding those held in the Employee Benefit Trust or by the Company). Basic EPS measures are calculated as the Group profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year. Diluted EPS takes into account the dilutive effect of all outstanding share options priced below the market price, in arriving at the number of shares used in its calculation. Both of these measures are also presented on an adjusted basis, to remove the effects of exceptional items, being items of both income and expense which are sufficiently large, volatile or one-off in nature to assist the reader of the financial statements to get a better understanding of the underlying performance of the Group. The note below demonstrates how this calculation has been performed. In 2013, as discussed in the introduction to these financial statements, the Group has presented its results analysed between continuing and discontinued operations and further basic and diluted measures of EPS are given to show the EPS relating to continuing operations only. The prior year figures have been restated for both the impact of IAS19 revised and the requirement to show the results of the Retail Dispense operations as discontinued in the comparative period. 2013 2012 Key million million Weighted average number of shares for the purpose of basic earnings per share A 315.5 317.8 Dilutive effect of employee share options 4.0 4.3 Weighted average number of shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share B 319.5 322.1 Key £m £m Profit for the period (2012: as previously reported) 227.0 233.7 Non-controlling interests (3.1) (3.1) Profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent (2012: as previously reported) C 223.9 230.6 Restatement of net finance credit relating to defined benefit schemes* (19.2) Related taxation effect* 4.5 Profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent (2012: restated) D 223.9 215.9 Profits from discontinued operations, net of tax (33.4) (44.7) Continuing profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent (2012: as restated) E 190.5 171.2 Total exceptional charges/(credits) included in profit before tax 48.4 44.9 Total exceptional charges/(credits) included in taxation (9.8) (10.4) Earnings for adjusted EPS (2012: restated) F 229.1 205.7 Profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent as previously reported 230.6 Total exceptional charges/(credits) included in profit before tax as previously reported** 49.3 Total exceptional charges/(credits) included in taxation as previously reported** (11.9) Earnings for adjusted EPS (as previously reported) G 268.0 * The impact on basic and diluted measures of EPS for the revisions to IAS19 was 4.6p. ** The restatement in exceptional charges for 2012 relates to £4.4m restructuring costs and related tax of £1.5m in the Retail Dispense businesses in 2012 which are now treated as discontinued operations (see section 2.5). 100 IMI plc SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR Continued Restated Key 2013 2012 EPS measures Basic EPS D/A 71.0p 67.9p Diluted EPS D/B 70.1p 67.0p Basic continuing EPS E/A 60.4p 53.9p Diluted continuing EPS E/B 59.6p 53.2p Adjusted EPS measures Adjusted basic continuing EPS F/A 72.6p 64.7p Adjusted diluted continuing EPS F/B 71.7p 63.9p Reported EPS measures as previously reported: Basic EPS C/A 72.6p Diluted EPS C/B 71.6p Adjusted basic EPS G/A 84.3p Adjusted diluted EPS G/B 83.2p Pro forma adjusted earnings per share The note below shows the adjusted earnings per share measures we would have presented for 2013 and 2012, had the sale of the Retail Dispense businesses, and their subsequent treatment as discontinued operations, not taken place. The figures shown for 2012 include the restatement of the net financial expense for IAS19 (revised) and the cessation of depreciation and amortisation in 2013 from the date these businesses became held for sale. 2013 2012 Key million million Weighted average number of shares for the purpose of basic earnings per share A 315.5 317.8 Dilutive effect of employee share options 4.0 4.3 Weighted average number of shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share B 319.5 322.1 Key £m £m Total continuing and discontinued segmental operating profit 402.6 373.0 Continuing pre-exceptional net financial expense (23.9) (25.3) Discontinued net financial expense (0.6) (0.6) Total continuing and discontinued pre-exceptional profit before tax 378.1 347.1 Taxation at 24.0% (2012: 26.1%) (90.7) (90.7) Adjusted continuing and discontinued profit for the year 287.4 256.4 Non-controlling interests (3.1) (3.1) Adjusted continuing and discontinued profit attributable to the owners of the parent H 284.3 253.3 Pro forma EPS measures had the Retail Dispense businesses not been treated as discontinued operations Pro forma adjusted basic EPS H/A 90.1p 79.7p Pro forma adjusted diluted EPS H/B 89.0p 78.6p Discontinued earnings per share Basic discontinued earnings per share were 10.6p (2012: 14.1p). Diluted discontinued earnings per share were 10.5p (2012: 13.9p). Annual Report and Accounts 2013 101 2.4 2.4.3 Taxation Tax payments During the year, the Group made payments of current income tax of £41.7m IMI operates through subsidiary companies all around the world that pay many (2012: £102.9m), principally arising in the USA, UK, Italy, Switzerland, Japan different taxes such as corporate income taxes, VAT, payroll withholdings, social and Germany. There is normally an element of volatility in the annual payments security contributions, customs import and excise duties. This note aggregates of corporate income taxes due to the timing of assessments, acquisitions and those corporate income taxes that are or will be levied on the individual profits disposals, exceptional items and payments on account in the many countries in of IMI plc and its subsidiary companies for periods leading up to and including which the Group operates. In addition, the Group makes substantial other tax the accounting date. The profits of each company are subject to certain tax payments relating to employment, consumption, procurement and investment adjustments as specified by applicable tax laws in each country to arrive at to local authorities around the world. Tax payments in the current year were the tax liability that is expected to result from their tax returns. Where these lower than usual because the Group received some tax refunds and tax tax adjustments cause future tax implications then deferred taxes may also payment reductions due to accelerated tax payments in prior years, following be provided. various restructuring programmes. In recent years the Group has made substantial payments to its UK retirement benefit plans, which had the effect of reducing the Group’s UK corporation tax liability. 2.4.1 Governance and strategy 2.4.4 IMI seeks to effectively manage its taxation obligations worldwide in compliance Recognised in the income statement with all applicable tax laws and regulations. Therefore, the Group monitors the tax contribution by the individual businesses to ensure it meets local This section sets out the current and deferred tax charges, which together tax requirements, that available global tax incentives and allowances are comprise the total tax charge in the income statement. recognised, and any material tax risks are properly and promptly addressed, as well as appropriately provided and disclosed in the Group’s accounts and Restated tax returns. 2013 2012 £m £m IMI aims to build positive working relationships with tax authorities around the world by fully co-operating in an open, constructive and timely manner. Current tax charge/(credit) As tax laws are often complex and sometimes ambiguous, tax outcomes are Current year charge 98.4 73.8 inherently uncertain. Accordingly, it is recognised that there will be areas of Adjustments in respect of prior years (1.4) 0.5 differing legal interpretation with tax authorities and where this occurs IMI will 97.0 74.3 engage in proactive discussion to obtain early resolution and seek to remove Deferred taxation uncertainty and controversy. Origination and reversal of temporary differences (2.3) 4.5 IMI tax policy requires compliance, fairness, value and transparency in the Total income tax expense 94.7 78.8 management of the Company’s tax affairs, in accordance with the principles of The IMI Way. This approach has been approved by the Board, fully communicated to subsidiary businesses and is regularly reviewed to The above income tax expense is apportioned between continuing and ensure responsible business practices across the Group are maintained. discontinued operations in the income statement as follows: 2.4.2 Restated UK corporation tax 2013 £m 2012 £m The Finance Act 2012 enacted a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate Current tax charge from 24% to 23% from 1 April 2013. Additional changes to the main rate Continuing operations 59.6 52.8 of UK corporation tax were enacted in the Finance Act 2013, to reduce the Discontinued operations 37.4 21.5 rate to 21% by 1 April 2014 and to 20% from 1 April 2015. These changes 97.0 74.3 were substantively enacted in July 2013. Accordingly, the average weighted rate of corporation tax in the UK for the 2013 calendar year was 23.25% Deferred tax (2012: 24.5%). UK deferred tax assets and liabilities have been calculated Continuing operations (3.9) 2.8 using a rate of 20% (2012: 23%). In the current year, the UK tax charge Discontinued operations 1.6 1.7 was £7.1m (2012: £11.9m). (2.3) 4.5 Restated 2013 2012 £m £m Total income tax charge Continuing operations 55.7 55.6 Discontinued operations 39.0 23.2 94.7 78.8 102 IMI plc SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR Continued 2.4.5 Reconciliation of effective tax rate As IMI’s head office and parent company is domiciled in the UK, the Group references its effective tax rate to the UK corporation tax rate, despite only a small proportion of the Group’s business being in the UK. Therefore, the following tax reconciliation applies the UK corporation tax rate for the year to profit before tax, both before and after exceptional items. This resulting tax charge is reconciled to the actual tax charge for the Group, by taking account of specific tax adjustments as follows: 2013 Restated 2012 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Profit before tax from continuing operations 297.7 (48.4) 249.3 274.8 (44.9) 229.9 Profit before tax from discontinued operations (section 2.5) 80.4 (8.0) 72.4 72.3 (4.4) 67.9 Profit before tax 378.1 (56.4) 321.7 347.1 (49.3) 297.8 Income tax using the Company’s domestic rate of tax of 23.25% (2012: 24.5%) 87.9 (13.1) 74.8 85.0 (12.1) 72.9 Effects of: Non-deductible items 4.3 2.1 6.4 1.7 0.5 2.2 Exceptional tax charge on restructuring 17.1 17.1 Utilisation of tax losses (1.4) (1.4) (2.8) (2.8) Current year losses for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised 1.3 1.3 1.4 1.4 Differing tax rates (0.1) (2.1) (2.2) 2.7 (0.3) 2.4 Underprovided in prior years (1.3) (1.3) 2.7 2.7 Total tax in income statement (section 2.4) 90.7 4.0 94.7 90.7 (11.9) 78.8 Income tax expense reported in the consolidated income statement 65.5 (9.8) 55.7 66.0 (10.4) 55.6 Effective rate of tax: 22.0% 22.3% 24.0% 24.2% Income tax attributable to discontinued operations (section 2.5) 25.2 13.8 39.0 24.7 (1.5) 23.2 Effective rate of tax: 31.3% 53.9% 34.2% 34.2% Total tax in income statement (section 2.4) 90.7 4.0 94.7 90.7 (11.9) 78.8 Effective rate of tax: 24.0% 29.4% 26.1% 26.5% 2.4.6 Recognised outside of the income statement In addition to amounts charged to the income statement, some current tax and deferred tax is charged or credited directly to equity or through other comprehensive income, which can be analysed as follows: Restated 2013 2012 £m £m Deferred tax: On equity-settled transactions (0.3) (1.8) On change in value of effective net investment hedge derivatives 0.7 0.3 On available for sale financial assets (0.2) 0.1 On fair value gain on deal-contingent forward relating to disposal proceeds 3.0 On re-measurement of gains and losses on defined benefit plans 21.3 (7.1) On foreign currency translation differences (1.0) 0.1 23.5 (8.4) Current tax: On equity-settled transactions (5.3) (4.1) 18.2 (12.5) Of which the following amounts are credited: to the statement of comprehensive income 23.8 (6.6) to the statement of changes in equity (5.6) (5.9) 18.2 (12.5) Annual Report and Accounts 2013 103 2.4.7 Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred taxes record the tax consequences of temporary differences between the accounting and taxation recognition of certain items, as explained below: Assets Liabilities Net 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 £m £m £m £m £m £m Non-current assets 6.1 3.9 (59.6) (59.3) (53.5) (55.4) Inventories 5.6 5.3 (5.5) (6.1) 0.1 (0.8) On foreign exchange and revaluation of derivatives 0.5 0.8 (2.3) (0.6) (1.8) 0.2 Employee benefits and provisions 58.9 84.8 (4.3) (4.3) 54.6 80.5 Other tax assets 4.0 4.4 4.0 4.4 75.1 99.2 (71.7) (70.3) 3.4 28.9 Set off of tax (27.4) (33.6) 27.4 33.6 Total deferred tax assets and liabilities 47.7 65.6 (44.3) (36.7) 3.4 28.9 Reflected in the balance sheet as follows: Deferred taxation asset/(liability) 43.9 65.6 (34.3) (36.7) 9.6 28.9 Asset/(liability) held for sale (section 2.5) 3.8 (10.0) (6.2) Total deferred tax assets and liabilities 47.7 65.6 (44.3) (36.7) 3.4 28.9 The movement in the net deferred tax balances has been recognised in the financial statements as analysed below: Recognised Recognised in the outside the Balance at income income Balance at 1 Jan 13 statement statement Exchange Acquisitions 31 Dec 13 £m £m £m £m £m £m Non-current assets (55.4) 6.3 1.0 (5.4) (53.5) Inventories (0.8) 1.0 (0.1) 0.1 On foreign exchange and revaluation of derivatives 0.2 0.8 (2.7) (0.1) (1.8) Employee benefits and provisions 80.5 (5.3) (20.8) 0.2 54.6 Other tax assets 4.4 (0.5) 0.1 4.0 Net deferred tax asset 28.9 2.3 (23.5) 1.1 (5.4) 3.4 Recognised Recognised in the outside the Balance at income income Balance at 1 Jan 12 statement statement Exchange Acquisitiions 31 Dec 12 £m £m £m £m £m £m Non-current assets (50.5) 6.1 3.1 (14.1) (55.4) Inventories 2.7 (3.7) 0.1 0.1 (0.8) On foreign exchange and revaluation of derivatives (0.3) 0.9 (0.4) 0.2 Employee benefits and provisions 78.4 (10.7) 13.3 (1.1) 0.6 80.5 Other tax assets 5.8 (1.6) (0.1) 0.3 4.4 Net deferred tax asset 36.1 (9.0) 12.9 2.0 (13.1) 28.9 All exchange movements are taken through the translation reserve. 2.4.8 Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets of £29.0m (2012: £27.1m) have not been recognised in respect of tax losses of £126.2m (2012: £120.4m). The majority of the tax losses have no expiry date, but have not been recognised as deferred tax assets due to uncertainty over their recoverability. It is likely that the majority of unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries would qualify for the UK dividend exemption. However £78.0m (2012: £75.4m) of those earnings may still result in a tax liability principally as a result of withholding taxes levied by the overseas jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate. These tax liabilities are not expected to exceed £7.9m (2012: £7.9m), of which only £1.5m (2012: £1.5m) has been provided as the Group is able to control the timing of the dividends. It is not expected that further amounts will crystallise in the foreseeable future. 104 IMI plc SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR Continued 2.5 Restated Discontinued operations and non-current 2013 £m 2012 £m assets and liabilities held for sale Revenue 511 496 Depreciation (3.9) (6.0) When the Group has assets and liabilities that are likely to be sold rather Amortisation (1.3) (1.7) than being held for continuing use and when accounting standards require, Other operating expenses (424.8) (415.4) these assets and liabilities are included in current assets and liabilities and Segmental operating profit 81.0 72.9 denoted ‘held for sale’ rather than in their usual categories. Restructuring costs (3.0) (4.4) If they represent a significant enough proportion of the Group, they are also Operating profit 78.0 68.5 treated as discontinued operations. This means that their trading performance, Financial income 0.2 0.2 i.e. their revenues, costs and other items of income and expense, are no longer reported within the headline figures in the Income Statement and are Financial expense (0.4) (0.4) instead reported in a separate line, net of tax, called ‘discontinued operations’. Net finance credit related to benefit pension schemes (0.4) (0.4) These amounts no longer form part of continuing earnings per share. Profit before tax 77.4 67.9 Comparative figures are restated to be shown on the same basis. Taxation (39.0) (23.2) This enables the Income Statement for the current and prior year to be Profit after tax 38.4 44.7 presented on a consistent basis and to convey a more forward-looking version of the results for the year. A reconcilication of the taxation charge relating to discontinued operations is provided in section 2.4.4. In March 2013 the Group announced its intention to divest the majority of The results of the Retail Dispense businesses for the year are presented the Merchandising segment and that options to do so were being explored. above, in addition to which, pre-tax and post-tax costs of £5.0m relating At this time, an active programme to identify potential purchasers of the to other discontinued operations have also been included in this line in the Artform and DCI Merchandising companies had begun and we determined Income Statement. that all the criteria to designate these operations as held for sale had been met. We therefore designated the assets and liabilities of these businesses as held for sale from 6 March 2013, the date at which these criteria were met. Subsequent to this decision, in September 2013, IMI received an alternative unsolicited offer from Marmon Group, a Berkshire Hathaway Company, to acquire all the trading companies and operations of our Retail Dispense businesses (being both the Merchandising and Beverage Dispense segments) for $1.1billion on a cash-free, debt-free basis. On 15 October 2013 final Board approval was given and an agreement was signed for the sale of these businesses on this date, which subsequently completed on 1 January 2014. Accordingly, the Beverage Dispense segment and the Cannon operations of the Merchandising segment joined the Artform and DCI businesses (together the whole of our Retail Dispense businesses) in being treated as held for sale from 15 October 2013. From this date, the Board determined that this disposal group represented a major class of business as defined by IFRS5 ‘Non-Current assets held for sale and discontinued operations’ and determined that this disposal group met the criteria to be disclosed as a discontinued operation in the Income Statement. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 105 The major classes of assets and liabilities of the Retail Dispense operations The net cash flows associated with the Retail Dispense operations are classified as held for sale as at 31 December 2013 are as follows: as follows: 2013 2013 2012 £m £m £m Segmental assets Operating 53.8 63.8 Intangible assets 114.1 Investing (8.1) (5.8) Property, plant and equipment 25.1 Financing (0.4) (0.4) Inventories 50.8 Net cash inflow 45.3 57.6 Trade and other receivables 67.1 Total segmental assets 257.1 The discontinued cash flows relating to financing activities reported above Non-segmental assets exclude any allocation of items relating to the entire Group such as external Current tax 0.2 dividends paid, share buybacks and drawdown of borrowings, which has the net effect of significantly reducing the outflows reported for the discontinued Deferred tax 3.8 activities in comparison to the Group as a whole. Cash and cash equivalents 28.2 Investments 0.1 Total assets classified as held for sale 289.4 Segmental liabilities Trade and other payables (56.2) Provisions (5.4) Total segmental liabilities (61.6) Non-segmental liabilities Current tax (3.2) Deferred tax (10.0) Bank overdraft (1.7) Employee benefit obligations (0.8) Total liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale (77.3) Net assets directly associated with disposal group 212.1 106 IMI plc SECTION 3 – OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES What you will find in this section This section shows the assets used to generate the Group’s trading performance and the liabilities incurred as a result. Liabilities relating to the Group’s financing activities are addressed in Section 4. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown in Section 2.4.7. On the following pages there are sections covering working capital, non-current assets, acquisitions, other payables due after more than one year, provisions and pensions. 3.1 3.1.2 Working capital Inventories  orking capital represents the assets and liabilities the Group generates W 2013 2012 through its trading activities. The Group therefore defines working capital £m £m as trade and other receivables, inventory and trade and other payables. Raw materials and consumables 85.3 99.3 Working capital is managed very carefully to ensure that the Group can Work in progress 86.4 118.5 meet its trading and financing obligations within its ordinary operating cycle. Finished goods 73.8 83.5 To provide the Executive Committee with insight into the management of 245.5 301.3 working capital, one of the most important measures monitored is cash conversion. Cash conversion is defined as the Operating Cash Flow (as defined In 2013 the cost of inventories recognised as an expense within cost of sales in the commentary on the cash flow statement) divided by the segmental amounted to £948.6m (2012 restated: £950.6m). In 2013 the write-down of operating profit which therefore represents the proportion of segmental inventories to net realisable value amounted to £7.1m (2012 restated: £5.1m). operating profit generated during the year that has been converted into cash. The reversal of write-downs amounted to £2.1m (2012 restated: £2.4m). Write-downs and reversals in both years relate to on-going assessments of inventory obsolescence, excess inventory holding and inventory resale 3.1.1 values across all of the Group’s businesses. Trade and other receivables 3.1.3 2013 £m 2012 £m Trade and other payables Falling due for payment within one year 2013 2012 Trade receivables 293.5 358.5 £m £m Other receivables 33.0 28.3 Current Prepayments and accrued income 18.8 20.5 Trade payables 187.5 251.2 345.3 407.3 Bills of exchange payable 6.1 8.0 Receivables are stated after: Other taxation 13.1 17.9 Allowance for impairment 8.1 11.4 Social security 10.0 9.8 Other payables 1.8 0.3 The Group’s exposure to credit and market risks related to trade and other Accruals and deferred income 137.1 142.9 receivables is disclosed in section 4.4. 355.6 430.1 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 107 3.2 Intangible assets The following section shows the non-physical assets used by the Group to generate revenues and profits. These assets include goodwill, customer relationships, order books, patents, development costs and software development costs. The cost of these assets is the amount that the Group has paid for them or, when they have arisen due to a business combination, the fair value of the specific intangible assets that could be sold separately or which arise from legal rights. In the case of goodwill, its cost is the amount the Group has paid in acquiring a business over and above the fair value of the individual assets net of the liabilities acquired. The value of the goodwill can arise from a number of sources but in relation to our more recent acquisitions, it has been represented by post-acquisition synergies and the skills and knowledge of the workforce. The value of the Group’s intangible assets, with the exception of goodwill, reduces over the number of years over which the Group expects to use the asset, the useful life, via an annual amortisation charge to the income statement. The Group splits its intangible assets between those arising on acquisitions and those which do not arise on acquisitions, because the amortisation of acquired intangibles meets the definition of an exceptional item as described in section 2.2. Where there are indications that the value of intangible assets is no longer representative of their value to the Group, for example where there is a customer relationship recognised but revenues from that customer are reducing, or where goodwill was recognised on an acquisition but the performance of the business acquired is below expectations, the Directors review the value of the assets to ensure they have not fallen below their amortised values. If this has happened, a one-off impairment charge is made against profit. This section explains the overall carrying values of the intangible assets within the Group and the specific judgements and estimates made by the Directors in arriving at these values. 3.2.1 Analysis of intangible assets Acquired Other Total Other noncustomer acquired acquired acquired Goodwill relationships intangibles intangibles intangibles Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Cost As at 1 January 2012 405.1 103.8 63.6 572.5 54.0 626.5 Exchange adjustments (15.5) (5.3) (2.6) (23.4) (1.6) (25.0) Acquisitions 50.8 38.3 4.2 93.3 93.3 Transfer from property, plant and equipment* 5.6 5.6 Additions 7.8 7.8 Disposals (0.6) (0.6) As at 31 December 2012 440.4 136.8 65.2 642.4 65.2 707.6 Exchange adjustments 0.3 0.4 (1.1) (0.4) (0.4) Acquisitions 2.9 21.3 24.2 24.2 Transfers to assets held for sale (113.6) (113.6) (23.9) (137.5) Additions 8.0 8.0 Disposals (1.1) (1.1) As at 31 December 2013 330.0 137.2 85.4 552.6 48.2 600.8 Amortisation As at 1 January 2012 37.0 57.2 94.2 34.2 128.4 Exchange adjustments (0.9) (2.3) (3.2) (1.0) (4.2) Transfer from property, plant and equipment* 5.2 5.2 Disposals (0.3) (0.3) Amortisation for year 23.7 5.9 29.6 4.4 34.0 As at 31 December 2012 59.8 60.8 120.6 42.5 163.1 Exchange adjustments (0.4) (0.1) (0.5) (0.5) Transfers to assets held for sale (20.0) (20.0) Disposals (0.9) (0.9) Impairment 0.4 0.4 Amortisation for year 19.8 2.1 21.9 6.5 28.4 As at 31 December 2013 79.2 62.8 142.0 28.5 170.5 Net book value at 31 December 2012 440.4 77.0 4.4 521.8 22.7 544.5 Net book value at 31 December 2013 330.0 58.0 22.6 410.6 19.7 430.3 *This transfer represents software costs of £0.4m net book value historically held in property, plant and equipment, but re-classified to intangible assets during 2012. 108 IMI plc SECTION 3 – OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Continued 3.2.2 Goodwill impairment testing Goodwill is not subject to an annual amortisation charge, instead, its carrying value is assessed annually by comparison to the future cash flows of the business to which it relates (the cash generating unit, or CGU). These cash flows are discounted to reflect the time value of money and this discount rate, together with the growth rates assumed in the cash flow forecasts, are the key assumptions in this impairment testing process. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units (‘CGUs’) based on the synergies This exercise resulted in the use of the following ranges of values for the expected to be derived from the acquisition upon which the goodwill arose. key assumptions: The Group has 36 cash generating units to which goodwill is allocated. Zimmermann & Jansen, TH Jansen, and Remosa were all acquired between 2010 and 2012 and have created for IMI a leadership position with their 2013 2012 products in the Petrochemical and Iron and Steel markets. These businesses % % operate closely with each other however impairment reviews have been Pre-tax discount rate 10.6 14.6 10.6 14.5 undertaken for these CGUs separately. We will continue to review whether Long-term growth rate 1.6 3.6 2.0 4.2 they should be treated as a single or combined CGU. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment as part of the overall assessment No amounts of goodwill that are significant in the context of the Group’s of assets against their recoverable amounts. The recoverable amount of a total goodwill balance used the same key assumptions for the purposes of CGU is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. impairment testing in either this year or the last. For the purpose of assessing Value in use is determined using cash flow projections from financial budgets the significance in this context, the Group uses a threshold of 20% of the total approved by the Board covering a three-year period. The projected cash flows goodwill balance. reflect the latest expectation of demand for products and services. The aggregate amount of goodwill arising from acquisitions prior to 1 January The key assumptions in these calculations are the long-term growth rates and 2004 which had been deducted from the profit and loss reserves and the discount rates applied to forecast cash flows in addition to the achievement incorporated into the IFRS transitional balance sheet as at 1 January 2004, of the forecasts themselves. Long-term growth rates are based on long-term amounted to £364m. The cumulative impairment recognised in relation to economic forecasts for growth in the manufacturing sector in the geographical goodwill is £6m (2012: £6m). regions in which the cash generating unit operates. Pre-tax discount rates specific to each cash generating unit are calculated by adjusting the Group The cumulative acquired intangible amortisation is £142.0m (2012: £120.6m). post-tax weighted average cost of capital (‘WACC’) of 8% for the tax rate relevant to the jurisdiction before adding risk premia for the size of the unit, the characteristics of the segment in which it resides, and the geographical regions from which the cash flows are derived. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 109 3.3 Property, plant and equipment The following section concerns the physical assets used by the Group to generate revenues and profits. These assets include manufacturing, distribution and office sites, as well as equipment used in the manufacture of the Group’s products. The cost of these assets represents the amount initially paid for them. With the exception of the Group’s land and assets under construction which have not yet been brought into use, a depreciation expense is charged to the income statement to reflect the annual wear and tear and the reduction in the value of the asset over time. Depreciation is calculated by reference to the assets’ useful lives, by estimating the number of years over which the Group expects the asset to be used. As we do for our intangible assets (see 3.2), if there has been a technological change or decline in business performance the directors review the value of the assets to ensure they have not fallen below their depreciated value. If an asset’s value falls below its depreciated value a one-off impairment charge is made against profit. Assets in the Land & Plant & course of buildings equipment construction Total Cost As at 1 January 2012 196.2 670.4 18.1 884.7 Exchange adjustments (6.8) (14.5) (0.5) (21.8) Acquisitions 4.6 7.0 11.6 Additions 3.5 21.9 13.7 39.1 Transfers to intangible assets* (5.6) (5.6) Transfers from assets in the course of construction 1.0 17.8 (18.8) Disposals (1.3) (34.9) (0.5) (36.7) As at 31 December 2012 197.2 662.1 12.0 871.3 Exchange adjustments (1.0) (1.7) (0.3) (3.0) Acquisitions 0.2 0.2 0.4 Additions 2.1 20.2 19.7 42.0 Transfers to assets held for sale (22.0) (99.4) (3.2) (124.6) Transfers from assets in the course of construction 0.5 10.4 (10.9) Disposals (3.4) (22.9) (0.1) (26.4) As at 31 December 2013 173.6 568.9 17.2 759.7 Depreciation As at 1 January 2012 92.6 543.8 636.4 Exchange adjustments (2.8) (11.1) (13.9) Disposals (1.1) (32.2) (33.3) Transfers to intangible assets* (5.2) (5.2) Impairment 0.7 0.7 Depreciation 4.4 36.9 41.3 As at 31 December 2012 93.1 532.9 626.0 Exchange adjustments (0.2) (0.5) (0.7) Disposals (2.1) (22.6) (24.7) Transfers to assets held for sale (14.4) (86.7) (101.1) Impairment reversal (0.5) (0.5) Depreciation 4.3 33.6 37.9 As at 31 December 2013 80.7 456.2 536.9 NBV at 31 December 2012 104.1 129.2 12.0 245.3 NBV at 31 December 2013 92.9 112.7 17.2 222.8 * These transfers represent software costs of £0.4m net book value historically held in property, plant and equipment but reclassified to intangible assets during 2012. A net reversal of fixed asset impairments of £0.5m relating to continuing operations occurred during the year (2012: £0.7m charge). Group contracts in respect of future capital expenditure which had been placed at the balance sheet date relating to the continuing business amounted to £3.3m (2012 restated: £4.4m). Included in the total net book value of plant and equipment is £1.2m (2012: £2.1m) in respect of assets acquired under finance leases. Depreciation for the year on these assets was £0.3m (2012: £0.6m). 110 IMI plc SECTION 3 – OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Continued 3.4 are expensed to the income statement. This £0.1m charge in 2013 is included in other acquisition-related costs within exceptional items and does not form Acquisitions part of the accounting consideration for the acquisition. Disclosures for both AFP and NPSL The following section discusses businesses the Group has acquired during the year, which have given rise to the additions to the acquired intangible The acquisitions’ contributions to revenue and segmental operating profit in assets (including goodwill) reported in section 3.2 and which contributed the period since acquisition are not material in the context of the overall Group to the Group’s profits, working capital and other balance sheet assets and results, nor would they have been for the year, had they been completed on liabilities for the first time this year. 1 January 2013. The methodologies for arriving at the provisional fair values of assets acquired, intangible asset values and residual goodwill are described in section 3.2.2. 3.4.1 The aggregate goodwill of £2.9m recognised on the two acquisitions principally Acquisitions in the period relates to revenue synergies available in the Fluid Power division from selling the acquisitions’ portfolio of current and future products to existing (provisional values) Fluid Power customers. Analytical Flow Products (‘AFP’) The fair value adjustments consist of the harmonisation with Group IFRS AFP is the trade name for Mécanique Analytique Inc, a Canadian product compliant accounting policies, the recognition of patents and capitalised development company specialising in the Fluid Power Life Science and development costs and adjustments to move the carrying value of the Energy sectors. The Group acquired AFP on 21 August 2013 for initial cash identifiable net assets from cost to fair value. consideration of £2.2m (CA$3.7m). Further amounts may be payable based on Transaction costs of £0.9m have been expensed in administrative expenses in the business’s performance in the three to five years following the acquisition, 2013 and are included as exceptional charges within other acquisition-related which (including a bonus payable to one employee) have a range of £14.2m costs together with the remuneration payments of £1.0m discussed above in to £32.4m (CA$25m to CA$57m at year-end exchange rates). accordance with the policy disclosed in section 5.4 (D). Of the maximum amounts payable: The provisional fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired are as follows: • £15.4m (CA$27.1m at year-end exchange rates) is payable to a vendor who is not an employee. In respect of this amount, an amount payable of £7.9m has been estimated at the date of acquisition and is included in the AFP NPSL Total consideration allocated to the acquisition. This amount will be re-measured £m £m £m at each reporting date with movements in the estimate recorded in other Patents 0.9 3.2 4.1 acquisition-related costs within exceptional items. The re-measurement Capitalised development costs 14.8 2.4 17.2 as at 31 December 2013 resulted in no change to the initial estimate, Property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.1 0.4 as expectations for the performance of the business in three to five years’ Inventories 0.3 0.2 0.5 time have not changed from the date of acquisition. Trade and other receivables 0.3 0.2 0.5 • £15.4m (CA$27.1m at year-end exchange rates) is forfeitable in some of Bank overdraft (0.2) (0.2) the instances in which a vendor’s post-acquisition employment contracts Interest-bearing liabilities (2.2) (0.3) (2.5) may be terminated, therefore in accordance with IFRS3 (Revised), the amounts accrued for this payment are charged in the income statement. Trade and other payables (1.0) (0.5) (1.5) This £0.9m charge in 2013 is included in other acquisition-related costs Taxation balances (4.1) (1.1) (5.2) within exceptional items and does not form part of the accounting Total identifiable net assets 9.1 4.2 13.3 consideration for the acquisition. Goodwill arising on acquisition 1.0 1.9 2.9 • £1.6m (CA$2.8m at year-end exchange rates) represents employee bonus Total purchase consideration 10.1 6.1 16.2 arrangements and does not form part of the accounting consideration for Cash consideration 2.2 5.4 7.6 the acquisition. Non-cash consideration 7.9 0.7 8.6 Nano-Porous Solutions Limited (‘NPSL’) Cash flows from the acquisition of controlling interests are shown below: The acquisition of NPSL completed on 29 October 2013. NPSL is a UK company based in Newcastle specialising in products that increase the efficiency of the removal of moisture from compressed air systems, particularly AFP NPSL Total in Fluid Power’s Rail Sector. Consideration for the acquisition comprised £5.4m £m £m £m payable on completion and an earn-out arrangement based on the business’s Cash consideration 2.2 5.4 7.6 performance in the 2016 calendar year, capped at £2.4m. Overdraft acquired 0.2 0.2 Of the maximum amounts payable: Acquisition of controlling interests • £1.4m is payable to vendors who are not employees. In respect of this in the cash flow statement 2.4 5.4 7.8 amount, an amount payable of £0.7m has been estimated at the date of Transaction costs (included in cash flows acquisition and included in the consideration allocated to the acquisition. from operating activities) 0.3 0.6 0.9 This amount will be re-measured at each reporting date with movements in the estimate recorded in other acquisition-related costs within exceptional Total cash flow on acquisition items. The re-measurement as at 31 December 2013 resulted in no change of controlling interests 2.7 6.0 8.7 to the initial estimate, as expectations for the performance of the business in 2016 have not changed from the date of acquisition. The AFP and NPSL trade and other receivables have no impairment provisions. • £1.0m is forfeitable in some of the instances in which two of the vendors’ The net amounts are all expected to be collected within 12 months. Completion post-acquisition employment contracts may be terminated, therefore in accounts have been prepared and adjustments to both consideration and the accordance with IFRS3 (Revised), the amounts accrued for this payment fair value of assets acquired may arise when these are finalised. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 111 3.5 Provisions A provision is recorded instead of a payable (see section 3.1.3) when there is less certainty over how much cash will be paid and when the payment might be made. When the Group has an obligation relating to previous events and when it is probable that cash will be paid to settle it, a provision rather than a payable is recorded. In this situation, an estimate is required. The principal estimates made in respect of the Group’s provisions concern the timing and amount of payments required to: • cover the costs of known restructuring projects; • reimburse customers for potential product warranty claims; • ensure that current and former manufacturing sites meet relevant environmental standards; • reflect the estimated outcome of ongoing legal disputes. Analysis of the Group’s provisions: Trade Environmental Restructuring warranties & legal Total £m £m £m £m Current 4.3 15.0 19.3 Non-current 0.2 8.8 10.8 19.8 At 1 January 2013 4.5 23.8 10.8 39.1 Arising during the year 16.4 6.0 5.0 27.4 Transfers to liabilities held for sale (0.7) (4.6) (5.3) Utilised during the year (11.8) (9.1) (1.1) (22.0) Exchange adjustment (0.1) (0.2) (0.3) At 31 December 2013 8.3 15.9 14.7 38.9 Current 8.3 8.7 3.1 20.1 Non-current 7.2 11.6 18.8 8.3 15.9 14.7 38.9 The restructuring provision reflects residual amounts committed but not spent in relation to a number of specific projects. Trade warranties are given in the normal course of business and cover a range of periods, typically one to two years, with the expected amounts falling due in less than and greater than one year separately analysed above. Amounts set aside represent the Directors’ best estimate regarding the amount of the settlements and the timing of resolution with customers. Environmental and legal provisions recognise the Group’s obligation to remediate contaminated land at a number of current and former sites, together with current legal cases for which a settlement is considered probable. Because of the long-term nature of the liabilities, the timescales are uncertain and the provisions represent the Directors’ best estimates of these costs. 112 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS What you will find in this section This section outlines how the Group manages its capital and related financing costs. The directors determine the appropriate capital structure for the Group, specifically, how much cash is raised from shareholders (equity) and how much is borrowed from financial institutions (debt) in order to finance the Group’s activities both now and in the future. The directors consider the Group’s capital structure and dividend policy at least twice a year ahead of announcing results in the context of its ability to continue as a going concern and deliver its business plan. In March 2013 the Group announced a share buyback programme to maintain an efficient level of debt on the balance sheet throughout the year. The disposal of the Retail Dispense businesses created an exposure to movements in the sterling-US dollar exchange rate on a value of US$1,100m between 15 October, when contracts were exchanged, and the return of cash to shareholders in sterling, in late February 2014. To provide certainty over the sterling equivalent value of the US dollar proceeds prior to completion of the sale a deal-contingent forward was entered into which managed the value and timing risk by making the delivery under the forward foreign exchange contract contingent on the completion of the disposal. This instrument had a net positive fair value of £11.2m at 31 December 2013, reflecting the successful management of this transactional risk. The Board is mindful that equity capital cannot be easily flexed and in particular raising new equity would normally be likely only in the context of an acquisition. Debt can be issued and repurchased more easily but frequent adjustments lead to high transaction costs and debt holders are under no obligation to accept repurchase offers. 4.1 Net cash/(debt) Net cash/(debt) is the Group’s key measure used to evaluate total outstanding debt, net of the current cash resources. Some of the Group’s borrowings (and cash) is held in foreign currencies. Movements in foreign exchange rates affect the sterling value of the net debt. a) Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents 2013 2012 £m £m Cash and cash equivalents in current assets 71.7 102.8 Bank overdraft in current liabilities (7.9) (6.3) Cash and cash equivalents in assets held for sale 28.2 Bank overdraft in liabilities held for sale (1.7) Cash and cash equivalents 90.3 96.5 b) Reconciliation of net cash to movement in net borrowings 2013 2012 £m £m Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents excluding foreign exchange (4.7) (50.3) Net (drawdown)/repayment of borrowings (51.0) 25.1 Increase in net debt before acquisitions and foreign exchange (55.7) (25.2) Debt acquired (2.5) (20.8) Currency translation differences 2.6 10.4 Movement in net borrowings in the year (55.6) (35.6) Net borrowings at the start of the year (143.8) (108.2) Net borrowings at the end of the year (199.4) (143.8) Annual Report and Accounts 2013 113 c) Analysis of net debt Borrowings and finance leases due Cash and cash within after more Total equivalents one year than one year net debt £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2013 96.5 (3.1) (237.2) (143.8) Debt acquired (2.5) (2.5) Cash flow excluding settlement of currency derivatives hedging balance sheet 1.4 (75.5) 24.5 (49.6) Settlement of currency derivatives hedging balance sheet (6.0) (6.0) Currency translation differences (1.6) 0.3 3.8 2.5 At 31 December 2013 90.3 (80.8) (208.9) (199.4) 4.2 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings The Group borrows money from financial institutions in the form of bonds and other financial instruments. These generally have fixed interest rates and are for a fixed term or are drawn from committed borrowing facilities that generally have floating interest rates. This section provides information about the terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see section 4.4.3. 2013 2012 £m £m Current liabilities Unsecured loan notes and other loans 80.0 2.5 Current portion of finance lease liabilities 0.8 0.6 80.8 3.1 Non-current liabilities Unsecured loan notes and other loans 208.1 235.7 Finance lease liabilities 0.8 1.5 208.9 237.2 114 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued 4.3 Net financing costs This section details the income generated on the Group’s financial assets and the expense incurred on borrowings and other financial assets and liabilities. The finance income and expense taken into account in arriving at adjusted earnings only includes the income and expense arising on cash balances, borrowings and retirement benefit obligations. The finance income or expense on mark-to-market movements on interest and foreign exchange derivatives and other financing costs are excluded from adjusted earnings per share. Recognised in the income statement 2013 2012 Financial Restated Financial Restated Interest instruments Total Interest instruments Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Interest income on bank deposits 4.2 4.2 3.5 3.5 Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: Designated hedges 1.3 1.3 1.0 1.0 Other economic hedges current year trading 12.9 12.9 10.2 10.2 future year transactions 6.0 6.0 2.7 2.7 Financial income 4.2 20.2 24.4 3.5 13.9 17.4 Interest expense on interest-bearing loans and borrowings (20.2) (20.2) (21.0) (21.0) Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: Designated hedges (1.3) (1.3) (1.0) (1.0) Other economic hedges current year trading (9.4) (9.4) (4.5) (4.5) future year transactions (6.8) (6.8) (2.6) (2.6) Financial expense (20.2) (17.5) (37.7) (21.0) (8.1) (29.1) Net finance charge relating to defined benefit pension schemes (7.9) (7.9) (7.8) (7.8) Net financial (expense)/income (23.9) 2.7 (21.2) (25.3) 5.8 (19.5) Included in financial instruments are current year trading gains and losses on economically effective transactions which for management reporting purposes are included in segmental operating profit (see section 2.1). For statutory purposes these are required to be shown within net financial income and expense above. Gains or losses for future year transactions are in respect of financial instruments held by the Group to provide stability of future trading cash flows. Recognised in other comprehensive income Restated 2013 2012 £m £m Change in fair value of effective portion of net investment hedges 3.4 1.3 Foreign currency translation differences (16.9) (14.1) Change in fair value of effective portion of deal contingent forward 14.2 Change in fair value of other financial assets (0.5) 0.2 Income tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income (2.5) (0.5) Total items recognised in other comprehensive income (net of tax) (2.3) (13.1) Recognised in: Hedging reserve 13.9 1.0 Translation reserve (15.9) (14.2) Retained earnings (0.3) 0.1 (2.3) (13.1) Annual Report and Accounts 2013 115 4.4 4.4.2.2 Financial risk management Exposure to credit risk in respect of financial assets The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: interest rate; foreign exchange and; base metal price movements in addition to funding and The maximum exposure to credit risk for financial assets is represented by their liquidity risks. The financial instruments used to manage the underlying risks carrying value and is analysed below: themselves introduce exposure to credit risk, market risk and, liquidity risk. This section presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of Carrying amount these risks; the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for measuring 2013 2012 and managing risks, including each of the above risks; and the Group’s £m £m management of capital. Cash and cash equivalents* 99.9 102.8 Investments 20.2 20.4 4.4.1 Interest rate swaps 0.8 2.1 Forward exchange contracts 21.6 5.9 Overview Metals contracts 0.1 The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and 142.5 131.3 oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. As described in the Corporate Governance Report on page 44 the Executive Committee monitors * Including £28.2m classified as held for sale. risk and internal controls and the Audit Committee monitors financial risk, while the other Board Committees also play a part in contributing to the oversight of risk. 4.4.2.3 The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with Exposure to credit risk in respect the Group’s financial risk management policies and procedures and reviews of trade receivables the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the financial risks faced by the Group. The Group Assurance Department undertakes both regular and ad-hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results Carrying amount of which are reported to the Audit Committee. 2013 2012 £m £m The following sections discuss the management of specific financial risk factors in detail, including credit risk, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, UK 18.8 20.5 commodity risk and liquidity risk. Germany 26.2 27.0 Rest of Europe 105.2 106.1 4.4.2 USA 44.5 78.5 Asia Pacific 65.5 80.8 Credit risk Rest of World 33.3 45.6 293.5 358.5 Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, A further £60.5m trade receivables, predominantly relating to US customers, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers, cash were included in assets held for sale as at 31 December 2013. and cash equivalents held by the Group’s banks and other financial assets. At the end of 2013 these totalled £496.5m (2012: £489.8m). The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by segment was as follows: 4.4.2.1 Carrying amount Managing credit risk arising 2013 2012 from customers £m £m The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual Severe Service 151.2 154.7 characteristics of each customer. The demographics of the Group’s customer Fluid Power 103.0 104.6 base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers Indoor Climate 39.3 36.5 operate, have less of an influence on credit risk. 4% (2012: 4%) of the Group’s Beverage Dispense* 40.2 revenue is attributable to sales transactions with our largest single customer. Merchandising* 22.5 Geographically there is no unusual concentration of credit risk. The Group’s 293.5 358.5 contract approval procedure ensures that large contracts are signed off at executive director level at which time the risk profile of the contract, including * Trade receivables of a further £60.5m are held for sale relating to the Retail potential credit and foreign exchange risks, is reviewed. Credit risk is minimised Dispense businesses. through due diligence on potential customers, appropriate credit limits, cash flow management and the use of documentary credits where appropriate. 116 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued 4.4.2.4 4.4.3.1 Impairment provisions for trade receivables Foreign Exchange risk The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: The Group publishes consolidated accounts in sterling but conducts much of its global business in other currencies. As a result it is subject to the risks 2013 2012 associated with foreign exchange movements affecting transaction costs (‘transactional risk’), translation of foreign profits (‘profit translation risk’) Gross Impairment Gross Impairment and translation of the underlying net assets of foreign operations (‘asset £m £m £m £m translation risk’). Not past due 251.4 (0.2) 301.8 (1.3) Past due 1-30 days 24.5 (0.1) 38.3 (0.9) Past due 31-90 days 12.6 (0.1) 13.5 (0.2) a) Management of transactional risk Past due over 90 days 13.1 (7.7) 16.3 (9.0) The Group’s wide geographical spread both in terms of cost base and customer Total 301.6 (8.1) 369.9 (11.4) locations helps to reduce the impact on profitability of swings in exchange rates as well as creating opportunities for central netting of exposures. It is the Group’s policy to minimise risk to exchange rate movements affecting sales and The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables purchases by economically hedging or netting currency exposures at the time during the year was as follows: of commitment, or when there is a high probability of future commitment, using currency instruments (primarily forward exchange contracts). A proportion of 2013 2012 forecast exposures are hedged depending on the level of confidence and hedging £m £m is topped up following regular reviews. On this basis up to 50% of the Group’s annual exposures are likely to be hedged at any point in time and the Group’s Net balance at 1 January 11.4 18.2 net transactional exposure to different currencies varies from time to time. Acquisitions 1.0 The disposal of the Retail Dispense businesses created an exposure to Utilised during the year (1.5) (3.1) movements in the sterling-US dollar exchange rate on a value of US$1,100m Charged to the income statement 2.4 2.6 between 15 October, when contracts were exchanged, and the return of cash Released (3.3) (6.7) to shareholders in sterling, in late February 2014. To provide certainty over Transfer to assets held for sale (1.1) the sterling equivalent value of the US dollar proceeds prior to completion of Exchange 0.2 (0.6) the sale a deal-contingent forward was entered into which managed the value Net balance at 31 December 8.1 11.4 and timing risk by making the delivery under the forward foreign exchange contract contingent on the completion of the disposal. This instrument had a The net impairment gain recognised of £0.9m (2012: £4.1m) relates to the net positive fair value of £11.2m at 31 December 2013, reflecting the successful movement in the Group’s assessment of the risk of non-recovery from a range management of this transactional risk. of customers across all of its businesses. b) Management of profit translation risk The Group is exposed to the translation of profits denominated in foreign 4.4.2.5 currencies into the sterling-based income statement. The interest cost related to the currency liabilities hedging the asset base provides a partial hedge to this Managing credit risk arising exposure. Short-term currency option contracts may be used to provide limited from counterparties protection against sterling strength on an opportunistic basis. The translation of US dollar and Euro-based profits represent the most significant translation A group of relationship banks provides the bulk of the banking services, exposure for the Group. with pre-approved credit limits set for each institution. Financial derivatives are entered into with these core banks and the underlying credit exposure to c) Management of asset translation risk these instruments is included when considering the credit exposure to the The Group hedges its net investments in its major overseas operations by way counterparties. At the end of 2013 credit exposure including cash deposited of external currency loans and forward currency contracts. The intention is to did not exceed £13.0m with any single institution (2012: £14.0m). manage the Group’s exposure to gains and losses in Group equity resulting from retranslation of currency net assets at balance sheet dates. 4.4.3 To the extent that an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation is determined to be an effective hedge, the gain or loss arising is Market risk recognised directly in reserves. The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices, will affect the Group’s income and cash flows or the value of its financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters. Under the management of the central treasury function, the Group enters into derivatives in the ordinary course of business and also manages financial liabilities in order to mitigate market risks. All such transactions are carried out within the guidelines set by the Board and are undertaken only if they relate to underlying exposures. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 117 d) Currency profile of assets and liabilities Net assets/ (liabilities) excluding Exchange cash & debt Cash* Debt contracts Net assets Net assets 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2012 £m £m £m £m £m £m Sterling 19 10 (60) 505 474 497 US dollar 251 3 (225) (18) 11 10 Euro 321 16 (3) (324) 10 8 Other 256 61 (1) (163) 153 169 Total 849 90 (289) 648 684 * Cash is stated net of overdrafts. Exchange contracts and non-sterling debt are financial instruments used as currency hedges of overseas net assets. 4.4.3.2 Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to a number of global interest rates through assets and liabilities denominated in jurisdictions to which these rates are applied, most notably US, Eurozone and UK rates. The Group is exposed to these because market movements in these rates will increase or decrease the interest charge recognised in the Group Income Statement. a) Management of interest rate risk The Group adopts a policy of maintaining a portion of its liabilities at fixed interest rates and reviewing the balance of the floating rate exposure to ensure that if interest rates rise globally the effect on the Group’s Income Statement is manageable. Interest rates are managed using fixed and floating rate debt and financial instruments including interest rate swaps. Floating rate liabilities comprise short-term debt which bears interest at short-term bank rates and the liability side of exchange contracts where the interest element is based primarily on three month inter-bank rates. The Group has raised US dollar debt through the issuance of medium to long-term fixed rate loan notes. In 1999 US$30m of this fixed rate exposure was hedged back to floating rates through the use of interest rate swaps covering loan notes with a maturity of 2014. The interest component of the fair value of this portion of the loan notes has been designated as a hedged item and has been revalued accordingly in the accounts. The fair value of these interest rate swaps is included in the balance sheet at £0.8m (2012: £2.1m) with a corresponding uplift in the value of the debt (the hedged item). All cash surpluses are invested for short periods and are treated as floating rate investments. Non-interest bearing financial assets and liabilities including short-term trade receivables and payables have been excluded from the two analyses overleaf. 118 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued b) Interest rate risk profile The following table shows how much of our cash, interest-bearing liabilities and exchange contracts attract both fixed and floating rate interest charges, and how this is analysed between currencies: Weighted Debt and Cash and Weighted average exchange exchange Floating Fixed average period contracts contracts rate rate fixed for which 2013 2013 2013 2013 interest rate rate is fixed £m £m £m £m % years Sterling (60) 515 455 US Dollar (243) 3 (34) (206) 6.8 4.4 Euro (327) 16 (311) Other (164) 61 (103) Total (794) 595 7 (206) Weighted Debt and Cash and Weighted average exchange exchange Floating Fixed average period contracts contracts rate rate fixed for which 2012 2012 2012 2012 interest rate rate is fixed £m £m £m £m % years Sterling 533 533 US Dollar (252) 5 (37) (210) 6.8 5.4 Euro (328) 9 (319) Other (189) 78 (111) Total (769) 625 66 (210) 4.4.3.3 Funding for the Group is co-ordinated centrally by the treasury function and comprises committed bilateral facilities with a core group of banks, and a series Commodity risk of US loan note issues. The level of facilities is maintained such that facilities and term loans exceed the forecast peak gross debt of the Group over a rolling 12 month view by an appropriate amount taking into account market conditions The commodity inputs to the Group’s production process typically consist of and corporate activity, including acquisitions, organic growth plans and share base metals. Commodity risk for the Group is the risk that the prices of these buybacks. At the end of 2013 the Group had undrawn committed facilities inputs could rise, thus reducing Group profits. totalling £215m (2012: £273m) and was holding cash and cash equivalents of £100m (2012: £103m). There are no significant seasonal funding a) Overview requirements or capital intensive investment areas for the Group. Including the discontinued businesses, the Group’s operating companies purchase metal and metal components with an annual base metal material 4.4.4 value of approximately £35m (2012: £37m). Capital management b) Management of commodity risk The Group manages this exposure through a centralised process hedging Capital management concerns the decision as to how the Group’s activities copper, zinc, aluminium and nickel using a combination of financial contracts are financed and specifically, how much of the Group capital is provided by and local supply agreements designed to minimise the volatility of borrowings (or debt) and how much of it is financed with equity raised from short-term margins. the issue of share capital. The Board’s policy is to maintain a balance sheet with a broad capital base 4.4.3.4 and the strength to sustain the future development of the business including acquisitions. This section discusses how the Board views the capital base Liquidity risk of the Group and the impact on leverage, distribution policy and investment policy. Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. a) Management of liquidity risk The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have adequate resources to meet its liabilities when they fall due, with sufficient headroom to cope with abnormal market conditions. This position is reviewed on a quarterly basis. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 119 4.4.4.1 4.4.4.4 Overview Dividend policy and share buy backs The Board monitors the geographical spread of its shareholders and As part of the capital management process, the Group ensures that adequate employees are encouraged to hold shares in the Company. The underlying reserves are available in IMI plc in order to meet proposed shareholder capital base of the Group includes total equity and reserves and net debt. dividends, the purchase of shares for employee share scheme incentives Employee benefit obligations net of deferred tax form part of the extended and any on-market share buy back programme. capital base. Management of this element of the capital base is discussed The Board supports a progressive dividend policy with an aim that the dividend further in section 4.5 of the financial statements. Undrawn committed funding should be covered by at least two times underlying earnings. In the event that facilities are maintained as described in section 4.4.5.1 to provide additional the Board cannot identify sufficient investment opportunities through capital capital for growth (including acquisitions and organic investments) and liquidity expenditure, organic growth initiatives and acquisitions, the return of funds to requirements as discussed above. shareholders through share buy backs or special dividends will be considered. It should be noted that a number of shares are regularly bought in the market 4.4.4.2 by an employee benefit trust in order to hedge the exposure under certain Capital base management incentive plans. Details of these purchases are shown in section 4.5.2 to the financial statements. 2013 2012 4.4.4.5 £m £m Weighted average cost of capital Total equity 648 684 Gross debt including overdrafts 299 247 The Group currently uses a post-tax weighted average cost of capital Gross cash (100) (103) (WACC) of 8% as a benchmark for investment returns. This is reviewed Capital base 847 828 regularly in the light of changes in market rates. The Board tracks the Employee benefits and deferred tax assets 131 182 Group’s return on invested capital and seeks to ensure that it consistently Extended capital base 978 1,010 delivers returns in excess of the WACC. Consistent with this objective the growth in Economic Value Added (EVA) is used as a metric in the Group’s Undrawn funding facilities 215 273 long-term incentive programmes. Available capital base 1,193 1,283 Part of the capital base is held in currencies to broadly match the currency base 4.4.5 of the assets being funded as described in the asset translation risk section. Debt and Credit Facilities 4.4.4.3 This section provides details regarding the specific borrowings that the Debt or Equity Group has in place to satisfy the debt elements of the capital management policy discussed above. The balance between debt and equity in the capital base of the Company is considered regularly by the Board in the light of market conditions, business forecasts, growth opportunities and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA. Funding covenants currently limit net debt to a maximum of three times EBITDA. The 4.4.5.1 net debt to EBITDA ratio at the end of 2013 was 0.5 times (2012: 0.4 times). Undrawn committed facilities The Board would consider appropriate acquisitions which might take net debt to EBITDA to an internal limit of up to two and a half times EBITDA as long The Group has various undrawn committed borrowing facilities. The facilities as prevailing market conditions and the outlook for our existing businesses available at 31 December in respect of which all conditions precedent had supported such a move. It is expected that at these levels our debt would still been met were as follows: be perceived as investment grade. The potential benefits to equity shareholders of greater leverage are offset by higher risk and the cost and availability of 2013 2012 funding. The Board will consider raising additional equity in the event that £m £m it is required to support the capital base of the Group. Expiring within one year 140 Expiring between one and two years 50 149 Expiring after more than two years 25 124 215 273 The weighted average life of these facilities is 1.1 years (2012: 2.2 years). New committed credit facilities totalling £100m have been put in place since 31 December, which replace facilities of £100m scheduled to mature during 2014. £50m of the new facilities mature in three years’ time and £50m in five years’ time. 120 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued 4.4.5.2 Terms and debt repayment schedule The terms and conditions of cash and cash equivalents and outstanding loans were as follows: Effective Carrying Contractual 0 to 1 to 2 to 3 to 4 to 5 years interest rate value cash flows <1 year <2 years <3 years <4 years <5 years and over % £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m 2013 Cash and cash equivalents Floating 99.9 99.9 99.9 US loan notes 2012 2022 6.93-7.17% (9.1) (14.9) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (11.4) US loan notes 2014 Floating (19.0) (19.1) (19.1) US loan notes 2016 7.26% (45.5) (54.0) (3.3) (3.3) (47.4) US loan notes 2018 5.98% (90.9) (113.4) (5.4) (5.4) (5.4) (5.4) (91.8) US loan notes 2019 7.61% (60.6) (86.3) (4.6) (4.6) (4.6) (4.6) (4.6) (63.3) Finance leases Various (1.6) (1.9) (0.8) (0.6) (0.3) (0.2) Bank overdrafts Floating (9.6) (9.6) (9.6) Unsecured bank loans Floating (63.0) (63.2) (61.0) (1.0) (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) Total (199.4) (262.5) (4.6) (15.6) (58.7) (11.2) (97.4) (75.0) 2012 Cash and cash equivalents Floating 102.8 102.8 102.8 US loan notes 2012 2022 6.93-7.17% (9.3) (15.9) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (12.4) US loan notes 2014 Floating (20.6) (21.1) (0.3) (20.8) US loan notes 2016 7.26% (46.3) (58.3) (3.4) (3.4) (3.4) (48.1) US loan notes 2018 5.98% (92.6) (121.1) (5.5) (5.5) (5.5) (5.5) (5.5) (93.6) US loan notes 2019 7.61% (61.7) (92.6) (4.7) (4.7) (4.7) (4.7) (4.7) (69.1) Finance leases Various (2.1) (2.1) (0.6) (0.6) (0.6) (0.3) Bank overdrafts Floating (6.3) (6.3) (6.3) Secured bank loans Floating (2.7) (2.9) (0.4) (0.3) (0.3) (0.2) (0.3) (1.4) Unsecured bank loans Floating (5.0) (5.1) (2.3) (1.2) (1.3) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) Total (143.8) (222.6) 78.6 (37.2) (16.5) (59.6) (11.3) (176.6) Contractual cash flows include undiscounted committed interest cash flows and, where the amount payable is not fixed, the amount disclosed is determined by reference to the conditions existing at the reporting date. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 121 4.4.6 Fair value Financial instruments included in financial statements are measured at either fair value or amortised cost. The measurement of this fair value can in some cases be subjective, and can depend on the inputs used in the calculations. The Group generally calculates its own fair values using comparable observed market prices and a valuation model using the respective and relevant market data for the instrument being valued. 4.4.6.1 Total financial assets and liabilities The table below sets out the Group’s accounting classification of each class of financial assets and liabilities, and their fair values at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012. Under IAS39, all derivative financial instruments not in a hedge relationship are classified as derivatives at fair value through the Income Statement. The Group does not use derivatives for speculative purposes and transacts all derivatives with suitable investment grade counterparties. All transactions in derivative financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities. Other Total Designated derivatives Available for Amortised carrying at fair value at fair value sale assets cost value Fair value £m £m £m £m £m £m 2013 Cash and cash equivalents 99.9 99.9 99.9 Bank overdrafts (9.6) (9.6) (9.6) Borrowings due within one year (19.0) (61.8) (80.8) (80.4) Borrowings due after one year (208.9) (208.9) (238.3) Trade and other payables * (353.6) (353.6) (353.6) Trade receivables 293.6 293.6 293.6 Investments 20.2 20.2 20.2 Other current financial assets/(liabilities) Derivative assets ** 16.5 5.9 22.4 22.4 Derivative liabilities *** (3.1) (3.1) (3.1) Total (2.5) 2.8 120.1 (340.3) (219.9) (248.9) 2012 Cash and cash equivalents 102.8 102.8 102.8 Bank overdrafts (6.3) (6.3) (6.3) Borrowings due within one year (3.1) (3.1) (3.1) Borrowings due after one year (20.6) (216.6) (237.2) (278.8) Trade and other payables * (415.9) (415.9) (415.9) Trade receivables 358.5 358.5 358.5 Investments 20.4 20.4 20.4 Other current financial assets/(liabilities) Derivative assets ** 3.2 4.9 8.1 8.1 Derivative liabilities *** (2.7) (2.7) (2.7) Total (17.4) 2.2 123.2 (283.4) (175.4) (217.0) * Trade and other payables exclude corporation tax and other tax liabilities and include liabilities of £24.2m (2012: £13.5m) falling due after more than one year; £10.1m in 1-2 years, £2.8m in 2-3 years, £2.0m in 3-4 years, £9.3m in 4-5 years (2012: £8.3m in 1-2 years, £2.0m in 2-3 years, £2.0m in 3-4 years, £1.2m in 4-5 years). ** Includes £0.2m (2012: £1.8m) falling due after more than one year. *** D  erivative liabilities include liabilities of £0.3m (2012: £0.3m) falling due after more than one year: £0.3m in 1-2 years and £nil in 2-3 years (2012: £nil in 1-2 yrs and £0.3m in 2-3 yrs). Derivative liabilities designated at fair value represent the fair value of net investment hedge derivatives. The increase in value of net investment hedge derivatives in the year of £3.4m (2012: £1.3m) is shown in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. There are no other financial liabilities included within payables other than those disclosed above and in section 4.4.5.2. 122 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued The following table shows the Group’s financial instruments held at fair value as at 31 December 2013. Quoted prices in active markets Significant for identical other assets and observable Unobservable liabilities inputs inputs Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total £m £m £m £m Financial assets measured at fair value Equity instruments 17.8 17.8 Cash and cash equivalents* 99.9 99.9 Interest rate swaps 0.8 0.8 Foreign currency forward contracts 21.6 21.6 117.7 22.4 140.1 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Bank overdrafts** (9.6) (9.6) Debt instruments (19.0) (19.0) Foreign currency forward contracts (3.1) (3.1) Deferred consideration (9.6) (9.6) (9.6) (22.1) (9.6) (41.3) * Includes cash and cash equivalents of £28.2m presented in assets held for sale. ** Includes bank overdrafts of £1.7m presented in liabilities held for sale. Valuation techniques for level 2 inputs Short-term borrowings subject to hedging arrangements of £19.0m and derivative assets and liabilities of £22.4m and £3.1m respectively are valued by Level 2 techniques. The valuations are derived from discounted contractual cash flows using observable, and directly relevant, market interest rates and foreign exchange rates from market data providers. Valuation techniques for level 3 inputs Contingent consideration of £8.6m and amounts payable to employees of £1.0m have been measured at fair value using significant unobservable (level 3) inputs. These amounts arose from the earn-out agreements relating to the acquisitions of AFP and NPSL, details of which are included in section 3.4. Their fair values have been derived using a simple calculation which compares the expected performance of the AFP and NPSL businesses in their most recent forecasts with the target performances set out in the legal agreements for the acquisitions. Given the long-term nature of the earn-out arrangements and the relatively short period that has elapsed since the businesses were acquired, the fair value of the contingent consideration of £8.6m measured at the dates of acquisition remains valid at the yearend. The amounts payable to employees of £1.0m accrue over the duration of the earn-out period and the increase in the fair value of the amount payable from £nil to £1.0m has been charged to the income statement as an exceptional item. 4.4.6.2 Valuation methodology Cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts, trade payables, trade receivables and other assets are carried at their book values as this approximates to their fair value due to the short-term nature of the instruments. Long-term and short-term borrowings, apart from any which are subject to hedging arrangements, are carried at amortised cost as it is the intention that they will not be repaid prior to maturity. The fair values are evaluated by the Group based on parameters such as interest rates and relevant credit spreads. Long-term borrowings which are subject to hedging arrangements are valued using appropriate discount rates to value the relevant hedged cash flows. Derivative assets and liabilities, including foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and metal hedges, are valued using comparable observed market prices and a valuation model using foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate curves and forward rate curves for the underlying commodities. Investments are primarily in publically-quoted pooled funds held to fund overseas pension liabilities. The fair value is based on the price quotation at the reporting date. 4.4.6.3 Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly. Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 123 4.4.7 Market risk sensitivity analysis on financial instruments This section shows how the fair value of financial instruments presented can change for a given change in market rates. The values shown in the table below are estimates of the impact on financial instruments only. The underlying risks that these financial instruments have been acquired to hedge will move in an opposite direction. 4.4.7.1 Overview In estimating the sensitivity of the financial instruments all other variables are held constant to determine the impact on profit before tax and equity. The analysis is for illustrative purposes only, as in practice market rates rarely change in isolation. Actual results in the future may differ materially from these estimates due to the movements in the underlying transactions, actions taken to mitigate any potential losses, the interaction of more than one sensitivity occurring, and further developments in global financial markets. As such this table should not be considered as a projection of likely future gains and losses in these financial instruments. 4.4.7.2 Financial instruments sensitivity table The outputs from the sensitivity analysis are estimates of the impact of market risk assuming that the specified changes occur only to the financial instruments and do not reflect the opposite movement from the impact of the specific change on the underlying business that they are designed to hedge. 1% 1% 10% 10% decrease increase 10% 10% decrease in increase in in interest in interest weakening strengthening base metal base metal rates rates in Sterling in Sterling costs costs £m £m £m £m £m £m At 31 December 2013 Impact on income statement (loss)/gain (2.8) 2.8 (0.1) 0.1 Impact on equity (loss)/gain (63.5) 63.5 At 31 December 2012 Impact on income statement (loss)/gain (2.2) 2.2 (0.3) 0.3 Impact on equity (loss)/gain (65.7) 65.7 124 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued 4.5 Retirement benefits IMI offers a number of defined benefit arrangements to employees that will not be paid until more than a year after the period in which they are earned, for example pension benefits, jubilee plans, post-employment and other long-term employee benefit arrangements. There is a significant degree of estimation involved in predicting the ultimate benefits payable under these defined benefit arrangements in respect of which the Group holds significant net liabilities on its balance sheet. This section explains how the value of these benefits payable and any assets funding the arrangements are accounted for in the Group Financial Statements and gives details of the key assumptions upon which the estimations are based. The accounting standard governing this area (IAS19) was recently revised and 2013 is the first year for which the revised standard applies to the Group and comparative figures for 2012 have been restated. The only significant accounting change for the Group is that the interest income relating to defined benefit plan assets, previously calculated based on the directors’ estimate of expected returns, is now calculated based on the discount rate used to calculate the present value of liabilities. This discount rate is determined with reference to the high quality corporate bonds relevant to the schemes’ locations and durations. This change results in a lower total return on assets in the Income Statement than was previously the case. Assets and liabilities for defined contribution arrangements are minimal as they relate solely to short-term timing differences between the period during which benefits have accrued and when contributions are paid into schemes. The final part of this section includes a number of definitions to aid understanding. 4.5.1 Summary information Net pension deficit: £157.9m (2012: £232.2m) The net pension deficit or ‘net liability for defined benefit obligations’ (‘DBO’) at 31 December 2013 was £157.9m (2012: £232.2m). A further £0.8m (2012: £nil) is recognised in liabilities held for sale. The assets and liabilities of the schemes are aggregated, recognised in the consolidated balance sheet and shown within non-current liabilities or in current assets if a scheme is in surplus and is recoverable. In our financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012, we referred to enquiries made by the conduct division of the Financial Reporting Council into the accounting treatment of the IMI Pension Fund’s investment in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership. These enquiries were closed in early 2014, with no prior year adjustments made to reported amounts. Number of Defined Benefit arrangements: 74 (2012: 79) Five defined benefit arrangements were closed during the year and a further ten schemes were divested on 1 January 2014, as part of the disposal of the Retail Dispense businesses. The Group provides pension benefits through a mixture of funded and unfunded defined benefit and defined contribution (‘DC’) arrangements, although its strategy is to move away from defined benefit arrangements towards defined contribution arrangements wherever possible to minimise the liability of the Group. Assessments of the obligations of the defined benefit plans are carried out by independent actuaries, based on the projected unit credit method. An historical split of the types of defined benefit schemes in operation is as follows: Defined UK Overseas Total % benefit % £m £m £m Qty Assets of total obligation of total Type of scheme No. £m assets £m liabilities Net DBO b/f at 1 January 2013 (110.6) (121.6) (232.2) Movement recognised in: 2013 Income statement (4.3) (11.0) (15.3) Final salary 28 1,189.1 92% (1,321.2) 91% Other comprehensive income 18.2 21.7 39.9 Cash balance 13 99.4 8% (112.1) 8% Cash flow statement 33.6 15.3 48.9 Jubilee 13 0% (2.1) 0% Other movements 0.8 0.8 Other 20 5.1 0% (16.6) 1% Net DBO c/f at 31 December 2013 (63.1) (94.8) (157.9) Total 74 1,293.6 100% (1,452.0) 100% Asset ceiling (0.3) Revised assets 1,293.3 2012 Final salary 29 1,115.4 92% (1,309.0) 91% Cash balance 14 91.9 8% (115.0) 8% Jubilee 13 0% (2.0) 0% Other 23 3.2 0% (16.5) 1% Total 79 1,210.5 100% (1,442.5) 100% Asset Ceiling (0.2) Revised assets 1,210.3 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 125 Asset profile of schemes Overseas pension assets & liabilities as at 31 December 2013 The following table sets out the profile of the overall assets of the schemes Other Deficit £0.5m Other Deficit £0.5m (to give an indication of the evolution of their risk profile), the comparative £250.0 Sweden Deficit £18.0m Sweden £18.0m amount of unfunded to funded defined benefit obligation (‘DBO’) and a split of the balance sheet impact between schemes with a net pension surplus Eurozone Deficit £48.6m and a net pension deficit. As noted later in this section, further de-risking was £200.0 Eurozone £58.8m undertaken in January 2014, following the payment into the IMI Pension Fund Eurozone £10.2m from the proceeds of the sale of the Retail Dispense businesses. US Deficit £19.3m £150.0 USA £56.5m US £37.2m 2013 2012 £m £m Switzerland Deficit £9.2m £100.0 Quoted equities* 101.8 98.7 Quoted bonds 558.4 492.7 Switzerland £108.6m Switzerland £99.4m £50.0 Total quoted assets 660.2 591.4 Insurance policies 286.6 295.7 IMI Scottish Limited Partnership 13.0 27.1 Assets Liabilities Hedge Funds 169.0 152.2 Property 40.1 44.9 Average duration by geography Private finance initiatives 71.7 64.2 The following table shows the weighted average number of years (or duration) Other** 53.0 35.0 over which pension benefits are expected to be paid: Total unquoted assets 633.4 619.1 Fair value of assets 1,293.6 1,210.5 Location Years Restriction due to asset ceiling (0.3) (0.2) UK 15.6 DBOs for funded schemes (1,373.0) (1,357.8) Switzerland 16.0 DBOs for unfunded schemes (79.0) (84.7) Eurozone 14.7 Included in liabilities held for sale 0.8 US 12.3 Net liability for DBOs (157.9) (232.2) Sweden 17.0 Schemes in net pension deficit (158.2) (232.2) Schemes in net pension surplus 0.3 * Quoted equity exposure to a further £357.6m (2012: 391.6m) in the IMI Pension Fund in the UK was achieved through the use of derivatives, the market value of which is £14.5m (2012: £14.1m) is included in the ‘other’ category of assets. ** ‘Other’ assets include the market value of interest, inflation and currency swaps relating to UK scheme assets and liabilities. The overseas assets of £147.1m (2012: £134.3m) comprise equities of £32.0m (2012: £40.1m), bonds of £70.3m (2012: £52.7m), property of £9.4m (2012: £8.1m) and other assets of £35.4m (2012: £33.4m). Regional split of defined benefit obligation The following charts show the geographical profile in which the total defined benefit obligations of £1,452.0m (including liabilities held for sale) relating to defined benefit schemes are held: UK pension assets & liabilities as at 31 December 2013 UK Deficit £63.1m £1,400.0 £1,200.0 £1,000.0 £800.0 £600.0 UK £1,146.5m UK £1,209.6m £400.0 £200.0 Assets Liabilities 126 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued 4.5.2 4.5.3 The IMI Pension Fund (the ‘Fund’) Specific effect on Financial Statements The IMI Pension Fund constitutes 83% of defined benefit liabilities and 89% The corresponding entries for increases and decreases in the net pension deficit of defined benefit assets. This scheme offered final salary benefits to UK reported in the balance sheet are reflected as follows: employees until it was closed to new entrants in 2005 and to future accrual • Cash flow statement: When the Group makes cash contributions to fund the on 31 December 2010. deficit they are reflected in the cash flow statement and reduce the net deficit. The Fund is regulated by the UK’s Pensions Regulator and complies with its • Other Comprehensive Income (OCI): Movements in the overall net pension various Codes of Practice. The last full actuarial valuation was undertaken as deficit are recognised through OCI when they relate to changes in actuarial at 31 March 2011 and another valuation will be performed at 31 March 2014. assumptions or the difference (‘experience gain or loss’) between The Company and the Fund’s Trustee have conducted a number of exercises previous assumptions and actual results. to further manage the Fund’s assets and liabilities as follows: • Income Statement: Movements in the overall net pension deficit are • 2010: £325m purchase of annuity contracts; recognised in the income statement when they relate to changes in the overall pension promise, due to either an additional period of service • 2011: Enhanced Transfer Value exercise whereby £9.6m of additional (known as ‘current service cost’), changes to pension terms in the scheme Group payments led to an £11.7m curtailment credit and an overall £2.1m rules (known as ‘past service cost’), or closure of all or part of a scheme net reduction in the Fund’s pension deficit; (known as settlements and curtailments). The interest charge on the net • 2012: Pension Increase Exchange exercise which resulted in a £9.0m past deficit position is also recognised in the income statement. service credit; The following chart shows how the movements in the total net defined benefit • 2013: An increase in inflation hedging and reduction in higher risk assets to obligation in the Balance Sheet in the year were reflected in the financial reduce funding volatility. Commitment for a £70m cash injection following statements. As discussed earlier in this report, assets and liabilities associated the disposal of the Retail Dispense businesses, £53.2m of which was paid with the Retail Dispense businesses are separately reported as assets or in January 2014. liabilities held for sale. As a result of the improvement in the funding position throughout 2013 and Net IAS19 Pension Deficit £m as a precursor to the 2014 valuation the Fund Trustee has reviewed the risks associated with the Fund and implemented a liability hedging programme and introduced funding-based de-risking triggers. On receipt of the £53.2m referred As at 01.1.13 232.2 to above, the Fund Trustee has agreed progressively to remove all exposure to Service Cost & Interest public equities, which has halved the asset volatility of the Fund. 15.3 Contributions (48.9) The Trustee has determined an investment objective to achieve, over time, a position of self-sufficiency, defined using a discount rate of gilts + 0.25%. As at Asset experience gains (55.3) 31 December 2013 the Pension Fund was 54% hedged against interest rates Net OCI actuarial losses 13.8 and 48% hedged against UK inflation on the Trustee’s self-sufficiency basis. Other movements 0.8 The following chart shows the projected liability cash flows by year: As at 31.12.13 157.9 Preserved Employed Members and deferred pensioners 0.0 50.0 100.0 150.0 200.0 250.0 Current pensioners and dependents Thousands 70,000 60,000 50,000 40,000 30,000 20,000 10,000 2012 2027 2048 2069 2078 2087 2093 2108 2015 2030 2033 2051 2054 2081 2096 2018 2036 2057 2072 2081 2099 2090 2021 2039 2060 2102 2024 2042 2045 2063 2066 2075 2084 2105 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 127 4.5.3.1 Cash flow impacts 2013 2012 UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Amounts from employees 3.2 3.2 3.0 3.0 Amounts from employers 33.6 7.6 41.2 16.8 5.5 22.3 Benefits and settlements paid directly by the Group 7.7 7.7 6.2 6.2 Purchase of businesses 1.3 1.3 Total 33.6 18.5 52.1 16.8 16.0 32.8 The increase in the defined benefit obligation relating to the ‘Purchase of businesses’ in 2012 relates to the acquisition of Remosa. The £16.8m contribution in the UK in both years relates to the recovery plan for the IMI Pension Fund agreed in 2011 and which expires in 2016. By the end of the current UK recovery plan, IMI will have contributed £206.9m since the 2011 actuarial valuation. These amounts are shown below: Recovery Additional Plan amounts Total £m £m £m 2011 16.8 36.1 52.9 2012 16.8 16.8 2013 16.8 16.8 33.6 2014 16.8 53.2 70.0 2015 16.8 16.8 2016 16.8 16.8 Total 100.8 106.1 206.9 The expected contributions to defined benefit arrangements in 2014 are as follows: UK Overseas Total £m £m £m Normal employer 5.0 5.0 Normal employee 3.1 3.1 Additional employer 70.0 70.0 Total 70.0 8.1 78.1 128 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued 4.5.3.2 Other Comprehensive Income Movements in pension assets and liabilities that arise during the year from changes in actuarial assumptions, or because actual experience is different from the underlying actuarial assumptions, are recognised in equity via Other Comprehensive Income. These movements are analysed below: 2013 2012 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post UK employment employment Total UK employment employment Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Change in discount rate 39.4 13.7 53.1 (93.6) (31.1) (124.7) Change in inflation (75.9) (75.9) 12.9 12.9 Change in other assumptions 0.4 0.4 4.4 4.4 Actuarial experience 5.6 3.0 8.6 7.5 (2.0) 5.5 Asset experience 49.1 6.2 55.3 37.9 6.6 44.5 Actuarial gains/(losses) in the year 18.2 23.3 41.5 (30.9) (26.5) (57.4) Change in the asset ceiling (0.1) (0.1) 1.4 1.4 Exchange (loss)/gain (1.6) 0.1 (1.5) 2.0 0.5 2.5 Gains/(losses)recognised through equity 18.2 21.6 0.1 39.9 (30.9) (23.1) 0.5 (53.5) IMI takes advice from independent actuaries regarding the appropriateness of the assumptions used to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligations. These assumptions include the discount rate applied to the assets and liabilities, the life expectancy of the members, their expected salary & pension increases and inflation. The assumptions used for this purpose in these financial statements are summarised below: Weighted Averages 31 Dec 13 31 Dec 12 31 Dec 11 UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa Inflation RPI 3.5 n/a 3.0 n/a 3.1 n/a Inflation CPI 2.5 1.8 2.0 1.9 2.1 1.9 Discount Rate 4.45 3.3 4.25 2.8 4.8 3.7 Expected salary increases n/a 2.3 n/a 2.8 n/a 2.8 Rate of pension increases 3.5 0.5 3.0 0.5 3.1 0.5 2013 Years 2012 Years 2011 Years Life expectancy (IMI Pension Fund only) Current male pensioners 21.2 21.0 20.9 Current female pensioners 24.0 23.9 23.8 Future male pensioners 23.0 22.8 22.7 Future female pensioners 26.0 25.9 25.8 The mortality assumptions used for the IMI Pension Fund in the UK (‘the Fund’) above reflect its experience, together with an allowance for improvements over time. The experience was reviewed as part of the formal triennial actuarial valuation carried out as at 31 March 2011, and the assumptions used as at 31 December 2013 and 2012 reflect the results of this review. The allowance for future improvements in mortality rates from 2011 is in line with the CMI’s (a research body funded by the actuarial profession to collect and analyse UK mortality rates) 2010 Core Projection model, with a long-term improvement rate of 1.25% pa. The tables below illustrate how the UK and overseas net pension deficit would increase, as at 31 December 2013, in the event of the following changes in key assumptions above. The most important assumptions that impact the net deficits are the discount rates used to present the value of the future liabilities; longevity and inflation or salary increases. The tables above demonstrate how these key assumptions have moved over the recent years and the table below demonstrates discrete movements in each of these assumptions that impact on the net deficit. UK Overseas Discount rate 0.1% pa lower £17m Discount rate 0.1% pa lower £3m Inflation-linked pension increases 0.1% pa higher* £13m Salary increases 0.1% higher £1m Increase of one year in life expectancy from age 65 £38m Increase of one year in life expectancy at age 65 £7m 10% fall in non-bond-like assets ** £70m In each case all other assumptions are unchanged. * This is an in-payment pension increase sensitivity ** Fund assets excluding cash, bonds, insurance policies and the Fund’s interest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 129 4.5.3.3 Income Statement In accordance with IAS19, pension costs recorded through the income statement primarily represent the increase in the defined benefit obligation based on employee service during the year and the interest on the net liability for defined benefit obligations in respect of employee service in previous years. The table below shows the total cost reported in the Income Statement in respect of pension obligations and therefore also includes the cost of DC schemes: 2013 2012 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post UK employment employment Total UK employment employment Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Current service cost 5.4 0.7 6.1 4.5 0.6 5.1 Past service cost/(credit) 0.7 0.7 (9.0) (3.2) (12.2) Settlement/curtailment (0.1) (0.1) (0.4) (0.4) Recognition of losses 0.3 0.3 1.4 1.4 DC employer contributions 3.5 5.6 9.1 4.0 7.1 11.1 Pension expense operating costs 3.5 11.6 1.0 16.1 (5.0) 8.0 2.0 5.0 Interest on DBO 49.0 6.9 0.5 56.4 52.9 7.9 0.6 61.4 Interest on Asset Ceiling 0.1 0.1 Interest on Assets (44.7) (3.4) (48.1) (49.0) (4.3) (53.3) Interest expense financing costs 4.3 3.5 0.5 8.3 3.9 3.7 0.6 8.2 The net past service cost of £0.7m (2012: credit of £12.2m) principally relates to an amendment to the rules of one of our Swiss schemes in the year. The net past service credit of £12.2m in the prior year comprised: • A £9.0m past service credit arising on a pension increase exchange exercise relating to the UK pension scheme. • A £3.2m past service credit in two of our Swiss schemes, resulting from a change in these schemes’ rules during the year. The Income Statement charges and credits in the above table are presented on a total Group basis (i.e. including both continuing and discontinued operations). The charges relating to discontinued operations contributed £0.4m (2012: £0.4m) to the current service cost, £2.1m (2012: £1.6m) to the DC employer contributions and £0.4m (2012: £0.4m) to the net finance expense but had no impact on any other lines. 130 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued 4.5.4 Duration: The weighted average number of years over which pension benefits Definitions are expected to be paid. Asset ceiling: Final salary scheme: When assets in a pension arrangement exceed the defined benefit obligation, The pension available to a member in a final salary arrangement will be i.e. the scheme is in surplus, IAS 19 (para.64) limits the size of any asset on the a proportion of the member’s salary at or around their retirement date. balance sheet arising due to this surplus to the present value of any economic This proportion will be determined by the member’s length of pensionable benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future service, their accrual rate and any particular circumstances under which contributions to the plan. This reduced value is referred to as the ‘Asset Ceiling’. the member retires (for example early ill-health retirement). Cash balance: Funded: A cash balance scheme is a form of defined benefit pension under which the member has the right to a defined lump sum on retirement rather than a defined The majority of the Group defined benefit and other post-employment benefit amount of pension receivable. For example a cash balance plan may have arrangements is funded, which means they are linked to specific plan assets minimum or guaranteed rates of return on pension contributions. The amount that have been segregated in a trust or foundation. of pension to which that lump sum may be converted is determined by the annuity rates prevailing at the time of conversion. Inflation: Inflation relates to the rate of increase of a portfolio of goods and services, Current/past service cost: usually by reference to an index of increases, for example in the United Changes in a defined benefit obligation (‘DBO’) attributable to the members’ Kingdom, the Retail Price Index (RPI). Certain accrued member benefits service in the current/prior period, charged as an operating cost in the are linked to inflation. consolidated income statement. Jubilee: Defined contribution (‘DC’): Jubilee plans provide for cash award payments which are based on completed Arrangements where the employer pays fixed contributions into an external lengths of service. These payments are often made on cessation of service fund on behalf of the employee (who is responsible for making the investment with the Company, subject to a minimum period of service. decision and therefore assumes the risks and rewards of fund performance). Contributions to these arrangements are recognised in the consolidated income Unfunded: statement as incurred. Plans that are not funded are those that are not backed by segregated assets. These include some pension plans but also a number of other long-term Defined benefit: arrangements for the benefit of our employees, with benefits payable while they A defined benefit pension plan is a pension arrangement in which the employer are employed by the Group but more than 12 months after the related service promises a specified annual benefit on retirement that is predetermined by a is rendered. Actuarial gains and losses on other long-term arrangements are formula based on the employee’s earnings history, tenure of service and age, recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise. rather than depending directly on individual investment returns. In some cases, this benefit is paid as a lump sum on leaving the Company or while in the service of the Company rather than as a pension. The Group underwrites one or more risks in meeting these obligations and therefore any net liability or surplus in these arrangements in shown on the Group balance sheet. Discount rate: The calculation of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date will equate to the calculated net present value of the projected future cash flows. The discount rate used in calculating the present value is the yield on high quality corporate bonds relevant to the particular plan’s geography and duration. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 131 4.5.5 Overall reconciliation of changes in the net liability for defined benefit obligations 2013 2012 Net defined Net defined Defined benefit Defined benefit benefit Asset asset/ benefit Asset asset/ obligation Assets Ceiling (liability) obligation Assets Ceiling (liability) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Brought forward at start of year (1,442.5) 1,210.5 (0.2) (232.2) (1,397.7) 1,195.5 (1.5) (203.7) Current service cost (6.1) (6.1) (5.1) (5.1) Past service cost plan amendments (0.7) (0.7) 12.2 12.2 Past service cost curtailment 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.4 Net interest (cost)/income on Net defined benefit (liability)/asset (56.4) 48.1 (8.3) (61.4) 53.3 (0.1) (8.2) Immediate recognition of gains/(losses) Other long-term benefits (0.3) (0.3) (1.4) (1.4) Total (charged)/credited to income statement (63.4) 48.1 (15.3) (55.3) 53.3 (0.1) (2.1) Actuarial gain due to experience 8.6 8.6 5.5 5.5 Actuarial loss due to financial assumption changes (22.8) (22.8) (107.4) (107.4) Actuarial gain due to demographic assumption changes 0.4 0.4 Return on plan assets* greater than discount rate 55.3 55.3 44.5 44.5 Change in effect of asset ceiling (0.1) (0.1) 1.4 1.4 Total remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income (13.8) 55.3 (0.1) 41.4 (101.9) 44.5 1.4 (56.0) Employer contributions 41.2 41.2 22.3 22.3 Employee contributions (3.2) 3.2 (3.0) 3.0 Benefits and settlements paid directly by the Company 7.7 7.7 6.2 6.2 Benefits paid from plan assets 65.4 (65.4) 96.7 (96.7) Net Cash (Inflow)/Outflow 69.9 (21.0) 48.9 99.9 (71.4) 28.5 Acquisitions (1.3) (1.3) Transfer to liabilities held for sale 1.8 (1.0) 0.8 Changes in exchange rates (2.2) 0.7 (1.5) 6.5 (4.1) 2.4 Other 7.3 (7.3) Total other movements (0.4) (0.3) (0.7) 12.5 (11.4) 1.1 Carried forward at end of year (1,450.2) 1,292.6 (0.3) (157.9) (1,442.5) 1,210.5 (0.2) (232.2) * Net of asset management costs 4.6 Share capital The ordinary shareholders of the Group own the Company. This section shows how the total number of ordinary shares in issue has changed during the year and how many of these ordinary shares are held as Treasury shares or in Employee Benefit Trusts, to be used to satisfy share options and awards to Directors and employees of the Company, as part of employee share ownership programmes. This section also sets out the dividends paid or proposed to be paid to shareholders. 132 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued 4.6.1 Number and value of shares Ordinary shares of 25p each 2013 2012 2013 2012 Number (m) Number (m) Value (£m) Value (£m) Authorised 480.0 480.0 120.0 120.0 Issued and fully paid: In issue at the start of the year 340.7 340.2 85.2 85.0 Issued to satisfy employee share schemes 0.3 0.5 0.1 0.2 In issue at the end of the year 341.0 340.7 85.3 85.2 Of which held within retained earnings 32.7 21.3 4.6.2 Share movements in the year Movements in shares due to share issues and purchases during the year were as follows: Number of ordinary shares of 25p each (million) Employee Benefit Trust Treasury Other Total In issue at 31 December 2012 2.2 19.1 319.4 340.7 New issues to satisfy employee share scheme awards 0.3 0.3 Market purchases 2.4 11.8 (14.2) Shares allocated under employee share schemes (2.8) 2.8 At 31 December 2013 1.8 30.9 308.3 341.0 During the year 0.3m (2012: 0.5m) shares were issued under employee share 4.6.3 Dividends schemes realising £1.6m (2012: £1.2m). After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the Employee Benefit Trust directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there are no income The Employee Benefit Trust made market purchases of a total of 2.4m (2012: tax consequences. 1.0m) shares with an aggregate market value of £31.3m (2012: £10.0m) and a nominal value of £0.6m (2012: £0.3m). Associated transaction costs amounted to £0.1m (2012: £nil). 2013 2012 £m £m Share options exercised in 2013 were settled using the shares in the Group’s employee benefit trust. In 2013 2.8m (2012: 2.6m) shares were issued for 22.5p per qualifying ordinary share (2012: 20.7p)* 60.7 66.1 cash of £7.2m (2012: £7.4m). * Whilst the final dividend per share for 2013 has increased from 20.7p to 22.5p, Of the 32.7m (2012: 21.3m) shares held within retained earnings, 1.8m the cost of the unprovided proposed dividend has decreased because the (2012: 2.2m) shares with an aggregate market value of £27.5m (2012: £24.5m) aforementioned seven for eight share consolidation in February 2014 resulted are held in trust to satisfy employee share scheme vesting. in a lower estimated number of shares eligible for a dividend on the record date. Treasury shares The following dividends were declared and paid by the Group during the year: On-market purchases of 11.8m shares were conducted relating to the share buyback programme. The aggregate market value of these shares at the dates of purchase was £163.2m. Dealing costs relating to these purchases were 2013 2012 £1.1m. £m £m Subsequent to the year-end, 14,598,711 treasury shares were cancelled, 20.7p per qualifying ordinary share (2012: 19.0p) 66.0 60.3 to reduce the number of treasury shares held to 5% of the total issued share 12.8p per qualifying ordinary share (2012: 11.8p) 40.2 37.5 capital. As a result, the nominal value of these cancelled shares of £3.6m will be 106.2 97.8 credited to a capital redemption reserve in the year ending 31 December 2014. Return of cash and share consolidation As envisaged in the announcement of the disposal of the Retail Dispense businesses, we are returning cash of £2 per share to shareholders via a ‘B and C share scheme’, which was approved in the general meeting on 13 February 2014. This return of cash will be accompanied by a seven for eight share consolidation, which will result in the total number of shares at the date of the consolidation reducing by one eighth, offset by a higher nominal value per share. The new nominal value for the shares will be 28.57p per share. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 133 4.7 Share options The Group uses share option schemes to reward and retain its employees. The estimated cost of awarding these share options is charged to the income statement over the period that the Group benefits from the employees’ services. This cost is then added back to retained earnings, to reflect that there is no overall impact on the Group’s Balance Sheet until the shares are issued to the employees when the options are exercised. The individual share option schemes, the number of options outstanding under each of them, the estimated cost of these options recognised in the Income Statement and the assumptions used in arriving at this estimated cost are described in this section. 4.7.1 Outstanding share options At 31 December 2013, options to purchase ordinary shares had been granted to, but not yet exercised by, participants of IMI share option schemes as follows: Date of Number grant of shares Price Date of exercise IMI Sharesave Scheme 14.04.08 3,518 391.41p 01.08.13 09.04.09 295,386 201.36p 01.08.14 06.04.10 64,865 510.92p 01.08.13 or 01.08.15 06.04.11 82,409 849.02p 01.08.14 or 01.08.16 10.04.12 149,640 890.01p 01.08.15 or 01.08.17 05.04.13 95,722 1196.50p 01.08.16 or 01.08.18 691,540 Global Employee Share Purchase Plans 19.12.11 1,016 632.00p 01.08.13 19.12.11 71,780 849.02p 01.08.14 or 01.08.16 10.04.12 28,311 868.05p 01.08.14 10.04.12 6,024 890.01p 01.08.15 or 01.08.17 20.08.13 45,561 1287.60p 01.08.15 152,692 Executive Share Option Scheme 24.03.04 18,500 358.00p 24.03.07 to 24.03.14 23.03.05 89,960 420.50p 23.03.08 to 23.03.15 108,460 IMI Share Option Plan 03.09.09 55,609 440.93p 03.09.12 to 03.09.19 22.03.10 89,470 645.00p 22.03.13 to 22.03.20 23.03.11 1,067,500 971.83p 23.03.14 to 23.03.21 04.05.12 1,114,500 980.67p 04.05.15 to 04.05.22 27.11.12 68,980 1007.33p 27.11.15 to 27.11.22 23.03.13 797,650 1322.70p 23.03.16 to 23.03.23 10.05.13 10,000 1294.33p 10.05.16 to 10.05.23 22.10.13 109,000 1518.33p 22.10.16 to 22.10.23 3,312,709 IMI 2005 Long-term Incentive Plan (also known as Performance Share Plan) 13.05.05 3,050 13.05.08 to 13.05.15 03.04.06 5,609 03.04.09 to 03.04.16 05.04.07 3,576 29.03.10 to 05.04.17 04.04.08 14,000 04.04.11 to 04.04.18 10.03.09 156,800 10.03.12 to 10.03.19 07.05.10 199,700 07.05.13 to 07.05.20 10.03.11 190,858 10.03.14 to 10.03.21 04.05.12 185,826 04.05.15 to 04.05.22 12.03.13 128,500 12.03.16 to 12.03.23 22.10.13 98,792 22.10.16 to 22.10.23 986,711 Share Matching Plan 03.04.09 298,501 01.05.12 to 03.04.19 22.03.10 574,029 22.03.13 to 22.03.20 28.03.11 656,586 28.03.14 to 28.03.21 10.05.12 975,772 10.05.15 to 10.05.22 12.03.13 665,588 12.03.16 to 12.03.23 3,170,476 Total 8,422,588 134 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued 4.7.2 4.7.3 Schemes under which options Other share-based payment arrangements are outstanding The Group also operates the following employee share plans: The options in the above table relate to the following share-based Share Matching Plan (‘SMP’) payment schemes: The delivery of the executive directors’ and selected senior managers’ annual IMI Sharesave Scheme (‘SAYE’) bonuses is governed by the individual’s achievement of a Share Ownership Guideline (‘SOG’). The SOG is a requirement to hold a percentage of salary This scheme is open to the majority of the Group’s UK employees, including as IMI shares and, if achieved, any bonus is paid in cash. If the SOG is not the executive directors, and allows the grant of options to all participants at a achieved a proportion of any annual bonus will be mandatorily deferred for three discount of up to 20% below the market price. Such schemes are not subject years and delivered in IMI shares under the SMP. This mandated investment to performance conditions and offer tax incentives to encourage employees to (if the SOG is not achieved) is matched from 75% up to a maximum of 200%. use their own money to purchase IMI shares. SAYE options may be exercised These matching shares can be earned if performance conditions over the threewithin six months of the date they first become exercisable. year vesting period are met. Global Employee Share Purchase Plans (‘GESPP’) Qualifying employees may also elect voluntarily to defer all or part of the These plans were introduced in 2011 for the USA and Germany. The German remainder of their bonus, and invest personal funds, up to a maximum of 100% and USA GESPP’s offer the opportunity to buy shares in IMI at a fixed price at of their annual bonus opportunity. Additional shares, in the form of a matching a future date. The German GESPP mirrors the UK Sharesave Scheme, with a award, may be earned (to a maximum of 200% of the ‘gross equivalent’ minimum/maximum savings limit per month and contract duration of three or number of shares invested in the SMP) if performance conditions over the five years. The USA GESPP also operates in a similar way to the UK Sharesave three-year vesting period are met. Scheme, with a minimum/maximum savings limit per month, but the contract The performance measures for SMP matching awards differ depending upon duration is for a fixed period of two years and different taxation conditions the year in which the award was granted. apply for the exercise period. Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’) Executive Share Option Scheme The SIP is open to the majority of the Group’s UK employees, including This scheme is no longer operated, but options are still outstanding under it. the executive directors. This scheme covers two separate opportunities for Executive share options were last awarded to executive directors in 2004 and employees to share in IMI’s success as follows: to certain other employees in 2005. All outstanding options granted under this scheme were granted subject to stretching tiered performance conditions • Partnership shares – allow employees to invest up to the statutory maximum related to growth in EPS above inflation over a fixed period of three financial from pre-tax pay, which is used to buy IMI shares. years. Executive share options expire if not exercised or lapsed within the • Free shares – allows a grant of shares to employees each year, up to the periods shown in section 4.7.1. statutory maximum. IMI 2005 Long-term Incentive Plan (also known as Performance Share Shares acquired or awarded under the SIP are not subject to performance Plan (‘PSP’)) conditions and offer tax incentives to encourage employees to build up their shareholdings with the Company. The PSP is open to the Company’s executive directors and selected senior managers within the Group. Awards are granted subject to stretching performance targets the nature of which differ depending upon the year in which the award was granted. IMI Share Option Plan (‘SOP’) Share option awards were made from 2009 to selected senior managers and certain other employees under the SOP. These awards are not subject to performance conditions, but are subject to a three-year vesting period. The purpose of the SOP is to give selected IMI employees (who are not executive directors of the Company) the opportunity to share in the benefits of share price growth and to increase their IMI shareholding. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 135 4.7.4 Options granted during the year Number of Weighted Number of options average Normal options Normal granted option exercisable granted exercisable (thousand) price date (thousand) date IMI Sharesave Scheme Performance Share Plan 2007 204 517p 2010-2012 2005 706 2008 2008 342 391p 2011-2013 2006 716 2009 2009 832 201p 2012-2014 2007 734 2010 2010 190 511p 2013-2015 2008 995 2011 2011 111 849p 2014-2016 2009 673 2012 2012 175 890p 2015-2017 2010 228 2013 2013 103 1196p 2016-2018 2011 234 2014 2012 230 2015 Global Employee Share Purchase Plans 2013 227 2016 2011 246 695p 2013-2016 Share Matching Plan 2012 35 872p 2014-2017 2009 1,783 2012 2013 46 1288p 2015 2010 1,145 2013 IMI Share Option Plan 2011 821 2014 2009 2,532 441p 2012 2012 1,220 2015 2010 1,565 645p 2013 2013 694 2016 2011 1,463 959p 2014 2012 1,361 982p 2015 2013 961 1345p 2016 Executive Share Option Scheme 2003 2,258 257p 2006-2013 2004 2,199 358p 2007-2014 2005 484 421p 2008-2015 4.7.5 Movement in outstanding options in the year Options granted at Options not granted at £nil cost (1) £nil cost (2) Total Number of Weighted Number of Number of options Range of average options options (thousand) option prices option price (thousand) (thousand) Outstanding at 1 January 2012 6,236 201-972p 575p 4,743 10,979 Exercisable at 1 January 2012 206 257-511p 386p 90 296 Granted 1,572 868-1007p 970p 1,450 3,022 Exercised 2,160 201-972p 399p 793 2,953 Lapsed 518 201-981p 722p 389 907 Outstanding at 31 December 2012 5,130 201-1007p 771p 5,011 10,141 Exercisable at 31 December 2012 182 201-890p 404p 2,254 2,436 Granted 1,109 1196-1518p 1329p 921 2,030 Exercised 1,465 201-890p 591p 1,477 2,942 Lapsed 508 201-1323p 871p 298 806 Outstanding at 31 December 2013 4,266 201-1518p 966p 4,157 8,423 Exercisable at 31 December 2013 259 358-645p 499p 1,255 1,514 (1) Options not granted at £nil cost include options granted under the following schemes: IMI Sharesave Scheme, Global Employee Share Purchase Plans, IMI Share Option Plan and Executive Share Option Scheme. (2) Options granted with £nil cost are those granted under the Performance Share Plan and Share Matching Plan. 136 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued 4.7.6 4.8 Share-based payment charge for the year Non-controlling interests The total expenses recognised for the year arising from share-based payments was £8.5m (2012 restated: £8.1m) which comprises a charge of £9.8m (2012 Non-controlling interests are recorded as reductions in the income and restated: £9.9m) for the year offset by a credit of £1.3m (2012 restated: £1.8m) equity recorded in the Group’s financial statements. In accordance with in respect of lapses. IFRS, these arise because if the Group controls an operation, it accounts for that operation as if the Group were the only party holding an interest £6.1m (2012: £6.0m) of the total charge and £0.4m (2012: £0.7m) of the total in it, but in spite of this control, when other parties have an interest in the credit is in respect of options granted to directors. operation, that interest should be reflected. The deduction from income and equity therefore reflects the reduction 4.7.7 in the Group’s interest resulting from the third party’s interest. Share-based payment valuation methodology Shanghai The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are CCI SLP Total measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted, based on a £m £m £m Black-Scholes option pricing model. The assumptions used for grants in 2013 Non-controlling interests as at included a dividend yield of 2.1% (2012: 3.7%), expected share price volatility 1 January 2013 2.6 45.4 48.0 of 38% (2012: 38%), a weighted average expected life of 3.5 years (2012: 3.6 years) and a weighted average interest rate of 0.5% (2012: 0.5%). The Profit for the year attributable to expected volatility is wholly based on the historical volatility (calculated based non-controlling interests 0.2 2.9 3.1 on the weighted average remaining life of the share options), adjusted for any Dividends paid to expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information. non-controlling interests (0.1) (0.1) Income earned by partnership (4.4) (4.4) 4.7.8 2013 movement in Other share-based payment disclosures non-controlling interest 0.1 (1.5) (1.4) Non-controlling interest as at The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options 31 December 2013 2.7 43.9 46.6 outstanding as at 31 December 2013 is 7.15 years (2012: 6.51 years) and the weighted average fair value of share options granted in the year at their The non-controlling interest denoted Shanghai CCI in the above table grant date was £7.56 (2012: £2.90). represents the 30% ownership interest in the ordinary shares of Shanghai CCI Power Control Equipment Co Limited held by Shanghai Power Station Auxiliary The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share options Equipment Works Co Limited. exercised during the period was £13.12 (2012: £9.09). The non-controlling interest denoted SLP relates to an interest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership, presently owned by the IMI Pension Fund (‘The Fund’), which provides the Fund with a conditional entitlement to receive income of £4.4m per annum unless the Group has not paid a dividend in the prior year or the Fund is fully funded. Further details regarding this non-controlling interest are disclosed in section 4.5. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 137 SECTION 5 – OTHER NOTES 5.1 5.3 Contingent liabilities Subsequent events A contingent liability is a liability that is not sufficiently certain to qualify for Where the Directors receive information in the period between 31 December recognition as a provision because significant subjectivity exists regarding and the date of approval of the Annual Report about conditions relating to its outcome. events that existed at the year end, they update the disclosures relating to those conditions in light of the new information. Such events can be categorised as adjusting or non-adjusting depending As described in last year’s accounts, in May 2012 companies belonging on whether the condition existed at 31 December. If the event is an adjusting to a British builders’ merchant served damages claims against IMI plc and event, then an adjustment to the results is made. If a non-adjusting event others relating to alleged financial losses incurred in the UK as a result of after the year end is material, non-disclosure could influence decisions that anti-competitive behaviour undertaken by a number of manufacturers of copper readers of the financial statements make. Accordingly, for each material plumbing tubes and copper plumbing fittings. An investigation by the European non-adjusting event after the reporting period we disclose the nature of the Commission was commenced in 2001 and found cartel activity for which it event and an estimate of its financial effect, or a statement that such an imposed fines in 2004 (tubes) and 2006 (fittings). IMI plc disposed of its former estimate cannot be made. copper plumbing tubes and fittings businesses in 2002. There are separate tubes and fittings cases in the English High Court. IMI is defending both claims robustly and has brought in all other appropriate parties as contributors. The Group disposed of its Retail Dispense Operations on 1 January 2014, At the year-end, the Directors recorded their best estimate of any settlement subsequent to the year-end. in respect of the cases. However, due to the stage of the ongoing negotiation and the potential impact on the outcome of the claim, the amount provided The proceeds of the disposal were $1,100m, adjusted for net debt in the is not disclosed. business at the date of disposal and a customary completion accounts mechanism. These proceeds were hedged using a deal contingent forward Group contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of exchange contract to protect the Group from adverse movements in the business and other items amounted to £114m (2012: £102m). sterling/dollar exchange rate between exchange of contract on 15 October 2013 and completion on 1 January 2014. After deducting transaction costs, the Retail Dispense net assets, taxation and after recycling the cumulative 5.2 historical exchange gain on the assets disposed, we estimate that the profit on Related party transactions disposal of this business to be recorded in 2014 will be in the region of £475m. Return of cash and share consolidation Related parties are solely the key management personnel. The Board is considered to be the key management personnel of the Group. As envisaged in the announcement of the disposal of the Retail Dispense businesses, we are returning cash of about £620m to shareholders via a ‘B and C share scheme’, which was approved in the general meeting in February 2014. 2013 2012 The B and C Share Scheme was accompanied by a seven for eight share £m £m consolidation, which is a commonly used arrangement to ensure that the Group’s share price after the return of cash is broadly equivalent to the share Short term employee benefits* 6.5 5.6 price prior to the return of cash, which ensures that targets and prices in the Termination Benefits 0.5 0.7 Group’s various share-based remuneration schemes remain appropriate. Share-based payments 5.7 5.3 Total 12.7 11.6 The return of cash will reduce retained earnings in the 2014 Balance Sheet by about £620m. * Short-term employee benefits comprise salary, including employers’ social contributions, benefits earned during the year and bonuses awarded for the year. 5.4 There are no other related party transactions. Significant accounting policies A. Subsidiaries and Non-controlling interests The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of IMI plc and the entities it controls (its subsidiaries) for the year to 31 December. The Group has no significant interests which are accounted for as Associates or Joint Ventures as at 31 December 2013. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases. Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights; currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights; or by way of contractual agreement. The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting year as the Parent Company and are based on consistent accounting policies. All intragroup balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated in full. 138 IMI plc SECTION 5 – OTHER NOTES Continued A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, ii. Estimates and assumptions is accounted for as an equity transaction. If the Group loses control over a The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation subsidiary, it: uncertainty at the reporting date that have a significant risk of causing a material • derecognises the assets (including any goodwill relating to the subsidiary) adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next and liabilities of the subsidiary; financial year are described below. The Group bases its assumptions and • derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest; estimates on information available when the consolidated financial statements are prepared. Market changes or circumstances arising beyond the control • derecognises the cumulative translation differences recorded in equity; of the Group are reflected in the assumptions when they occur. Revisions to • recognises the fair value of the consideration received; accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is • recognises the fair value of any investment retained; revised and in any future periods affected. • recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss; and Impairment of non-financial assets • reclassifies the Parent’s share of components previously recognised in other Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash generating unit comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate. exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs Taxation on the above accounting entries would also be recognised to sell and its value in use. The value in use is based on a discounted cash flow where applicable. model. Cash flows are derived from the Group’s long-term forecasts for the next three years. The principal sensitivities in this calculation are the discount Non-controlling interests include the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, rate, the expected future cash inflows and the growth rate used to calculate the directly or indirectly, to the Parent Company and the IMI Pension Fund’s interest terminal value. Further information on this process and the assets affected is in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership (‘the Partnership’). Non-controlling included in section 3.2. interests are presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent. Losses within Valuation of intangibles a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results Accounting standards require separately identifiable intangible assets to be in a deficit balance. recognised on acquisitions. This process involves a number of different valuation techniques for the classes of intangible asset recognised, which, for the Group’s B. Use of judgements and estimates recent acquisitions, have principally related to customer and technology related The preparation of financial statements requires management to make assets. The principal estimates required in valuing these intangible assets judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of generally relate to predicting the future cash flows to be generated by the accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, assets as well as the rates used to discount them. income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Disposed businesses i. Judgement The Company has disposed of a number of its previous businesses. The sale Consolidation of the Scottish Limited Partnership and inclusion of agreements contained various warranties and indemnities. In some cases, the IMI Pension Fund’s interest in this special purpose entity as a the agreements also include the potential for adjustment to the purchase price, non-controlling interest. sometimes contingent on future events. At the time of disposal, the accounts In June 2010, the Group made a special contribution to the IMI Pension Fund reflect the best estimate of the likely future impact of these agreements. of £48.6m which the Trustee agreed to invest in the IMI Scottish Limited These estimates are then regularly reviewed and provisions are recognised Partnership, an entity controlled by the Group, which confers upon the Fund where necessary. conditional rights to receive income of £4.4m a year for twenty years, or until the Fund becomes fully funded. One of the judgements involved in this issue was whether this entity qualified as a Special Purpose Entity as defined by SIC 12: Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities, and whether, in applying this interpretation, the entity should be consolidated. It was determined that the entity meets the definition of a Special Purpose Entity under IFRS10 and furthermore, upon consideration of the criteria in this interpretation, it was determined that consolidation was appropriate. There are certain conditions under which the Group can defer the amounts payable to the Pension Fund, in particular, the Partnership Agreement includes a clause under which the payments in the year are deferred in the event that the Group has not paid a dividend in the preceding year. Because the Group has the ability to defer such payments indefinitely and is in control of the circumstances under which the arrangement can be terminated, the payments envisaged by the agreement are discretionary and therefore do not constitute a liability under IAS32. As such the Pension Fund’s interest in this IMI Scottish Limited Partnership has been recorded as a non-controlling interest, as a component of equity. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 139 Share-based payments Fair value measurement of contingent consideration The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees Because they are forfeitable in some of the instances in which the by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date at which they vendors might leave the business, certain amounts payable under contingent are granted. Estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions requires consideration arrangements resulting from business combinations in these determination of the most appropriate valuation model, which is dependent on consolidated financial statements have been treated as remuneration in the terms and conditions of the grant. This estimate also requires determination accordance with IFRS3 (revised). These are assessed at fair value and charged of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including the expected to the Income Statement in the period over which the Group receives the life of the share option, volatility and dividend yield and related assumptions. benefit of the vendors’ employment services. The determination of this fair These assumptions and the models used for estimating fair value for value is based on an estimate of the future performance of the business which share-based payment transactions are disclosed in section 4.7. is dependent on the acquired business’s performance over a specific future timeframe and is therefore subject to estimation uncertainty. These amounts are Taxes treated as exceptional items in accordance with section D to these accounting Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax regulations, policies and further details are disclosed in section 3.4. changes in tax laws, and the amount and timing of future taxable income. Given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term Development costs nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising Development costs are capitalised in accordance with the criteria set out in between the actual results and the assumptions made, or future changes to IAS38: Intangible Assets. Initial capitalisation of costs is based on management’s such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to the tax income judgement regarding the technological and commercial feasibility of the asset, and expense already recorded. The Group establishes provisions, based and only when a product development project has reached a point where on reasonable estimates, for possible consequences of audits by the tax such determinations can be made. In testing these assets for impairment, authorities of the respective countries in which it operates. The amount of management makes assumptions regarding the expected future cash such provisions is based on various factors, such as experience of previous generation of the project, discount rates to be applied and the expected tax audits and differing interpretations of tax regulations by the taxable entity period of benefits. Further details are disclosed in section 3.2. and the responsible tax authority. Such differences of interpretation may arise on a wide variety of issues depending on the conditions prevailing in the C. Revenue recognition respective domicile of the Group companies. Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses to the extent that it benefits will flow to the Group and that the revenue can be reliably measured. is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the losses can be The nature of the equipment, valve and other contracts into which the Group utilised. Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount enters means that: of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and • the contracts usually contain discrete elements, each of which transfers risks the level of future taxable profits. and rewards to the customer. Where such discrete elements are present, revenue is recognised on each element in accordance with the policy on the Trading provisions sale of goods. The Group sells a wide range of highly technical products and whilst its • the service element of the contract is usually insignificant in relation to the products are designed and engineered to a high degree of precision and total contract value and is often provided on a short-term or one-off basis. to customer specifications, there will always be a risk of products requiring Where this is the case, revenue is recognised when the service is complete. modification, which can lead to warranty claims as well as excess or obsolete inventory, collection risk regarding receivables and other trading provisions. As a result of the above, the significant majority of the Group’s revenue is Provisions are held against these risks, which are estimated based on past recognised on a sale of goods basis. experience of claims and by measuring the likely use of inventory in the future The specific methods used to recognise the different forms of revenue earned against past usage. The degree of dependence on future events makes by the Group are set out below: these estimates inherently subjective. i. Sale of goods Employee benefits Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement net The present value of the Group’s defined benefit pension plans and other postof returns, trade discounts and volume rebates when the significant risks employment benefits are determined using actuarial valuations. An actuarial and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer and reliable valuation involves making various assumptions that may differ from actual measurement is possible. No revenue is recognised where recovery of the developments in the future. These include the determination of the discount consideration is not probable or there are significant uncertainties regarding rate, inflation, future salary increases, mortality rates and future pension associated costs, or the possible return of goods. increases. Due to the complexity of the valuation and its long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. Transfers of risks and rewards vary depending on the nature of the products In particular, although only constituting a minor portion of the assets, the sold and the individual terms of the contract of sale. Sales made under valuation of the IMI Pension Fund’s interest in the Scottish Limited Partnership internationally accepted trade terms, Incoterms 2010, are recognised as is a highly subjective area because its valuation depends on an actuarial revenue when the Group has completed the primary duties required to transfer assessment of the amount a third party might be willing to pay for the asset, risks as defined by the International Chamber of Commerce Official Rules for taking into account the risk that the associated income stream could either the Interpretation of Trade Terms. Sales made outside Incoterms 2010 are cease in the event that the IMI Pension Fund became fully funded or become generally recognised on delivery to the customer. deferred in any year in which no dividend was paid to the shareholders. These assumptions, accompanied by sensitivity analysis thereon, are included in section 4.5. 140 IMI plc SECTION 5 – OTHER NOTES Continued ii. Rendering of Services • Acquisition-related costs, which comprise: As noted above, because revenue from the rendering of services is usually Contingent consideration payments which (because they might be insignificant in relation to the total contract value and is generally provided on forfeited in some of the instances in which the vendors’ post-acquisition a short-term or one-off basis, revenue is usually recognised when the service employment contracts may be terminated) are required by IFRS3 (revised) is complete. to be treated as remuneration; Where this is not the case, revenue from services rendered is recognised in Transaction costs on successful acquisitions. proportion to the stage of completion of the service at the balance sheet date. The tax impact of the above items is also shown within Exceptional Items. The stage of completion is assessed by reference to the contractual agreement with each separate customer and the costs incurred on the contract to date E. Financial income and expense in comparison to the total forecast costs of the contract. Revenue recognition Financial income comprises interest receivable on funds invested, income commences only when the outcome of the contract can be reliably measured. from investments and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the Installation fees are similarly recognised by reference to the stage of completion income statement. Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it on the installation unless they are incidental to the sale of the goods, in which accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset. Dividend income is case they are recognised when the goods are sold. recognised in the income statement on the date that the dividend is declared. When a transaction combines a supply of goods with the provision of a Financial expense comprises interest payable on borrowings calculated using significant service, revenue from the provision of the service is recognised the effective interest rate method, the interest related element of derivatives and separately from the revenue from the sale of goods by reference to the stage losses on financial instruments that are recognised in the income statement. of completion of the service unless the service is essential to the functionality The interest expense component of finance lease payments is recognised in of the goods supplied, in which case the whole transaction is treated as a the income statement using the effective interest rate method. construction contract. Revenue from a service that is incidental to the supply of goods is recognised at the same time as the revenue from the supply of goods. Net finance expense relating to defined benefit pension schemes represents the assumed interest on the difference between employee benefit plan liabilities iii. Construction contracts and the employee benefit plan assets. As noted above, customer contracts usually contain discrete elements Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or separately transferring risks and rewards to the customer. However, where production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to such discrete elements are not in place, revenue from significant contracts is get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract by reference respective assets. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they to the specific contract terms and the costs incurred on the contract to date in occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs comparison to the total forecast costs of the contract. in connection with the borrowing of funds. Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included in revenue from construction contracts when certain criteria are met. Variations F. Income tax are included when the customer has agreed to the variation or acknowledged Current tax payable/receivable represents the expected tax payable/receivable liability for the variation in principle. Claims are included when negotiations on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively with the customer have reached an advanced stage such that the customer is enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into account any adjustments certain to accept the claim. Incentive payments are included when a contract in respect of prior years. is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the performance standards triggering the incentive will be achieved. Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet method, on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial Profit attributable to contract activity is recognised if the final outcome of such reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is contracts can be reliably assessed. On all contracts, full provision is made for not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of any losses in the year in which they are first foreseen. goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, D. Exceptional items and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that the Exceptional items are disclosed separately where the quantum, the one-off timing of the reversal of the differences can be controlled and it is probable nature or volatility of these items would otherwise distort the underlying that the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is trading performance. measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse, based on the tax laws that have been enacted or The following items of income and expense are considered to be exceptional substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. in these financial statements: • Gains and losses (including fair value adjustments) on derivative A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that financial instruments; future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised. • Special pension events, which comprise the past service credits relating to the UK Scheme (arising from the pension increase exchange exercise) and G. Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations two Swiss Schemes and the curtailment of a defined benefit scheme in Japan; Where applicable, on initial classification as ‘held for sale’, non-current disposal • Restructuring costs, which comprise significant costs associated with the groups are recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs closure of activities or factories and the cost of significant reductions in to sell. Impairment losses on the initial classification of assets as held for sale workforce due to excess capacity or the reorganisation of facilities; are included in profit or loss, even for assets measured at fair value, as are • Costs associated with the disposal of our Retail Dispense businesses, impairment losses on subsequent remeasurement and any reversal thereof. which principally represented costs payable to the legal and financial advisors Once classified as held for sale, assets are no longer depreciated or amortised. assisting with the origination and completion of the transaction, in addition A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that to the advisory costs borne in 2013 relating to the return of cash; represents a separate major line of business that has been disposed of, • The amortisation of acquired intangible fixed assets; is held for sale or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to re-sale. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 141 H. Foreign currencies the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting under IAS39 no hedge accounting is i. Foreign currency transactions applied and any gain or loss resulting from changes in fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in net financial income or expense. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet Where such a derivative is a formally designated hedge of a forecast transaction date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translating transactions at for accounting purposes, such as the forward component of the dealthe exchange rate ruling on the transaction date are reflected in the income contingent forward contract entered into to hedge foreign exchange movements statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical relating to the US dollar proceeds of the sale of the Retail Dispense businesses, cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date movements in the value of the derivative are recognised directly in equity to the of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign extent the hedge is effective. The Company assesses the effectiveness of the currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into Sterling at foreign hedge based on the expected fair value of the amount to be received and the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. movement in the fair value of the derivative designated as the hedge. ii. Foreign operations For segmental reporting purposes, changes in the fair value of economic hedges that are not designated hedges, which relate to current year trading, The income statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at together with the gains and losses on their settlement, are allocated to the the appropriate average rate of exchange for the year and the adjustment to segmental revenues and operating profit of the relevant business segment. year end rates is taken directly to reserves. The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value ii. Hedge of net investment in foreign operation adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated at foreign exchange rates Where a foreign currency liability or derivative financial instrument is a formally ruling at the balance sheet date. designated hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, foreign exchange differences arising on translation of the foreign currency liability or changes in Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly the fair value of the financial instrument are recognised directly in equity to the as a separate component of equity. Since 1 January 2004, the Group’s date extent the hedge is effective. The Company assesses the effectiveness of its of transition to IFRSs, such differences have been recognised in the translation net investment hedges based on fair value changes of its net assets, including reserve. When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant relevant goodwill designated as foreign currency assets, and the fair value amount in the translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss. changes of both the debt designated as a hedge and the relevant financial instrument. I. Financial instruments and fair value hedging Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value plus directly attributable K. Business combinations and goodwill transaction costs unless the instrument is a derivative not designated as a Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. hedge (see below). Subsequent measurement depends on the designation The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration of the instrument, which follows the categories in IAS39: transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any • Fixed deposits, comprising principally funds held with banks and other non-controlling interest in the acquiree. The choice of measurement of nonfinancial institutions are classified as ‘available for sale assets’ under controlling interest, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the IAS39, and held at fair value. Short term borrowings and overdrafts are acquiree’s identifiable net assets is determined on a transaction by transaction classified as financial liabilities at amortised cost. basis. Acquisition-related costs incurred are expensed and included in • Derivatives, comprising interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts administrative expenses unless their quantum, nature or volatility meets the and options, metals futures contracts and any embedded derivatives, are definition of an Exceptional item as set out in accounting policy D. classified as ‘fair value through profit or loss’ under IAS39, unless designated When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and as hedges. Derivatives not designated as hedges are initially recognised at liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss when with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, changes in fair value of such as at the acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded derivatives derivatives and gains or losses on their settlement are recognised in net in contracts held by the acquiree. financial income or expense. • Long term loans and other interest-bearing borrowings are generally held at Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Where the long-term recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the loan is hedged, generally by an interest rate swap, and the hedge is regarded fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be a liability as effective, the carrying value of the long-term loan is adjusted for changes in will be recognised in accordance with IAS39 either in profit or loss or in other fair value of the hedge. comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured until it is finally settled within equity. • Trade receivables are stated at cost as reduced by appropriate impairment allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of • Trade payables are stated at cost. the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest (and where the business combination • Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet only when is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s previously the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. held equity interest in the acquiree) over the net identifiable amounts of the • Available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value with gains and losses assets acquired and the liabilities assumed for the business combination. being recognised in equity, except for impairment losses which are recognised Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the in the income statement. business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements are accounted for separately J. Other hedging from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable i. Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities, financial commitments or IFRSs. Identifiable intangible assets are recognised separately from goodwill. forecast transactions Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the Where a derivative financial instrument is used as an economic hedge of the acquisition-date fair value can be reliably measured. foreign exchange or metals commodity price exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, financial commitment or forecast transaction, but does not meet 142 IMI plc SECTION 5 – OTHER NOTES Continued If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred iv. Amortisation of intangible assets other than goodwill and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest (and where the Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis (other business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of than for customer relationships and order book, which are charged on a sum of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree) is lower than the digits basis) over the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets. Amortisation fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value commences from the date the intangible asset becomes available for use. of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the difference is The estimated maximum useful lives for: recognised in profit and loss. • Capitalised development costs are the life of the intangible asset (usually a After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated maximum of 10 years) impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired • Software development costs are the life of the intangible asset (up to 10 years) in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating units (or groups of cash generating units) that are • Customer relationships are the life of the intangible asset (up to 10 years) expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets • Other intangible assets are the life of the intangible asset (up to 10 years) or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units. Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level within the M. Property, plant and equipment entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes Freehold land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated. and not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation. Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Where goodwill forms part of a cash generating unit and part of the operation depreciation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation ‘Impairment’). disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the having different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of operation disposed of and the portion of the cash generating unit retained. property, plant and equipment. Costs in respect of tooling owned by the Group for clearly identifiable new products are capitalised net of any contribution L. Intangible assets received from customers and are included in plant and equipment. Intangible assets are further sub-divided in the notes to these accounts Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis between acquired intangible assets and non-acquired intangible assets. (unless such a basis is not aligned with the anticipated benefit) so as to Amortisation of acquired intangible assets is treated as an exceptional item as write down the cost of assets to residual values over the period of their described in section D of these accounting policies, because of its inherent estimated useful lives within the following ranges: volatility. The accounting policy for goodwill is described in section K. • Freehold buildings 25 to 50 years i. Research and development • Plant and equipment 3 to 20 years Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining N. Leased assets new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred. Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products Plant and equipment acquired by way of finance lease is stated at an amount and processes, is capitalised provided benefits are probable, cost can be equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease reliably measured and if, and only if, the product or process is technically and payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation (see above) commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources and intention and impairment losses (see accounting policy ‘Impairment’). to complete development. The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement materials, direct labour and directly attributable overheads. Other development on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement over the amortisation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy period of the lease unless a different systematic method is more appropriate ‘Impairment’) and is included in the other acquired or other non-acquired under the terms of the lease. The majority of leasing transactions entered into category of intangible assets depending on its origin. by the Group are operating leases. ii. Software development costs O. Inventories Software applications and systems that are not an integral part of their host Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Because computer equipment are capitalised on initial recognition as intangible assets of the varying nature of the Group’s operations, both first in, first out (FIFO) at cost. Cost comprises the purchase price plus external costs incurred on and weighted average methodologies are employed. In respect of work in development of the asset to bring it into use. Following initial recognition, progress and finished goods, cost includes all direct costs of production software development costs are carried at cost less any accumulated and the appropriate proportion of production overheads. amortisation (see below) and accumulated impairment losses (see accounting policy ‘Impairment’) and are included in the other acquired or other nonP. Cash and cash equivalents acquired category of intangible assets depending on their origin. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part iii. Customer relationships and other acquired intangible assets of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash Customer relationships and other intangible assets that are acquired by and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows. the Group as part of a business combination are stated at their fair value calculated by reference to the net present value of future benefits accruing to the Group from utilisation of the asset, discounted at an appropriate discount rate. Expenditure on other internally generated intangible assets is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 143 Q. Impairment and the date that the Group recognises restructuring-related costs. The carrying values of the Group’s non-financial assets other than inventories The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on high quality (see accounting policy ‘Inventories’) and deferred tax assets (see accounting corporate bonds of the appropriate currency that have durations approximating policy ‘Income tax’), are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine those of the Group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified whether there is any indication of impairment. actuary using the projected unit credit method. When the calculation results in a net asset to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the net total of any If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or all unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any future refunds assets within its cash generating unit is estimated. An impairment loss is from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan and restricted recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating by any relevant asset ceiling. Any deduction made by the tax authorities in unit exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the event of a refund of a surplus would be regarded by the Group as an the income statement. income tax. For goodwill and assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable When the benefits of a plan are improved, the expense is recognised amount is evaluated at each balance sheet date. immediately in the income statement. Re-measurement gains and losses are recognised immediately in equity and disclosed in the statement of i. Calculation of recoverable amount comprehensive income. The recoverable amount of the Group’s receivables other than financial assets held at fair value is calculated as the present value of expected future cash iii. Long-term service and other post-employment benefits flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate inherent in the asset. The Group’s net obligation in respect of long-term service and other postReceivables with a short duration of less than one year are not discounted. employment benefits, other than pension plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value periods. The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use an individual and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets assessment is made of the estimated future cash flows generated for each cash is deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on high generating unit (based upon the latest Group three-year plan and extrapolated quality bonds of the appropriate currency that have durations approximating using an appropriate long-term growth rate for each cash generating unit in those of the Group’s obligations. perpetuity consistent with an estimate of the relevant geographic long-term GDP growth). These are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax iv. Equity and equity-related compensation benefits discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Management believe that this The Group operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation approach, including the use of the indefinite cash flow projection, is appropriate benefits as set out in section 4.7. The fair value of the employee services based upon both historical experience and because it is one of the bases received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense management utilise to evaluate the fair value of investment opportunities. each year. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the the recoverable amount is determined for the smallest cash generating impact of any non-market vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales unit to which the asset belongs. growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable. ii. Reversals of impairment The fair value of the options is determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. As required by IAS36: ‘Impairment of Assets’, any impairment of goodwill or available for sale financial assets is non-reversible. In respect of other assets, At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of an impairment loss is reversed if at the balance sheet date there are indications options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision of that the loss has decreased or no longer exists following a change in the original estimates, if any, in the income statement. estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium when the options amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been are exercised. determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. T. Provisions Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive R. Dividends obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an outflow of resources Final dividends payable are recognised as a liability at the date at which they are will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably approved by the Company’s shareholders or by the subsidiary’s shareholders in estimated. Provisions are valued at management’s best estimate of the respect of dividends to non-controlling interests. Interim dividends payable are amount required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date. recognised on the date they are declared. A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved S. Employee benefits a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced publicly. i. Defined contribution pension plans Contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred. ii. Defined benefit pension plans The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted. Past service costs are recognised in profit or loss on the earlier of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, 144 IMI plc STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, which includes The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that the Directors’ Report, Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose Statement, and the Group and parent Company financial statements in with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and accordance with applicable law and regulations. the parent Company and enable them to ensure that the Group and parent Company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent Company Article 4 of the IAS Regulation as appropriate. They are also responsible for financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors are safeguarding the assets of the Group and the parent Company and hence required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with those for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European other irregularities. Union. Under Company law the directors must not approve the Group financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly the financial position, The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that period. In preparing and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in those Group financial statements, the directors are required to: the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial • s elect suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS8 ‘Accounting statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’ and then apply them consistently; Directors’ responsibility statement under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules •m  ake judgements and estimates that are reasonable; Each of the directors listed on pages 38 and 39 confirms that: •p  resent information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides • the Group and parent Company financial statements in this Annual Report, relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; which have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK law and with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, •p  rovide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Group’s financial position • the management report (which comprises the Directors’ Report and the and financial performance; and Business Review) includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a • s tate that the Company has complied with IFRSs as adopted by the European whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the that they face. financial statements. The directors have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice By order of the Board (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under Company John O’Shea law the directors must not approve the parent Company financial statements Company Secretary unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. 5 March 2014 In preparing the parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: • s elect suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; •m  ake judgements and estimates that are reasonable; • s tate whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and •p  repare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 145 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC (GROUP) We have audited the Group financial statements of IMI plc for the year ended Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 31 December 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect on the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing of Changes in Equity, Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and the efforts of the engagement team: Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, and the related sections 1 to 5. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation • Revenue and profit recognition, particularly in Severe Service is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) • Inventory valuation, particularly in Severe Service as adopted by the European Union. • Valuation of the overall pension scheme liabilities and the pension asset This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in associated with the Scottish Limited Partnership (SLP) accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit • Accounting treatment of the disposal of the Beverage Dispense and work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members Merchandising businesses including the associated tax effect of those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for the transaction no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or • The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets. assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Our application of materiality have formed. We determined materiality for the Group to be £16 million (2012: £16 million), which is below 5% (2012: 5%) of profit before tax. In calculating materiality, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor we excluded the effects of certain non-recurring items from profit before tax. As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out For 2013, these related to contingent consideration and preparatory costs on page 144, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group associated with the disposal of the Beverage Dispense and Merchandising financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. businesses. Our materiality provided a basis for determining the nature, timing Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the audit procedures. Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Scope of the audit of the financial statements Group’s overall control environment, our judgment was that overall performance An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the materiality (i.e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial balance) for the Group should be 50% (2012: 50%) of materiality, namely statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or £8 million (2012: £8 million). Our objective in adopting this approach was to error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are ensure that undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied planning materiality level. and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial all audit differences in excess of £0.8 million (2012: £0.8 million), as well as statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information differences below that threshold that, in our view warranted reporting on in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the qualitative grounds. audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: • give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended; • have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and • have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 146 IMI plc INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC (GROUP) Continued An overview of the scope of our audit Matters on which we are required to report by exception Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group We have nothing to report in respect of the following: financial statements, we selected 69 entities from the Group’s five reportable segments which account for 79% (81%) of the Group’s revenue and 93% (86%) Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our of the Group’s profit before tax. Of these entities, 18 were subject to a full audit, opinion, information in the Annual Report is: 35 were subject to audits of specific account balances and 16 were subject to • materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; review procedures. None of the entities in the Group is individually significant or in size. Therefore, the full and specific scope entities are selected based on • apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our risk. For the remaining entities, we performed other procedures to confirm knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the Group financial • is otherwise misleading. statements. The entities were selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any above and the different local systems operating across the Group. inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, The Group audit team focuses its involvement in higher risks areas through balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately regular conference calls with entity teams and review of key working papers. discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which In addition, the Group team follows a programme of site visits to higher we consider should have been disclosed. risk locations. Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Our response to the risks identified above was as follows: in our opinion: • Revenue and profit recognition, particularly in Severe Service • certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; We performed testing around the timing of revenue recognition, examining or new contracts to ensure the recording of revenue reflects the underlying terms and conditions. In addition, we audited management’s assessment of • we have not received all the information and explanations we require for forecast costs to complete and the underlying assumptions to ensure contract our audit. losses are appropriately recognised. We also performed substantive analytical Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: procedures and assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted complied with IFRS. • the directors’ statement, set out on page 54, in relation to going concern; and • the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s • Inventory valuation, particularly in Severe Service compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code We tested the accumulation of cost within inventory, ensuring the valuation specified for our review. reflected the physical inventory counts and the product’s stage of completion. We also tested the appropriateness of overhead absorption in the inventory Other matter valuation and audited provisions against inventory to ensure they appropriately We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of reflected potential excess and/or obsolete issues. IMI plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on the information in the • Valuation of the overall pension scheme liabilities and the pension asset Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. associated with the Scottish Limited Partnership (SLP) With the assistance of Ernst & Young LLP pension specialists, we considered the appropriateness of the actuarial assumptions based on reports provided Andrew Walton (Senior statutory auditor) by Towers Watson. In addition to testing the valuation of other pension assets, we confirmed the consistency of the valuation principles used for the SLP for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor pension assets and challenged the assumptions supporting their valuation Birmingham in conjunction with Ernst & Young LLP valuation specialists. 5 March 2014 • Accounting treatment for disposal of the Beverage Dispense and Merchandising businesses In respect of the disposals of the Beverage Dispense and Merchandising 1 The maintenance and integrity of the IMI plc website is the responsibility businesses, we audited the assumptions underpinning the valuation of of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve assets held for sale and the related disclosures to ensure that they complied consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no with the requirements of IFRS 5. In addition, we audited the related tax responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial effects of the disposals. statements since they were initially presented on the web site. • The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and 2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and intangible assets dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in We audited management’s assumptions used in the impairment model for other jurisdictions. goodwill and intangible assets, including specifically the long-term growth rates, discount rates, cash flow projections and sensitivities used. Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 147 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC (COMPANY) We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of IMI plc for the Matters on which we are required to report by exception year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Company Balance Sheet We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the and the related notes C1 to C12. The financial reporting framework that has been Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). • adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in visited by us; or accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit • the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for records and returns; or no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s • certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions or we have formed. • we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out Other matter on page 144, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of IMI plc company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true for the year ended 31 December 2013. and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require Andrew Walton (Senior statutory auditor) us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Scope of the audit of the financial statements Birmingham An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 5 March 2014 statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently 1. The maintenance and integrity of the IMI plc web site is the responsibility applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site. statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect 2. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material other jurisdictions. misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: • give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2013; • have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and • have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: • the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and • the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements. 148 IMI plc COMPANY BALANCE SHEET At 31 December 2013 2013 2012 Note £m £m Fixed Assets Investments C6 573.4 574.0 Current assets Debtors (including £nil due after more than one year (2012: £0.8m)) C7 88.0 78.5 Cash at bank and in hand 1.0 88.0 79.5 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Bank overdraft (2.5) Borrowings C9 (19.0) Other creditors C8 (41.0) (41.0) Net current assets 25.5 38.5 Total assets less current liabilities 598.9 612.5 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year Borrowings C9 (20.6) Net assets 598.9 591.9 Capital and reserves Called up share capital C10 85.3 85.2 Share premium account C10 171.8 170.3 Capital redemption reserve C10 7.9 7.9 Profit and loss account C10 333.9 328.5 Equity shareholders’ funds 598.9 591.9 Approved by the Board of Directors on 5 March 2014 and signed on its behalf by: Roberto Quarta Chairman Annual Report and Accounts 2013 149 COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C1. Significant accounting policies When a parent grants share-based payments to employees of a subsidiary, The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with UITF41 ‘Scope of FRS20’ and UITF44 ‘Group and Treasury Share Transactions’ items considered material in relation to the financial statements, except where states that the parent receives services from the employees indirectly through otherwise noted below: its subsidiary which should be accounted for as an increase in the investment in the subsidiary by the parent. Basis of accounting Amounts recharged to subsidiaries are recognised as a reduction in the cost The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost of investment in the subsidiary as this recharge is considered to form part of the convention and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards except determination of the net capital contribution from the parent in respect of the for certain financial instruments as defined by FRS26 ‘Financial Instruments: share-based payment arrangement. Accordingly, there is no overall increase in Measurement’ which are stated at fair value. the investment in subsidiaries recorded in the Company’s financial statements. The recharged amount is recognised as a debtor falling due for payment within The Company has not presented a separate profit and loss account as one year. permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. The total amount recharged over the vesting period is determined by reference Under FRS1 ‘Cash Flow Statements’, the Company is exempt from the to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that the vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales growth targets). NonCompany is included in its own published consolidated financial statements. market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions contained in FRS8 of options that are expected to become exercisable. The fair value of the ‘Related party disclosures’ and has not disclosed transactions or balances options at the date of grant is determined based on the Black-Scholes with wholly owned entities which form part of the Group. Related party option-pricing model. transactions with the Company’s key management personnel are disclosed in At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the number the Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 79 and in section 5.2 on page 137 of of options that are expected to vest. the Group Financial Statements. The Company has adopted the requirements of FRS29 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ and has taken the exemption It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the under that standard from disclosure on the grounds that the Group Financial amount recharged to subsidiary undertakings. Statements contain disclosures in compliance with IFRS7. The proceeds received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs are Foreign currencies credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium when the options are exercised. Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of transaction. Treasury shares Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been The consideration paid by the Company on the acquisition of treasury shares translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet is charged directly to retained earnings in the year of purchase. If treasury date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and shares are subsequently cancelled the nominal value of the cancelled shares loss account. is transferred from share capital to the capital redemption reserve. Investments Dividends or shares presented within shareholders’ funds The Company’s cost of investments in subsidiary undertakings is stated at the Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability aggregate of (a) the cash consideration and either (b) the nominal value of the at that date to the extent that they are authorised and are no longer at the shares issued as consideration when section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria applies or (c) in all other cases the market value of the Company’s shares on the are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. date they were issued as consideration. C2. Remuneration of directors Taxation The detailed information concerning directors’ emoluments, shareholdings The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into and options are shown in the audited section of the Remuneration Report account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the on pages 55 to 79. treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. C3. Remuneration of auditors Deferred tax is recognised without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting The detailed information concerning the auditor’s remuneration is shown purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except in section 2.1.3.3 of the Group Financial Statements. as otherwise required by FRS19. C4. Staff numbers and costs Financial instruments The number of people employed by the Company, including Directors, during The principal financial instruments utilised by the Company are interest rate the year was 25 (2012: 27) all of whom were employed in administrative roles. swaps. These instruments are used for hedging purposes in line with the The costs associated with them were borne by a subsidiary undertaking. Group’s risk management policy. Interest differentials are taken to net interest The Company participates in the IMI Pension Fund, which is a defined benefit in the profit and loss account. scheme in which the assets are held independently. The Company is unable If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, for example because to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the schemes the underlying hedged position is eliminated, the instrument is marked to and consequently in accordance with FRS17 paragraph 9(b) the Company market and any resulting profit or loss is recognised at that time. is required to account for pension costs as if the scheme were a defined contribution scheme. Section 4.5 to the Group financial statements provides Equity and equity-related compensation benefits further details regarding the defined benefit scheme. The Company operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation benefits as set out in section 4.7 to the Group Financial Statements. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recharged to the principal employing company. 150 IMI plc COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued C5. Dividends The aggregate amount of dividends comprises: 2013 2012 £m £m Final dividends paid in respect of prior year but not recognised as liabilities in that year 66.0 60.3 Interim dividends paid in respect of the current year 40.2 37.5 Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the financial year 106.2 97.8 Dividends paid in the year of £106.2m represent 33.5p per share (2012: 30.8p). After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences. 2013 2012 £m £m 22.5p per qualifying ordinary share (2012: 20.7p)* 60.7 66.1 * Whilst the final dividend per share for 2013 has increased from 20.7p to 22.5p, the cost of the unprovided proposed dividend has decreased because the aforementioned 7 for 8 share consolidation in February 2014 resulted in a lower estimated number of shares eligible for a dividend on the record date. Dividends proposed after the balance sheet date may differ from the final dividend paid. This is a result of the final number of qualifying shares entitled to dividends differing from those in issue at the balance sheet date. C6. Fixed assets investments Subsidiary undertakings Shares Loans Total £m £m £m At 1 January 2013 cost and net book value 173.2 400.8 574.0 Acquisitions in the period 65.9 65.9 Repayments during the year (66.5) (66.5) At 31 December 2013 at cost and net book value 239.1 334.3 573.4 During the period IMI plc acquired Artform International Limited for consideration of £65.9m from another Group company. Details of subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2013 are shown on page 153. C7. Debtors 2013 2012 £m £m Falling due for payment within one year: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 86.3 76.0 Prepayments and accrued income 0.9 0.4 Other financial assets 0.8 1.3 88.0 77.7 Falling due for payment after one year: Other financial assets 0.8 0.8 88.0 78.5 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 151 C8. Other creditors falling due within one year 2013 2012 £m £m Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 39.5 39.6 Other payables 1.0 0.8 Accruals and deferred income 0.5 0.6 41.0 41.0 C9. Borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Company’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about the Company’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see section 4.4 in the Group Financial Statements. 2013 2012 £m £m Due within one year: Unsecured US loan notes 2014 19.0 Due between one and two years: Unsecured US loan notes 2014 20.6 C10. Share capital and reserves Share Share Redemption Retained Parent capital premium reserve earnings equity £m £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2012 85.0 169.3 7.9 267.3 529.5 Retained profit for the year 151.5 151.5 Shares issued in the year 0.2 1.0 1.2 Dividends paid * (97.8) (97.8) Share-based payments 10.1 10.1 Shares held in trust for employee share schemes * (2.6) (2.6) At 31 December 2012 85.2 170.3 7.9 328.5 591.9 Retained profit for the year 288.9 288.9 Shares issued in the year 0.1 1.5 1.6 Dividends paid * (106.2) (106.2) Share-based payments 11.2 11.2 Shares acquired for*: employee share scheme trust (24.2) (24.2) share buyback programme (164.3) (164.3) At 31 December 2013 85.3 171.8 7.9 333.9 598.9 * Details of treasury and employee trust share scheme movements are contained in section 4.6 to the Group Financial Statements and details of dividends paid and proposed in the year are shown in note C5. 152 IMI plc COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued Share capital 2013 2012 £m £m Authorised 480.0m (2012: 480.0m) ordinary shares of 25p each 120.0 120.0 Issued and fully paid 341.0m (2012: 340.7m) ordinary share of 25p each 85.3 85.2 C11. Contingencies Contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of business and other items amounted to £74.1m (2012: £65.8m). There is a right of set-off with three of the Company’s bankers relating to the balances of the Company and a number of its wholly-owned UK subsidiaries. Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. The Company, as parent of the IMI Group, has contingent liabilities in respect of contingencies within the Group as described in section 5.1 to the Group Financial Statements. C12. Post balance sheet events During the period IMI plc acquired Artform International Limited for consideration of £65.9m from another Group company. Artform International Limited was subsequently sold on 1 January 2014 for an estimated consideration of £65.1m realising a loss of £0.8m, which principally results from exchange rate movements between the dates of acquisition and disposal. Details of the return of cash and share consolidation are contained within section 5.3. GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES The following table shows the geographic distribution of employees as at 31 December 2013 and is not required to be audited. United Kingdom 2,143 Continental Europe 6,986 Americas 4,458 Asia Pacific 1,986 Others 66 Total 15,639 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 153 SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS The principal subsidiary undertakings listed are those which in the opinion of the directors principally affect the figures shown in the financial statements. A full list of subsidiary undertakings will be included in the Annual Return of IMI plc to be filed with the Registrar of Companies during 2014. Except where indicated below, the undertakings are subsidiaries incorporated in the United Kingdom and the share capital consists of ordinary shares only. The principal country in which each subsidiary operates is the country of incorporation. IMI plc’s effective interest in the undertakings listed is 100%, except where indicated, and is held in each case by a subsidiary undertaking, except for IMI Group Ltd which is held directly by IMI plc. The Group has an interest in a partnership, the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership, which is fully consolidated into these Group accounts. The Group has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by regulation 7 of the Partnerships (Accounts) Regulations 2008 and has, therefore, not appended the accounts of this qualifying partnership to these accounts. Separate accounts for the partnership are not required to be and have not been filed at Companies House. Fluid Controls Norgren European Logistics Company Ltd Tour & Andersson SA Spain Norgren GesmbH Austria Truflo Marine Ltd Aero Dynamiek BV Netherlands Norgren GmbH Germany Truflo Rona SA Belgium Asterm SAS France Norgren GT Development Corporation Inc USA Truflo Rona srl Italy Buschjost GmbH Germany Norgren Inc USA Z & J Technologies GmbH Germany CCI AG Switzerland Norgren Kloehn Inc USA Zimmermann & Jansen Inc USA CCI América do Sul Comércio de Equipamentos Industriais Ltda Brazil Norgren Ltd Zimmermann & Jansen South Africa (Pty) Ltd Norgren Ltd Hong Kong South Africa CCI (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd Singapore CCI Czech Republic sro Czech Republic Norgren Ltd New Zealand Norgren Ltda Brazil Retail Dispense CCI Flow Control (Shanghai) Co. Ltd China CCI Italy srl Italy Norgren Manufacturing Co Ltd China 3Wire Group Inc USA CCI KK Japan Norgren Manufacturing de Mexico SA Mexico Artform International Inc USA CCI Ltd Korea Norgren NV Belgium Artform International Ltd CCI Switzerland AG Switzerland Norgren Pte Ltd Singapore Cannon Equipment LLC USA CCI Valve Technology AB Sweden Norgren Pty Ltd Australia DCI Marketing Inc USA CCI Valve Technology GmbH Austria Norgren SA de CV Mexico Display Technologies LLC USA Control Components Inc USA Norgren SAS France IMI Cornelius España SA Spain Control Component India Pvt Ltd India Norgren SpA Italy IMI Cornelius Europe SA Belgium Eley Ltd Norgren Sweden AB Sweden IMI Cornelius (Pacific) Ltd Hong Kong Flow Design Inc USA Orton srl Italy IMI Cornelius (Tianjin) Co Ltd China Fluid Automation Systems GmbH Germany Pneumatex & CIE NV Belgium IMI Cornelius (UK) Ltd Fluid Automation Systems SA Switzerland Pneumatex BV Netherlands IMI Cornelius Australia Pty Ltd Australia Fluid Automation Systems Technologies SA Pneumatex GmbH Germany IMI Cornelius de Mexico SA de CV Mexico Switzerland Pneumatex SARL France IMI Cornelius Deutschland GmbH Germany Herion Systemtechnik GmbH Germany Remosa Service & Construction SpA Italy IMI Cornelius Hellas SA Greece Hochdruck-Reduziertechnik GmbH Germany Remosa SpA Italy IMI Cornelius Inc USA IMI Components Inc USA Shanghai CCI Power Control Equipment IMI Cornelius Italia srl Italy IMI Components Ltd Co Ltd China (70%) IMI Cornelius Österreich GesmbH Austria IMI Indoor Climate Trading (Shanghai) Stainless Steel Fasteners Ltd IMI Cornelius (Singapore) Pte Ltd Singapore Co Ltd China STI srl Italy IMI Cornelius Ukraine LLC Ukraine IMI International Kft Hungary TA Heimeier GmbH Germany IMI Manufacturing de Mexico SA de CV Mexico IMI International LLC Russia TA Hydronics AB Sweden Trade Fixtures LLC USA IMI International sro Czech Republic TA Hydronics AS Norway IMI International sp zoo Poland TA Hydronics BV Netherlands Corporate IMI Norgren Herion Pvt Ltd India TA Hydronics FZE Dubai, UAE IMI Group Ltd IMI Norgren Oy Finland TA Hydronics GesmbH Austria IMI Kynoch Ltd IMI Norgren SA Spain TA Hydronics Ltd IMI Overseas Investments Ltd* IMI Scott Ltd TA Hydronics Oy Finland IMI Property Investments Ltd IMI Webber Ltd TA Hydronics SA France IMI Americas Inc USA Industrie Mecanique Pour Les Fluides SAS France TA Hydronics SA Switzerland IMI Fluid Controls Holdings Inc USA Interativa Indústria, Comércio e TA Hydronics Switzerland AG Switzerland IMI Retail Dispense Holdings Inc USA Representações Ltda Brazil TA Isitma ve Havalandirma Sanayi Ticaret ve Servis Limited Sirketi Turkey IMI Consulting (Shanghai) Co Limited Newman Hattersley Ltd Canada TA Regulator d.o.o Slovenia IMI Germany Holding Limited & Co KG Germany Norgren A/S Denmark Th Jansen-Armaturen GmbH Germany Brookvale International Insurance Ltd Bermuda Norgren AG Switzerland Norgren AS Norway Thompson Valves Ltd Tour & Andersson A/S Denmark * This entity has issued debt listed on the official list Norgren Automation Solutions LLC USA of the Channel Islands Stock Exchange Norgren BV Netherlands Tour & Andersson Ltda Brazil Norgren Co Ltd China Tour & Andersson NV/SA Belgium 154 IMI plc FIVE YEAR SUMMARY The restated figures in the tables below relate to the exclusion of the Retail Dispense businesses, which were sold on 1 January 2014. Further information is included within section 2.5. Income statement Restated Restated Restated Restated 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 £m £m £m £m £m Revenue 1,331 1,427 1,645 1,694 1,743 Segmental revenue* 1,324 1,433 1,649 1,696 1,744 Segmental operating profit* 194.9 262.4 307.6 300.1 321.6 Adjusted profit before tax* 168.8 235.4 280.9 274.8 297.7 Net credit on special pension events 10.9 Employee benefit curtailment UK scheme 15.1 Restructuring costs (26.8) (10.7) (21.4) (18.9) (14.2) Acquired intangible amortisation and impairment (6.8) (6.7) (32.3) (29.6) (21.9) Other acquisition-related costs (6.3) (1.9) Costs related to the Retail Dispense disposal (8.0) Financial instruments excluding economic hedge contract gains/losses 16.6 9.6 (6.2) (1.0) (2.4) Profit before tax from continuing operations 151.8 242.7 221.0 229.9 249.3 EBITDA† 218 320 321 318 332 * Before exceptional items. † Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment and other income. Group sales by destination Restated Restated Restated Restated 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 £m £m £m £m £m UK 82 92 91 101 104 Western Europe 619 669 744 694 686 North America 230 259 297 306 338 Emerging Markets 315 327 396 462 504 Rest of World 78 86 121 133 112 1,324 1,433 1,649 1,696 1,744 Revenue £m Adjusted profit before tax* £m Continuing revenue by geographic destination 2013 Rest of the World 6% 1,743 298 1,694 1,645 281 275 UK 1,427 6% 235 1,331 Westen Europe 169 40% North America 19% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Emerging Markets 29% Annual Report and Accounts 2013 155 Earnings and dividends Restated Restated Restated Restated 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Adjusted earnings per share (continuing) 37.4p 52.6p 64.5p 64.7p 72.6p Basic earnings per share (continuing) 33.6p 54.3p 50.5p 53.9p 60.4p Ordinary dividend per share 21.2p 26.0p 30.0p 32.5p 35.3p Balance sheet Restated Restated Restated Restated 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 £m £m £m £m £m Segmental net assets Continuing 637 791 806 906 897 Discontinued 213 194 192 189 196 Other net non-operating liabilities excluding borrowings (gross) (276) (264) (275) (267) (246) Net debt Continuing (187) (164) (127) (160) (226) Discontinued 15 19 18 16 27 Net assets 402 576 614 684 648 Statistics Restated Restated Restated Restated 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Segmental operating profit as a percentage of segmental revenue 14.7% 18.3% 18.7% 17.7% 18.4% Segmental operating profit as a percentage of segmental net assets 30.6% 33.2% 38.2% 33.1% 35.9% Effective tax rate on adjusted profit before tax 28.0% 28.0% 26.0% 24.0% 22.0% Net assets per share (excluding treasury and EBT shares) 125.9p 181.9p 193.5p 214.0p 210.0p Net debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds 46.5% 28.5% 20.7% 23.4% 34.9% Net debt: EBITDA 0.9 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.7 EBITDA: Interest 12 21 19 18 21 156 IMI plc SHAREHOLDER AND GENERAL INFORMATION Announcement of trading results Individual Savings Account (ISA) Headquarters and registered office The trading results for the Group for the first half IMI‘s ordinary shares can be held in an ISA. Lakeside of 2014 will be announced on 1 August 2014. For information about the ISA operated by our Solihull Parkway Registrar, Equiniti, please call the Equiniti ISA Birmingham Business Park The trading results for the full year ending 31 helpline on 0845 300 0430. Lines are open Birmingham December 2014 will be announced in March 2015. from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday. B37 7XZ Interim management statements will be issued in Telephone: +44 121 717 3700 May and November 2014. Website address: www.imiplc.com Share dealing service Managed by Equiniti, the Company’s registrar, the Dividend payment IMI plc Share Dealing Service provides shareholders Secretary Dividends on ordinary shares are normally with a simple way of buying and selling IMI ordinary John O’Shea paid as follows: shares. Telephone 08456 037 037. Full written details can be obtained from the Secretary’s Interim: mid-October Department, IMI plc, Lakeside, Solihull Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7XZ Registrars Final: mid-May (Telephone: 0121 717 3700). Equiniti Aspect House Share prices and capital gains tax Spencer Road American Depository Receipts Lancing The closing price of the Company’s Ordinary West Sussex Shares on the London Stock Exchange on 31 IMI plc have an American Depositary Receipt (ADR) BN99 6DA December 2013 was 1,525.00p (2012: 1,097.00p). programme that trades on the Over-The-Counter (‘OTC’) market in the USA, using the symbol IMIAY. Telephone: 0871 384 2916* The market value of the Company’s Ordinary ADR enquiries should be directed to Citibank or from overseas +44 121 415 7047 Shares on 31 March 1982, as calculated for Shareholder Services, PO Box 43077, Providence, Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, capital gains tax purposes, was 53.5p per share. RI 02940-3077, USA. Toll-free number in the Monday to Friday USA is 1-877-CITI-ADR (877-248-4237) and from *Calls cost 8p per minute plus network extras. The Company’s SEAQ number is 51443. outside the USA is 1-781-575-4555. You can also email citibank@shareholders-online.com. Solicitors Enquiries about shareholdings Pinsent Masons LLP For enquiries concerning shareholders’ personal 3 Colmore Circus holdings, please contact the Company’s Registrar: Birmingham Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, B4 6BH West Sussex, BN99 6DA. Telephone: 0871 384 2916*, or from overseas, Allen & Overy LLP +44 121 415 7047. One Bishops Square London Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday. E1 6AD *Calls cost 8p per minute plus network extras. Stockbrokers J.P. Morgan Cazenove 25 Bank Street London E14 5LB Citi 33 Canada Square Canary Wharf London E14 5JP Auditor Ernst & Young LLP No. 1 Colmore Square Birmingham B4 6HQ IMI plc is registered in England No.714275 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 157 INDEX Accounting policies................................ 137-143 Donations............................................... 53 Nominations Committee Report.............. 50 ADRs...................................................... 156 Earnings per share.................................. 99-100 Outlook.................................................. 7 Annual General Meeting.......................... 54 Employees.............................................. 16, 52 Pensions................................................ 124-131 Audit Committee.................................... 48 Environment........................................... 25 People.................................................... 16 Auditor’s remuneration............................ 98 Executive Committee.............................. 45 Performance Review............................... 28 Auditor’s reports..................................... 145-147 Financial Statements.............................. 80 Principal risks and uncertainties.............. 26 Balance sheet......................................... 88 Five year summary.................................. 154-155 Property, plant and equipment................ 142 Board of Directors.................................. 38 Fluid Power division................................ 32 Registrars............................................... 156 Borrowing facilities.................................. 113 General information................................ 156 Remuneration Report............................. 55 Business integrity & ethics...................... 15 Geographic distribution of employees..... 152 Research and development.................... 51 Business model...................................... 23 Global footprint....................................... 9 Responsible business............................. 14 Business review...................................... 18 Global trends.......................................... 10 Segmental information............................ 93-98 Cash flow statement............................... 90 Going concern........................................ 54 Severe Service division........................... 30 Chairman’s statement............................. 4 Goodwill................................................. 107-108 Share capital.......................................... 131-132 Chief Executive’s review.......................... 20 Group overview...................................... 8 Shareholder information.......................... 156 Community............................................. 15 Health and safety.................................... 15, 25 Strategy.................................................. 22 Corporate Governance Report............... 41-47 Income statement................................... 84 Statement of changes in equity............... 87 Deferred tax............................................ 103 Indoor Climate division............................ 34 Statement of comprehensive income...... 86 Directors’ interests.................................. 54 Intangible assets..................................... 107 Subsidiary undertakings......................... 153 Director’s responsibility statement........... 144 Interest income and expense.................. 114 Substantial shareholdings....................... 52 Diversity.................................................. 17, 50 Internal control........................................ 46-47 Taxation.................................................. 101-103 Dividends............................................... 132, 143, Key Performance Indicators.................... 24 Treasury policy........................................ 112-123 156 Niche markets........................................ 12 Total Shareholder Return........................ 69 Designed and produced by Design Motive Ltd Printed and bound in the UK by CPI Colour Ltd IMI plc Lakeside Solihull Parkway Birmingham Business Park Birmingham B37 7XZ United Kingdom www.imiplc.com
