Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2014 Aeon Basic Principles Peace The Customer People Community The word ÆON (Aeon) has its origins in a Latin root meaning eternity. Aeon abides by the unchanging principles of “pursuing peace, respecting humanity and contributing to local communities, always with the customer’s point of view as its core.” The Aeon Commitment was established to help us implement these principles and to guide us in our practice of the Customer-First philosophy. [Peace]: Aeon is a corporate group whose operations are dedicated to the pursuit of peace through prosperity. [People]: Aeon is a corporate group that respects human dignity and values personal relationships. [Community]: Aeon is a corporate group rooted in local community life and dedicated to making a continuing contribution to the community. Aeon Commitment We hope to create a future of limitless promise by transforming daily life through our open, dynamic approach. 1 イオン 環境・社会報告書2014 Editorial Policy CONTENTS This report reports on characteristic initiatives of Aeon Group Top Message 3 companies, primarily for the General Merchandising Store Aeon Group Overview 5 Business and Supermarket Business. This report presents both environmental and social initiatives of Aeon Aeon Group CSR 7 Group companies, focusing on pure holding company AEON CO.,LTD. and the General Merchandising Store and Supermarket Businesses. Special Issue Initiatives included in the report have been selected based on the Asia’s Pre-Eminent Retailer 13 level of public interest, the level of emphasis by Aeon and other Highlight 1 factors. They include environmental conservation activities and social Towards the Next 10 Million Trees 14 contribution activities conducted together with customers as well as initiatives conducted through products and at stores. Highlight 2 The 2014 edition provides a Special Issue section, under the Realizing a “Sustainable Supply heading of “Asia’s pre-eminent retailer”, that introduces three themes Chain” with our Partners Worldwide 17 about “tree planting activities that exceeded 10 million lines in 2013,” Highlight 3 “efforts Aeon supplier CoC, which aims to build a sustainable supply ‘4 Shifts’ chain,” and “medium-term management plan, which was launched Increasing Customer Satisfaction 20 from 2014. As for initiatives undertaken during fiscal 2013, particular attention is given to key issues one through four established as key Fiscal 2013 Activities 23 performance indicators. Information is also provided on our ongoing Results and Target of Key Issues support to those in need following the Great East Japan Earthquake. Key Issue 1 • Report Period Realization of a Low-carbon Society 27 FY 2013 (March 1, 2013 – February 28, 2014)* Reduce CO2 Emissions in Stores, Reduce CO2 Emissions in Products *For operating companies with different fiscal years, the relevant time and Logistics, Generating Electricity at Stores periods are indicated on each report section. Key Issue 2 • Scope of Report Conservation of Biodiversity 33 This report covers the pure holding company AEON CO., LTD. and its Biodiversity Conservation in Products and Logistics, consolidated subsidiaries 263 companies, 31 companies equityBiodiversity Conservation at the Store Level, Actions Taken with Customers method affiliates (as of February 28, 2014). Key Issue 3 When a section applies to only certain operating companies, it is Better Use of Resources 39 indicated as such. Effective Utilization in Stores, Together with Customers The Aeon 1% Club Foundation, whose activities are funded by donations made by major Aeon Group companies totaling 1% of their Key Issue 4 pre-tax profits, and the Aeon Environmental Foundation, which takes Addressing social issues 43 part in activities to protect the Earth’s environment, also appear in this Community Involvement, Fair Business Practices, Consumer Issues, report. Human Rights/Labor Practices • Target Audience Update Report Our customers, shareholders, students, local residents who live in the Tohoku Reconstruction Initiatives 67 neighborhood of the stores of the group, business partners, NPOs, NGOs, government, investors and Aeon people (Aeon employees) CSR Management 69 • Reference Guidelines Corporate Governance Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Risk Management Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3) Environmental Reporting Guidelines (FY2007 Version), Ministry of the Compliance and Corporate Ethics Environment of Japan Environmental Management Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005, Ministry of the Environment of Japan Independent Review 79 ISO 26000: Guidance on social responsibility Group Chief Environmental Officer's Commitment 80 Disclaimer Primary environmental conservation and This report contains plans and strategies for the future of Aeon Group, social contribution activities 80 as well as predictions and prospects regarding our performance. Such information is based on our determinations and convictions made GRI Guidelines Indicators 81 based in accordance with the facts and information currently available to us. AEON 1% Club AEON Environmental Foundation What is a company’s role in society? What do customers expect from Aeon? We aim to foster plentiful life and an earth that has a variety of riches. What should Aeon’s aims be as a company? The AEON Group 1% Club Without the earth’s riches, all living things, including humans, could not (now, the AEON 1% Club Foundation) was inaugurated in 1989 in response survive. To protect the earth’s environment, it is essential that private to such questions, and with the philosophy that Aeon should be a enterprises and citizen groups work together with local and national company that, for the future and for the community, makes proper use of government agencies. The AEON Environmental Foundation (formerly the benefits we receive from our customers. AEON Group Environmental Foundation) was founded in 1990 with the Our major group companies contribute 1% of pre-tax profits for a variety intention of supporting and giving assistance to like-minded groups of activities centered around environmental conservation, international actively developing activities to protect the global environment. cultural and ‘people to people’ exchanges and human resources Since the start, AEON Environmental Foundation has been development, and revitalization of local culture and communities. As a implementing tree-planting activities around the world, as well as a variety retailer, we are positioned to carry out programs with our customers and of joint environmental protection initiatives, such as development of we intend to continue to value joining hands with our customers. human resources in the fields of the environment and biodiversity. AEON Sustainability Report 2014 2 Top Message Aeon aspires to be ‘Asia’s pre-eminent retailer’ by imbuing each and every Aeon Group employee with Aeon’s core values and principles. with this our position of influence on people’s lives, on society, and on the environment, Aeon will continue to honor our basic principle of ‘pursuing peace, respecting humanity and contributing to local communities, centered on our customers.’ In order to practice the dual objectives of ‘Aeon Group growth’ and ‘Societal development’ we need to give attention to a variety of challenges endangering a healthy and sustainable society. In solving the individual problems, we can also discover business opportunities. Together with our stakeholders, we must promote the growth of ‘sustainable management.’ In order to promote sustainable management, Aeon’s Medium-term Management Plan (FY 2011-2013) identified “4 Shifts:” Senior Shift and Digital Shift, to allow people in an ageing and digitalizing society to shop for merchandise and services in our stores with confidence; Urban Shift, to provide new stores and new types of businesses responding Group CEO, to the needs of people with urban lifestyles; and Asia Shift, to President of AEON CO., LTD. provide safe and reliable products and services to the people of the remarkably expanding markets of China and ASEAN countries. Motoya Okada The new Medium-term Management Plan starting from FY2014, built on the previous Medium-term Management Plan, is intended to accelerate and strengthen these ‘4 Shifts’ in order to respond to the diversification of customer needs. Aeon is also reinforcing its TOPVALU brand as it celebrates Promoting Sustainable Management its 40th anniversary, and implementing product-oriented Business Opportunities in Solutions to Social reforms. Problems Since its establishment over 250 years ago, we at Aeon Strengthening Global CSR Base to Support have continuously acted to fulfill our mission as a retailer. Sustainable Business Management That mission starts with our ‘customer first’ philosophy and In order to respond to stakeholder expectations and societal commitment to offering our customers safe and convenient demands, it is important to strengthen global CSR along with high value products and services. We are also dedicated to promotion of the ‘4 Shifts.’ strengthening relations with the people of local communities It is essential to create a ‘sustainable supply chain’ that through our activities and contributions to community takes into consideration global production site environmental development. and working condition issues, in addition to product safety We have maintained our philosophy while responding to and quality assurance. Aeon is committed to the realization changing times in collaboration with like-minded companies of appropriate production environments, and in 2003 aiming to keep up to date with the times technically and formulated the “Aeon Supplier CoC” (Code of Conduct) for socially. The Aeon Group has today become the largest compliance of our TOPVALU manufacturing partners. In retailer in Japan and in Asia, with 420,000 employees and over 2004, Aeon became Japan’s first retailer to sign on to the 6 trillion yen in sales. United Nations Global Compact, a set of 10 principles laid Although our scale of business is expanding, and along out by the UN on human rights, labor, the environment 3 イオン 環境・社会報告書2014 and anticorruption. We were also the first among Japanese Headquarters are cooperating with Aeon Japan in enterprises to acquire SA8000 certification, an international strengthening CSR promotion systems. In addition, local standard on protecting human rights in the labor market. oriented plans are being incorporated through collaboration Moreover, we formulated the Aeon Sustainability with the Aeon 1% Club Foundation and the Aeon Principle in 2011 to strengthen and increase CSR activities Environment Foundation. for the entire Group. In this, we have laid out four key issues: 1) realization of a low-carbon society; 2) conservation of Aiming for Diversity through a Diverse Workforce biodiversity; 3) better use of resources; and 4) addressing With the aim of further accelerating “glocal” business growth, social issues. We have also established key performance Aeon recruits human resources with diverse character, indicators (KPI) for individual activities. capabilities, and values through such efforts as conducting Looking ahead to 2020 environmental targets, the Aeon recruiting orientation sessions in countries around the world, ECO Project is developing next-generation ‘smart Aeon stores’ particularly in China and ASEAN, and expanding educational as part of our ‘building towns’ and ‘building communities’ and career programs. In 2013, we established a Diversity initiatives (P.27). Promotion Office in Japan, with the aim of cultivating In February 2014, we launched the ‘Aeon Sustainable individuals who can be active globally. For FY 2014, we Procurement Principles’ and began efforts for sustainable formulate the ‘Aeon Diversity Declaration’ as a guideline natural resource procurement. towards the configuration of Aeon in 2020. For our senior management, the mission of utmost Planting Over 10 Million Trees importance in the current environment of globalization is our Desiring to “Bequeath the irreplaceable earth beautifully group policy of ‘customer first.’ It is an essential element of the to the next generation,” Aeon has been engaging our thinking of every member of the Aeon Group, and allows us customers and related persons in tree planting activities in to promote, in our uniquely innovative Aeon way, sustainable Japan and overseas since 1991. By 2013, the number of trees management and sustainable development of Asia, and to planted surpassed 10 million. We once again thank all who contribute to the revitalization of the Japanese economy and cooperated, We remain committed to continued involvement areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. and activities to plant and nurture trees. Aeon will continue, through dialogue and cooperation with our diverse stakeholders, to incorporate new Establishing ‘Glocal’ Management Structure sustainability viewpoints and to grow in the mid and longthrough Japan, China and ASEAN Headquarters term to become Asia’s pre-eminent retailer. Cooperation In order to continue promoting sustainable management, it is necessary for the entire Aeon group to have complementary perspectives on global and local management. Aeon Japan is strengthening corporate governance and compliance, as well as management systems that assure safety and quality control, and sharing accumulated experience and expertise with Aeon Group’s China Headquarters and Aeon ASEAN Headquarters. At the same time, it is also important to flexibly respond to changing market and local needs by encouraging store and product development, human resource training, environmental conservation and social contribution activities, and by fostering the diversity of Aeon people in every locale. Aeon Group’s China Headquarters and Aeon ASEAN AEON Sustainability Report 2014 4 Aeon Group Overview The Aeon Group consists of around 300 companies in Japan, China and ASEAN, employing over 420,000 people unified in the aim of contributing to a comfortable and convenient lifestyle for our customers. Aeon is mainly a GMS (General Merchandise Store) enterprise, More than 420,000 Aeon employees, in around 300 Aeon Group but is expanding to large mall-type regional commercial area companies in Japan, China and ASEAN, are striving to contribute shopping centers (SC) as well as a variety of local commercial to the convenient and comfortable living of our customers and area specialty shops that supply life’s daily necessities and offer to achieve global ‘customer satisfaction.’ specialized services to the local community. In addition, in support of our customers’ healthy and comfortable life, we are AEON CO., LTD. developing a variety of businesses such as small supermarkets, convenience stores, drug stores, and general financial services. Headquarters for Japan Headquarters for China Headquarters for ASEAN Operating Revenue (billion yen) Operating Income (billion yen) FY 2009 5,054.3 FY 2009 130.1 FY 2010 5,114.6 FY 2010 172.3 FY 2011 5,223.3 FY 2011 212.2 FY 2012 5,685.3 FY 2012 212.5 FY 2013 6,395.1 FY 2013 176.8 Others Others Shopping Center Development Shopping Center Development Business, Others Business, Others Service Financial Services Business, Service Business Operating Operating Revenue Sales Income Sales GMS Business, SM GMS Business, SM by Segment Business, Small Size by Segment Business, Small Size (FY2013) Store Business, Store Business, Specialty Store Service (FY2013) Specialty Store 1,723ASEAN Business, Financial Services Business, Business, ASEAN Business, China Service Business Business, China Business Business * The graph was created based on values simply totaled without consolidated adjustments. * The graph was created based on values simply totaled without consolidated adjustments. Major Group Companies by Business Segment Sales Service GMS Business: AEON Retail Co, Ltd., The Daiei, Inc., AEON Hokkaido Financial Services Business: AEON Financial Service Co., Ltd., AEON CREDIT Corporation, SUNDAYCO., LTD., AEON KYUSHU CO., LTD., AEON RYUKYU CO., SERVICE (ASIA) CO., LTD., AEON THANA SINSAP (THAILAND) PLC., AEON LTD., JOY Co., Ltd., Bon Belta Co., Ltd. CREDIT SERVICE (M) BERHAD, ◎AEON LEIT Investment Corporation, AEON SM Business: Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd., Maxvalu BANK, LTD., AEON CREDIT SERVICE CO., LTD., AEON HOUSING LOAN SERVIVE Tohoku Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Hokkaido Co, Ltd., Maxvalu CO., LTD., AEON Product Finance Co., Ltd., AEON INSURANCE SERVICE CO., Kyushu Co., Ltd., ◎The Maruetsu, Inc., ◎Inageya Co., Ltd., ◎KASUMI CO., LTD., LTD., AEON Reit Management Co., Ltd. ◎Belc CO., LTD., AEON MARKET CO., LTD., CREATE Co., Ltd., KOHYO CO., LTD., Service Business: AEON DELIGHT CO., LTD., AEON Fantasy Co., Ltd., ZWEI SANYO MARUNAKA CO., LTD., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., MAXVALU CO., LTD., AEON Eaheart Co., LTD., AEON ENTERTAINMENT CO., LTD., AEON NAGANO CO., LTD., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU MINAMI CULTURE CO., LTD., AEON COMPASS CO., LTD., KAJITAKU Co., Ltd., Reform TOHOKU CO., LTD., marunaka CO., LTD., ◎ichimaru Co., Ltd. Studio Co., Ltd. Discount Store Business: AEON SUPERCENTER CO., Ltd., AEON BIG CO., LTD. Others Small Size Store Business: MINISTOP CO., LTD., ORIGIN TOSHU CO., LTD., My E-commerce Business: AEON Direct Co., Ltd., AEON Link Co., Ltd. Basket CO., LTD., RECODS. Co., Ltd. Shopping Center Development Business: AEON Mall Co., Ltd., AEON Drugstore & Pharmacy Business*1: CFS Corporation, ◎WELCIA HOLDINGS TOWN Co., Ltd CO., LTD., ◎Medical Ikkou Co., Ltd., ◇TSURUHA HOLDINGS Inc., ◇KUSURI NO Overseas AOKI CO., LTD., SHIMIZU YAKUHIN Co., LTD., TAKIYA Co., Ltd., ◎Welpark Co., ASEAN Business: AEON ASIA SDN. BHD., AEON Co., (M) Bhd., AEON BIG (M) Ltd., ◎ZAG ZAG Co., Ltd. SDN. BHD., AEON INDEX LIVING SDN. BHD., AEON (CAMBODIA) Co., Ltd., Specialty Store Business: GFOOT CO., LTD., COX CO., LTD., ◎Taka: Q Co., Ltd., AEON (Thailand) CO., LTD., AEON VIETNAM CO., LTD, PT. AEON INDONESIA Abilities JUSCO CO., Ltd., AEON FOREST CO., LTD., AEON PET CO., LTD., AEON China Business: AEON (CHINA) CO., LTD., AEON Stores (Hong Kong) Co., BODY Co., Ltd., Claire’s Nippon Co., Ltd., Cosmeme CO., LTD., Talbots Japan Ltd., AEON EAST CHINA (SUZHOU) CO., LTD., AEON (HUBEI) CO., LTD., AEON Co., Ltd., Branshes Co., Ltd, MIRAIYA SHOTEN CO., LTD., Mega Sports Co., Ltd., South China Co., Limited., BEIJING AEON CO., LTD., GUANGDONG AEON MEGA PETRO Co., Ltd., LAURA ASHLEY JAPAN CO., LTD., AT Japan Co., Ltd. TEEM CO., LTD., QINGDAO AEON DONGTAI Co., LTD. *1 Those are Hapycom member companies which operate drugstore and pharmacies. *2 ◎ Equity-method affiliates ◇ Affiliated companies (As of March, 2014) 5 イオン 環境・社会報告書2014 Aeon Bank is really convenient. I can get cash at the supermarket, even on holidays or during The WAON card is New Year’s. great for managing my day-to-day health. It’s also I never knew Aeon comforting to know my was more than just a retailer. prescriptions won’t They can help you buy a home get mixed up. or organize an important life event. Customer I can get the fresh food I want without having to go to a large supermarket. I always find myself checking out Aeon’s convenient shopping site. I love Aeon because I can play with Molly and Lala-chan. I often buy Aeon’s ready-made meals because Aeon’s liquor stores of convenience and taste. offer a great selection of wines and their staff is really knowledgeable. Procurement Sales Service Logistics Product Store System Development Development and Manufacturing, Development Management Quality Control AEON Sustainability Report 2014 6 Aeon Group CSR KPI (key performance indicator) based on the Aeon Sustainability Principle History of Aeon’s CSR Activities CSR Activity Principles Serving the Local Community through Based on the United Nations Global Commerce Compact Aeon’s predecessor company, JUSCO, Inc., came into being With a view to reinforcing its global perspective on CSR, Aeon in 1970, as the result of a merger between three companies in 2004 became Japan’s first retailer to sign the United Nations – Okadaya, Inc., Futagi, Inc., and Shiro, Inc. JUSCO expanded Global Compact. Based on the 10 principles outlined in the business with the mission statement at the time of ‘support the United Nations Global Compact, Aeon formulated its “Aeon community through commerce.’ In the 40 years since then, sales Supplier Code of Conduct” (CoC) (P. 56), and acquired SA8000 have increased from 500 million yen to 6 trillion yen. The number certification (P. 58), an international standard related to human of stores has expanded from 70 to 16,375 and the number of rights and labor conditions. employees has increased from 4000 to 420,000. Since 2008, Aeon has participated in In view of such continued growth, the JUSCO Company the Supply Chain Sub-committee of the Welfare Fund (the present Aeon Welfare Fund) was established in Global Compact Japan Network in order 1977, demonstrating the company’s contribution to society as a to promote CSR together with our supply corporate citizen. chain partners. Dialog with member Against this background, in the second half of the 1980s companies is ongoing. Aeon built a system to promote CSR activities in earnest. In 1989 the AEON Group 1% Club (the present Aeon 1% Club) was Basic CSR Activity Principles and Key Issues established and in 1990 the JUSCO Earth-Friendly Committee was formed, along with the Aeon Group Environment Foundation (the ‘4 Key Issues’ for present AEON Environment Foundation). Sustainable Management In 1991, a variety of activities were begun that are linked With the launch in November 2010 of the ISO26000, an to present day CSR activities the ‘Aeon Hometown Forests international CSR guideline, the idea spread that ‘all kinds of Program,’ the experimental ‘Bring Your Own Shopping Bag’ and organizations must promote measures in support of a sustainable the ‘Collecting Recyclable Resources at Stores’ campaigns. society.’ In the past few years, Aeon’s business activities have History of Environmental and Social Activities as well as Future Aspirations Scope / Level of activities 1990 to 1991 2000 to 2007 2008 to 2010 2011 to 2020 Building a Framework and Expansion of Systemization of Management Focused on Launching Initiatives Individual Initiatives Policy and Publication Society and the Environment ● Established the Aeon 1% Club ● Started the Aeon Happy Yellow ● Response to climate change ●Developed the Aeon and Aeon Environmental Receipt Campaign ● Response to protecting Sustainability Principle Foundation ● Initiated the My Basket & My Bag ecosystems ●Developed KPI System ● Initiated the “Aeon Hometown campaigns ●Developed Aeon China CSR Forests Program” ● Acquired ISO 14001 certification Principles ● Commenced the “Bring Your ● Endorsed the United Nations ● Established the Sustainable Own Shopping Bag” Campaign Global Compact Management Committee on a trial basis as well as ● Started ‘Aeon Eco Project’ launched the experimental Formulated the Aeon ● Formulated the ‘Aeon “Collecting Recyclable Resources Manifesto on the Prevention of Sustainable Procurement at Stores” Campaign. ● Started Clean & Green activities Global Warming and the Aeon Principle’ Biodiversity Principle ● 1965 Donated 1,000 cherry trees to the city of Okazaki at the opening of the Changed company name Okazaki Okadaya Store Launched the JUSCO Started Aeon Day Realize sustainable Earth-Friendly management ● 1977 Established the JUSCO Company Welfare Fund (now known as the Aeon Committee Welfare Fund) Year 7 イオン 環境・社会報告書2014 become substantially more globalized and as the number of to address 4 key issues, each having its KPI (Key Performance stakeholders has increased, Aeon’s influence on society and Indicator) quantitative indicators to assess achievement. The 4 impact on the environment has also increased dramatically. issues are: 1) realization of a low-carbon society; 2) conservation In March of 2011, Aeon formulated its ‘Aeon Sustainability of biodiversity; 3) better use of resources; and 4) addressing Principle’ to promote CSR activities throughout the Aeon Group social issues. Aeon will be verifying objectives based on social of companies, and publicly announced its intention to achieve tendencies and on stakeholder feedback, and will annually report sustainable management through balancing ‘Aeon Group on the KPI of the objectives through publications such as the growth’ and ‘societal development.’ In order to make steady ‘Social and Environment Report.’ progress in achieving sustainable management, Aeon decided For fiscal year 2013 targets and results, please see page 23-26. Aeon’s Sustainable Management Societal Development Group Growth Realization of a Sustainable Society Customer Community Shareholders, Government Investors Digital shift Senior shift Sales Service Logistics Procurement Product System Development Store Development Manufacturing Development and Management Quality Control Urban shift Asia shift Aeon Group Mid-term Management Plan Stakeholder Supplier Employee Short and Medium-term Initiatives Realization of a low-carbon society Conservation of Aeon Sustainability Better use of biodiversity Principle 4 Priorities resources Medium and Addressing Long Term Initiatives social issues Aeon Sustainability Principle Aeon Sustainability Principle Aeon aims to realize a sustainable society with stakeholders based on our basic principle of “pursuing peace, respecting humanity and contributing to local communities, always with the customer’s point of view at its core.” Peace With “realization of a low-carbon society,” “conservation of biodiversity,” “better use of resources” and “addressing social issues” Customer as core principles, we will think globally People Community and advance activities locally. Aeon Basic Principles Origin of CSR initiatives ▶P.1 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 8 Special Issue Asia’s Pre‐Eminent Retailer Aeon strives through various initiatives to pursue sustainable management and shares results with our FY 2013 stakeholders while making efforts to resolve July problems inhibiting the development of a sustainable A First fo society. Aeon Ob In response to the rapid ageing of Japanese See page society, the deterioration of urban shopping environments, and changes in consumer marketing, Aeon is developing e‐commerce, along with new April stores, products and services to realize a Senior Shift Disaster Res that allows people to shop with convenience and Mall Osaka D See page 30 confidence. Aeon is also coordinating with stores to promote omni‐channel capability Digital Shift March activities, and responding to Urban Shift with new Opened in Sendai, Miyagi Prefecture, first urban commercial park stores in Tohoku The Big stores that reflect the lifestyles of urbanites. Express Shogen store Aeon is also responding to Asian market changes See page 72 related to the lifestyle needs of a rapidly growing middle‐income class in China and ASEAN, and developing retail, investment, financial, and service industries as part of Aeon’s Asia Shift. Our TOPVALUE FY 2014 private brand, is strengthening its management foundation, concentrating on products that reflect February legal, environmental, and work safety consciousness TOPVALU, which celebrated its 40th anniversary, has brand renewal and are connected to ‘sustainable supply chain See page 6 creation.’ In terms of human resources development, Aeon Japan is working with Aeon China Headquarters and Aeon ASEAN Headquarters to advance management and measures to improve educational opportunities and promotion of diversity. Aeon has been contributing to environmental February protection while building trust with community The Aeon Sustainable Procurement people through engagement in tree planting Principle / Aeon Sustainable Seafood Procurement Policy was formulated, i activities begun in 1991 and achieving a result of more addition, Aeon initiated sale of ASC than 10 million trees planted in 2013. Aeon intends to certified products become Asia’s pre‐eminent retailer, responding to See page 36 the expectations of our stakeholders and to the needs of society through strengthening our foundation and practicing sustainable management 9 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 Special Issue｜Asia’s Pre-Eminent Retailer Highlight 1 Towards the Next 10 Million Trees In 2013, the number of trees planted through The Aeon Hometown Forests Program, a project to plant trees with our customers at new store sites, and the Aeon Environmental Foundation, a non-profit organization dedicated to regeneration of forests worldwide, exceeded 10 million. Faithful to the original intention of our tree planting activities, to bequeath irreplaceable earth beautifully to the next generation, we will continue to plant and nurture trees together with our customers and stakeholders throughout the world. Correction to the figure for number of trees planted (unit: 10,000) * Combined total for the Aeon Hometown Forests Program and Aeon Environmental Foundation 553 663 245 375 485 13 83 161 1991 1993 1995 1997 1999 2001 2003 2005 Creating a Space for Lively Communication The Origin of Tree Planting Activities People of all ages, from children to senior citizens, enjoy getting together to plant trees and exchange Around 50 years ago, in the 1960s, Takuya Okada, then conversation. It is Aeon’ s desire to expand opportunities for such occasions of exchange president of JUSCO (present day Aeon) and currently Aeon through tree planting. Honorary Chairman and Advisor, noticed that the Nandina Heavenly Bamboo flowers in the garden of his home in Yokkaichi city, Mie prefecture had stopped blooming. He Laying a Foundation for Peace Environmental problems threaten to destroy the assumed that was a result of the earth’s changing environment. health and well-being or everyone on Earth...Aeon’s He also felt a sense of crisis, realizing that the pollution business is conducted in close contact with the lives of people and Aeon’s tree planting activities aim to accompanying economic growth would create social problems create a peaceful society by solving issues of the and that the loss of nature’s richness would be connected with environment. a loss of sources of wealth. The result was contemplation on A booklet was distributed to Aeon people to highlight the how a retailer could improve the situation, and establishment significance of Aeon’s tree Growing Together with Communities Aeon is building forests vital to regions by planting in 1991 of The Aeon Hometown Forests Program. Since that planting activities as an native trees. Further, learning and sharing that occurs expression of Aeon’s Basic time, Aeon has been planting trees with our customers at new Principles. through the process of planting trees is also something Aeon wishes to continue to foster. store sites, taking advantage of our special close relation to the community as a retailer. 11 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 The “My favorite tree” Project 10 Million Trees Planted: Members of the Aeon Cheers Clubs in Japan, China, and Commemoration and Campaigns Malaysia made wooden plaques with the phrase “Thinking of Trees and Forests.” They attached these to their favorite trees. Aeon conducted various commemorative events and The wooden plaques were made from campaigns with our customers in Japan, China, and ASEAN in Rikuzentakata Iwate Prefecture cedar trees 2013 to mark the achievement of more than 10 million trees destroyed by the tsunami following the Great East Japan Earthquake. Aeon people helped as planted, keeping in mind the original objectives and our volunteers in gathering the wood. commitment to go on planting trees. Photo: Aeon Cheers Club members writing the phrase “thinking of the trees and forests” “Customer Wish Messages” Project Aeon carried out a campaign at stores in Japan, China, and Around 3,500 Participate to Celebrate More Than 10 Malaysia, where customers wrote ‘thinking of the future’ on million Trees Planted strips of paper that were then pasted on boards. In Japan, The number of trees planted reached 10 million on November starting in 2014, one tree for each panel will be planted in areas 17, 2013 on the occasion of a tree-planting event at Aeon Mall affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Makuhari New City as part of the Aeon Hometown Forests Program. Around 3,500 people participated on that day, and around 30,000 saplings were planted. Tree Planting Activities in Malaysia 967 Unveiling of Monument Celebrating 10 Million Trees 792 923 2007 2009 2011 2013 Letting Forests Grow 合計Total 10,111,352trees 10,111,352 本 China As of February 28, 2014 （2014年2月末現在） 1,174,317trees Japan Laos 8,192,972trees 148,250trees 1991: The first Aeon Hometown Forests 1992: The first Aeon Hometown Forests Program store Aeon Malacca SC (former, Program Japan store Aeon Hisai (former, Myanmar Vietnam Malaysia Jusco Malacca) Jusco Shin Hisai) 6,000trees 45,000trees Thailand Cambodia 225,500trees 12,844trees Kenya 3,450trees Malaysia 239,819trees 1998: Initiated Tree planting project to 2012: Aeon Joining Hands Reforestation Australia revitalize the forests at the Great Wall of Program (Aeon Town Shiogama) Carrying China Aeon Environmental Foundation out tree planting in the Great East Japan Indonesia 200trees (former, Aeon Group Environmental Earthquake area 63,000trees Foundation) AEON Sustainability Report 2014 12 Special Issue｜Asia’s Pre-Eminent Retailer Towards the Next 10 Million Trees: Plant Plant, Nurture, Thrive Looking to the next 10 million trees, Aeon will continue to plant trees – to enrich people’s lives around the world, and for protection from the devastation of tsunami and natural Planting the Next 10 Million Trees – for the disasters. We plan to strengthen our activities to develop regions and for the future forests and to actively promote initiatives related to construction materials and store merchandise produced from Through the ‘Aeon Hometown Forests Program’ we planted forest materials. We would like to enrich people’s lives with the trees with customers on the grounds of Aeon stores, and in bounty of nature brought about by forestation, and take a 2012 initiated our ‘Tohoku Reconstruction Hometown long-term perspective in cooperation with those involved in Forests Program’ to plant 300,000 trees within 10 years, and agriculture, forestry, and fisheries. continued through our Aeon Environmental Foundation to carry out activities on the theme of biological diversity conservation through tree planting in Japan and overseas. Plant VOICE I am an advisor on tree planting activities in Malaysia and I belong to an agency that carries out tree planting for the benefit of the environment and living in harmony with nature. The resulting trees and forests play an important role for wildlife habitats and also for our education. I will continue to work with Aeon in their efforts to bequeath a green earth to the future. Thrive Nurture Letting Forests Grow Forest Research Activitie s in Malaysia Institute Malaysia (FRIM) Tree Planting Dr. Ang Lai Hoe C lose UP! Increasing Tree Planting After 10 Million Mark Our aim for the ‘Aeon Hometown Forests Program’ is to have the planted trees grow as much as possible like natural forests. For that reason, our ideal is to entrust growth to natural forces and to allow shrubs and tall trees to grow naturally side by side without human interference. However, since the shape and area of the planted areas are limited, weeding is necessary in the first five years after planting. Newly established stores carry out annual tree planting festivals in connection with the ‘Aeon Hometown Forests Program’ during their first three years, weeding and cleaning the planted areas with customers. From fiscal 2014, weeds and refuse in the planted areas are being removed as part of the ‘Clean and Green activities’ (p. 47) conducted on the 11th day of every month. This practice was instituted on June 11, 2014 at Aeon stores across Japan, with Aeon people, neighborhood customers, Aeon Cheers Club children, local volunteer organizations and, depending on the store, student interns, participating. Aeon Is committed to continuing to promote compassion through the tree planting initiatives. 13 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 Nurture Thrive Growth of Forests Enriches Lives Construction Materials and Products from Forest Thinning and Planted Forests Aside from tree planting events on our store grounds, we are also promoting systematic maintenance for planted In cooperation with our business partners, we are making areas and formulating long-term projects to train use of timber from forests or wood from planted forests as biodiversity conservation specialists and forestry industry building materials for our stores. We are also looking at use professionals. of certified sustainable wood and pulp as material for product development. VOICE VOICE Thanks to the activities of the Aeon Environmental Foundation over 12 years beginning in 1998, the forests AEON FOREST CO., LTD. is promoting the franchise in around the Great Wall of China were gradually revitalized Japan of British cosmetics maker The Body Shop. The Body and the area of the Great Wall is now covered with green Shop’s combs and foot files made of FSC* certified wood. again. Around 600 people joined in on “The Great Wall We are engaged with Eco-Friendly products. Tree Cultivation Project” maintenance activities conducted *FSC (Forest Stewardship Council system authenticating products made in September 2013. This kind of international from properly managed sustainable forests.) environmental protection activity plays an important role in rehabilitating the eco-system around Beijing, and in building ties of friendship between Japan and China. Deputy Secretary General AEON FOREST CO., LTD. of People's Government of (The Body Shop) ject (2013) Beijing Municipality The Great Wall Tree Cultivation Pro The Body Shop FSC Certified Products Mika Hashimotoe Genwu Zhao VOICE Our desire is that the trees grow, and that we grow, too In March 2012, the ‘Aeon Hometown Forests Program’ was conducted with 1000 people attending. The 200 people who planted trees continue to participate with Aeon Cheers Club members for the annual tree planting festival held in every April. Neighborhood customers who participated in the ‘Sapling Foster Parents Campaign of the Tohoku Reconstruction Hometown Forests Program,’ brought back many seedlings they had nurtured. Along with the growth of the trees planted through the cooperation of customers and community, Aeon Mall Funabashi also achieved great growth and is becoming an oasis of recreation and relaxation. Masataka Koizumi Aeon Mall Funabashi Mall Manager AEON Sustainability Report 2014 14 Special Issue｜Asia’s Pre-Eminent Retailer Highlight Realizing a “Sustainable Supply Chain” 2 with our Partners Worldwide TOPVALU, Aeon’s private brand launched in 1974 as a reflection of our ‘customer first’ corporate philosophy, is celebrating its 40th anniversary in 2014. TOPVALU has grown to become Japan’s largest private brand, representing around 6000 daily necessities and annual sales of 7.4 trillion yen. During this 40 year period, Aeon has kept to the ‘Five TOPVALU Commitments’ (p. 59), working together with our domestic and international suppliers to address management system issues related to improved factory working conditions, product quality and safety, and environment protection, and also has been focused on creating a ‘sustainable supply chain’ based on a procurement policies respecting biodiversity conservation. Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct “Aeon Supplier CoC” – Supporting a Sustainable Supply Chain Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (Business Code of Conduct) Requirements Conform with legally In recent years, awareness of human rights, compliance, and stipulated social responsibility standards in countries where the environment has risen worldwide. Against this background, manufacturing and procurement takes place Conform with national laws and regulations corporations, including Aeon, have been making efforts to implement corrective measures by properly understanding Conform with national laws and regulations conditions at the source related to the environment, legal 1. Child labor: Illegal child labor is prohibited compliance, production site and workplace. At the same time, 2. Forced labor: Forced, prison and bonded labor are prohibited our customers are becoming more conscious of supply chain 3. Health and Safety: Provide safe, healthy workplaces acceptability in their purchasing habits and selection of 4. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining: products. Respect employee rights Aeon formulate The Aeon Supplier CoC (Code of Conduct) 5. Discrimination: Discrimination on the basis of place of has been in place since 2003 in order to insure appropriate origin or creed is prohibited business practice, working conditions, and fulfillment of social 6. Disciplinary Practices: Cruel punishment of employees is responsibilities among TOPVALU supply chain partners. prohibited 7. Working hours: Comply with laws related to working hours Suppliers are asked to comply with 13 requirements, including 8. Wages and benefits: Comply with laws related to wages conforming with national and regional laws and regulations, and benefits respecting human rights, providing proper working and wage 9. Management responsibility: Pledge compliance with the conditions, safety, hygiene and health conditions in the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct workplace, etc., and based on these we audit and work 10. Environment: Work to prevent environmental pollution and together with suppliers to improve conditions and build a damage “sustainable supply chain.” 11. Trade: Comply with local laws on commercial transactions 12. Certification, Audit, and Monitoring and Renewal: As of February 2014, around 900 targeted suppliers have Accept certification, auditing and monitoring under the submitted declarations of CoC compliance. Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct 13. Ban on Gifts: Gift-giving between Aeon and suppliers is prohibited 15 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 Audits of Contracted Manufacturers Certification of International Standard on Human Rights and Labor In order to maintain compliance criteria, Aeon carries out audits on all domestic and international TOPVALU suppliers at the In addition to requiring suppliers to comply with Aeon’s CoC, point of final processing, confirming the status of requirements Aeon in 2004 became the first Japanese retailer to acquire and drawing plans for improvement. SA8000 certification, an international standard on protecting The audits are ‘ third party audits,’ carried out by external human rights in the labor market. (p. 58) audit and evaluation’ agencies along with Aeon certified The certification applies to Aeon headquarters operations ‘second party audits’ and ‘one party audits’ carried out by the and TOPVALU supplier management performed by Aeon Co. suppliers themselves. Ltd., Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., and Aeon TOPVALU Co., Ltd. An external auditor manages the status of ‘Aeon Supplier CoC’ on the occasion of maintenance audits every six months and renewal audits once in three years. Procedure of ‘Aeon CoC’ Certification and Audit General Rules Initial General Rules Implementation, Check on Establishment of Compliance Requirements Implementation once in two years Good Management Third-Party Audit TwoParty Audit First-Party Audit Supplier Briefing Comprehensive Monitoring by External Audit Supplier Aeon Group by and External Management Auditors Audit Agency Third Party Audits Factories which carried out Factories which carried out For the first ‘third-party audit,’ an external audit agency checks Third Party Audits <by region> Third Party Audits <by category> (Cumulative total of FY 2013 year-end) (Cumulative total of FY 2013 year-end) over 350 universally recognized items and assesses anything 3% differing from the standards. The evaluating agency points out 10% 26% 46% items in need of correction and confirms improvements. In the process, there may be dozens of interactions to not only check results, but also to assure that proper management mechanisms are in place. When corrections are finalized, a 53% certificate of CoC compliance is issued. Around 2,183 34% production plants have been certified to date. 28% Japan China Asia (excluding China) Other Food Apparel Living / HBC Second-Party Audits Following authentication of CoC compliance, a certified Aeon Factories which carried out Factories which carried out auditor will do checks through factory visits once in two years TwoParty Audit <by region> TwoParty Audit <by category> or, in the case it is deemed necessary, once in six months, as a (FY 2013) (FY 2013) ‘second party audit.’ Around 2,700 domestic second-party 10% 19% audits were conducted between FY 2004 – FY 2013. 25% 28% 62% 56% Japan China Asia (excluding China) Food Apparel Living / HBC AEON Sustainability Report 2014 16 Special Issue｜Asia’s Pre-Eminent Retailer First-Party Audits development of overseas auditors in order to further accelerate Factories that have established good management through and respond to globalization. third and second-party audits are given a check-list to carry out There are, however, many categories of a societal nature ‘first-party audit’ themselves. Between FY 2009, when the that are difficult to judge through quantitative means such as system was instituted, and FY 2013, there have been 68 the CoC. Because complex factors related to world political and factories doing ‘first-party audits’ and the level of supply chain economic conditions as well as national and regional cultural management overall has been steadily improving. At the same environments cannot be measured with a checklist, we have time, second and third tier suppliers who have heard about the put considerable effort into our own educational programs and system are requesting inclusion. The ultimate goal of CoC is into attendance for the SA8000 auditor and other training thus the ever-spiraling expansion and improvement of the programs. Against such a background, many companies are overall value chain. recruiting people with auditing experience. Aeon, however, is training in-group auditors and emphasizing ‘communicating our corporate message to our suppliers.” In the past, it has been Towards Development of Overseas Auditors common practice to train Japan headquarters staff to be and Positive Evaluation Systems auditors abroad. However, we now have a system of excellent local auditors who take leadership roles in training others in Supplier management levels have been improving since the different districts. Training time can be reduced in this way. In institution of the auditing system more that 10 years ago. In FY 2010, there were 10 trained overseas local auditors, and in order to give support to the CoC taking firmer hold in the FY 2013 that number increased to 18. In addition, it is possible manufacturing processes of evaluated suppliers, we plan in to have day-to-day feedback centering around the training 2014 to promote a system whereby suppliers can achieve leader, increasing the level of CoC compliance as a team. positive evaluations. We will also continue to focus on Example of Two-Party Audit in China (Manufacturing plant for residential and leisure products) Opening Meeting Work Environment Inspection Inspecting Additional Facilities As checking the items of the ‘Aeon The management of hazardous materials Aside from the manufacturing Supplier CoC’ is closely related to and sewage, as well as the availability of building sites, dormitories and factory operations management, secure evacuation routes, placement of cafeterias must also be inspected we ask management members to fire extinguishers and equipment, and to make sure that these facilities attend meetings, along with staff conditions such as light and noise are can be responsive to emergencies with direct responsibility, and to checked in the factory and environs. and that there are no health, safety, understand the aims of the CoC. The objective is to make sure that all or privacy concerns. is in order and, moreover, operational. For example, fire extinguishers are meaningless if employees do not know how to use them. Equipment is useful and effective only when people are trained in all aspects of using the equipment. The goal of CoC is for everyone, from employees to management, to be able to understand and manage risks. 17 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 C lose UP! FY 2013 Accomplishments Good management was established and factories doing one-party audits increased. However, some inappropriate conditions were detected in factories doing new business. Stringent Firefighting Equipment Inspections We strengthened our checks on firefighting equipment in FY 2013, in the wake of the garment factory fire and building collapse accidents in Bangladesh in 2012 and 2013, and severely checked for deficiencies in the condition of fire extinguishers and fire hydrants, emergency lights and equipment. In overseas two-party audits, 91 deficiencies related to fire and disaster prevention were pointed out, and we worked on immediate improvement, regardless of the size of potential risk. In addition, we received reports that measures to continue and maintain Pointing out the need for a fire extinguisher improvements were in place. In factories where progress is slow, the person in charge of during a manufacturing plant work overseas sites makes site visits to promote improvement. environment check. Measures to Prevent Child Labor Abuses In a third-party audit at a factory in China, an employee’s identity card showed 16 years of age at the time of hiring, in accordance with the Chinese labor law. The date of birth on the identity card, however, was not correct. It was concluded that it was not a violation since the household registration data showed the employee had reached 16 years of age. With confirmation at time of employment being insufficient, there is a risk of child labor policy infraction, so it is necessary to scrutinize and assure that the ID cards are correct. Response to Child Labor Violations Dismissal alone is not a solution to child labor violations. Considering the background of child labor, dismissal would cause families to risk losing their livelihood. Aeon is organizing a program along with suppliers to help support children and their families in the case that an underage child is found working. The system will provide for the child to go to school, using funds earned to support the child and family, and a promise to rehire the child when legal age is reached. Through implementation of such a plan, we hope also to raise awareness and prevent recurrence of child labor violations. VOICE VOICE The objective of the CoC audit is to ‘create mechanisms for continued growth,’ not to ‘produce documentation.’ A feature of the Aeon Supplier CoC is that instead of making immediate compliance a condition, the system works to solve problems together with suppliers and to lead to supplier ‘capacity building.’ For example, the audit does require written organization charts, management statements, statements of policies and regulations, but more important than these is the initiative to devise mechanisms on site to implement management. Further, great importance is placed on conferring with the factory manager or person responsible in instances of non-compliance found during a two-party audit. On the spot discussion about what is deficient and how it can be improved allows for value sharing Noriko Kimura and voluntary activities for improvement. AEON CO., LTD. Aeon supports the independent management of our suppliers in Supplier CoC compliance and also aims to AEON Supplier CoC Secretariat broaden our overall scope by drawing secondary and tertiary suppliers into the CoC compliance system. We will Group Corporate Citizenship continue to work for more effective auditing in order that our suppliers can aim for future sustainable growth and as Dept. TOPVALU develops increased production of original products overseas. AEON Sustainability Report 2014 18 Special Issue｜Asia’s Pre-Eminent Retailer Highlight ‘4 Shifts’ 3 Increasing Customer Satisfaction A number of people among Japan’s rapidly ageing population have difficulty shopping for daily necessities. Stores selling such necessities in urban areas are steadily decreasing, and the problem of access to everyday items in urban areas has yet to be resolved. At the same time, while markets in China and ASEAN are booming as a result of a rapidly growing middle class, there are environmental issues and problems related to loss of community cohesion. In light of these tendencies, Aeon is promoting a ‘4 shift’ Medium-term Management Plan to provide continuous sustainable, convenient, and pleasant shopping experiences for all of our customers. FY 2013 Initiatives of Medium-term Management Plan Enhancing the Shopping Experience Senior Shift Expanding internet shopping products and services to provide Omni-channel Strategy more convenient shopping The popularity of net-shopping is increasing with the rapid Major Initiatives of FY 2013 spread of smart phones and tablets. In response to needs tPromotion of ‘omni-channel’ strategy in E-commerce stores related to this, the Aeon group is strengthening its omni-channel strategy by developing Aeon store e-commerce Senior Shift platforms through the “Aeon Square” website portal, taking advantage of the network of stores nationwide and allowing Addressing the needs of the senior market thorough the 4 points of coordination of store and internet services, and increasing products, the sales floor, commercial tenant selection, and service. Major Initiatives of FY 2013 home delivery service of goods bought in stores or pick up at tDevelopment of stores geared to active seniors stores of goods ordered by internet. tExpanded services and products to meet senior health and medical needs Urban Shift Focus on development of various new stores and businesses to meet the needs of urban dwellers. Major Initiatives of FY 2013 tIncreased urban style small stores and supermarkets Asia shift Group unity through activities rooted in rapidly growing China and ASEAN markets Major Initiatives of FY 2013 tOpening of the first Aeon Mall in Cambodia Aeon Square tOpening the first Eco-Mall in China 19 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 4 Points Responding to Shopping Needs of Seniors further future development of specialized Merchandising for Aeon’s is responding to the shopping needs of seniors with a such small size stores. focus on the four points of products, floor space, tenant Aeon group is making strides through policies intended to selection, and service. We are using the name Grand strengthen supermarket business by increasing the number of Generation (G.G.) for seniors who are active and aggressive stores in the Tokyo region market with The Daiei, Inc. and Aeon consumers – and instituting new business model programs Market Co., Ltd into the such as ‘G.G. Mall’ and ‘G.G. Cards’ targeted to seniors. Aeon group. And Maxbalu Kanto Co., Ltd joining The Maruetsu, Inc, Kasumi Co., Ltd, and Marubeni Corporation in a Tokyo region supermarket Urban small size stores, ‘My Basket’ union. Meeting Growing Health and Medical Needs The Grand Generation’s Collection in Tokyo – exhibition for seniors products and services The healthcare market is booming along with increased awareness and growth of an ageing population. In response to this, Aeon is developing Aeon Pharmacy sections within “AEON” general supermarkets, attracting general clinics with medical facilities as tenants, and seeking joint ventures with expanding Developing Small Size Stores and Supermarkets in drugstore chain businesses. Urban areas We are also focusing on As of December 2013, Aeon had opened 424 “My Basket” small cooperation with manufacturers size stores, mainly in the Tokyo and Kanagawa urban areas to develop Food for Specified where there are few grocery stores, offering over 2000 items of Health Uses (FOSHU) to meet the fresh, prepared, and processed foods. health needs of our customers. Moreover, openings are accelerating on “RECODS” stores Aeon TOPVALU’s ‘Oolong Tea with that combine a drugstore specialization with convenience, as Dietary Fiber,’ tea blended with non-soluble dextrin dietary fiber to well as “Acolle” discount stores. We continue to consider the help moderate absorption of sugar VOICE Promoting a Lifestyle that Combines ‘Products’ and ‘Experience’ It is estimated that currently seniors account for half of consumer spending. We are committed to providing our customers with more than ‘products.’ We would like our customers to enjoy and value the ‘experience’ of products, making their daily life vibrant. In order to be able to meet the needs of the GG generation in products related to food, clothing and shelter, we are increasing the assortment of items such as reading glasses, bedding that supports comfortable sleep, food in appropriate serving sizes, and clothing suited to body types. We also would like large numbers of people to be able to spend fulfilling time pursuing their hobbies or relaxing in places such as culture schools or cafes. We are putting emphasis on enabling people to combine products and experience in a lifestyle where they might purchase a musical instrument and then attend a music class, or perform theater on a stage built in Eiji Shibata Vice President our store. Chief Merchandising Officer Chief, Senior Shift AEON CO., LTD. AEON Sustainability Report 2014 20 Special Issue｜Asia’s Pre-Eminent Retailer Aeon Group’s Shared Social and Environmental Initiatives Contributing to Improved Lifestyle in Asia The current rapid growth in Asia is expected to bring one billion people into the middle class in the near future. This expansion of the consumer market represents a great business Tree Community opportunity for Aeon. However, the associated negative Planting Contribution Aeon Hometown Aeon Happy Yellow aspects such as increased waste and CO2 emissions, and the Forest Program Receipt Campaign breakdown of local communities through widening income (AEON VIETNAM Co., LTD) Next (AEON (CHINA) CO., LTD.) Generation Energy gaps are of concern. Development Management Considering such circumstances, Aeon in 2012 established Aeon China Headquarters and Aeon ASEAN Headquarters. We are accelerating our business development and promoting our ‘Asia Shift’ through employing and training local human resources and actively recruiting local executives. Aeon Cheers Club Conference on energy management We are engaging in social contribution activities such as (AEON Co. (M) Bhd.) AEON (Thailand) CO., LTD. tree planting in order to build relationships of trust in communities where our stores are located. Through dialogue Aeon Group Environmental and Social Activities with local people and local governments, we are working to build business activities rooted in communities. Strong ties of cooperation with Aeon Japan headquarters allow for transfer of know how from Japan, as well as development of local services and TOPVALU products, and initiatives on issues related to quality, food safety, environment protection, urbanization and Activity Supporting Education New Year's Visit to Welfare Facility the ageing society. (AEON Stores (Hong Kong) (BEIJING AEON CO., LTD.) Co., Limited) Aeon Group Spanning 14 Countries Consolidated operating revenue Number of Group employee ¥ 6,395 billion 420,000 people Event to Promote Recycling (AEON Co. (M) Bhd.) Kazakhstan Korea Japan Myanmar Laos China Thailand Vietnam The Philippines India Cambodia Malaysia Indonesia Australia (FY 2013) 21 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 Contributing to Education, Jobs Creation, and C lose UP! Modernization of Distribution Systems in Cambodia. In June 2014, Aeon opened Aeon Mall Phnom Penh, the first shopping mall in the Kingdom of Cambodia. The Happy Children and Satisfied store is surrounded by hotels and exclusive residences VOICE with the majority of residents being middle and high Customers income earners. This area is expected to experience Cambodia has also been enjoying future expansion. Through activities in Cambodia, rapid economic growth and in June Aeon plans to contribute to the modernization of the 2014 an Aeon Shopping Center distribution system and the development of human was opened. The joy and bright resources and employment opportunities, and to expectations of the children and provide a variety of products and services to support customers at a tree planting activity in a rich lifestyle in the advance of the opening was apparent. We are confident that the lives of AEON （CAMBODIA） region. Co., Ltd. these people will be made better by Education senior officer the shopping center. Te Chantra Working Together with Local Governments to Build C lose UP! ‘Eco’ Urban Landscapes In April 2014, Aeon opened Aeon Mall Suzhou Wuzhong, the first ‘eco mall’ in China, located in Suzhou Contributing to ‘”Improve city in the Wuzhong economic development area. VOICE Based on knowledge gained in Eco-stores in Japan, we Quality of Life” have used eco-concrete bricks and LED lighting, and Many of the customers who come to Aeon Mall Suzhou installed ‘green walls’, and ‘green roofs’, solar powered Wuzhong are searching for goods and services that will electrical equipment, and solar powered hot water enhance their life quality. For such customers, our mission is to heating systems. As a result, Aeon China Headquarters provide a larger selection of higher group has received commendation for environmental quality and more reliable merchandise, standards criteria evaluation, and will for the first time along with good service. We would be awarded the Two Green Stars* certificate from like as well to promote Aeon Cheers Ministry of Housing and Urban Development of the Club and Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt People’s Republic of China (MOHURD). Campaign activities. * An index corresponding to Japan’s Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Efficiency (CASBEE); enforced from 2006 for the Aeon Mall Suzhou purpose of preventing environmental pollution, protecting natural Wuzhong resources and the global environment. Store Manager Yang Zhen AEON Sustainability Report 2014 22 Fiscal 2013 Activities –Management Approach– Aeon devised Key Performance Indicators (KPI) as part of its commitment to achieving sustainable management. In conjunction with this, we have assigned a division and person in charge for each KPI field and established a system for taking stock of and managing the results of activities on a regular basis. Since fiscal 2012, we have been reporting on the state of KPI implementation and sharing that information with all stakeholders. In addition, taking into account environmental changes inside and outside the Company, we regularly review KPI. The Sustainable Management Committee receives and approves proposals fromthe division and person in charge of each KPI field before reviews are finalized. ▶ KPI Formulation Concept⇒P.XX Key Issue Main Category Subcategory KPI Key Issue 1 Total Annual CO2 Emissions Factor Reduce Total CO2 Emission Realization of (CO2 Emissions / Total Floor Area） *1 a Low-carbon Realizing a Low-Carbon Society Society Improve Energy Efficiency Total Energy Use Factor (Amount of Heat / [ Reduction Strategy ] Total Floor Area)*1 As part of the Reduction Strategy of the Aeon Eco Project (a new set of objectives out to the year Measures for Ascertaining 2020), Aeon has established the target of reducing Replacement Amount and Preventing Leakage energy usage 50% compared to fiscal 2010. In of Fluorocarbons used in Refrigerated Display Cases addition, we are advancing the development of conventional Eco Stores and have launched a new Reduce CO2 Emissions in Prevent Leakage of Fluorocarbons and initiative called Smart Aeon, or the next generation Stores Promote Use of Natural Refrigerants of Eco Stores, that helps to build sustainable towns and communities. Under the Aeon Eco Project Number of Stores Installing Refrigerated Display Cases that Generation Strategy, we are installing photovoltaic use Natural Refrigerants on a Trial Basis systems and other renewable energy generating equipment onsite at our stores with the goal of reaching 200,000kW of output by fiscal 2020. Going forward, we will strive to make further improvements to our energy management Develop Eco Stores Develop Eco Stores domestically as well as encourage a transfer of knowhow to Aeon subsidiaries in China and the ASEAN region. ▶ See p. 27 for details. Number of Products with Communicate CO2 CO2 Visualization (number of Reductions to Customers product SKUs for which CO2 emissions are calculated) Biodiversity Conservation Initiatives Reduce C02 Emissions in Products and Logistics On the property of newly opened stores, Aeon is promoting tree planting together with its customers CO2 Emissions per Case during Promote Visualization in through the ‘Aeon Hometown Forests Program.’ The Logistics Shipment from Distribution Center to Store cumulative total of trees planted by Aeon, over more than 20 years of efforts alongside our customers, has surpassed 10 million. We are not only planting trees but also working to bolster our maintenance Generating Electricity at Generating renewable Power generation capacity of and care for the trees that we have planted to Stores energy renewable energy (purchased *New for FY2012 [ Generation Strategy ] power only) date at existing stores. In addition, Aeon has been developing stores that provide biodiversityconscious products and that give due attention to Key Issue 2 eco-system conservation and creation. In fiscal 2013, Conservation Communicate BiodiversityVisibility of Biodiversitywe devised and publicized our Aeon Sustainable of Biodiversity friendly Products to Customers friendly Products Biodiversity Conservation in Procurement Principle with the goal of purchasing Products and Logistics more sustainable ingredients and raw materials Compilation of CSR going forward. Procurement Guidelines Guidelines*2 (sustainable procurement and We will work to increase communication with purchasing guidelines) our customers about such activities in the interest Formulation and Evaluation of letting them understand the significance and Biodiversity Conservation at Develop and Evaluate the Store Level Indicators Indicators for Impacts on Ecosystems importance of biodiversity. ▶See p. 36 for details. Actions Taken with Aeon Hometown Forests Maintenance and Management Customers Program Situation of Forests *1 Q  uantitative figure indicating CO2 emissions per 1m2 of floor space at stores and energy use. It shows the efficiency of CO2 emissions and energy use. KPI targets indicate that despite large changes in the number of future stores, CO2 emissions and 23 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 energy use efficiency will improve (emissions and use cut in half by 2020). CSR Promotion Secretary General CO2 Visualization Operations Companies/ Shared Function Companies Structure Group Chief Executive for Environment Affairs Logistics Visualization Sub-committee on Products and Distribution Food Products Recycling Sustainable Management Committee Customers and Stakeholders Aeon launched the Sustainable Customer Communications Facilitation Aeon Management Committee Management Committee in June CSR Procurement Guideline Study Group 2012. In addition to promote Energy Conservation and Innovation (new) the 4 Key Issues and other Communications Sub-committee on Energy Strategy Non-CFC (chlorofluorocarbon) Topics CSR activities, this committee Smart Communities is managing the progress of Environmental Communication activities. Sub-committee on Stores and Customers Community Involvement 3R Promotion Scope Covered Target FY2012 Results Summary of Actions/Initiatives FY2010: 0.097 t/m2 or less (1) Make investments in energy conservation centered on LED Consolidated Group ▼ 0.076t/m2 (2) Step up measures to operate stores with reduced amounts of energy companies in Japan ・FY2013: 0.082 t/m2 or less (3) Conduct energy management training courses ・FY2020: 0.048 t/m2 or less Consolidated Group FY2010: 2.623 GJ/m2 or less (1) Make investments in energy conservation centered on LED companies in Japan ▼ 2.03 GJ/m2 (2) Step up measures to operate stores with reduced amounts of energy and overseas (Japan, ・FY2013: 2.229 GJ/m2 or less (3) Conduct energy management training courses China and ASEAN) ・FY2020: 1.311 GJ/m2 or less ・Completed tallying the amounts of fluorocarbons replaced in FY2012 (90% or better capture rate of ascertained ・Share information on the course of the revised Fluorocarbons Recovery Consolidated leakage) ・FY2015: Bring management system and Destruction Law and reviewed a management framework companies in Japan for ・Put together a working team for fluorocarbon leakage on line compliant with the revised ・Review challenges related to leakage management as a user of Freon; General Merchandising management Fluorocarbons Recovery and Destruction gather input and opinions Store and Supermarket ・As a representative of the Japan Chain Stores Association, Law ・Review a Group leakage management scheme at Aeon Delight Co., Ltd. businesses voiced opinions in the Industrial Structure Council’s working (the Group company in charge of facility management) group on countermeasures for fluorocarbons and at the Joint Council Meeting ・Installed in 2 stores (1 of which was the first installation at a large GMS; 144 CO2-compliant cases out of a total of 182 cases) In-house, review measures for promoting installation; make installation Consolidated Plan for installation at new stores ・S tarted an in-house project team for promoting the requests at each Management Meeting companies in Japan for ・FY2012: 10% adoption of natural refrigerants ・Make efforts to promote adoption and solve challenges (noise issues) General Merchandising ・FY2013: 15% ・As a representative of the Japan Chain Stores Association, through collaboration with manufacturers Storeand Supermarket ・FY2014: 25% voiced opinions in the Industrial Structure Council’s working ・Through the Japan Chain Stores Association, proceed to share information businesses ・FY2015: 100% group on countermeasures for fluorocarbons and at the and awareness with government authorities and related organizations Joint Council Meeting ・Solving installation costs and technical challenges was still behind schedule ・FY2013: Formulate concept for next・Based on the Smart Aeon standards, organize efforts at each Company’s ・Opened four Smart Aeon stores: Aeon Mall Yahata Higashi, Consolidated Group generation Eco Stores and begin store relevant stores, touching on topics reviewed in the Smart Aeon Working Aeon Town Shin-Funabashi, Aeon Mall Osaka Dome City, companies in Japan development with aim of reducing CO2 Group and Aeon Mall Makuhari Shintoshin emissions by 50% ・Open four stores as Smart Aeon stores ・F Y2013: Review standard Eco Store concept Consolidated Group ・Aiming for application from FY2015, reviewed Smart Aeon and apply revised standards to all new ・R  eview combined matters in the Working Group mentioned above companies in Japan concept and standards stores (1) Ensure transparency and fairness using self-calculation guidelines ・Streamline through system accreditation FY2010: 21 SKUs (2) Step up communication to customers ▼ ・1SKU calculation (TOPVALU Gurinai Miyazaki pepper) ・Appeal benefits to customers Private Brand (PB) ・Calculate for 100 SKUs every year ・L CA calculation guideline development already ・M  arket contributions to a more affordable lifestyle and a low-carbon products ・Every year communicate products that ・Education and training is not conducted society help reduce CO2 emissions externally (3) Eliminate waste through CO2 emission analysis and cost analysis (4) Expand the number of products in the initiative (in particular, TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN products) (1) Reduce transportation distances and improve vehicle loading ratios by rebuilding our network at a newly constructed distribution center (2) Participate in environment-related research gatherings held by Compared to FY2010 government, logistics operators, natural gas companies, automobile Aeon Global SCM Co., ▼ ・1  2.7% reduction over FY2010 makers, universities, etc. Ltd. ・FY2013: 5% reduction (3) Further our pursuit of adopting heavy duty natural gas vehicles and ・FY2020: 15% reduction expanding our modal shift (4) Conduct an eco-driving accreditation course and enhance the system for recognizing good, eco-friendly drivers ・Install solar panels on small-size supermarkets with flat roofs, as well as on Consolidated new large-scale supermarkets and convenience stores companies in Japan for ・Installed solar panels for electricity generation capacity ・Electricity generated from solar panels leading to reductions in electricity General Merchandising FY2020: Generate 200,000kW of electricity of 17,767kW at 797 stores (cumulative total of 997 stores; usage, thanks to captive consumption, and also selling back to power Store and Supermarket 33,247kW) companies through the fixed wholesale purchase system, profit from businesses which is used to offset increased electricity rates, contribute to our BCP, invest in the environment, and invest in renewable energy ・FY2012: Conduct consumer research TOPVALU (1) Step up communication of initiatives ・FY2013: 40% visibility in consumer ・M  SC-certified products: 46 SKU ・Hold store events (hold events in collaboration with NGOs to introduce research (Told number sold: 4,977,463 units; sales amount: ASC-certified products) Private Brand (PB) (PB products) 1,278,618,849 yen) (2) Expand provision of products developed with awareness of biodiversity products * Sales of MSC certified products: 7,120 million yen ・FSC-certified products: 105 SKU ・A  cquire ASC-certification and market products with ASC-certification in 2012 (Told number sold: 7,885,759 units; sales amount: labels * Sales of FSC products: 2,568 million yen in 2012 683,489,024 yen) ・Expand development of MSC-certified and FSC-certified products Expand initiatives at regional Topvalu ・ASC-certified products also adopted (from February 2014) ・A  nnounced the Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle in (1) Hold in-house workshops on sustainable procurement Consolidated Group FY2013: Guidelines Ready (Publication of February 2014. Announced concrete policies for seafood at (2) Implement an evaluation of procurement status for major items companies in Japan the goal) the same time (3) Formulate and announce policies taking into account the above Formulate indicator measuring the ・As a general public corporation and a corporate member of the Japan Consolidated Group impact commercial facilities have on the ・AEON Mall Toin acquired the Sustainable Business Sites® Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB), participate in developing the companies in Japan surrounding ecosystem and evaluate Certificate (for urban areas and shopping centers) Sustainable Business Sites® Promotion Guidelines and receive Sustainable stores based on relevant standards Business Site® certification from third-party organization ABINC (1) Confirm the progress and thorough implementation of management plans at each store Consolidated Group ・2012: Phased implementation ・Focusing on GMS and SC, spread planting zone management (2) Spread weeding and cleaning through Clean & Green Activities carried companies in Japan ・2013: 100% implementation based on the management manual out by employees (3) Reconfirm the significance of the Aeon Hometown Forests Program through the 10 Millionth Tree Planting Event Since The Daiei, Inc. became a wholly-owned subsidiary in FY2013, CO2 emissions and energy use were reviewed back to FY2010, Refer to the next page for focused target areas (3) and (4). and FY2020 targets were adjusted. Also, the electricity CO2 emission factor announced by the Federation of Electric Power Companies was used as the emission AEON Sustainability Report 2014 24 factor (0.350kg-CO2/kWh), after mean adjustment, for FY2010. Fiscal 2013 Activities –Management Approach– Better Use of Resources Key Issue Main Category Subcategory KPI Aeon is working together with customers to reduce Key Issue 3 Amount for Third-Party Processing Required under the the use of plastic bags and is making changes to Better Use of Reduce Amount of Materials Used in Packaging Act on the Promotion of Sorted Collection and Recycling of packaging specifications and the way products are Resources and Containers Containers and Packaging delivered. We are also working proactively to develop (basic unit per ¥100 million in net sales) refillable products and change packaging materials Number of Employees Effective Utilization in Completing Internal Management System for during the development of TOPVALU products, Stores Waste Emissions Training Course to Improve Management of Waste while promoting green procurement. We are also Emissions conducting waste management training sessions designed based on a program created together with Reduce Waste Food Waste Emissions(amount per ¥100 million in net sales) a professional waste management organization in order to better manage waste. Percentage of Cuetomers We are identifying issues related to waste Together with Customers Reduce Number of Plastic Declining Plastic Shopping Shopping Bags Bags management and recycling at stores and are giving (nationwide store average) focused support to concerned Group stores and Key Issue 4 businesses. ▶See p. 42 for details. Dealing with Make Contributions to Yellow Receipt Campaign Social Matters Local Communities Submission Rate Community Involvement Contributions to the Community Develop the Human Number of activities*2 by the Aeon is participating in communities with activities Resources of the Future*3 Aeon Cheers Club centered on the ‘Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign’ and the ‘Aeon Cheers Club,’ and is also Establishment of Audit System promoting themes such as “fair operating practices” Linked to TOPVALU First through the ‘Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct,’ Fair Business Practices Promote the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct “resolving consumer issues” by making products and Confirmation status of Fair Trade Manufacturers for the stores safer, and “human rights and labor practices” TOPVALU Brand for its employees. In fiscal 2012, we added the target of setting Number of TOPVALU Products Safe Food and Reliable up 100 disaster-prevention facilities in our stores Products Removed due to Serious Incident nationwide by 2020 under the Aeon Eco Project Protection Strategy to our KPI. We also established district alternative disaster response headquarters that will coordinate with disaster-prevention facilities at Safety and Security Store Safety and Security stores and determined which stores will be designated Infrastructure Development disaster-prevention facilities in fiscal 2013. Going forward, we will expand our scope of Consumer Issues Serving as a form of activities further and roll out various initiatives at our life style infrastructure The number of local temporary that protects the local shelters companies in China and the ASEAN region. community [ Protection Strategy ] ▶See p. 47 for details. Number of Complaints and Compliments Received KPI Formulation Concept System of Dialog with Customers Towards the coexistence of ‘community development’ Number of Products Developed and ‘growth of the Aeon Group’, Aeon is / Improved based on Customer Feedback determined on a KPI from the twin perspectives. Realization of a low-carbon society Ratio of Female Executive ● ISO 26000 Officers*4 Issues of stakeholder interest ● GRI (G3) ● United Nations Conservation of biodiversity Promote Diversity Global Compact ● Japan Ministry of the Environment Better use of r Human Rights/ Ratio of Employees of Foreign esources (Environmental Labor Practices Nationality Reporting Guidelines) Dealing with ● Customer inquiries Social Matters and feedback to all Aeon companies Creating Pleasant, Comfortable Labor Practices Workplaces Issues important to Aeon’s growth ・Medium term management plan ・Management policies of Aeon companies *3 From FY2013, we changed our KPI from Female executive ratio to Female manager ratio. The reason for the change is that we wanted to expand the scope. Not only executives, but also managers, have important roles requiring management judgments. 25 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 Scope Covered Target FY2012 Results Summary of Actions/Initiatives Consolidated companies subject to FY2010: 55 tons (1) Reduce materials used in stores, such as plastic shopping bags third-party processing ▼ 41 tons ・Change packaging material specifications requirements ・FY2013: 47 tons (*15% reduction *25.4% reduction (compared to FY2010) ・Re-examine provision methods (38 companies as of compared to FY2010) (2) Properly follow legal requirements for calculating usage amounts 2011) ・FY2012: 100 employees ・53 seminar attendees, 49 of whom sat the certification exam, Consolidated Group ・FY2013: 100 employees with 45 passing. In the 3 years since 2011: cumulative total ・Implement training in waste disposal management companies in Japan Cumulative total: More than 250 of 263 seminar attendees, 163 passing certification employees Consolidated ・FY2012: Perform trials and take companies in Japan for measurements at model stores ・W  orked toward more precision when ascertaining emissions, ・A  s a common Group theme, begin preparing to promote waste reduction General Merchandising ・FY2013: A  scertain volume and set however, no quantitative target has been set suited to the business operations of each Group company Store and Supermarket reduction targets businesses Consolidated Group 2010: 61.5% companies in Japan for ・67.8% of customers declining bags ・Expand stores no longer offering free bags to include all GMS ▼ General Merchandising ・515 more stores joining the “Stop Free Plastic Shopping ・Make appeals to governments in areas covered by the no-free-bags ・2013: 70.0% Store and Supermarket Bags” Program (828 stores → 1,343 stores) initiative ・2020: 80.0% businesses FY2010: 45% of GMS stores had submission Consolidated Group rate of greater than 20% companies in Japan ▼ and overseas for (1) Enhance communication in the shop ・FY2013: S ubmission rate of greater than 37.4% of stores had submission rate of greater than 20% General Merchandising (2) Enhance communication in the media 20% at all stores taking part in (GMS: 66.9% / SM: 16.6% / DS: 8.3%) Store, Supermarket, (3) Proper management the campaign. and Discount Store ・FY2020: G  reater than 30% submission businesses rate at all stores (1) Step up spread of fundamentals and operational foundation Consolidated GMS ・Hold Cheers Club Kick-off Ceremonies at all stores companies, and some SM ・Implement more than 4 activities/year at Stores that implemented more than 4 activities: 334 (77.0% of all stores) ・Step up extra skills training for coordinators ・ companies, in Japan and all stores (2) Promote collaborative projects tied in with business, such as TOPVALU overseas and the Food Artisan Project (3) Step up publicity Development of Aeon second-party audit (1) In the ASEAN region, promote building an operation framework that is a Aeon Secondcertified auditors 7 in Japan, 19 overseas locally-led approach party Audit Certified ▼ * Including 6 local auditors (2) Update tools for overseas, such as auditor training materials and audit Auditors ・FY2013: 8 in Japan, 20 overseas manuals TOPVALU ・Confirm manufacturers at least once in 3 Manufacturing ・No new producer organizations; no results ・N  o new producer organizations; no results years Partners ・FY2013: 55（apparel: 22; food: 14; living / (1) Identify problems from customer suggestions HBC: 19) 83 cases (2) Step up collaboration with the Products Department and Quality ・FY2020: 30（apparel: 12; food: 8; living / Consolidated Group ・Apparel: 37 (115.6% YoY comparison) *FY2012: 32 cases Control Department of AEON TOPVALU Co., Ltd. aimed at finding the HSC: 10) companies in Japan * Need to compare with a new indicator due to ・Food: 31 (83.8% YoY comparison) *FY2012: 37 cases cause and implementing preventative measures and overseas the increase in the number of TOPVALU products ・Living/HBC: 15 (65.2% YoY comparison) *FY2012: 23 cases (3) Review product specification sheet content (4) Tighten pre-shipment product inspections and provide instructions to Example) Impact on sales from removal of manufacturing partners TOPVALU products ÷ TOPVALU sales Number of stores reinforced against Consolidated Group ・Of the 279 applicable Aeon Retail stores, safety earthquakes companies in Japan for reinforcement construction was completed at 78 of the 118 ・FY2012: Complete improvement work ・Prioritizing existing stores in areas with a high likelihood of magnitude 5 General Merchandising stores on property owned by Aeon at 45 stores in the Tohoku, North Kanto, or stronger earthquakes, carry out safety reinforcement construction in Store, Supermarket, ・Construction was completed at all 32 applicable Aeon Malls South Kanto and Tokai areas line with Aeon standards that meet or exceed legally mandated standards and Discount Store ・Expanding the scope to Aeon Kyushu and Aeon Hokkaido ・After FY2013: Steadily complete work at businesses stores was taken under consideration 270 applicable stores Consolidated Group ・Established and stocked temporary shelters at five stores: ・As a temporary shelter—and as part of providing a short-term evacuation companies in Japan 2020: Local temporary shelters at 100 of Aeon Mall Yahata Higashi, Aeon Mall Tsukuba, Aeon Mall center during disasters, providing a base for rescue and protection efforts, and overseas for the its stores across Japan Makuhari Shintoshin, Aeon Mall Toin, and Aeon Mall Osaka and providing daily living essentials—implement an energy security General Merchandising Dome City response to allow for operations of food sales floors even during disasters Store business Number of service complaints (1) Focus initiatives on three issues ・FY2013: 3,900 (2) CS surveys by mystery shoppers Consolidated Group ・FY2020: 2,420 (3) Raise skills using Group information exchange gatherings ・Number of service complaints: 5,196 (108% YoY comparison) companies in Japan (4) Expand successful Happy Letter Campaigns to other business sites ・N  umber of compliments: 2,719 (141.7% YoY comparison) and overseas Number of compliments (5) Utilize Arigato Cards ・FY2013: 1,900 (6) Communication with consumers through collaborative projects with ・FY2020: 2,900 government organizations Consolidated Group ・FY2013: 120 (1) Utilize weekly customer feedback in developing/improving products companies in Japan 107 ・FY2020: 180 (2) Step up efforts to utilize feedback related to information displays/labels and overseas (1) Establish a Diversity Promotion Office directly supervised by the Consolidated Group ・2020: 30% 4.2%(33 persons) President companies in Japan *Ratio of Female Executive Officers = Female *Number of female executive officers out of 789 total executive officers (2) After analyzing the current status at one major company and at ten and overseas Executive Officers ÷ Total Executive Officers including consolidated Group companies. domestic businesses in the Group, establish Diversity Promotion frameworks at 65 domestic companies 2.4%(9 persons) (1) Place young workers overseas and solicited overseas companies to join ・In 2020: Make ratio of non-Japanese AEON CO., LTD. *Number of non-Japanese employees out of 372 employees that employed by AEON the Group employees to Japanese employees 1:1 CO., LTD. (2)Integrate management of HR information Promote initiatives under the General Business Action Plan for Japan's Act for Consolidated Group ・Request reports and certification acquisition at meetings, etc. of HR Measures to Support the Development of 9 companies certified to use the Kurumin logo companies in Japan managers from Group companies the Next Generation (expand number of companies certified to use the Kurumin logo) *4 To FY2012, this was The ratio of employees of foreign nationality. From FY2013, however, we changed it to Group International People to People Exchange Programs. *5 This is a newly reported category from FY2013. AEON Sustainability Report 2014 26 Key Issue 1 Realization of a Low-carbon Society new energy-saving equipment and thoroughly employing Reducing CO2 in Stores energy efficiency measures. *1 Looking at a breakdown of energy consumed on a heat conversion basis, around 90% is accounted for by electricity and the remainder by city gas, LP gas and heavy oil. *2 All CO2 emitted from stores can be attributed to energy consumption. Specifically, around 10% comes from direct emissions through city gas, LP gas and combustion of Decreasing CO2 emissions / Enhancing Energy Efficiency heavy oil (Scope 1) and around 90% comes from indirect emissions through power [ Aeon ECO Project: Reduction Strategy ] consumption (Scope 2). The calculation of CO2 emissions from power consumption uses calculation standards and an emissions factor pursuant to the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. Aeon stores consume a large volume of energy*1, mainly in airconditioning and lighting as well as freezer and refrigeration cabinets, For Aeon, which has a store network spanning Japan Energy Usage Results and Targets as well as other countries in Asia, reducing CO2 emissions from (GJ/m2) stores*2 plays a key role in reducing emissions for the entire 2.8 Targets Results company. That makes it all the more important for us to focus on reducing CO2 in our stores. 2.6 Following on from fiscal 2012, we actively continued in 2.4 fiscal 2013 to switch stores to LED lighting, adopt or upgrade 2.2 energy-saving equipment, improve energy-saving operations based on an energy efficiency checklist, and test rational 2.0 energy management practices, all in order to reduce energy 1.8 consumption. Results led to a 19.9% fiscal 2013 reduction in 1.6 electricity usage, in comparison with fiscal 2010 levels. This was mainly due to more efficient lighting from the adoption of LED 1.4 lights. 1.2 In fiscal 2014, we are continuing to strive toward fiscal 2020 1.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) targets, including a 5–10% reduction in electricity consumption compared to fiscal 2012 levels, through steps such as adopting Environmental Targets for fiscal 2020 Aeon ECO Project In the form of our Aeon ECO Project, Aeon set, in September 2012, Aeon environmental targets for fiscal 2020, and is carrying out various Aeon initiatives to achieve those targets. With current increasing needs for energy use efficiency and power conservation, and with the experience of the Great East Japan Earthquake, Aeon has added perspectives Project Project of reducing energy use and developing renewable energy to environmental protection and has additionally taken on a clear role as a lifeline center protecting the community in disasters and emergencies. Our Smart Aeon initiative is one concrete aspect of the Aeon ECO Reduction Reduction Generation Generation Protection Protection Project. As of the end of fiscal 2013, we have opened four new Smart Strategy Strategy Strategy Strategy Strategy Strategy Aeon stores (page 30). 50%50%reduction inin reduction 200,000 200,000 kW from kWfrom 100100 disaster-prevention disaster-prevention energy energy consumption renewable consumption energy sources renewable energy sources facilities across facilities JapanJapan across FY 2013 Results Targets for FY 2020 Reduction 50% reduction of energy use in Strategy Expected reductions of 20% Examples of Initiatives: P.27 stores compared to FY 2010 levels Generation Electricity generation capacity: 33,247 kW Generation of 200,000 kW Strategy Stores installed with solar panels: 997 of renewable energy P.34 Protection Make 100 Aeon stores across Strategy 5 locations across Japan Transition to LED lighting Solar panel installation Private power generation Japan disaster-prevention facilities P.64 equipment installation 27 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 FY2012 Results and Target of KPI Framework for Promoting our Energy Management System (EnMS) Total Annual CO2 Emissions Factor AEON CO., LTD. Group Companies (CO2 Emissions / Total Floor Area) Top Management 0.09t/m2 0.08t/㎡ 0.05t/m2 Internal Auditing Team FY Energy Management Representative Energy Management Control Officer 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 Energy Management Secretariat Energy Management Secretariat Subcommittees on Energy Strategy Business offices and stores 0.10t/m2 0.11t/m2 Total Energy Use Factor Energy suppliers Tenants (Amount of Heat / Total Floor Area) Energy management subcontractors 2.23GJ//m2 2.03GJ/㎡ 1.31GJ//m2 Improving Energy Management Practices FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 Target Aeon has established an in-house Energy Advisor Program aimed at leveraging our Aeon ECO Project to further develop human 2.53GJ/m2 2.07GJ/m2 resources in our retail stores. The Energy Advisors help assess the status of energy usage in stores and work to propose and promote ideas for more efficient Aeon Obtains ISO 50001 Energy Management usage. As of March 31, 2014, a total of 383 Energy Advisors had Certification been certified. Going forward, our plans aim for over 100 Advisors to be newly certified each year. In July 2013, AEON CO., LTD. became the first retailer in Japan In addition, we began preparations in fiscal 2013 to roll to obtain the ISO 50001 certification, an energy management out in Chinese and ASEAN stores the same human resource certification defined by the International Organization for development efforts toward promoting energy-saving training as Standardization (ISO). ISO 50001 is an international standard here in Japan. specification that defines the requirements to be met by business operators when they establish an energy management system. It is being adopted around the world, including in the U.S. and China. We established an energy management system that covers Aeon Group companies in a Group-wide effort to improve energy efficiency and to work toward achieving the environmental targets of the Energy Advisor training materials (printed in Japanese, English, and Chinese) Aeon ECO Project. We obtained the ISO 50001 certification after receiving a third-party audit by the Japan Audit and Certification Organization for Environment and Quality (JACO). The certification we acquired covers AEON CO., LTD.’s comprehensive energy management efforts of the entire Aeon Group. ISO15001 certificate AEON Sustainability Report 2014 28 Preventing Leakage of Fluorocarbons and Promoting FY2013 Results and Target of KPI Use of Natural Refrigerants Measures for Ascertaining Replacement Amount and Preventing Leakage of Fluorocarbons used More and more freezing and refrigeration units started using in Refrigerated Display Cases non-ozone depleting alternatives to chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) as refrigerant following the abolition of the production and use t$PNQMFUFEUBMMZJOHUIFBNPVOUTPGøVPSPDBSCPOTSFQMBDFEJO ': PSCFUUFSDBQUVSFSBUFPGBTDFSUBJOFEMFBLBHF of ozone-depleting CFCs under the Montreal Protocol adopted t1VUUPHFUIFSBXPSLJOHUFBNGPSøVPSPDBSCPOMFBLBHFNBOBHFNFOU in 1987. However, these alternatives have extremely high global t TBSFQSFTFOUBUJWFPGUIF+BQBO$IBJO4UPSFT TTPDJBUJPO WPJDFE t$PNQMFUFEUBMMZJOHUIFBNPVOUTPGøVPSPDBSCPOTSFQMBDFEJO PQJOJPOTJOUIF*OEVTUSJBM4USVDUVSF$PVODJMhTXPSLJOHHSPVQPO ': PSCFUUFSDBQUVSFSBUFPGBTDFSUBJOFEMFBLBHF warming potential (GWP)*1 and the problem of leaking into DPVOUFSNFBTVSFTGPSøVPSPDBSCPOTBOEBUUIF+PJOU$PVODJM.FFUJOH t1VUUPHFUIFSBXPSLJOHUFBNGPSøVPSPDBSCPOMFBLBHFNBOBHFNFOU t TBSFQSFTFOUBUJWFPGUIF+BQBO$IBJO4UPSFT TTPDJBUJPO WPJDFE the atmosphere, which prompted calls to switch to natural PQJOJPOTJOUIF*OEVTUSJBM4USVDUVSF$PVODJMhTXPSLJOHHSPVQPO Target DPVOUFSNFBTVSFTGPSøVPSPDBSCPOTBOEBUUIF+PJOU$PVODJM.FFUJOH refrigerants with low GWP. FY In 2009, Aeon became Japan’s first retailer to start introducing 2012 2013 2015 Target refrigerators and freezers that use a low-GWP natural refrigerant*2 FY 2012 2013 2015 (CO2). Following this, we announced the Aeon Natural t&RVJQNFOUMFEHFSDSFBUFEBOE Refrigerants Declaration in 2011 and are planning to install preparation leakage management Bring management system on record group unified start line compliant with the revised natural refrigerant-based refrigerators and freezers in every new t-FBLBHFHSBTQPGöTDBMDBQUVSF t&RVJQNFOUMFEHFSDSFBUFEBOE Fluorocarbons Recovery and PGUIFMFWFM Destruction Bring Law* system on management store to open from fiscal 2015 onward. preparation leakage management line compliant with the revised t$POEVDUFEPQJOJPOBTBSFøFDUJPOPG record group unified start As of February 2014, we have installed natural refrigerant+BQBO$IBJO4UPSFT TTPDJBUJPO t-FBLBHFHSBTQPGöTDBMDBQUVSF Fluorocarbons Recovery and PGUIFMFWFM Destruction Law* based refrigerators and freezers at 11 stores, including our t$POEVDUFEPQJOJPOBTBSFøFDUJPOPG Aeon Mall Makuhari New City store, MaxValu supermarkets, and Number of Stores Installing Refrigerated Display +BQBO$IBJO4UPSFT TTPDJBUJPO MINISTOP convenience stores. These efforts were recognized Cases that use Natural Refrigerants on a Trial Basis t*OTUBMMFEJOTUPSFT PGXIJDIXBTUIFöSTUJOTUBMMBUJPOBUBMBSHF (.4$02DPNQMJBOUDBTFTPVUPGBUPUBMPGDBTFT t4UBSUFEBOJOIPVTFQSPKFDUUFBNGPSQSPNPUJOHUIFBEPQUJPOPG in September 2013 when we received the Minister’s Prize from OBUVSBMSFGSJHFSBOUT PGXIJDIXBTUIFöSTUJOTUBMMBUJPOBUBMBSHF t*OTUBMMFEJOTUPSFT the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s 16th Japan Ozone t TBSFQSFTFOUBUJWFPGUIF+BQBO$IBJO4UPSFT TTPDJBUJPO (.4$02DPNQMJBOUDBTFTPVUPGBUPUBMPGDBTFT WPJDFE PQJOJPOTJOUIF*OEVTUSJBM4USVDUVSF$PVODJMhTXPSLJOHHSPVQPO t4UBSUFEBOJOIPVTFQSPKFDUUFBNGPSQSPNPUJOHUIFBEPQUJPOPG Layer Protection and Global Warming Prevention Award.*3 DPVOUFSNFBTVSFTGPSøVPSPDBSCPOTBOEBUUIF+PJOU$PVODJM.FFUJOH OBUVSBMSFGSJHFSBOUT t4PMWJOHJOTUBMMBUJPODPTUTBOEUFDIOJDBMDIBMMFOHFTXBTTUJMMCFIJOE t TBSFQSFTFOUBUJWFPGUIF+BQBO$IBJO4UPSFT TTPDJBUJPO WPJDFE Aeon faces certain issues ahead of the introduction of natural TDIFEVMF PQJOJPOTJOUIF*OEVTUSJBM4USVDUVSF$PVODJMhTXPSLJOHHSPVQPO refrigerants, including the lack of manufacturers and high DPVOUFSNFBTVSFTGPSøVPSPDBSCPOTBOEBUUIF+PJOU$PVODJM.FFUJOH t4PMWJOHJOTUBMMBUJPODPTUTBOEUFDIOJDBMDIBMMFOHFTXBTTUJMMCFIJOE Target installation costs. We will do our utmost to overcome these TDIFEVMF FY issues and promote the industry-wide use of natural refrigerants 2012 2013 Target 2020 by leveraging performance data accumulated to date to raise FY awareness going forward and build ties with companies within 2012 2013 2020 t5IFJOUSPEVDUJPOUPTUPSFTJO': 1MBOGPSJOTUBMMBUJPO the same industry and other industries. t1SPNPUJPOPGHPPESFMBUJPOTXJUIUIFHPWFSONFOU at new stores *1 Global warming potential (GWP): a factor expressing a substance’s relative impact on making t': global warming. If CO2’s value is standardized to 1, GWP values for alternative CFCs used t4PMVUJPOEFQMPZNFOUDPTUT UFDIOJDBMDIBMMFOHFTEFMBZ t5IFJOUSPEVDUJPOUPTUPSFTJO': t': 1MBOGPSJOTUBMMBUJPO in refrigerators and freezers may reach several thousands. t5PQSPNPUFUIFTIBSJOHPGLOPXMFEHFUISPVHIUIF t1SPNPUJPOPGHPPESFMBUJPOTXJUIUIFHPWFSONFOU t': at new stores *2 Natural refrigerants: substances known as natural refrigerants include ammonia and +BQBO$IBJO4UPSFT TTPDJBUJPO making t': carbon hydride as well as CO2. t4PMVUJPOEFQMPZNFOUDPTUT UFDIOJDBMDIBMMFOHFTEFMBZ t': t5PQSPNPUFUIFTIBSJOHPGLOPXMFEHFUISPVHIUIF t': *3 Japan Ozone Layer Protection and Global Warming Prevention Award: a program +BQBO$IBJO4UPSFT TTPDJBUJPO sponsored by the Nikkan Kogyo Shimbun, Ltd. (Business & Technology Daily News) and supported by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, and the Ministry of the Environment, to recognize efforts, effective technology, etc. for preserving the ozone * T he Ministerial Ordinance for Partial Revision of the Ordinance for Enforcement layer and mitigating global warming. of the Act on Ensuring the Implementation of Recovery and Destruction of Fluorocarbons concerning Designated Products TOPICS Strengthening Business Continuity and Energy Management in Chinese and ASEAN Group Companies Aeon is participating in the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry program for model initiatives for working to strengthen group competitiveness through the utilization of management system standards for business continuity and energy. Along with our Group companies, Aeon is working to bolster our Business Continuity Management Systems (BCMS) and our Energy Management Systems (EnMS). We are proceeding to make our stores in Japan emergency lifeline centers to strengthen our BCMS, in line with Aeon ECO Project’s “Protection Strategy.” We are promoting energy conservation at our stores in China and ASEAN countries to strengthen our EnMS, as we work toward our goal of achieving our Aeon ECO Project’s “Reduction Strategy” targets. We have held 4 meetings regarding this at our Chinese and ASEAN Group Companies. The meetings included sharing and discussing successful case studies in Japan, as well as setting the direction for measures going forward. * The purpose of this government program is to strengthen competitiveness, organization, and brand power collectively, as a group formed within a region, within an industry, or within a supply chain, by adopting international standards for BCMS (ISO 22301) and EnMS (ISO 50001). 28 Groups were chosen for this program. A meeting at Aeon Malaysia 29 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 Development of Eco Stores FY2013 Results and Target of KPI [Smart Aeon development] Develop Eco Stores Working to build environmentally friendly stores, Aeon has t0QFOFEGPVS4NBSU FPOTUPSFT FPO t JNJOHGPSBQQMJDBUJPO .BMM:BIBUB)JHBTIJ  FPO5PXO GSPN': SFWJFXFE defined Eco Stores as outlets that achieve at least 20% lower CO2 4IJO'VOBCBTIJ  FPO.BMM0TBLB%PNF 4NBSU FPODPODFQUBOE $JUZ BOE FPO.BMM.BLVIBSJ4IJOUPTIJO TUBOEBSET emissions in comparison with conventional stores, and a CASBEE ranking of A* or higher. Since the opening of our first Eco Store, the Aeon Chikusa Shopping Center, in May 2005, 12 such stores FY 2012 2013 2020 had been opened by February 2013. In September 2012, we started working on further developments for Next-Generation (Smart Aeon) Eco Stores. In t'PSNVMBUFDPODFQUGPSOFYUHFOFSBUJPO&DP t3FWJFXTUBOEBSE&DP4UPSF addition to building stores with lower environmental impacts 4UPSFTBOECFHJOTUPSFEFWFMPQNFOUXJUI DPODFQUBOEBQQMZSFWJTFE than in the past, we also formulated five criteria, such as BJNPGSFEVDJOH$02FNJTTJPOTCZ TUBOEBSETUPBMMOFXTUPSFT energy efficiency and disaster prevention measures, from the perspective of civicand community-building efforts carried out in cooperation with local regions. We have positioned this as a Evolving from Eco Stores to Smart Aeon key initiative for implementing the Aeon ECO Project. After the opening of our first Smart Aeon store, Aeon Mall Eco Stores エ Yahata Higashi, in March 2013, we opened three more Smart 《The Concepts》 《 stores in fiscal 2013: Aeon Town Shin-Funabashi, Aeon Mall Osaka tChange and technical innovation, Learning and collaboration, t%FUFSNJOFEUIFFWBMVBUJPODSJUFSJB Disseminated information t4VNNBSJ[FEUIFDPODFQUPG Dome City, and Aeon Mall Makuhari New City. BOEUIF/FYU(FOFSBUJPO&DPTUPSF EJTDSJNJOBUJPO/FYU(FOFSBUJPO 《 《Tangible Aspects》 A4NBSU FPO%FWFMPQFEBTB4NBSU &DPTUPSFA4NBSU FPOPGUIF In fiscal 2014, plans calls for three new Smart Aeon stores— FPO':PQFOJOHGPVSTUPSFT tEnergy saving/generation, Environmental TUBOEBSE&DPTUPSF e¬ciency, Aeon Mall Nagoya Chaya, Aeon Mall Kyoto Katsuragawa, and Natural environment, Landscape and biodiversity 5BSHFU 《 Aeon Mall Kisarazu—based on our criteria formulated in fiscal 《Intangible Aspects》 tSafety, FY 2013. 2011security and 2012environmental consideration, 2013 2020 Recycling within the region, Disclosure, 21st century community * CASBEE: Environmental performance evaluation system architecture that was developed in 2001. It is used as an index to evaluate and display objectively the performance whether you are conscious how the global environment and surrounding environment, that there is no waste in running costs, such as, or comfortable for the user. 'PSNVMBUFDPODFQUGPSOFYUHFOFSBUJPO&DP 3FWJFXTUBOEBSE&DP4UPSF Smart Aeon Further evolution of theDPODFQUBOEBQQMZSFWJTFE 4UPSFTBOECFHJOTUPSFEFWFMPQNFOUXJUI conventional Eco Store format. ス BJNPGSFEVDJOH$02FNJTTJPOTCZ TUBOEBSETUPBMMOFXTUPSFT Building f or Tomorrow Toge ther tProvides storefront, products and services that is considerate of the environment. tTakes part in environmental activities together with customers. 「 Contributes to the sustainable development of towns and communities. The 5 Smart Aeon criteria 「 Disaster Biodiversity Traffic Smart Integration Situation of WAON Prevention and Energy and Regional Landscape (Smart and internet Mobility) Infrastructure The Progress of Eco Stores and Smart Aeon 2005 2008 2012 2013 First Eco First Smart Store Aeon store Aeon Town Chikusa Aeon Laketown AEON Mall Funabashi AEON Mall Yahata Higashi Introducing a solar power and wind Our 8th Eco Store, installed solar panels Our 12th Eco Store, turned into an Of energy by visualization , thereby power to be domestic commercial facility's LED 97.6% of the lighting of the entire contributing to energy reduction. largest. facility. AEON Sustainability Report 2014 30 Opening of Aeon Mall Makuhari New City C lose UP! Aeon’s Flagship Mall – bringing together the collective power of the Aeon Group As a Smart Aeon store, Aeon Mall Makuhari New City, opened in December 2013 in Mihama, Environmental and Energy Conversation Initiatives Chiba city, is also fully equipped with the latest devices to be a disaster recovery base with reinforced anti-seismic function buildings and facilities. Solar power generation equipment that is 14 electric charger vehicle (EV) station units one of the largest sizes (1,750 kW) available for commercial use Equipped to be an authorized disaster recovery base Customer and Community Safety VOICE is Our First Priority Aeon Mall Makuhari New City has adopted various measures following the 5 Smart Aeon criteria. Buildings and facilities have been built with emphasis particularly on disaster prevention and community Co-generation systems and long-life infrastructure. Valuable lessons, learned emergency generators from the Great East Japan Earthquake, on how a retailer can play a vital role in community infrastructure provide a base for Aeon’ s promotion of store operations A special construction method with enhanced antithat make safety a priority. seismic capability, using an Masato Murai open ceiling design for main Director walkways to prevent falling AEON Mall Co., Ltd. objects Installation of water tanks (with 380ton effective capacity) to ensure emergency drinking water supply 31 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 calculated product CO2 emissions for a cumulative total of over Recharging Stations for Electric Vehicles 100 SKUs. In fiscal 2013, we calculated the total CO2 emissions Aeon first set up a high-speed recharging station for electric throughout the entire lifecycle of vehicles at the Aeon Lake Town store located in Koshigaya City, TOPVALU Gurinai green peppers Saitama Prefecture in 2008 in order to respond to the increasing grown in Miyazaki Prefecture. use of electric vehicles and plug-in hybrid vehicles. Since then, In March 2014, we carried out we have set up recharging stations at most of our new shopping Bio My Basket calculations. centers as well as certain existing stores based on demand. * Stock Keeping Unit (SKU): Smallest unit to identify products used when managing actual In fiscal 2013, we aggressively moved forward with the sales volume or inventory of a product at final TOPVALU Gurinai Miyazaki pepper installation of recharging stations at existing stores, with the retail points in distribution operations. grand total now standing at 129 stations at 55 locations as of February 2014. Going forward, we are continuing our proactive FY2013 Results and Target of KPI approach to installation. Number of Products with CO2 Visualization Currently, many of the recharging stations have been (number of product SKUs * for which CO2 emissions are calculated) made available to the general public free of charge in order to raise awareness and popularize the idea. In the next phase of t4,6DBMDVMBUJPO 21SKU  5017 -6(VSJOBJ.JZB[BLJQFQQFS expansion, however, we will need to start charging usage fees because of the costs required to provide stable and ongoing Target services as part of Japan’s broader social infrastructure. Going FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2020 forward, Aeon will develop a payment system using its WAON electric money that it plans to launch around fiscal 2014 with the start of fee-based services at recharging stations in a format that t$BMDVMBUFGPS4,6TFWFSZZFBS will ensure maximum customer convenience. t&WFSZZFBSDPNNVOJDBUFQSPEVDUTUIBUIFMQSFEVDF$02 FNJTTJPOTFYUFSOBMMZ Stores installing recharging stations for electric vehicles Total number of stores 合計店舗数 Developing （2013年7月現在） and Selling Products t4,6DBMDVMBUJPO that Help Reduce 5017 -6(SJOBJ.JZB[BLJQFQQFS 43カ所・95基 t-$ DBMDVMBUJPOHVJEFMJOFEFWFMPQNFOUBMSFBEZ (As of February, 2014) CO2 Emissions t&EVDBUJPOBOEUSBJOJOHJTOPUDPOEVDUFE 129 4,6 stations covering Aeon is working to develop and sell products Target that help reduce 55 stores CO2 emissions. 2010 2011 Our TOPVALU Gurinai Yukigura FY 2012 potatoes 2013 2020 from Toya, Hokkaido are one example. These potatoes use the cooling power of snow for preservation after harvest, which reduces electricity usage #VJMUBNBOBHFNFOUTZTUFNGPSUIF t$BMDVMBUFGPS4,6TFWFSZZFBS and also helps reduce DBMDVMBUJPOPG$0 2FNJTTJPOT CO  2 emissions. t&WFSZZFBSDPNNVOJDBUFQSPEVDUT QBSUJDJQBUFEJOBQSPHSBNTQPOTPSFECZ UIBUIFMQSFEVDF$02FNJTTJPOT UIF.JOJTUSZPG&DPOPNZ 5SBEFBOE FYUFSOBMMZ *OEVTUSZ BOEQBTTFEBTDSFFOJOH DPOEVDUFECZBUIJSEQBSUZPSHBOJ[BUJPO Reducing CO2 in Products and Logistics Informing Customers of CO2 Emission Reductions ・1SKU算定 ・LCA算定ガイドライン策定済み TOPVALU 21SKU ・教育訓練は未実施 Gurinai Yukigura Aeon is committed to showing the carbon footprint (CFP) of a potatoes from Toya Putting snow in a warehouse product in order to make it easier to visualize the CO2 emissions it 目標 generates through its lifecycle, from raw materials to processing, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 distribution, consumption, disposal and 16 recycling. 億 This helps to 年度 increase customers’ interest in the environment 6,155 万枚 and spur further レジ袋削減枚数 17 corporate initiatives to reduce CO 13億2 emissions and perform cost CO2算定のマネジメントシステムを構築。 ・毎年100SKUを算定する analyses. 億 第三者機関の審査に合格 ・毎年、 CO2削減貢献商品を 922万枚 Aeon has participated in the CFP seminar hosted by the 3,890 万枚 外部コミュニケーションする Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) since 2008 and has been implementing7related 億 initiatives in collaboration with METI. In 2009, we launched 6,714万枚an internal project and so farレジ袋辞退率 have 60.0% 61.5% 4億 2,450万枚 48.0% 60.4% AEON Sustainability Report 2014 32 16.4% Increasing Visibility of Distribution Operations Carbon Offset Initiatives One of Aeon’s KPI is “CO2 Emissions per Case during Shipment Carbon offsetting refers to the process of purchasing credits from Distribution Center to Store”. We are striving to reduce generated by CO2 reduction activities at a separate location to emissions by better grasping the amount of CO2 used during offset part or the entire amount of greenhouse gas emissions distribution through visualization. thatreally cannot be reduced. In fiscal 2013, Aeon Global SCM Co., Ltd., which handles In fiscal 2013, Aeon Group companies implemented the distribution for Aeon, built a new distribution center that helps carbon offsetting detailed below. reduce transportation distances, improve vehicle loading ratios, Each company plans to continue its initiatives In fiscal 2014 and reduce our number of shipments. These efforts resulted in a as well. 12.7% cut, over fiscal 2010, in CO2 emissions per case shipped to stores. •AEON TOPVALU CO., LTD. In addition, along with participating in environment• Target products: TOPVALU desks for students related research and other gatherings held by government, • Period: From April 1, 2013 through March 31, 2014 logistics operators, natural gas companies, automobile makers, • Quantity of emissions credits purchased: 6,250 tons-CO2 universities, etc., Aeon has held its own environmental vehicle • AEON CO., LTD. research meetings and rail transport research meetings, • Target products: Bio My Basket furthering our pursuit of adopting heavy duty natural gas • Period: From April 1, 2013 through March 31, 2014 vehicles and expanding our modal shift in transportation. • Quantity of emissions credits purchased: 700 tons-CO2 In addition to continuing these initiatives, going forward we will implement initiatives from both fiscal and operational Tabulating CO2 emissions across the entire supply perspectives such as converting 100% of our fleet of trucks to chain environmentally friendly models, as well as conducting an ecodriving course* and enhancing the system for recognizing good, In addition to managing greenhouse gas emissions they ecofriendly drivers. generate directly (Scope 1) and indirect emissions from the use * Eco Drive: Driving techniques that enable drivers to reduce fuel consumption by starting of electricity (Scope 2), companies must now manage emissions the vehicle and moving forward gently and eliminating wasteful idling to ultimately reduce CO2 emissions. across their entire supply chain (Scope 3). In response to this development, Aeon has been calculating* Scope 3 CO2 emissions FY2013 Results and Target of KPI since fiscal 2012. CO2 Emissions per Case during Shipment from In fiscal 2013, in addition to adding major businesses within the Group as targets of data gathering, we increased Distribution Center to Store the precision of emissions data and began reporting emissions 12.7% reduction over FY 2010 related to investment activities. The latter move means that we now disclose data related to every category of Aeon’s business. Target In the future, we will further expand the precision of our FY 2012 2013 2020 data, add more businesses for which we gather data, and use data analysis to pursue our reductions in CO2 emissions. * For calculations, we reference the Emissions Rate Index Database for Calculating GHG Target Emissions, etc. in an Organization’s Supply Chain (Ver. 2.0). SFEVDUJPO SFEVDUJPO t3FEVDUJPOPGDPNQBSFEUPöTDBM UIF$0 FNJTTJPOTUIBUPDDVSJOUIFTUPSFEFMJWFSZPGPOFDBTFQFS t&TUBCMJTIFEJODPMMBCPSBUJPOXJUIPVUTPVSDJOHQBSUOFST UIF WFIJDMFFOWJSPONFOU4UVEZ(SPVQ*OUSPEVDUJPOCFHJOOJOH PGUIFFYQFSJNFOUPGMBSHFOBUVSBMHBTWFIJDMFT t%PNFTUJDSBJMUSBOTQPSUIBOEMJOHTDBMFSFUBJMJOEVTUSZ/P t3FEVDUJPOPGDPNQBSFEUPöTDBM FTUJNBUFE UIF CO2FNJTTJPOTUIBUPDDVSJOUIFTUPSFEFMJWFSZPGPOFDBTFQFS t&TUBCMJTIFEJODPMMBCPSBUJPOXJUIPVUTPVSDJOHQBSUOFST UIF WFIJDMFFOWJSPONFOU4UVEZ(SPVQ*OUSPEVDUJPOCFHJOOJOHPG UIFFYQFSJNFOUPGMBSHFOBUVSBMHBTWFIJDMFT t%PNFTUJDSBJMUSBOTQPSUIBOEMJOHTDBMFSFUBJMJOEVTUSZ/P Target Target FY 2011 2012 2013 2020 #FHBODBMDVMBUJOH$0FNJTTJPOT BNPVOUQFSDBTFGPSTIJQNFOUGSPN 33 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 EJTUSJCVUJPODFOUFSUPTUPSF Scope 3 Emissions Category 1 Scope 3 Emissions Categories Purchased products and services Emissions (t-CO2e) 2,660,000 Generating Electricity at Stores 2 Capital goods 1,393,968 Fuel and energy related activities not Generating renewable energy 3 271,142 included in Scope 1 and Scope 2 [Aeon ECO Project: Generation Strategy] 4 Transport and shipments (upstream) 227,816 5 Waste from businesses 67,109 The goal of building electricity generation capacity of 200,000 kW by 2020 is part of the Generation Strategy in Aeon's ECO 6 Business travel 75,325 Project. 7 Employee commutes 75,775 In fiscal 2013, we installed solar panels with electrical 8 Leased assets (upstream) – generation capacity totaling 17,767 kW in 797 of our stores, 9 Investments 83,421 including supermarkets with flat roofs, new large-scale 10 Transport and shipments (downstream) – supermarkets, as well as convenience stores. This brings our total 11 Processing of products sold – of stores with installed units to 997, and our total generation 12 Use of products sold 185,069 capacity to 33,247 kW. 13 Disposal of products sold 49,210 In addition to leading to reductions in electricity usage, 14 Leased assets (downstream) 790,246 thanks to captive consumption, electricity from solar panels is 15 Franchise – also being sold back to power companies through the fixed wholesale purchase system. We are reinvesting profit from electricity sales to offset increased electricity rates, contribute TOPICS to our BCP, invest in the environment, and invest in renewable Aeon is the only company in the energy. Japanese retail business sector to be In fiscal 2014, we plan to add 26,294 kW of generation capacity to 144 stores. In fiscal awarded for excellence in climate 2015 and beyond, we plan change information disclosure two to consistently add units to years running achieve our targets by 2020. * 200 000 kW is equivalent to the For two years running, starting in 2012, Aeon has been named in the ability to cover the annual power of global NPO Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP*1) inquiry for excellence in approximately 45,000 households in the common household. the Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). In the 2013 inquiry, 24 out of 500 Japanese companies were Solar panel installation named for the CDLI, but Aeon, chosen 4th out of the 24, was the only company from the retail industry. We were recognized for our global, FY2013 Results and Target of KPI long-term initiatives and proactive stance toward information discloPower generation capacity of renewable sure, such as our calculation of scope 3*2 emissions and our disclosure of CO2 emissions that included Group companies. energy *1 CDP: the single global system measuring, managing, disclosing and sharing important urban and industrial environment related information. CDP’s Installed solar panels for electricity generation capacity of worldwide survey covers around 5,000 companies, including Japan’s 500 17,767kW at 797 stores (cumulative total of 997 stores; 33,247kW) largest companies. *2 Scope 3: A group, of categories for calculation of GHG emissions. Relating to Target the scope 1 and 2 categories that refer to emissions from the operations of FY stores and facilities, scope 3 refers to emissions from production and transport, 2012 2013 2014 2020 employee commuting, disposal of products sold, and other upstream and downstream (value chain) emissions. In recent years, global society is demanding scope 3 disclosure as part of calls for increased consistency and transparency of environmental risk and opportunity management. 200,000kW 40 stores, 2,135 kW installed solar power generation (Total: 201 stores, 15, 251 kW) Target FY 2011 2012 2013 2020 200,000kW AEON Sustainability Report 2014 34 Aeon Environmental Foundation Donating Solar Systems to Junior High Schools The Aeon Environmental Foundation is donating solar power systems to junior high schools with the aim of promoting and spreading environmentally friendly renewable energy, and providing students with the opportunity to utilize the systems for environmental studies. Since 2009, the program has targeted junior high schools in Japan, with a total of 15 recipients as of the end of fiscal 2012. With awareness in Japan of renewable energy having improved in recent years, the Foundation has decided to donate to ASEAN junior high schools from fiscal 2013. In the first year of expansion, fiscal 2013, we donated solar systems to 10 junior high schools in the city of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, which has ample sunshine and is promoting the spread of renewable energy centering on solar power. In fiscal 2014, we will donate systems to 10 junior high schools in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, where Damansara Jaya Junior High power shortages have become a social concern amidst rapid economic development. School (Selangor State, Malaysia) Initiatives Undertaken by Group Companies The Daiei, Inc. Environmental Awards in Akita Prefecture Receiving an Energy-saving Lighting Design Award Daiei has adopted a variety of energy-saving equipment to Daiei Sobudai Store received the grand prix in the Ministry of date, and in fiscal 2013, continued that effort by focusing on the Environment’s 4th Energy-saving Lighting Design Awards. refrigeration machines and air-conditioning equipment, in The awards aim to spread “new energy-saving models for addition to bringing energy-saving control units into 113 of lighting design,” including the creation of attractive spaces its stores. Daiei also expanded its adoption of LED lighting that demonstrate excellent energy saving achievements and and water-saving equipment. contribute to reducing peak electricity demand. In fiscal 2014, plans call for further promotion of energyIn addition to making all indoor and outdoor lighting saving improvements for large-scale equipment. full-LED, the Sobudai Store meets lighting needs through measures such as the effective placement of spotlights. Compared to conventional fluorescent lighting, the store achieves an approximate 60% reduction in electricity consumption. Refrigeration machines Full-LED lighting inside and outside Effective placement of spotlights Air-conditioning equipment the store 35 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 Key Issue 2 Conservation of Biodiversity Aeon Biodiversity Principle Basic Principle Action Guidelines (Excerpt) Grasping the impact our overall corporate activities have on the 1. Products: We will set sustainability targets for resource managed ecosystem, we actively focus on reducing the impact on the fresh seafood and processed products, engage in their purchase ecosystem and conservation activities, working in collaboration with and sale while sharing those targets with our business partners, our stakeholders, including our customers, local authorities and nonand communicate related information to customers. profit organizations. We focus on the following points related to the 2. Stores: We will continue to promote tree-planting campaigns with ecosystem in our corporate activities: local customers at new store sites and continue to develop Eco Through our corporate activities, we Stores with less environmental impact than conventional facilities. 1. Remain conscious of blessings and burdens. 3. With Customers: Through tree-planting campaigns and other 2. Engage in initiatives that protect and nurture. programs, we will share environmental awareness and learn 3. Disclose information on our activities. together with all of our customers. FY2013 Results and Target of KPI Conservation through Products and Distribution Compilation of CSR Procurement Guidelines (sustainable procurement and purchasing guidelines) Announced the Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle in February 2014. Announced concrete policies for seafood at the same time CSR Procurement Guidelines Our natural resources face many threats today, from ecosystem FY 2012 2013 2014 2020 destruction from overexploitation to poor agricultural harvests from abnormal weather caused by climate change. Whereas, with Target the supply chain now stretched across the entire world, Aeon Started the procurement guidelines Study Guidelines Ready Group conducted awareness together (Publication of the goal) must be conscious of human rights and working environments at suppliers as well as work to prevent corruption, including bribery and extortion. The products manufactured and sold by Aeon are made Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle possible by the bounty of nature and contain raw materials procured from producers and locations around the globe. We 1. Elimination Started of illegal the procurement Studyharvesting trading, guidelines and fishing of Group conducted awareness together have been following a green procurement strategy for some natural resources time now where we prioritize the procurement of products 2. Setting and following Aeon’s standard Target for conservation of that are environmentally friendly, but to achieve even more biodiversity and FY prevention of natural resource depletion 2011 2012 2013 2020 sustainable procurement, we commenced efforts to formulate 3. Minimizing use of non-renewable resources CSR Procurement Guidelines in 2011. Through the work of a CSR 4. Establishing agricultural and fishery production locations Procurement Guidelines Committee comprised of managers Gathered information Guidelines Ready (Publication of the goal) and fishing method traceability from related Aeon departments, and tasked with gathering CSR procurement-related information, we formulated and published, 5. C onservation and prevention of destruction of highin February 2014, our Aeon Sustainable Procurement Principle. protective value forests In addition, we also set in place an Aeon Sustainable Seafood Procurement Policy in order to further elevate our efforts toward Specific Measures of the procuring sustainable marine products. “Aeon Sustainable Seafood Procurement Policy” In fiscal 2014, we plan to enhance this Policy by adding concrete initiatives. 1. Provision of Certified Products 2. Establishment of Traceability Measures 3. Elimination of Illegal Trade 4. Regular Risk Assessments AEON Sustainability Report 2014 36 Communicate Biodiversity-friendly Products to Customers Aeon is committed to informing customers and earning their support with regard to the importance and significance of using sustainable products and products that conserve bioversity. Based on this commitment, we are engaging in a variety of initiatives such as providing products that take into account the sustainable use of bio resources, as well as providing MSC-certified Scallop TOPVALU Raw Atlantic salmon opportunities for people to learn more about biodiversity. FY2013 Results and Target of KPI Visibility of Biodiversity-friendly Products Delivering Freshness, Quality, VOICE 5017 -6 ・ＭＳＣ認証商品 46ＳＫＵ ：販売数量 4,977,463個 Sustainability t.4$DFSUJöFEQSPEVDUT4,6 ：販売金額 1,278,618,849円  5PMEOVNCFSTPME  VOJUTTBMFTBNPVOU   ZFO ・ＦＳＣ認証商品 105ＳＫＵ：販売数量 7,885,759個 t'4$DFSUJöFEQSPEVDUT4,6 We are convinced of the tremendous ：販売金額 683,489,024円  5PMEOVNCFSTPME  VOJUTTBMFTBNPVOU  ZFO t 4$DFSUJöFEQSPEVDUTBMTPBEPQUFE GSPN'FCSVBSZ importance of offering （2014年2月から） ・ＡＳＣ認証の商品も取り扱いを開始 ASC certified salmon for sale. The bounties of nature sustain our lives. Building a sustainable society and respecting 2012 FY 2013 2020 2012 2013 2020 年度 is essential in order natural resources to assure that the resources remain Target 目標 WJTJCJMJUZJODPOTVNFS in the future. Aeon’s mission is to ・消費者調査は非実施 Kinzo Matsumoto 消費者調査での認知度 t$POTVNFSSFTFBSDIOPO*NQMFNFOUBUJPO t4BMFTPGCJPEJWFSTJUZGSJFOEMZQSPEVDUTEFWFMPQFE SFTFBSDI 1#QSPEVDUT ・生物多様性配慮開発商品の売上拡大 transmit the value of sustainability to 40% （PB商品） General Manager of Minami-kanto our customers and to the world at Food Department large. AEON Retail Co., Ltd. • Promoting the Procurement of Sustainable Seafood Aeon actively works to procure sustainable seafood products in t$POTVNFSSFTFBSDIOPOJNQMFNFOUBUJPO t4BMFTPGCJPEJWFSTJUZGSJFOEMZQSPEVDUTEFWFMPQFE order to help .4$ protect   limited ZFO marine resources and to hand down öSTUIBMG • Selling FSC® certified products to '4$ future  ZFO öSTUIBMG generations our traditional culture surrounding food t$SFBUFBTLFMFUPO HSJDVMUVSBM&DPFYQFSJFODFQSPKFDU The Forest Stewardship Council certifies wood products and sources from the water and sea. paper manufactured with timber from properly managed Selling MSC-certified products is Target part of this effort. The Marine sustainable forests. Stewardship Council (MSC) FY is an international body overseeing a Aeon has been selling notebooks and other FSC-certified 2011 2012 2013 2020 program that certifies the fishing industry’s commitment to the paper products since 2008. From fiscal 2011, we have been environment and sustainable resources. The Marine Eco-Label using FSC-certified materials for price tags and other widely used seal of approval is placed onWJTJCJMJUZJODPOTVNFS marine products caught by certified markers. #FHBOQSFQBSBUJPOGPS fisheries. After beginning to SFTFBSDI DPOTVNFSSFTFBSDI sell MSC-certified 1#QSPEVDUT products in 2006, Aeon has gradually expanded the number of available items. As of the end of February 2014, we offer customers 15 MSC-certified products across 13 species—more than any other retailer in Japan. Additionally, we started selling three products certified by ASC (the Aquaculture Stewardship Council) in March 2014. This has enabled us to provide customers with both certified wild fish and certified farm-raised fish. We are striving to increase the number FSC certification of ASC-certified products available in our stores to six species by * Product design, February 2014 fiscal 2016. 37 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 • TOPVALU Gurinai • Rice Paddy Activities for Elementary School Students TOPVALU Gurinai is food safety, the relief brand which considered Aeon began the Rice Paddy Activities for Elementary School natural environmental friendliness when healthy to a body. A Students project in 2008. This is an effort undertaken with local lineup does food meeting the voice of the customer to want agricultural cooperatives and NPOs to teach children about to buy the thing which is safer because it is a thing to eat every food and sustenance by letting them experience the production day . process from planting through harvest, and, ultimately, the sale of rice at a retail store. TOPVALU Gurinai Five Criteria In fiscal 2013, the 6th year of the project, Aeon expanded to include Akita, Iwate, Shiga, and Saga prefectures. 1. No artificial coloring, preservatives or sweeteners are used The activity will be continued in fiscal 2014. in Gurinai products. 2. Use of chemical fertilizers, agrichemicals, antibiotics and other chemical items is minimized in the production process. 3. Gurinai products are made using the power of nature in the location, timing, crop varieties and feeding in order to make foods as delicious as possible. Rice planting experience (Akamatsu Raising juvenile nigoro-buna fish (Lake Elementary School, Saga Prefecture) Biwa's endemic crucian carp) in rice 4. G urinai products support environmentally-friendly paddies (Hayami Elementary School, agricultural produce. Shiga Prefecture) 5. Gurinai products are controlled from production to sale in accordance with our own self-imposed strict standards. Rice harvesting experience (Kyowa Rice retail marketing experience Elementary School, Akita Prefecture) (Shibutami Elementary School, Iwate The rice that is being cultivated by Prefecture) children in Shiga, Iwate and Akita is labeled ‘TOPVALU Gurinai Specially Cultivated Rice’ and the children of Saga prefecture produce “TOPVALU Kyushu Hinohikari’ rice. TOPICS Continue Making Delicious Unagi (Eel) Available to Customers In order to maintain Japan’s traditional culture surrounding food sources from the water and sea, Aeon continues to pursue efforts to protect and rejuvenate fish species that are raising concern due to worries of deletion. One example of this is our support for unagi and its declining numbers of juvenile fish. Aeon sells TOPVALU Gurinai Unagi Kabayaki from Kagoshima prefecture. The unagi used in this product is raised, processed and sold out of a designated fishery in Kagoshima prefecture. Also, in an effort to maintain a beneficial habitat for young unagi, members of the Aeon Cheers Club gathered Coastline clean-up Visiting the unagi fishery together with employees in November 2013 for a coastline clean-up event. Club members and employees also learned about limited bio resources and the importance of preserving them through a visit to the unagi fishery. TOPVALU Gurinai Unagi Kabayaki from Kagoshima prefecture AEON Sustainability Report 2014 38 FY2013 Results and Target of KPI Biodiversity Conservation at the Store Level Formulation and Evaluation Indicators for Impacts on Ecosystems AEON Mall Toin acquired the Sustainable Business Sites® Developing and Evaluating Indicators Certificate (for urban areas and shopping centers) Aeon pays great attention to conservation and creation of FY ecosystems in developing its stores through initiatives such 2012 2013 2014 2020 as planning and implementing biodiversity evaluation and Target environmental burden reduction measures when opening t EPQUFE4NBSU FPODSJUFSJB 'PSNVMBUFJOEJDBUPSNFBTVSJOHUIF stores. The aim is to minimize the impact of our stores on the TPNFPGUIFJEFBT JNQBDUDPNNFSDJBMGBDJMJUJFTIBWFPOUIF t$SFBUJOHBESBGUQSPQPTBMPG TVSSPVOEJOHFDPTZTUFNBOEFWBMVBUF surrounding environment and ecosystem. Examples of these DPNNFSDJBMQSFNJTFTWFSTJPO TUPSFTCBTFEPOSFMFWBOUTUBOEBSET initiatives include the Aeon Hometown Forests Program and installing biotopes at some of our shopping centers. In fiscal 2013, we worked to build stores that utilize • Expanding Use of Eco-friendly FSC® Japan Certified Wood t EPQUFE4NBSU FPODSJUFSJBTPNFPGUIFJEFBT t$SFBUJOHBESBGUQSPQPTBMPGDPNNFSDJBMQSFNJTFTWFSTJPO space in ways conscious of ecosystem preservation, and that Materials effectively utilize bio resources, all as part of the Biodiversity and Aeon has been developing stores with Targetattention to eco-system landscapes requirement that is part of our 5 Smart Aeon criteria. conservation. MINISTOP FY CO., LTD., for example, opened a In February 2014, Aeon Mall Toin acquired the Sustainable 2011 store that2012 MINISTOP used 100% FSC2013 Japan certified2020 materials Business Sites® Certificate (for urban areas and shopping centers), in 2009, as the first FSC-certified convenience store in Japan. designating the branch as a shopping mall friendly toward Ast EPQUFE4NBSU FPODSJUFSJB of the end of February 2014, 'PSNVMBUFJOEJDBUPSNFBTVSJOHUIF 89 MINISTOP stores are FSC biodiversity. (See also “TOPICS”) certified. Going forward, we planJNQBDUDPNNFSDJBMGBDJMJUJFTIBWFPOUIF TPNFPGUIFJEFBT to actively increase the number t$SFBUJOHBESBGUQSPQPTBMPG TVSSPVOEJOHFDPTZTUFNBOEFWBMVBUF In fiscal 2014 and beyond, Aeon plans to actively adopt of environmentally-friendly DPNNFSDJBMQSFNJTFTWFSTJPO stores using FSC Japan certified TUPSFTCBTFEPOSFMFWBOUTUBOEBSET policies aware of biodiversity, focusing on newly opening store materials. sites. Store under construction MINISTOP store （FSC-JPN-0036 ®FSC, A.C. All rights reserved.） TOPICS A First for Shopping Malls! Aeon Mall Toin acquires the Sustainable Business Sites® Certificate (for urban areas and shopping centers) Opened in Mie Prefecture in November 2013, Aeon Mall Toin acquired the Association for Business Innovation in Harmony with Nature and Community (ABINC) certificate for facilities in urban areas and shopping centers supporting biodiversity conservation. ABINC evaluates and certifies office buildings and commercial facilities for their biodiversity conservation activities, such as landscape designing with greeneries, based on the JBIB Guidelines for Sustainable Business Sites® specified by the Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB). Aeon Mall Toin is one of the first awardees. Acquisition of the certification recognizes Aeon’s efforts, which include tree planting activities carried out with customers when a new store is opened, the Rain Garden™ project to recycle rain water, The Rain Garden™ project to filter rain water through top and the Fureai Park project to save spaces for local fauna and flora. soil instead of transmitting it directly to sewage pipes 39 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 Actions Taken with Customers Aeon Hometown Forests Program Aeon, since the launch of our Hometown Forests Program in AEON Mall Higashikurume AEON Tan Phu Celadon (Vietnam) 1991, has been integrating new stores and encouraging local residents in the greening of their communities. Under this FY2013 Results and Target of KPI program, we join with our customers to plant trees on new store Maintenance and Management Situation of Forests sites. In fiscal 2013 we planted a total of 150,314 young trees in 34 locations. Focusing on GMS and SC, spread planting zone management based on the management manual Fiscal 2013 also marked the year that we reached 10 million trees planted. This was an opportunity for Aeon to utilize media and other means, inside and outside the Company, to FY communicate the significance of tree planting. 2012 2013 2014 2020 At the same time, we worked to bolster our maintenance Target and care for the trees that we have planted to date at existing Deployment of progress management 100% implementation stores. model store setting Manual Workshops & budget planning In fiscal 2014, we will utilize Aeon’s forests, which are spreading throughout Japan, to inform customers, regional communities, and employees of the significance of tree planting, Deployment of progress management model store setting Manual Workshops & budget planning while also pursuing our efforts toward “cultivating and using” trees. Target FY 2011 2012 2013 2020 Aeon Environmental Foundation Initiatives Phased implementation 100% implementation Aeon Tree-Planting Activities The Aeon Environmental Foundation, with the cooperation at the national and local government level, conducts tree-planting activities that aim to regenerate forests devastated by natural disasters. Tree-planting activities being undertaken by the Aeon Environmental Foundation have their origins in a similar forest development project implemented in Thailand by Japan International Volunteer Center in 1991. The Foundation’s current treeplanting initiatives are being carried out in different parts of the world, particularly in Asia, in addition to Japan. In fiscal 2013, domestic locations included Mukawa town (Hokkaido), Chita city (Aichi prefecture), Urayasu Urayasu Kizuna no Mori Tree Planting city (Chiba prefecture), Aya town (Miyazaki prefecture), and Kihoku town (Mie prefecture). In addition, the Aeon Hometown Forests Program and Aeon Environmental Foundation commemorated the planting of their 10 millionth tree (counting domestic and overseas efforts) and a tree-planting ceremony was held to mark the occasion at the Aeon Mall Makuhari New City shopping center. In terms of overseas initiatives, we concluded the final year of our 3-year tree-planting plan in Jakarta, Indonesia, while starting new 3-year plans in Yangon, Myanmar, and Hanoi, Vietnam. Marking the milestone of planting a cumulative total of more than 10 million trees, Aeon gathered with past tree-planting volunteers at the Great Wall of China, where we observed the areas we had previously planted, and also did maintenance work on some of those trees. In fiscal 2014, we plan to continue current efforts, while also planting trees through single year projects in Jakarta Tree Planting Suzhou, China and Bidor, Malaysia, the latter as part of cooperative plans to commemorate the 30th anniversary of Aeon Malaysia. AEON Sustainability Report 2014 40 Aeon Environmental Foundation Excellence in Biodiversity Maintenance Biodiversity Award The Aeon Environmental Foundation inaugurated the Japan Awards for Biodiversity to promote biodiversity conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in Japan, as well as the MIDORI Prize for Biodiversity, which is an international prize. The two awards honor recipients in alternate years. In fiscal 2013, we held the third awards ceremony for the Japan Awards for Biodiversity. With 104 entries from groups and individuals in Japan, a selection committee chose five projects that deserved particular recognition. In fiscal 2014, we will hold the third awards ceremony for The MIDORI Prize for Biodiversity. Recipients (in Japanese alphabetical order) of the third Japan Awards for Biodiversity • Ajinomoto Co., Inc. “Joint Tagging Survey of Skipjack off the Pacific Coast of Japan and a Series of Cooperative Projects and Enlightenment Activities “ • NPO Tambo “Restoration of Rice Paddies Devastated by the Tsunami of the Great East Japan Earthquake Using Resilience of the Ecosystem” • Chuetsu Pulp & Paper Co., Ltd “Bamboo Paper Project” • TERUHA Forest Association “Aya Lucidophyllous Forest Project” • Society for Nature Technology, Graduate School of Environmental Studies, Tohoku University “System Construction for the Creation of Nature Technology” Awards Ceremony Rice paddy restoration work being done by NPO Tambo, recipient of the Grand Prix Giving Grants for Environmental Activities Since its establishment, the Aeon Environmental Foundation has been awarding grants for activities related to the preservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in Japan and in developing countries. In fiscal 2013, 98.65 million yen was awarded to 107 organizations. NPO Eco-Alliance 21 (Mongolia) Locals try Amami Marine Life Research Association We will continue in 2014 to call for grant applications. their hands at tree planting for the first time (Amami Oshima) Local residents attending a sea turtle survey course For details on the call for grant applications, visit http://www.aeon.info/ef/activity/ngo/index.html Initiatives Undertaken by Group Companies MINISTOP CO., LTD. Supporting the Hana-no Wa (Flower Circle) Campaign and Donating Flower and Tree Seedlings to Elementary Schools Ministop donates flower and tree seedlings to elementary schools as part of its support for the Flower Circle Campaign run by the Public Interest Incorporated Foundation for the Agriculture of Flowers and Greenery. The goal of the donations is to help students learn about the importance of living organisms through planting and raising seedlings. Ministop supports this cause and collects donations in its stores, while also using 1% of soft cream Donates flower seedlings sales made on Saturdays to fund the flower and tree seedlings donated to nearby elementary schools. 41 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 Key Issue 3 Better Use of Resources disposal management. Of that number, 49 sat a certification Effective Utilization in Stores exam in waste disposal management, with 45 passing the exam. This result brought the cumulative total, since fiscal 2011, to 263 employees receiving the training and 163 receiving official waste Reducing Amount of Materials Used in Packaging and disposal management certification. Containers In fiscal 2013, Aeon did not meet its goal of having a cumulative total of 250 employees receive certification, however, Most of the rubbish discharged from the home is made up the training was an occasion for Group companies to hold their of packaging and containers. It is therefore an important own Waste Management Training Courses, and for managers on responsibility of the retail industry to sell products used in site to follow up with further guidance. This helped raise the level everyday life that contribute to less rubbish by minimizing them. of the Group's waste disposal management. In fiscal 2014 and With this in mind, Aeon is working actively to reduce the beyond, we will continue the training courses and maintain our amount of packaging and containers we use. In addition efforts toward education in waste disposal management. to focusing on reducing plastic shopping bags, we are also Meanwhile, through our Waste Manifest management and promoting the use of thinner as well as more ecofriendly trays. other measures, we are implementing training for managers on When developing TOPVALU products, we closely examine site to impart necessary skills and knowledge. Also, in order to packaging and containers and after careful consideration of the make Manifest management more efficient and precise, we are impact on the quality of product contents and safety during introducing the Electronic Manifest* in stages. As of February 28, shipment, we work to make product containers lighter and more 2014, this has been introduced at part of AEON Retail Co., Ltd., thin-walled and switch to recyclable material. Additionally, we as well as at MaxValu Kanto Co., Ltd., MaxValu Nagano Co., Ltd., are striving to develop refillable products and change packaging Aeon Big Co., Ltd., My Basket Co., Ltd., and other locations. material based on customer feedback. * Electronic Manifest: a management form, issued when industrial waste is generated, that confirms that treatment has been carefully carried out. Previously, a ledger was used for As a result of these efforts, we reduced the required amount this, which changed hands between the generator of the waste and the waste treatment of packaging and containers for recycling by a third party (per company. Recently, however, information on these forms has been digitized and an electronic manifest has become common, with digital networks carrying the data. ¥100 million in net sales) under the Law for Promotion of Sorted Collection and Recycling of Containers and Packaging by 20.0% FY2013 Results and Target of KPI in fiscal 2013 compared with fiscal 2010, with a total of 44 tons. Number of Employees Completing Internal Moving forward, we plan to take further actions. Training Course to Improve Management of Waste Emissions FY2013 Results and Target of KPI Amount for Third-Party Processing Required 53 seminar attendees, 49 of whom sat the certification exam, with 45 passing. In the 3 years since 2011: cumulative total of 263 under the Law for the Promotion of Sorted seminar attendees, 163 passing certification Collection and Recycling of Containers and Packaging (basic unit per ¥100 million in net sales) FY 2011 2012 2013 2013 2020 44 tons * 20.0% reduction (compared to FY 2010) Target Seminar participants: 82 Seminar participants: 128 100 employees Base year Successful candidates: 55 Examinees: 74 Cumulative total: More t Successful candidates: 63 han 250 employees FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 0 Target Promoting Green Purchasing Seminar participants: 128 Examinees: 74 55 tons 50 tons 41 tons 47 tons Successful candidates: 63 * 15% reduction (compared to FY 2010) We began “green purchasing” efforts in 1996. When purchasing stationery and other office supplies,Target we adequately consider FY 41 tons their 2011necessity and make 2012 purchasing decisions while 2013 prioritizing 2020 Management* 25.4% System for reduction Waste compared Emissions to FY2010 products with low environmental impacts. This is done as a Target matter of course for office supplies, but we are also expanding Target Seminar participants: 82purchasing 100to employees Aeon holds internal training courses on a regular basis aimed the scope of green Successful candidates: 55 include display cases, shelving Cumulative total: More than 250 employees FY at improving 2010 its management 2011 2012 of waste disposal. 2013 Each 2020year the and other fixtures used on sales floors as well as construction Waste Management Training Course, which was developed materials and the like. We commenced green purchasing for together with an external specialist organization, is held for construction materials in fiscal 2001. When developing new 55 tons 50 tons 47 tons environmental managers and*waste management 15% reduction leaders of compared to FY2010 general merchandise stores, we strive to use products procured Group companies. through green purchasing for construction materials and In fiscal 2013, 53 employees received training in waste increase the range of items subject to green purchasing. In fiscal 2013, we carried out green purchasing for 16 types of construction materials. AEON Sustainability Report 2014 42 Building A Local Recycling Loop Reducing Waste Provide pork products, NB product manufacturer boxed lunches, etc. Products AEON Group processing company Aeon has established a key performance indicator for food waste Customers Contract manufacturer as part of its commitment to reducing this type of waste. For example, at AEON Retail Co., Ltd., though our goal was Portion of store AEON leftovers unachieved, we set a 0.5% target for the food waste-to-sales (Stores in Kanto region) Food manufacturing ratio* in fiscal 2013, and worked toward achieving this target. byproducts Excess food products Despite not reaching 0.5%, the effort enhanced communication, Local recycling producing positive results such as “communication notebooks” loop Pork Feed used to inform staff of the status quo on sales floors and the sales Group processing company Feed factory patterns of products. The plan was just coming together in fiscal 2013. Actual measurements of food waste, and reduction targets based on those measurements, did not reach the stage of implementation. In fiscal 2014, we will devise measures toward promoting waste reduction suited to the business operations of each Group Pork production facility company. * Food waste-to-sales ratio: Food waste x Retail price / Sales Use of Returnable Containers FY2013 Results and Target of KPI Food Waste Emissions Aeon is reducing the amount of cardboard thrown away at (amount per ¥100 million in sales) stores by using returnable containers and agricultural product containers that can be used repeatedly when shipping products. t.FBTVSFNFOUTZTUFNJTOPUQSPHSFTT t&NJTTJPOTPG'PPE3FDZDMJOH-BXJTNBEF In addition, our apparel departments conduct reused hanger BXBSFPGUIFJSSFTQFDUJWFPXOFST delivery in which clothing is brought to the store on hangers and then displayed on the sales floor using the same hangers. This Target reduces the amount of cardboard boxes used when transporting FY 2011 2012 2013 2020 the clothing and the amount of hangers used only for transport. In fiscal 2013 we used 70.462 million cases of returnable containers, 24.262 million cases of agricultural product containers, Ascertain volume and set reduction targets which helped us substantially reduce cardboard waste. * Until fiscal 2012, we counted this including the containers used by manufacturers. From fiscal 2013, however, we only count Aeon’s own containers. Recycling Food Product Wastes Usage of Returnable Container, Agricultural Product Container Production In May 2008, Aeon Co., Ltd. (present day Aeon Retail Co., Ltd.), Site became the first company in Japan’s retail industry to acquire FY2013 recycling business plan certification* under the Food Waste Returnable Container Use Recycling Law, which was revised in December 2007. The Cardboard 70.462 million cases company built a recycling loop that involves collecting food FY2012 Agricultural Product Container Use waste generated at stores, turning the waste into feed, and 24.262 million cases then selling pork from pigs raised on the feed at Aeon stores. AEON Pork from pigs raised on recycled feed and agricultural produce grown with recycled fertilizer have been sold at select stores in the Kanto and Chubu regions since June 2008. * Collection and shipping of recycled food resources in accordance with a certified recycling business plan does not require regular waste collection and transport licensing, which has made it possible to efficiently collect waste over a wide region transcending Manufacturer municipal boundaries. FY2013 Reusable Hanger Use Cardboard 11.05 million units AEON 43 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 Total number of stores (as of February, 2014) 1,343 (Total for 26 Aeon stations Group companies) Stores Stopping Free Plastic Shopping Bags Together with Customers Total number of stores (as of February, 2014) Reducing Plastic Bag Use 1,343 (Total for 26 Aeon stations Group companies) For more than twenty years since 1991, Aeon has engaged in efforts to conserve petroleum, the raw material of plastic bags, Reduction in the and cut CO2 emissions from the production of plastic bags. Percentage of Customers Declining number of Plastic Shopping Bags plastic bags In fiscal 2013, Aeon attained the biomass certification mark*1 1,738.9 1,661.55 million reduction for plastic bags and “My Baskets.”*2 Moreover, from November of the same year, the “Stop Free Plastic Shopping Bags” program million reduction 1,844.4 1,392.2 million reduction was expanded to grocery item floors at all “AEON” general million reduction supermarkets nationwide. As of the end of February 2014, the reduction of plastic bags Percentage of customers declining at our 26 Group companies has totaled 2,294.57 million bags, plastic bags 767.14 with 67.8% of customers declining plastic bags. This result broadly outpaces the 47.9%*3 average for retailing businesses million reduction 63.4% and has led to 70,673 tons*4 of CO2 reductions. 60.0% 61.5% 60.4% 48.0% For customers that desire them, we offer plastic bags for a fee. Reduction in the number of We donate the profit*5 toward local environmental conservation plastic bags through local governments, etc., The profit in fiscal 2013 was 2008 2009 2010 1,661.55 2011 1,738.9 2012 approximately 38.25 million yen. million reduction million reduction 1,844.4 *1 Biomass certification mark: certification obtained as part of the “plant-derived content Progress of plastic bag 1,392.2 reductions million reduction certification program” carried out by the two international certification agencies SGS SA million reduction and UL Inc. Aeon has had the plant-derived content of its plastic bags and “My Baskets” checked and certified. *2 “My Basket”: dedicated take-home baskets that aim for reducing plastic bags while 1991 Percentage of increasing convenience for customers. Shoppers can carry items straight home without customers declining Began the Bring Your Own plastic bags transferring them from their basket into separate bags. Shopping767.14 Bag Campaign calling *3 As of June 2013. Study by the Japan Chain Stores Association. *4 CO2 reduction rate index: 30.8 g-CO2 per plastic bag declined by customers (treated as on customers shopping bags to bring their own million reduction 63.4% 6.8 g of unused HDPE plastic bags). 60.0% 61.5% 60.4% *5 Plastic bag profit = Sales price − (consumption taxes + material cost) 48.0% 2000 FY2013 Results and Target of KPI Began the “My Basket” Campaign Percentage of Customers Declining Plastic 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Shopping Bags (nationwide store average) 61.5% 63.4% 80.0% First for a nationwide 2007 retail chain in Japan Target Began the Stop Free Plastic FY Shopping Bags Program 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 Target For use in regrowing 60.4% 70.0% 2009 regional forests, etc. Began an initiative to direct pro t*5 from plastic bag charges into environmental conversation efforts 2013 Introduced bio-mass certified plastic bags and My Baskets (for a fee) AEON Sustainability Report 2014 44 Developing and Selling Products that Contribute to Better Use of Resources Aeon’s TOPVALU brand is actively working to reduce product packaging and containers. Product development is layering its approaches from the various perspectives of reducing materials used in current products, improving options for refillable products, and making SELF+SERVICE clothing collection Collection boxes placed in one of our stores products that are easy for consumers to sort after use, all in poster order for Aeon to better provide products with packaging and containers reduced as much as possible. Results for 2013 (Total for 24 consolidated subsidiaries) Paper packaging Food trays Drink cartons Food trays 117.73 Paper packaging 337.59 Food trays Drink cartons 142.46 Food trays 361.67 117.73 337.59 approx. approx. 142.46 361.67million approx. approx. approx. million approx. million million 2012 (tons) 3,532t million Conserving2012 2,363 t million (tons)and simplifying approx. approx. 2012 (tons) 3,532 materials, t by eliminating the 2012 2,363 (tons) mechanism, closure packaging, t which few 2013 (tons) 4,273million t 2013 (tons) 2,531 million t customers had been making use of. The product bag 2013 (tons) 4,273t 2013 (tons) 2,531t Aluminum cans PET bottles CO2 reduced: 2,137t-CO2 CO2 reduced: 15,950t-CO2 Aluminum cans weight was reduced PETapprox. CO reduced: 2,137t-CO2 reduced: 15,950t-CO2 bottles 50% over the benchmark 239.04 116.95 2 CO2 national brands. approx. approx. 239.04 approx. approx. 116.95 Aluminumcans cans PETPET bottles million million 3,825 million 2012 (tons) 7,368t million Aluminum bottles (tons) 3,825 ) 7,368t in Stores 260.82 132.41 2012 (tons) t Reducing Waste by Collecting Resources 260.82 132.41 2012 t 2012 (tons Totals for 22 Aeon approx. approx. approx. approx. Totals for 22Group Aeon GroupCompanies Companies million million Based onBased the following weightweight estimates: million million on the following estimates: Collection Paper packaging Paper (1,000bins packaging ml) =for (1,000 30 ml)g, items =Food such tray 30 g, Food 7as =trayg,=drink Aluminum cartons, 7 g, Aluminumcancan (350food =trays, ml)ml) (350 16 g,g, = 16 2013(tons 2013 (tons)) 4,173 4,173 t t 20132013 8,342 (tons)(tons) 8,342 t t PET bottle PET 63 g = 63 cans, =bottle aluminum g and PET bottles at Aeon stores encourage customers to recycle. Drink cartons and aluminum cans are reduced:35,889 CO2reduced: CO 2 35,889 t-COt-CO 2 2 CO2 reduced: CO 2 reduced: 30,032 30,032 t-CO2 t-CO2 recycled and some are broken down and used as raw materials Based Basedononthethefollowing followingweight estimates: weight Drink estimates: cartons Drink 30 g,= 30 g, ml) = ml) (1000(1000 cartons Foodtray Food tray==77g,g,Aluminum Aluminum cancan(350 (350 = 16=g,16 ml) ml) g, bottle PET = 63 g= 63 g PET bottle for TOPVALU brand products. Food trays and PET bottles are also * CO2 reduction rate index (per 1 kg of collected material) : * CO2 reduction rate index (per 1 kg of collected material) : effectively recycled. Drink cartons : 0.50 kg-CO2, Drink cartons : 0.50 kg-CO2, food trays: 6.3 kg-CO2, aluminum cans: 8.6 kg-CO2, Additionally, since 2003, we have been collecting clothing food trays: 6.3 kg-CO2, aluminum cans: 8.6 kg-CO2, PET bottles (material recycling): 3.6 kg-CO2 and promoting recycling at our clothing and variety shop PET bottles Source: (material Ministry of the Environment's kg-COfor recycling): 3.6 Tools 2 Visualizing 3R Activities Source: Ministry of the Environment's Tools for Visualizing 3R Activities Paper SELF+SERVICE.packaging In fiscal 2013, we Food trays approximately 18,000 collected Paper packaging Food trays 117117 .73.73 337.59 pieces of clothing, a portion of which was recycled as bioethanol. From fiscal 2014, approx. approx. 2012 (tons) 3,532 we plan toapprox. million million t stores. 337 approx. collect items for recycling 2012 (tons) 2,363 .59 million t million at all of our SELF+SERVICE 2012 (tons) 3,532t 2012 (tons) 2,363t Aluminum cans PET bottles Aluminum cans approx. 239.04 PET bottles approx. 116.95 239.04 TOPICS million Participating approx. 2012 (tons) 3,825 million t in the approx.116.95 Donguri 2012 (tons) 7,368 million t(Acorn) million 2012 (tons 3,825 Campaign with our “Bio ) for 22 Aeon Totals t Group Companies Based on the following weight estimates: 2012 (tons) 7,368 My Baskets” t Paper Totals for 22 packaging Aeon Group (1,000Companies ml) = 30 g, Food tray = 7 g, Aluminum can (350 ml) = 16 g, Based onPET thebottle = 63 gweight Making, following and disposing of products emits CO2. At the same time, efforts toward energy using,estimates: 「バイオ ・マイバスケッ ト」のト Paper packaging (1,000 ml)and = 30reduction g, Food traycan= 7reduce g, Aluminum = 16 g,the amount of reduced CO2 to make up can (350 ml)Using バイオ ・マイバスケッ efficiency CO2 emissions. カーボン・フットプリント算定結果 PET bottle = 63 g for emitted CO2 is a system called carbon offsetting. The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry 「バイオ・マイバスケット」の is conducting the Donguri Campaign for products and services that effectively eliminate their CO2 2.6kg・フットプリント算定結果 カーボン CO 2e emissions through this system. In this campaign, those zero-emission products and services can display the acorn mark. 2.6kgAeon is participating in this campaign and since March 2014 has been selling Bio My Baskets CO 2e (specific baskets for carrying groceries home), which display the acorn mark. Choosing items with the acorn mark when purchasing goods or services can contribute to mitigating global warming. CO 2排出量 CO 2削減量 CFPオフセット 検索 CO 2排出量 CO 2削減量 CFPオフセット 検索 45 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 Initiatives Undertaken by Group Companies AEON Retail Co., Ltd. generated.” At Aeon Mall, a system for separating and tallying Furthering Resource Conservation through the Use of waste in 17 basic categories has been promoted, with all 45 Mobile Tablets malls adopting the system as of fiscal 2013. After a specialist company measures each variety of waste, seals are affixed Mobile tablet devices are used as information sharing tools and each type of waste is gathered in a storage space with at Aeon Retail. This makes it no longer necessary for sales like materials. All efforts are made to recycle as much of the floor managers to print out material they use while moving sorted waste as possible, with recycling rates calculated for throughout the store, which allows for reductions in paper each category. usage. Additionally, enabling electronic communication In fiscal 2013, the total recycling rate for the company makes sharing information faster and allows images, videos, was 83.3%. and other visual information to be shared. The result is benefits for sales plans and sales floor designs. Participants in an in-store meeting Viewing reference material on Separating and measuring different categories checking material on tablets “ComPASS Cabinet” during a meeting of waste Planting Green Curtains honored at the Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd. Environmental Awards in Akita Prefecture Efforts to Recycle Tempura Scraps Recycling used paper is being promoted with a system Mobile tablet devices are used as information sharing tools at a portion of Aeon Mall that award recycling points to at Aeon Retail. This makes it no longer necessary for sales customers based on the weight of old newspapers and floor managers to print out material they use while moving magazines brought into the store. Once a certain number of throughout the store, which allows for reductions in paper points are accumulated, they can be exchanged for an Aeon usage. Additionally, enabling electronic communication shopping coupon. A popular feature of the system has been makes sharing information faster and allows images, videos, the convenience of being able to bring in old paper anytime, and other visual information to be shared. The result is thanks to each mall having dedicated boxes for collecting benefits for sales plans and sales floor designs. the paper. As of fiscal 2013, 14 malls have adopted the system. (With the cooperation of: KOKUSAI PULP & PAPER CO., LTD.) Tempura scraps are put into Once cool, they Accumulated buckets and cooled are put into drums are drums collected by a 3rd party Processed into Recycled as From raw waste to Oil Biodiesel fuel resource Tempura scraps Animal feed AEON Mall Co., Ltd. Using Date Visualization to Reduce Waste In striving to reduce waste, it is essential to clarify and Used paper collection make priority issues of “what, where, and how much waste is AEON Sustainability Report 2014 46 Key Issue 4 Addressing social issues How Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign works Community Involvement Making Contributions to Local Communities Cumulative total of Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign ¥2,216.44 million in goods donated as of February 2014 Countless volunteer organizations* throughout local communities in Japan are in need of support. At the same time, AEON Volunteer countless Aeon customers would like to support organizations Customers organizations devoted to their local communities. Aeon, as a local community member, launched the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign to link customers and volunteer organizations. Customers Place yellow receipts Stores calculate the Receive goods worth 1% of in the box for the total value of receipts the total value of receipts participate in the Campaign simply by taking the yellow receipts organization they wish for each organization contributed to the cause to support of their choice they receive when making purchases on “Aeon Day,” the 11th of every month, and placing them in a box labeled with the name of an organization or a particular activity. Aeon then contributes Clean & Green Activities goods accordingly at a value of 1% of the total amount of the receipts. Aeon is actively involved in community landscaping projects In fiscal 2013, the Campaign had expanded to include 22 around its stores. Clean & Green Activities, conducted since companies and 1,368 stores, and we contributed goods worth 1991, consist of employees volunteering to clean up parks and approximately 275.05 million yen to a total of around 22,500 rivers around stores and areas surrounding public facilities. organizations. Of participating stores, 35.29% had a submission These activities have been conducted every month on the 11th, rate of at least 20%, a target which has been established as a KPI. Aeon Day, since 2001 at all General Merchandise Stores and Since the Campaign’s inception in 2001, 195,000 organizations supermarkets as well as head office and other business offices. have received support totaling around 2,216.44 million yen. From fiscal 2014, as part of the Clean & Green Activities we We encourage our customers to participate in the Aeon began collecting garbage and removing weeds from the area Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign. Among other efforts, we offer where trees were planted for the volunteer organizations a chance to come into stores to talk Aeon Hometown Forests Program. about their activities. We plan to actively pursue new initiatives The first of these activities, which that will allow participation by as many of our customers as was held on June 11, 2014, was possible. attended by employees, people * Volunteer organizations’ activities should fall under one of the following five categories. from the surrounding community 1. Activities to promote welfare and local volunteer groups. Cleaning up around a store 2. Activities to promote environmental preservation and environmental education 3. Activities to promote urban development 4. Activities to advance arts and culture 5. Activities to enhance the health and safety of children AEON 1% Club Supporting Local Traditional Events Foundation FY2013 Results and Target of KPI Yellow Receipt Campaign Submission Rate We avidly support passing down cultural and historical heritage and revitalizing communities through participation in community 37.4% of stores had submission rate of greater than 20% Greater than 30% and traditional events across Japan. (GMS: 66.9% / Supermarkets: 16.6% / Discount stores: 8.3%) submission rate at all stores In fiscal 2013, Aeon employees took part in festivals and community events together with customers in 45 locations Target throughout Japan, including the Aomori Nebuta Festival, Akita FY Kanto Festival, and Morioka Sansa Odori Dance Festival, some 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 of the largest summer festivals in the Tohoku region. We also Target provided event venues and various other forms of support. 45% of GMS stores had 38.1% of stores had Submission rate of greater We have held the “Daijobu”Campaign since 2010 to ensure submission rate of less submission rate of than 20% at all stores taking than 20% greater than 20% part in the campaign the safety and security of local communities. As part of the Campaign, customers take part in live training drills for fires or major earthquakes. In fiscal 2013 we held four drills mainly in the Tokai and Southern Kanto regions, with some 18,000 people participating in total. 47 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 Concluding Comprehensive Cooperation Agreements Aeon has entered cooperation agreements with local governments to effectively combine respective resources for disaster preparedness, social welfare, and environmental A group of customers that took part in Learning how to use a fire extinguisher conservation, and, through Local WAON cards, to stimulate the Hanagasa Festival as part of the Daijobu Campaign commerce and tourism. The first Agreement was concluded in June 2010 with the Osaka Prefectural government. At the end of June 2014, we had agreements with 44 prefectural governments Issuing Local WAON Cards and 11 government-ordinance-designated cities. Through these agreements, we are, providing emergency WAON is a system of e-money pre-paid cards available at over supplies and emergency shelters for times of disaster, holding 176,000 participating stores throughout Japan. In the case of local product fairs and promoting local tourism through our Aeon’s Local WAON cards, a part of the proceeds from sales goes stores, and working with local governments to plan and market to social contributions for communities.* boxed lunches made with local products. In this way, we are also The social contributions that result from Local WAON card helping to stimulate local communities and improve daily life use are wide-ranging, and include community environment services. conservation efforts, promotion of tourism and sports, preservation of cultural assets, and animal welfare. As of the Supporting the revitalization of local industries and end of February 2014, there are 86 different Local WAON card preservation of traditional food culture programs featuring wonderful local color, and the contributions to local communities for fiscal 2013 topped 174 million yen. Aeon actively contributes to local economies and the A total of over 39 million cards had been issued since the start preservation of local traditions. of the WAON system in April 2007, and the use of WAON cards continues to spread. Aeon can offer customers the convenience • Direct Business Dealings with Fishery Cooperatives of an e-money pre-paid card while at the same time actively Aeon has done business directly with fishery cooperatives since contributing to the support of local communities. 2008 in an effort to raise customer satisfaction by providing even * with some exceptions fresher fish while at the same time helping maintain cultural practices associated with consuming fish through a sustainable fishing industry. As of February 2014, we directly deal with five Types of Local WAON Cards fishery cooperatives*. As of February 2013 86 From July 2013, we started a different types program to sell fish caught early in of local WAON the morning by the afternoon of the same day. Through this initiative we hope to encourage more families to enjoy fresh fish. We also began an initiative in which we will freeze freshly caught seasonal fish in order to ensure consumers can enjoy All fish caught by this fishing them during other times of the year. vessel is purchased by Aeon Through dialogue with the National Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives Associations Aeon intends to continue conducting initiatives that benefit our customers, Kumamoto WAON Gunma Silk WAON Chiba Kosodate WAON and to help to solve problems in Part of the proceeds Part of the proceeds Part of the proceeds marine products. from sales goes to from sales is donated to from sales is used to fund * JF Shimane, JF Yamagata, JF Hiroshima, JF industrial promotion and Gunma Prefecture for use projects that support Ishikawa, JF Katase-Enoshima. Additionally, we community revitalization in preservation activities children living in Chiba engage in indirect business transactions with JF projects in Kumamoto and World Heritage Prefecture. Ishikawa and JF Katase-Enoshima as well. Starting a program to sell fish Prefecture. Site registration for the caught early in the morning by Tomioka Silk Mill. the afternoon of the same day AEON Sustainability Report 2014 48 • Promoting Food Artisan Project Signing Disaster Prevention Agreements Aeon has conducted the Food Artisan Project since 2001 with many producers across the country dedicated to preserving local flavors. The project seeks to preserve and build local culinary Aeon strives to ensure that employees working at our stores cultures as brands. Everyone involved pools their wisdom and constantly act as members of the community. The same applies works to publicize the ingredients and traditional techniques that during natural disasters. We continue to sign disaster prevention support exceptional local culinary cultures. agreements with local authorities throughout Japan, pledging As of June 2014, food artisan activities have cooperation and support in the event of an emergency in an covered 21 prefectures and 29 dishes, whose effort to be of use to people in the local community. unique local flavors are being delivered to the As of February 28, 2014, 734 Aeon Group stores and business dinner tables of people across Japan. offices have signed disaster prevention agreements with a total of 515 local governments and assist with local disaster prevention activities, including providing emergency supplies in the event of a disaster, providing car parks for use as evacuation points and organizing joint emergency drills. Introducing Balloon Shelters “Akatori” Tomatoes (Oita Prefecture) Banpeiyu (Kumamoto Prefecture) Akadori tomatoes, which are picked after Banpeiyu is a citrus fruit and member of they have ripened to a bright red color, the pomelo family that can grow up to Aeon has promoted installation of “balloon shelters”—large tents are not only sweet, but also feature a 25cm in diameter. These fruit are best fresh and juicy taste as if eating them enjoyed with the three senses of sight, for use in emergency evacuations—since 2004 to be ready in the straight from the field. smell and taste. event of an earthquake or other major natural disaster. The tents have been placed Aeon Welfare Fund Supporting Disabled Persons at a total of 29 locations, primarily shopping centers The Aeon Welfare Fund was established in 1977 to promote around the country (as of the welfare of persons with disabilities and to support their March 31, 2014). The tents are independent participation in society. Aeon has carried out lightweight and easy to carry, A balloon shelter Balloon shelters can be easily inflated with various projects, focusing on donating special vehicles and so those stored close by a special blower and be ready for use in contributing to volunteer activities, through 50-yen monthly can be brought to locations around 40 minutes. They come two to a set and one set has room for around 100 employee contributions matched by the employer. As of the end affected by disasters. people to lay down of February 2014, 58,000 Aeon employees are participating in this program. AEON 1% Club In fiscal 2013, a total of four of these special vehicles were Supporting Disaster Recovery Foundation donated to nearby regional welfare facilities for those with disabilities as we launched new stores in Niigata city, Fukuoka city, Chiba city, and Inabe-gun (Mie Prefecture). This brings The Aeon One Percent Club carries out charitable activities at the total number of donated special vehicles to 42 since the stores and presents disaster relief assistance money to areas inception of the Welfare Fund. in need following major natural disasters, supporting people In addition, our volunteer activities included roughly 1,000 affected by tragedy and providing hope for a speedy recovery. visits to welfare facilities, with events such as Christmas parties, in Aeon provides a matching donation that in most cases equals fiscal 2013. A total of around 9,800 facilities have been visited so the amount of funds raised by the club. far. In fiscal 2013, the club provided assistance following the Sichuan Earthquake in China’s Sichuan Province that struck in April 2013 and for those affected by the typhoon that hit the Philippines in November 2013. * Please see page 55 for the amount of Donation of a welfare vehicle (Aeon Mall Visiting children at a care center funds raised. The presentation of relief aid Makuhari New City) (Hanamaki city, Iwate prefecture 49 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 Initiatives Undertaken by Group Companies Malaysian AEON Foundation AEON Hokkaido Corporation Relief Supplies for Flood Damaged Areas Employment Support for People with Disabilities Flooding from torrential rain in early December 2013 in through Outsourcing four states on the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia forced a Aeon Hokkaido has been supporting the employment of large number of people to evacuate. Seeing this situation, people with disabilities since April 2013 when Aeon Delight the Malaysian Aeon Foundation dispatched 60 volunteers, Co., Ltd., the business in charge of cleaning shopping baskets, from staff members at two stores, to deliver relief supplies to began working with Aiwa Fukushi-kai Works-Kakeru, a social flood victims in the afflicted area. Rice, canned goods, toilet welfare service corporation that supports the hiring or paper, blankets, electrical continued employment of people with disabilities. devices, and other Aeon Hokkaido has integrated the procurement and relief supplies totaling management of the approximately 40,000 shopping baskets 120,000 Malaysian used at its 31 Hokkaido stores, with the cleaning of the ringgit were donated to baskets outsourced to the cleaning facility Works-Kakeru has representatives in each opened. This outsourcing program is a way for Aeon Hokkaido affected region. to contribute to society through its business activity. Volunteer staff to deliver Relief Supplies AEON Sustainability Report 2014 50 •Conducted the Junior High School Student Environmental Community Involvement Essay Contest Aeon conducts the “Junior High School Student Environmental Develop the Human Resources of the Future Essay Contest “ for junior high school students participating AEON 1% Club in Aeon Cheers Clubs. Contest winners are invited to attend Aeon Cheers Club Foundation a training program about environmental issues and nature. Training programs have been held in Germany, home to The Aeon Cheers Club provides hands-on opportunities for first advanced environmental initiatives, and Tasmania Island in through ninth-grade students to learn about the environment. Australia, home to vibrant nature. Young people living near Aeon stores can come together once a In fiscal 2013, 24 winners traveled to Tasmania Island where month or once in two months to participate in Aeon Cheers Club they took part in the environmental activities with the support of store employees. Biodiversity Training The theme for fiscal 2013 was “Resources (Energy).” Around Tasmania Island program. 430 clubs and around 7,500 students from all over Japan In fiscal 2014, we will participated in the activities. In July 2013, the Aeon Cheers Club hold the contest once National Meetings were held in Okinawa and Hokkaido. A total again and plan on holding of 50 clubs, representing the top clubs selected at regional the training program meetings, and 233 awardees gathered, with each club reporting on Yakushima Island, a on learning outcomes for the year and participating in nature registered Natural World experience programs. Heritage Site. ‘Biodiversity Training Tasmania Tour’ Since fiscal 2013, we changed the KPI for the Aeon Cheers Club from the number of clubs to the number of activities. The •Agricultural Eco-experience Project for elementary and junior reason for this change was because Aeon Cheers Clubs had been high school students established at nearly every one of our GMS in Japan as of the end Since 2012, Aeon has held the Agricultural Eco-experience of fiscal 2012 and there will likely not be a large number of new Project for children who are members of Aeon Cheers Clubs. As store openings until fiscal 2020. part of the project, children are given the opportunity to visit In fiscal 2014, we will continue to enhance and increase the ‘TOPVALU Gurinai’ production sites throughout Japan where they number of activities even more under the theme the sun and learn about harvesting and packaging fresh vegetables, among nature. other farm related experiences. Through these experiences, children are able to learn about environmentally friendly ways to grow delicious and safe vegetables in a fun and exciting environment. In fiscal 2013, 1,173 children from Aeon Cheers Clubs representing 71 stores across Japan took part in the 33 sessions held at 28 production sites. In fiscal 2014, we will continue to offer this project and expand the number of production sites visited. Field trip to study wind power Presentation of learning outcomes at the National Meeting FY2013 Results and Target of KPI Number of Aeon Cheers Clubs 191 clubs 398 clubs, 6,500 persons (japan) Target FY 2010 2011 2013 2020 Harvesting asparagus and weeding (Abira 2012 Town, Hokkaido Prefecture) 382 clubs, 5730 persons 600 clubs Implement activities undertaken by 60,000 persons annually 51 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 AEON 1% Club Aeon co-hosted the ‘Gentle to the Earth Aeon Environmental Aeon Sukusuku Laboratory Foundation Foundation Essay and Activity Report Contest’ Aeon has been organizing the Aeon Sukusuku Laboratory yearly The Aeon Environmental Foundation, desiring to give children at Aeon shopping centers since 2007. This is directed to families a chance to learn about the future of the global environment, raising children and includes seminars on childcare led by experts implements the “Gentle to the Earth Essay and Activity Report in the field, as well as singing of Japanese nursery rhymes and Contest.” songs, with children and parents enjoying a meaningful chance In fiscal 2013, we solicited essays and other works on the to sing together. theme of “What each individual can do for the environment.” We In fiscal 2013, AEON Sukusuku Laboratory was held in four received 14,598 entries, including essays, activity reports, and cities across Japan. A total of 831 attended the four sessions, posters on environmental protection. After stringent review, a including 512 adults and 342 children. total of 139 entrants were awarded. Additionally, from the schools In fiscal 2014, we plan on holding four sessions nationwide. that submitted large numbers of entries, five especially deserving elementary, junior, and senior high schools were recognized with the Aeon Environmental Foundation Prize (schools division). Such activities are to be continued in fiscal 2014. Awards Ceremony Ms. Saori Yuki and Ms. Sachiko Yasuda Child-raising Seminar by Prof. Katsumi singing a nursery rhyme Tokuda, professor of the University of Tsukuba, Graduate School Aeon’s educational initiatives for the next generation We provide a host of programs to support the learning development of youth in various life stages, from infants to university students. Aeon Sukusuku Aeon Cheers Club Teenage Aeon Scholarship Asian Students Laboratory ▶ page 51 Ambassadors Program Program Environment Platform ▶ page 52 ▶ page 48 ▶ page 49 ▶ page 49 Primary school Junior high High School University Babies school students students Students Students Rice Paddy Activities Contest for Aeon eco-1 Grand Prix Asia Youth Leaders for Elementary Report and Essay ▶ page 53 ▶ page 54 School Students on Earth-friendly ▶ page 34 Activities ▶ page 52 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 52 AEON 1% Club AEON 1% Club Teenage Ambassadors Program Foundation Aeon eco-1 Grand Prix Foundation High school students from Japan and other countries learn about With the goal of raising environmental consciousness the importance of a global perspective and diverse values by through providing high school students who have engaged interacting with each other and through ambassador activities, in daily environmental activities with a forum to report their classes at high schools and homestays in the The Teenage achievements, and an opportunity to connect with other Ambassadors program. This program has been ongoing since the schools, Aeon instituted the Aeon eco-1 Grand Prix. In fiscal 2013, Aeon One Percent Club was established and up to fiscal 2013, the second year of the Grand Prix, we continued the Research 1,296 high school students from 16 countries had participated. In and Special Topics Category, which targets eco-activities that recent years, a total of three programs have been held annually, focus on regional characteristics or on a school’s special area of comprising two for ASEAN countries and one for China. expertise, and we newly added the Education and Awareness In fiscal 2013, high school students from Myanmar, Vietnam, Category, which targets eco-activities that China and Japan participated. can be implemented at a large number of In fiscal 2014, we plan on holding the program in the schools. In the two divisions, 154 entries Philippines, Indonesia and China. were received from 141 schools throughout Japan. •Myanmar Teenage Ambassadors In fiscal 2014, we anticipate that the ecoIn August 2013, 20 high school students from Naha City, Okinawa activities will spread further and we plan Prefecture traveled to Myanmar and met with high school to award high schools that attempt new students in Yangon. In October 2013 the same high school projects while referencing the previous Promotional poster students from Myanmar came to projects undertaken at other schools. Japan to reunite and deepen their exchange with one another. This marked the first time that the Teenage Ambassador program was held with high school students from A Japanese high school student Myanmar. trying on lungi (the Burmese native costume) and learning Prime Minister’s Award, Education and Prime Minister’s Award, Research and •Vietnam Teenage Ambassadors Awareness Category, Gifu Prefectural Kamo Agriculture and Forestry High School, Satoyama Revitalization Special Topics Category, Akita Prefectural Omagari Agricultural High School, Utilizing Mushrooms In January 2014, 20 high school students from Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam traveled to Japan where they met with high school students in Morioka City, Iwate Prefecture. Later in March 2014 the same high school students from Morioka City visited their counterparts in Vietnam to deepen their friendship. Environment Minister’s Award Education, Culture, Sports, Science and This marked the second time that Tochigi Agricultural High School Technology Minister’s Award (Tochigi Water and Land Development Tokyo Metropolitan Tsubasa High School the Teenage Ambassador program Project) (Garbage Sorting) Vietnamese high school was held with high school students students experiencing a tea from Vietnam. ceremony AEON 1% Club Aeon Scholarship Program Foundation •Japan-China High School Student Exchange Program (China Teenage Ambassadors) The Aeon Scholarship program was established in 2006 to This program was originally part of the Teenage Ambassador provide financial support to university students, leaders of the program, but branched off into its standalone exchange program next generation, in Asian countries. called the Japan-China High School In fiscal 2013, we continued offering the Scholarship Program Student Exchange Program since in Japan, China, Thailand, Vietnam, and Indonesia, while newly 2010 after the People’s Government adding two universities in Cambodia. of Beijing Municipality raved about University students that received this scholarship have gone the success of the program in 2009. In on to work in specialized fields after graduation as a bridge fiscal 2013, 60 high schools students between Japan and their home country. Aeon is committed to Welcome party at the Chinese from each country participated. Embassy in Japan. Students continually assisting the development of human resources that from both countries sing “The will contribute to the future development of Asia. From fiscal Sea is My Home” in Chinese 2014, Aeon plans to add universities in Myanmar. 53 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 Grants 2006-2012 The 2nd Platform was held in South Korea in fiscal 2013. 20 new students from Vietnam joined 60 university students from Japan 14 239 * China, Japan, and South Korea who participated in the Platform China 8 1,989 in fiscal 2012. Following the theme of “The Environment and Thailand 2 24 Humans,” participants took part in fieldwork in South Korea and Vietnam 4 90 listened to lectures by experts in order to discuss the coexistence Indonesia 2 6 of people and the environment, and the conservation of and use Ceremony for presenting scholarship of biodiversity. certificates at the National University of Total: 2,348 In fiscal 2014, the Platform is scheduled to be held in China, * Privately funded exchange students from Asian countries with participation by students from Malaysia as well as the four AEON 1% Club other countries, under the Asia Youth Leaders Foundation theme of “Water and Humans.” We plan on increasing the Aeon is carrying out the Asia Youth Leaders program where high number of participating school and university students in countries across Asia discuss countries each year, so that regional issues from a local perspective and make proposals to in 10 years the Platform will their governments for solving the issues. be hosting attendees from In fiscal 2013, courses were held in Indonesia in August (for throughout East Asia and the The event being held in South Korea high school students) and in November (for university students). ASEAN region. Students participated from six countries: China, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam. The theme of the courses was AEON 1% Club “waste management problems” in the host country of Indonesia. School Construction Support Project Foundation Summaries of the ideas discussed at each course were presented to the government of the Special Capital City District of Jakarta. In partnership with the Japan Committee for UNICEF, Aeon has Through the Asia Youth Leaders program, it is hoped that the been supporting, construction of schools in depressed parts of participants will independently act to solve the real issues studied Asia since the year 2000. The aim of the project is to instill the and discussed, and that the interaction will lead young people in joy of going to school in students who do not have access to countries facing a host of challenges accompanying economic sufficiently developed educational infrastructure. Through School development to cooperate to build fruitful relationships. Construction Support Project donations from customers in stores For fiscal 2014, the program will be held in Vietnam with and other facilities operated by Aeon Group companies across the theme of “Air Pollution.” Japan, and with funds added by the Japan Committee for UNICEF * This program was initiated in fiscal 2010 under the name and the Aeon 1% Club Foundation, we have helped construct “ASEAN University Students Environmental Forum.” The High School Students Division was added in 2013. a total of 366 schools in Cambodia, Nepal, Laos, Vietnam, and Myanmar as of the end of February 2014. In fiscal 2014, we aim to open 11 schools in Myanmar and plan to continue the project’s support efforts. Proposing solutions to Jakarta’s Discussing Jakarta's waste government (University students) management problems (High school students) The Asian Students Environment Aeon Environmental Platform Foundation Old school building in Myanmar with Children at the newly opened school at no walls Gangaw The Asian Students Environment Platform was inaugurated in fiscal 2012, following the 2011 United Nations Decade on Biodiversity. The purpose is to develop human resources with a global perspective in the environmental field. University students gather from various Asian countries and exchange opinions about biodiversity while studying the natural environments, histories, cultures, and differences in sensibilities in each other’s countries. AEON Sustainability Report 2014 54 The Aeon and UNICEF AEON 1% Club Safe Water Campaign Foundation PET Bottle Cap Collection Campaign In some areas of Cambodia and Laos, an insufficient number of Since 2008, Aeon has been collecting PET bottle caps from wells and poor water infrastructure means that children have to our customers. The caps, as recyclable resources, are sold for cash spend valuable time collecting water, and their attendance at that is in turn contributed to three international organizations*1 school suffers. From 2010, we have been carrying out the Aeon that support children in Asia´s developing countries. and UNICEF Safe Water Campaign in order to support the health In fiscal 2013, 3,465,558 yen from 346.35 million*2 bottle caps and education of children by building water supply infrastructure. was donated to these organizations. The funds will provide In fiscal 2013, customer donations were added to vaccines, nutritious food, and books to children in Asia. contributions from the Aeon 1% Club Foundation, plus 5-yen *1 The three international organizations are : Plan Japan donations per 500 ml bottle of TOPVALU natural mineral water Save the Children Japan purchased throughout the duration of the campaign. Total Japan Committee Vaccines for the World´s Children *2 Caps collected from August 21, 2012 through August 20, 2013. efforts garnered approximately 55.74 million yen, to which the Japan Committee for UNICEF also added funds. Approximately 35,000 people a year have access to safe drinking water as a result of the campaign, Children enjoying the availability of safe water while children are able to spend less Nutritious food for A grant for library books Vaccination of children in children in Vietnam and library furnishings Madagascar time on tasks like fetching water and © Save the Children Japan was made for children in © JCV, all rights reserved more time at schools. minority ethnic groups in Vietnam In addition to Cambodia and © Plan Japan Laos, we plan to add Myanmar to the campaign from fiscal 2014. Aeon TOPVALU mineral water Fundraising Main fundraising Activities (FY (Japan) activities 2013) Participating Funds raised from Aeon 1% Club Activity Activity period Total Amount Donees Companies customers and employees Contributions Donation to the April 1, 2012 79 Aeon Group The People’s Committee school establishment ¥55,738,842 ¥6,318,486 ¥118,919,328 –June 26, 2012 companies of Vietnam´s Hue Province support in Vietnam The AEON and September 1, 2012 80 Aeon Group The Japan Committee UNICEF Safe Water ¥27994,011 ¥27,994,011 ¥57,483,987 –October 21, 2012 companies *1 for UNICEF Campaign Donation to the October 27, 2012 80 Aeon Group The Japan Committee school establishment ¥2,1893,260 ¥41,991,010 ¥6,3884,270 –December 9, 2012 companies for UNICEF support in Myanmar Philippine Typhoon December 14, ーー ーー ¥3,000,000 ¥3,000,000 Philippine Embassy in Tokyo Emergency Relief Aid 2012 June 28, 2012 94 Aeon Group Nippon Television Network 24-hour television –September 8, 2012 companies ¥335,229,142 ーー ¥335,229,142 Corporation “24-Hour Television *2 Charity Committee” Total Amount ¥440,855,255 ¥136,165,867 ¥578,516,727 *1 Amount plus 1,495,965 yen sales of pet bottle *2 Fundraising through WAON point and Aeon card, accepted by ion bank ATM also performed further, fund-raising total was combined with the proceeds of such charity T-shirt Continuous Fundraising Activities Activity Activity period Funds raised from customers and employees Accumulated funds Donees The Central Community Red Feather Community Chest October 1, 2012 October 31, 2012 ¥15,469,165 ¥222,514,452 (1983-2012) Chest of Japan 55 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 •Auditing Our Manufacturing Partners Fair Business Practices Aeon audits its manufacturing partners to make sure they are in full compliance with the requirements of the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (CoC). Audits include third-party audits carried out by professional auditing firms that objectively evaluate conformity Promoting the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct(CoC) with standards, second-party audits performed by Aeon auditors who monitor suppliers while encouraging dialogue, and first•Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct* party audits carried out by suppliers to maintain and improve The products we deliver to customers are procured and their management systems. Different levels of audits are manufactured around the world and made after undergoing performed based on the results and we provide various forms of various processes. As the distributor, Aeon recognizes that it has a support to improve the management practices of suppliers. responsibility through the entire supply chain, from raw materials Audits are essentially carried out once every two years, but to commercialization. Based on this, we are working closely with this interval is sometimes accelerated if a supplier is determined suppliers to ensure the safety and security of the products we to be of high risk. carry. The Aeon Supplier CoC does not call for surprise audits Based on the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (CoC) because its primary goal is to foster trust and cooperation formulated in 2003, we check to make sure that the employees with suppliers. Third-party audits are checked by an evaluation of suppliers are working in sanitary workplaces and that suppliers organization different from the auditing firm to ensure the are in compliance with all relevant laws as well as encourage objectivity and reliability of audit results. improvements be made where necessary. Currently, we require In terms of raw materials, currently we have yet to begin suppliers of TOPVALU and TOPVALU Collection products to confirmations using direct audits, but our manufacturing partners comply with the CoC. have been asked to require and check that their second and third As of February 28, 2014, approximately 900 suppliers have tier suppliers comply with the CoC. submitted documentation verifying they are in compliance with In this manner, the final goal of the For details on Aeon Supplier the CoC. Aeon Supplier CoC is to build a value Code of Conduct, see * CoC：Code of Conduct chain where management practices “Highlight 2” (p.15-18) and competencies are continually Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct improved. (Business Code of Conduct) Requirements Conform with legally stipulated social responsibility standards in countries where Procedure of ‘Aeon CoC’ Certification and Audit manufacturing and procurement takes place General Rules Initial General Rules Implementation, Check on Establishment of Conform with national laws and regulations Compliance Requirements Implementation once in two years Good Management Third-Party Audit TwoParty Audit First-Party Audit Supplier Briefing Conform with national laws and regulations Comprehensive Monitoring by External Audit Supplier Aeon Group 1. Child labor: Illegal child labor is prohibited by and External Auditors Management Audit Agency 2. Forced labor: Forced, prison and bonded labor are prohibited 3. Health and Safety: Provide safe, healthy workplaces 4. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining: Respect employee rights •Developing Accredited Auditors for Second-Party Audits Today there has been a rise in the number of labor issues 5. Discrimination: Discrimination on the basis of place of origin or creed is prohibited overseas and the manufacturing plants for TOPVALU products are 6. Disciplinary Practices: Cruel punishment of employees is prohibited no exception. Second-party audits are carried out by Aeon Group 7. Working hours: Comply with laws related to working hours employees both in Japan and overseas and the development of 8. Wages and benefits: Comply with laws related to wages and benefits secondary-party auditors has become very important given the 9. Management responsibility: Pledge compliance with the Aeon increasing number of risks overseas. Given this belief, Aeon has Supplier Code of Conduct established the development of accredited auditors for second10. Environment: Work to prevent environmental pollution and damage party audits as a KPI. 11. Trade: Comply with local laws on commercial transactions Auditors not only carry out audits and prepare reports, they 12. Certification, Audit, and Monitoring and Renewal: Accept also provide advice when improvements are necessary and certification, auditing and monitoring under the Aeon Supplier Code of continually provide support to ensure plants conform to the CoC. Conduct Depending on the region, we are expanding our local production 13. Ban on Gifts: Gift-giving between Aeon and suppliers is prohibited and local sales of TOPVALU products, which has resulted in an increase in the number of audits performed. Second-party auditors are also asked to provide assistance when sales and business development staff select all new manufacturing partners, making their work wide reaching and requiring a high AEON Sustainability Report 2014 56 level of quality. The development of auditors has become an urgent task because of the extended period of time required to train them from auditor candidates all the way to independent second-party auditors. Given this situation, we are enhancing our training programs led by our highly experienced second-party auditors, providing easier access to on-the-job-training opportunities, and creating training manuals. As a result, we have increased our team of second-party auditors from 10 in 2010 to 33 as of February 2014. Going forward, we will increase the number of leaders and provide even more concentrated training, while building a framework to ensure that our head office can regularly evaluate the skill level of auditors. Audit results of FY 2013 year-end Third Party Audits TwoParty Audit Factories which carried out Factories which carried out Factories which carried out The number of the TwoParty Third Party Audits <by region> Third Party Audits <by category> TwoParty Audit <by region> Audit enforcement factories (Cumulative total of FY 2013 year-end) (Cumulative total of FY 2013 year-end) (FY 2013) 3% 10% 600 Overseas Japan 10% 26% 46% 500 400 28% 300 53% 34% 62% 200 100 28% Japan China Asia (excluding China) Other Food Apparel Living / HBC Japan China Asia (excluding China) 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) First-Party Audits The number of the Third Party Audits enforcement factories The number of the First-Party Audits enforcement factories 700 80 Overseas Japan Overseas Japan 600 70 60 500 50 400 40 300 30 200 20 100 10 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) 57 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 2.8 Acquiring and Maintaining SA8000 Certification Practicing Fair Trade After establishing the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (2003), in Responding to customers’ desire to do something through 2004 we acquired SA8000 certification, an international standard, their purchases for the world’s underprivileged, Aeon began becoming the first Japanese retailer to do so. The standard developing and marketing Fairtrade*-certified coffee, chocolate establishes normative guidelines for protecting the human rights and other products in 2004. of workers on international labor markets. It requires compliance Furthermore, as we continue to advance our product in eight areas that include protecting human rights and development, Aeon announced in January 2014 its plans to nondiscriminatory employment practices as well as development participate as the first and only Asian company in the Fairtrade of a related management system and ongoing improvement to it. Sourcing Programs, which will be launched by Fairtrade SA8000 certification applies to head office processes and International. These programs aim to increase procurement Aeon brand TOPVALU supplier management performed by AEON volumes over the medium and long-term to allow increased CO., LTD., Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. and AEON TOPVALU CO., LTD. trade to contribute to improving the livelihoods of product SA8000 certification is renewed after receiving a renewal audit producers. Aeon plans to increase the purchase of Fairtradeevery three years and a maintenance audit every six months. certified cocoa up to ten times more than the current trade Aeon will continue to pursue appropriate business processes volume (equivalent to 50 tons of cocoa beans) by 2020. We will together with suppliers on the twin basis of the Aeon Supplier use the cocoa thus purchased Code of Conduct and SA8000. as a raw material to increase the number of products we sell. Aeon’s efforts to promote Objectives of Aeon SA8000 Fairtrade mark their tenth anniversary this year. Aeon is 1. We will respect the basic human rights of employees at the workplace and committed to continuing its efforts to support developing establish comfortable working conditions by ensuring safety, security and countries through the development and sale of Fairtrade health. products. 2. Along with our suppliers, who are equal business partners, we will respect * Fairtrade: an initiative for doing business with producers in need of support in laws related to human rights and labor standards and will continue to developing countries and setting product prices at levels appropriate to the labor make improvements to help build a society where universal human involved. The initiative helps producers attain economic and social autonomy and also supports environmental conservation. rights are protected and efforts are constantly made to improve working conditions. Policies for Promoting Aeon SA8000 1. We will respect international norms and laws related to human rights and labor standards and will make improvements on an ongoing basis. a. Child Labor: We will prohibit child labor and take remedial measures. b. Forced and Compulsory labor: We will reject forced labor in all its forms. Setting the product c. Health and Safety: We will ensure the health and safety of employees FLO packages for the two flavors (Fairtrade International) certification mark side by side links Japan with and provide healthy work environments. the Dominican Republic, d. Freedom of Association and Right to Collective Bargaining: We will the source country for the ensure freedom of assembly and the right to collective bargaining. cocoa e. Discrimination: We will not discriminate on the basis of nationality, race, sex, academic background, religion, physical disability or age. f . Disciplinary Practices: We will not engage in corporate punishment, psychological or physical force, or verbal abuse. g. Working Hours: We will observe laws and labor agreements related to working hours, breaks and days off. h. Remuneration: We will observe laws related to payment of fair wages. 2. We will conduct training programs to fully educate all employees in order to make this policy a reality, conduct regular reviews of this initiative and work to make improvements on an ongoing basis. 3. We will encourage business partners (suppliers) to create and observe a code of conduct related to human rights and labor standards and to work together with Aeon to make improvements on an ongoing basis. 4. We will work to broadly disclose this policy and provide appropriate information and we will practice corporate social accountability. AEON Sustainability Report 2014 58 •Determination of the product specifications Consumer Issues Customer monitors and Aeon employees evaluate theprototypes, considering matters such as raw materials, additives, and Safe Food and Reliable Products manufacturing processes. Quality Management of TOPVALU Brand Products •Distribution and sales Following that, Aeon finalizes product specifications and then Aeon developed its own TOPVALU brand of products to improve inspects production and sends only products that meet the our customers’ daily life. In product planning and design, criteria to stores. Thereafter, regular product quality evaluations, selection of manufacturers, finalization of product specifications, plant hygiene inspections and other types of audits are manufacturing management, and sales, we are creating products conducted to make sure that the products we offer are both safe with our customer’s needs in mind. and reliable. In this way, we are implementing initiatives aimed at ensuring The Five TOPVALU Commitments product safety and security from various perspectives. In case a 1. We shall reflect the voices of customers in our products. defect or flaw is discovered in a product despite these initiatives, 2. We shall offer safe, reliable, and environmentally friendly products. Aeon informs the public of the fact as quickly as possible and 3. We shall present product information in an easily understandable way. calls back and withdraws the product in question. In fiscal 2012, 4. We shall products at affordable prices. Aeon reported 83 serious product accidents. 5. We shall guarantee our customers’ satisfaction. FY2013 Results and Target of KPI TOPVALU Quality Assurance Number of TOPVALU Products Removed due to Serious Incident Aeon Product Product development based 92 55件 30 Planning and (apparel: 32; food: 37; living / HBC: 23) (apparel: 12; food: 8; living / HBC: 10) Design on direct customer input Target FY 2011 2012 2013 2020 Sales through Selection of Target Aeon Group TOPVALU Manufacturers stores that Meet Aeon’s 67 55 AEON Quality Standards (apparel: 28; food: 16; living / HBC: 23) (apparel: 22; food: 14; living / HBC: 19) Assurance Distribution Fiscal 2013 TOPVALU Product Accidents TOPVALU customer service gathers by Aeon Manufacturing plants meeting Aeon’s strict •Strawberry Food Jam Three Pack: Residual pesticides exceeding the acceptable customer feedback facility, labor, standard were detected in certain units. →Voluntary recall environmental and other standards Onigiri (rice balls) and Obento (Japanese box lunch) : Chinese grown rice was mixed in with the polished rice delivered by the wholesaler despite the product being labeled as made from Japanese grown rice. →Voluntary Thorough distribution recall management •TOPVALU Living / HBC 5つのこだわり Pocket Coil Mattress: Reports of injuries caused by the coils •トップバリュ Product planning and design breaking through the top of the mattress. →Recall announced on the Aeon website and in stores During product planning and design, our development, quality 1 お客さまの声を商品にいかします。 control, and customer service people scrutinize potential raw 2 安全と環境に配慮した安心な商品をおとどけします。 material suppliers, investigate possible safety concerns, examine 3 of the use 必要な情報をわかりやすく表示します。 additives, research manufacturing processes, and 4 consider お買い得価格でご提供します。 other key issues to ensure that the final product is safe 5 and without any health or safety risks. お客さまの満足をお約束します。 Aeon will strive to prevent product accidents through efforts that include identifying problem areas based on customer feedback •Selection of manufacturers to avoid reoccurrence of an issue, strengthening relationships 8 We select manufacturers by first performing Aeon Supplier Code つのトップバリュブランド of Conduct (CoC) audits, product safety examinations, and plant between related departments and reviewing problem areas at the production and shipment phases of a product. hygiene inspections. 59 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 Labelling and Disclosing Product Information • Labeling of Genetically Modified Ingredients In April 2001 legislation in Japan enacted a labeling system for genetically modified ingredients, but even before this, in Aeon is working to label and disclose information necessary for September 2000, Aeon began labeling TOPVALU brand products consumers to choose TOPVALU brand products in a clearer and that contain genetically modified ingredients in response to easier manner to ensure they can be used and consumed by urging from our customers. We have expanded the scope of customers with peace of mind. items labeled and strive to provide labeling even for items not mandated by law. Additionally, in order to confirm label accuracy, •Labeling of Food Allergens products subject to labeling (separate items) undergo testing for Aeon uses standardized icons to on the outside of all food genetically modified DNA every year. product packaging to ensure consumers can easily identify nutritional information and food allergens contained in • Labeling of Place of Origin of Ingredients for Processed Foods products*1. The labeling of the place of origin of 24 food items, including The information covers use of seven officially designated dried mushrooms, green tea, and konjac, among others, has been ingredients that by law must be displayed on the outside of required by law in Japan since October 2006. In order to address product packaging*2. The back label of products also contains customer requests and inquiries, for TOPVALU brand products, the 20 secondary items recommended for inclusion in product Aeon strives to provide the place of origin for every product labeling, bringing the total number shown to 27 ingredients*3. to every extent possible and not just for those food items We also strive to include, where possible, food allergens that required by law. In addition, we have established clear quality are handled in the manufacturing process and therefore could standards for ingredients irrespective of their place of origin be found in trace amounts in the product. Inspections are also and investigations that include conducted every year on applicable products to confirm labeling testing of ingredient standards accuracy. and residual pesticides. At the *1 Icons are not used yet on certain products. same time, we sign agreements *2 The seven officially designated ingredients, which are the most common and most serious allergens and must be displayed according to law, are eggs, milk, wheat, with manufacturers and carry prawns, crab, buckwheat and peanuts. out our own verifications when *3 The 20 secondary items: the 20 secondary items recommended by the national Labeling of Place of Origin of government for inclusion on labeling are abalone, squid, salmon roe, oranges, cashew necessary. Ingredients nuts, kiwi fruit, beef, walnuts, sesame, salmon, mackerel, soy beans, chicken, bananas, pork, matsutake mushrooms, peaches, yams, apples, and gelatin. • Disclosing Information on Domestic Beef Aeon established the Domestic Beef Safety Confirmation System in 2002, prior to enforcement of the Beef Traceability Act*, in order to provide peace of mind to customers buying beef. The system allows customers to find out information about beef products from cattle raised in Japan, including where the cow was raised, who raised it and what feed it was raised on. The Labeling of Food Allergens system is available via a website. * Enforced in December 2004, the law’s formal name is the Act on Special Measures concerning the Management and Relay of Information for Individual Identification of Cattle. TOPICS TOPVALU renews package design to make it more intuitive for customers Aeon’s TOPVALU brand is now celebrating its 40th anniversary. In February 2014, we restructured and renewed the package design this private brand, as part of efforts for meeting customer needs that are constantly changing along with the times. In renewing the labeling and packaging, we strove for more enhanced communication of product information and simpler, more intuitive design. “AEON” Logo and “TOPVALU Ribbon” Product Stories As a way to more expressly convey that the TOPVALU With the intention of effectively communicating the value and merit of brand represents the values promoted by Aeon, the each product to customers, Aeon is summarizing background information “AEON” logo was added to the packaging, while the in the form of a “product story” printed on the package. TOPVALU logo color was changed from its previous red to magenta, the color used for the “AEON” logo. Also, the Indication of Allergens and Nutritional Components “TOPVALU Ribbon” was incorporated in the logo design. As a measure that helps customers more easily understand The ribbon is intended to convey our commitment to the information of allergens and nutritional components customer service, which is symbolized by the image of a contained in each product, relevant icons will be unified across gift wrapped in ribbon. the entire food product range to be indicated on the package. AEON Sustainability Report 2014 60 • Disclosing Information on Agricultural Product Producers Aeon Food Sanitation Certification System, while a total of 8,086 In 2003 we established the Producers Data Search System for workplaces had obtained certification. AEON’s TOPVALU Gurinai products to give customers online access to information on producers. Since 2004, we have also •Quality Keepers added a barcode function that allows customers to access Aeon has assigned “Quality Keepers” at stores to verify store producer data by reading the QR code. The sanitation levels and product quality. Quality Keepers check store data includes the place of origin as well as products and food preparation areas at stores, and if a problem the commitment of the producer and how is found, they order improvements. In addition, sales staff inspect the item was grown. a list of items related to sanitation and quality management, In fiscal 2013 a cumulative total of including a temperature management chart that is used to approximately 74 agricultural products record temperature management for display cases, refrigerators were labeled with QR codes. and freezers, sell by dates that are set for each product, and to * Products that differ by prefecture and that have more Products labeled with check the freshness of fresh produce. than one type are counted as a single product. QR codes •Sanitation Training for Employees •Disclosing Information Related to Radioactivity and Employees in the food departments of Aeon stores must Radioactive Material undergo sanitation training at least once a year. Employees Following the Great East Japan Earthquake, there were increasing review basic sanitation knowledge and rules for food preparation questions from customers about product place of origin. In areas. Practical skills tests are also conducted for each person response, Aeon has been publishing the results of radiation based on a test booklet. testing on its website. •Audits of Food Preparation Areas •Search System for Manufacturing Plant Codes Food preparation areas are audited at least twice a year. Audits Aeon is ultimately responsible for all aspects of TOPVALU brand are continued until certain established standards are met. products, from planning to designed and marketing and this is why AEON Co., Ltd. is labeled on all product packaging as the •Sanitation Contests distributor*1. We hold a sanitation contest once a year and honor stores Consumers can check the manufacturing plant and its address recognized as excellent in audits of food preparation areas. for food items or food additives using a unique code comprising numbers and letters labeled on the product and reported to Japan’s Consumer Fair Business Practices Agency*2. This system can be accessed from the TOPVALU website. Consumers can find Improving the Earthquake-resistance of Stores the exact name and location of the manufacturing plant During the Great East Japan Earthquake many of our store simply by entering the code Search screen of the Search System for buildings suffered extensive damages, which in some cases Manufacturing Plant Codes on the online form. caused seriously or fatally injured workers or customers. For *1 The code is found on the cap of PET bottles and other beverages. The location of the this reason, Aeon is moving forward with improving the safety code differs for each product. Consumers are asked to check the packaging directly. *2 Manufacturing plant code: When fully responsible for the safety of food, the distributor and earthquake resistance of its stores, giving utmost priority to must report and receive approval for unique codes assigned to the manufacturing plant protecting people’s lives and those stores in areas where a major of foods or additives to Japan’s Consumer Agency in accordance with Article 10 of the Cabinet Order on Labeling Standards based on Article 19-1 of the Food Sanitation Act. earthquake with seismic intensity of at least upper 5 is expected The country of origin and address of importer must also be labeled when importing to strike, in accordance with its own set of standards that are foods or additives in accordance with the Food Sanitation Act and JAS Act. even stricter than those required by law. The number of Aeon Retail stores that will be receiving safety and earthquake resistance work is 279. As of the end of fiscal Food Sanitation Control 2013, work had been completed at 78 of these stores. In fiscal 2014, we plan on completing work at 35 more stores based on a Under the Aeon Food Sanitation Certification System established new plan based on changes made by the national government’s in 1995, Aeon engages in a variety of activities to prevent the latest earthquake scenarios. occurrence of food-related incidents such as food poisoning and In addition, there were 32 Aeon Mall stores that required this contamination. same work, with work being completed at all locations during At the end of February 2014, 23 companies and 1,305 stores fiscal 2013. Going forward, we will examine and implement work from our GMS Business and SM business have implemented the at AEON KYUSHU CO., LTD., and AEON Hokkaido Corporation. 61 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 FY2013 Results and Target of KPI •Fire Prevention Drills at Stores Safety and Security Infrastructure Development Aeon stores check safety and disaster preparedness measures on a daily basis, while security staff and store managers also conduct 45 stores in Tohoku, North Kanto, South Kanto and Tokai area a final inspection after stores are closed. ・Smoke vertical non-flammable wall sheet of 25 ・Cinema ceiling fall measures 10 Fire prevention drills have been conducted twice a year and Other Areas ・Cinema ceiling falling measures 8 earthquake response drills run once a year. Following the Great East Japan Earthquake that struck in March 2011, however, we Target have decided to increase the number of earthquake response FY 2011 2012 2013 2020 drills to two per year. We strive to make these drills as realistic as possible by changing the scenario for each based on a variety of possible disasters. Full store employees as well as temporary, t$PNQMFUFESFQBJSXPSLPOTUPSFTEBNBHFEJO Steadily complete work part-time and tenant employees participate in the drills. They are UIF(SFBU&BTU+BQBO&BSUIRVBLF at 270 applicable stores conducted to help us respond quickly and ensure the safety of t/BSSPXFEEPXOFBSUIRVBLFTBGFUZNFBTVSFT t$PNQMFUFEFBSUIRVBLFSFJOGPSDFNFOUXPSL customers in the event of a fire or earthquake. at some stores •Crime Prevention Measures There have been a number of incidents at supermarkets over the past several years involving food products with needles or other dangerous objects. Aeon has therefore installed security cameras Fire Prevention and Disaster Preparedness in food departments and begun using needle detectors at its stores. If a needle were to be discovered, it would be promptly Aeon, as a commercial enterprise with large numbers of delivered to the police or healthcare center and customers as customers, is implementing disaster prevention measures and well as local Group company stores would be informed through drills to ensure quick action and the safety of our customers and an in-store display or announcement in order to prevent employees in disaster. additional injury or damage. We are also conducting crime prevention drills to ensure the •Group-wide disaster prevention and safety drills safety of customers in the event an incident or accident occurs in Taking lessons from the experience of the Great East Japan a store. Earthquake, Aeon has been conducting Group earthquake disaster drills twice a year to ensure quick action for the safety of •Measures to Combat New Flu Viruses employees and customers in the event of a disaster. Aeon formed a project team in 2006 as a measure to address In fiscal 2013, the drills were conducted in July and November. risks from the outbreak of infectious diseases such as the global In the drills held in November, Group-wide training was carried spread of highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza in humans. out based on our Business Continuity Plan (BCP) assuming an We established Rules for New Flu Viruses in September 2006 and earthquake in the Nankai Trough. These drills were the first have since been readying infection prevention measures in order opportunity for us to use the Headquarters Disaster Prevention to ensure the safety of customers and employees. Room, established at the end of 2012. In 2010, we established the Aeon New Influenza Integrated In March 2014, we established the Aeon Komaki Crisis System and a framework for ascertaining the extent and spread Management Center at the Aeon Komaki Store in Komaki City, of the virus at Aeon Group stores and business sites across Japan. Aichi Prefecture, based on our business continuity plan that In November 2010, we established the Attenuated Virulence New envisions a major earthquake striking directly underneath Tokyo. Influenza Rules to clearly separate our response based on the The Center will serve as the head of Aeon’s operations in case virulence of the new influenza virus. the Makuhari Headquarters is damaged so badly during an From the end of fiscal 2013 to the second half of fiscal 2014 emergency that it cannot function. In July 2014 a disaster drill we will apply for recognition as a registered business requiring flu was held including the Center for the first time. vaccines under the Act on Special Measures for Combating New Going forward, we will hold recurring drills while adjusting our Flu Viruses and strive to build a system that ensures operations predictions in order to swiftly respond during disasters and can be continued during an epidemic. emergencies. Disaster drill (Disaster Prevention Room Disaster drill held at the Aeon Komaki inside the Makuhari Headquarters in Crisis Management Center Chiba Prefecture) AEON Sustainability Report 2014 62 Creating a Convenient and Comfortable Store Raising Safety Levels of Store Facilities and Fixtures Environment for Everyone Aeon works to enhance safety for facilities and fixtures used in its Aeon developed its own building standards based on the stores to prevent accidents involving customers. Heartful Building Law of 1994 (revised December 2006 as the Barrier Free Law*). We use these standards when building new •Safety Measures for Escalators stores or remodeling existing locations. As of the end of February There has been an increase in recent years in accidents involving 2014, over 720 of our facilities had been certified as compliant children getting caught in the gap between an escalator and the with the Barrier Free Law. wall at shopping malls and department stores. Aeon stores work We are also committed to incorporating universal design to prevent escalator-related incidents by setting up barriers or elements, to strengthen store function and design. Recognizing dividers to prevent exposure to such gaps. that the number of seniors In addition, at our new stores we have reduced the speed of among our customers down escalators from 30 meters per minute to 20 meters per is increasing, we aim to minute as a means to preventing falls by senior citizens. incorporate universal design concepts in all of our stores. * The Act for Buildings Accessible to and Usable by the Elderly and Physically Disabled, also known as the Heartful Building Law, was revised and renamed Step-free entrance the Barrier Free Law in December 2006. (AEON LakeTown) “Care Fitters” and “Supporters for People with Safety Measures for Escalators Dementia” •Establishing Parking Lot Guardrails We encourage Aeon employees to acquire Care-fitter*1 Accidents often occur in the parking lots of retail complexes certification to help ensure that seniors and people in need of caused by drivers mixing up the gas and brake pedals. We have assistance can shop at our stores with total confidence. Certified therefore established parking lot guardrails in order to prevent Care-fitters numbered 10,407 as of the end of February 2014. cars from crashing into stores and ensure the safety of customers. Also, to allow a proper understanding of dementia and to enable employees to provide proper assistance, a training course is being offered to employees so they can earn approval as “Supporters for People with Dementia”*2. In November 2013, approximately 800 of the employees of the Aeon Makuhari New City store attended the training in preparation for their store’s opening. As of the end of February 2014, there are 43,662 Dementia Supporters, the largest number Parking Lot Guardrails among companies in Japan, and 832 “Caravan Mate” instructors for the training course. •Installing Automated External Defibrillators (AED) *1 Care-fitter: a certification administered by the non-profit Nippon Care-Fit Service Association (which changed its name to the Nippon Care-Fit Education Institute (a Automated external defibrillators, or AED, administer an electric public interest incorporated foundation) in April 2014). shock to people experiencing sudden cardiac arrest as a way *2 Supporters for People with Dementia: people certified through a prescribed curriculum course implemented by municipalities and other groups. Supporters have an to resuscitate them. As of the end of February 2014, Aeon has understanding of dementia and are able, within their abilities, to give care to, watch installed a total of 1,639 AED units at 967 stores and shopping over, and give support to people with dementia and their families. centers. In addition, store management, security guards and other staff members are trained in emergency lifesaving techniques. In fiscal 2014, we plan on expanding this coverage to include small supermarkets that typically do not have many AED onsite. Care-fitter Training Supporters for People The badge and orange band Session with Dementia of Aeon worn by staff specially trained Makuhari New City to assist customers with dementia 63 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 FY2013 Results and Target of KPI Consumer Issues The number of local temporary shelters Serving as a form of life style infrastructure that protects the local community Set of alternative district headquarters as a pillar of disaster prevention bases, and implementation of disaster prevention base support of the decision, new stores of disaster prevention establishing stores in 2013 Establishing local temporary shelters [Aeon ECO Project: Protection Strategy] Target FY Aeon has established a goal to set up 100 disaster-prevention 2011 2012 2013 2020 facilities across Japan by the end of fiscal 2020 as part of the Aeon ECO Project (see page 27). The role of a disaster-prevention facilities is to provide a t3FTUPSBUJPOXPSLPGTUPSFTUIBUXFSFBòFDUFECZUIF Local temporary temporary refuge during a disaster, to serve as a hub for rescue (SFBU&BTU+BQBO&BSUIRVBLF shelters at 100 of its t#SPXTFFBSUIRVBLFTBGFUZNFBTVSFTJUFN stores across Japan and first-aid activities, and to provide access to daily essentials. To t$POEVDUFETFJTNJDSFJOGPSDFNFOUXPSLJOTPNFTUPSFT fulfill this role, stores serving as a local temporary shelter feature back-up generators and water tanks to prepare for a power outage and/or water stoppages that will likely occur during and after a disaster. In fiscal 2013, we established disaster-prevention facilities at Consumer Issues System of Dialog with Customers 5 stores, including Aeon Mall Yahatahigashi, Aeon Mall Tsukuba, Aeon Mall Makuhari New City, Aeon Mall Toin and Aeon Mall Osaka Dome City. System for Listening to the Opinions of Customers In fiscal 2014, we plan on establishing disaster-prevention facilities at an additional 14 stores, with the goal of reaching Aeon puts the customer’s perspective at the heart of more than 100 by 2020. management. We strive to create conditions in which customers feel free to provide suggestions and to promptly incorporate customer comments into product lineup and service improvements, environmental conservation activities and other areas. •Suggestion Boxes and Communication Boards Each Aeon store has set up a box for customers to put their opinions in and a board disclosing the opinions and Aeon’s response. Comments and suggestions provided by customers Private power generation equipment installation are replied to directly by a store representative and posted for others to see. We receive many suggestions TOPICS from customers about things that are Agreement concluded with the Japan FM difficult for stores and employees to Network for building a comprehensive notice. The suggestions are utilized to disaster preparedness network improve product lineups and services and in environmental conservation Suggestion Box and In November 2013, Aeon and the Japan FM Network (JFN), including activities and other initiatives. Communication Board FM Tokyo, concluded an agreement on building a comprehensive disaster preparedness network in case of a disaster. Under this agreement, Aeon, which is aspiring to serve as a disaster-prevention facilities FY2013 Results and Target of KPI for communities during a disaster, and JFN’s network of 38 radio Number of Complaints and Compliments stations will work together to build a disaster preparedness network Received that spans from confirming peoples’ safety to providing supplies and Number of information during a disaster. service complaints 4,838 4,807 3,900 2,420 Aeon stores will be connected to their local FM station from the prefecture by satellite phone to share information and convey Target FY information to people seeking temporary refuge at Aeon stores. 2011 2013 2020 2012 Also, information on the store’s hours, services and supplies will be provided through the location radio station and shared with the rest Target of Japan through nationwide broadcasts. Number of compliments 1,463 1,919 1,900 1,290 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 64 •Customer Service Department The Customer Service Department at Aeon headquarters receives product and service related comments and requests from customers that visit our stores. Comments and requests, which come in via the phone, Internet, letters and other channels, are responded to after checking with the relevant departments. In addition, for TOPVALU products, we have set up a call center and collect customer suggestions. This information is reported to At-home product monitors In-store monitors directors and executive officers, as well as shared with employees of relevant departments through systems that manage customer feedback. A total of 97,504 opinions (service complaints) were received in fiscal 2013 from our customers, marking a 12.9% increase compared to fiscal 2012 (21,908 opinions). This is because the number of product inquiries increased in proportion to the expansion in TOPVALU product lineup and sales. Product database (Excerpt) The number of service complaints stood at 5,196, which was 108% of fiscal 2012, or an increase of 389 complaints. The number of compliments received was 2,719, which was 141.7% TOPICS of fiscal 2012, for an increase of 800. Examples of Product Development and Going forward, we intend to listen carefully to the opinions of Improvements Made Based on Customer each and every customer to provide them with better services Feedback and products and to help us attain our targets for the year 2020. FY2013 Results and Target of KPI •BARREAL Food Number of Products Developed / Improved The pull tab was modified by the manufacturer in January 2014 after based on Customer Feedback reports that the pull tab fell off when opened. In 2013, there were on average 18 reports a month, but in January and February 2014 this 107 180 number had declined to 4. Target •TOPVALU Apparel Baby Underwear FY 2011 2012 2013 2020 The design was improved after reports that the label was scratchy. Target •TOPVALU Living / HBC Super Clean The product use label on the packaging was changed. 93 120 •Customer Monitor Program Aeon has established two customer monitor programs to create products that customers want and to improve quality. First is the in-store monitor program where customers who visit the store to shop are asked to become monitors who assess the flavor and texture of food products without being told anything about the product itself. Second is the home use monitor program where customers test out a product in their own home. This program was newly launched in fiscal 2013 and assessment criteria include not only taste, but also quantity, price and ease of use. In fiscal 2013, nearly 100,000 customers participated in either of our monitor programs, evaluating over 2,000 products. In a “product database,” we are digitizing and compiling the evaluations from monitors, including categories such as quality, packaging, and inclination to purchase. Going forward, we aim to fully employ the product database to continue refining the appeal of the TOPVALU brand and to further satisfy customers. 65 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 FY2013 Results and Target of KPI Human Rights / Labor Practices Ratio of Female Executive Officers Ratio of Female Executive Officers = Female Executive Officers / Total Executive Officers 4.2% (33persons) Promoting Diversity * Number of female executive officers out of 789 total executive officers including consolidated Group companies. Amidst business globalization and the requirement to respond Target rapidly to differences, Aeon established the Diversity Promotion FY 2011 2012 2013 2020 Office in July 2013 to continually create new value by leveraging its diverse pool of human resources and respecting the unique traits of each individual employee. As the first step in this 5.8% 30% process, we have launched efforts to reach our goal of becoming (33persons) recognized as the best employer for females in Japan and the company where female workers most want to work. Fiscal 2014 has been designated as year one of Aeon’s •Hiring Employees of Foreign Nationality , Group International diversity efforts and we will create a roadmap to formulate the People to People Exchange Programs Aeon Diversity Declaration as well as define and achieve our To meet the goal to expand our presence in Asian countries future vision for 2020. outlined in our three-year medium-term management plan, which started in fiscal 2011, Aeon plans actively hiring young human resources, who will form the cornerstone of future Basic principles on personnel management not only in Japan, but also in China (including With the primary objective of management based on respect for human rights, the Aeon’s basic principles on personnel revolve Hong Kong), Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and Vietnam. around listening to employees’ aspirations, understanding Ever since our three-year medium-term management plan employees’ feelings and making the most of what employees have to offer, based on the guiding philosophy of ensuring that all Aeon and strategy of shifting to Asia started in fiscal 2011, we have people lead a full life at work, at home and in the community. worked to hire a multinational workforce of people that will help Basic approach to personnel us realize our dream and goal of becoming Asia’s pre-eminent • Creating a corporate environment in which human resources can retailer. Our hiring goal for the three years between fiscal 2011 continue to grow as they work over the long term. and fiscal 2013 was approximately 10,000 people (7,000 in Japan • Dealing with personnel based on ability and achievement, not and 3,000 overseas), and by the end of fiscal 2013 we had hired nationality, age, gender or category. 7,700 people in Japan and 2,700 people overseas, for a total of Five Human Resources Principles more than 10,000. 1. Fairness Management based on respect Going forward, Aeon will do its utmost to hire human for human rights 2. Respect resources in Japan, China and the ASEAN region that can Listening to employees’ 3. Openness to change aspirations Understanding take active roles on the global stage, beyond borders, and to employees’ feelings Making the 4. Rationality most of what employees have to offer encourage greater international exchange within the Aeon 5. Ability Development Group. Ensuring a full life at work, at home and in the community •Appointment of Female Managers Aeon is proactively working toward appointing more female managers based on its KPI for the ratio of female managers. As of April 1, 2014 our ratio of female managers was 14.5% (including consolidated subsidiaries). Moving forward, we will continue to promote initiatives aimed at our goal of boosting this ratio to 30% in fiscal 2016 and 50% by fiscal 2020. AEON Sustainability Report 2014 66 Formulating a Medium and Long-Term Action Plans C lose UP! for the Advancement of Women Aeon has taken the lead in establishing diversity promotion systems at all Group companies, with such systems now in place at 10 business divisions and 14 companies and quantitive analysis and hearings performed on every company. As a result, we have set six initiatives aimed at finding solutions to the four priority themes shared across the entire Aeon Group. In April 2014, we established implementation systems at around 60 Group companies and convened a kick-off meeting involving corporate leaders and diversity managers. In addition to a keynote address, the kick-off meeting featured a discussion on the future approach to the advancement of women. Going forward, we plan on creating and executing specific initiatives and measures after the current situation of each subsidiary is fully understood. Four priority themes/ Six Initiatives Four priority themes 1 Work-life management 2 Advancement of women 3 Corporate culture reform 4 Management consciousness reform Six Initiatives 1. Effecting ongoing management priorities 2. Establishing a group-wide planning and promotion structure 3. Reforming mid-management consciousness 4. Evaluating and revising current operation criteria and processes 5. Expanding women’ s self-awareness and change based on experience and education 6. Creating systems to balance work and life events Kick-Off Meeting with Planning Leaders from 60 Aeon Companies Establishment of Nurseries at Shopping Centers Diversity benefits customers, Aeon is promoting the establishment of nursery facilities at VOICE shopping centers as a way to help women balance work and employees, and companies childcare after giving birth and to smoothly re-enter the work force. The nurseries support Aeon people working at the shopping From the time of the establishment of JUSCO, Aeon’ center, as well as shop employees and shoppers, and are open s predecessor, the organization was committed from early morning to nighttime 365 days a year. to an equal oppor tunit y employment policy of The system was instituted at Aeon Mall Makuhari New City, nondiscrimination on the basis of gender, nationality, and we plan on establishing nurseries in every prefecture by 2020, education, previous employment, age, etc. Aeon’s giving priority to where we have large numbers of employees and Diversity Office is currently carrying out initiatives there are a large number of waitlisted children. to assure that an environment to maintain these concepts continues. Our aim is to link customer, employee, and company satisfaction with a diverse climate in the business organization. Emi Tanaka Office of Diversity Manager AEON CO., LTD. Nursery facilities (image) 67 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 • Employment for People with Disabilities experience, skills and knowledge are being fully utilized in our Aeon is working to establish conditions that allow people with businesses. disabilities to work with a sense of purpose. As of June 2014 the employment rate of people with Training Programs Supporting the Growth of disabilities for Aeon and all consolidated Aeon Group companies Employees was 2.05%, which exceeded the statutory requirement of 2.0%. At Abilities JUSCO Co., Ltd., a special subsidiary established in Aeon believes that the greatest form of welfare is education. 1980, people with disabilities take on the challenge of realizing This phrase embodies the thought that education, in addition to their own potential, working at 10 Scrum CD stores in the Tohoku wages and benefits, is key to enriching the lives of its employees. region alongside able-bodied staff (as of February 28, 2014). Given this, we have created a wide range of training programs From fiscal 2014, we established the employment rate of that support the growth of employees and their desire for persons with disabilities as a KPI in order to make further efforts advancement. toward hiring persons with disabilities. Moving forward, we will continue to encourage the hiring of persons with disabilities and •Aeon Fundamental Education be a company where everyone finds it easy to work. This is provided for the first three years following employment with the same content Group-wide. Besides sharing Aeon’s basic philosophy and set of values, the education aims to get employees to completely master the corporate culture and basic skills as Aeon people. •Aeon Group Self Declaration Form System This system encourages transfer within the Aeon Group beyond the framework of the company amid the many different business domains covered by the Aeon Group. In fiscal 2013, a total of 538 forms were submitted from employees of 41 different companies. •Sending Personnel to Graduate Schools in Japan •Promoting Equal Opportunities for Part-time Employees Under this system, Aeon selects employees from Group We have developed various programs that allow part-time companies to enter graduate school in Japan (MBA course) as employees to thrive at the workplace. a means to develop human resources that will take charge of For example, Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. has a system that makes it managing the Aeon Group in the future. The aims are for them to possible for all employees to utilize the same training and hiring learn specialized knowledge related to management and build programs. It instituted the Community Employee* Program networks outside of the company. in 2004 to eliminate differences in roles, expectations and treatment depending on employee classifications (full employee •Management Trainee System or parttime employee) and to enable the continued growth of all Under this system, exceptional personnel are dispatched to employees depending on ability, performance and motivation. Group companies across borders in Japan, China and the The program eliminates differences in educational and hiring ASEAN region. The aims are to get the employees to learn new opportunities. It also makes it possible for anyone to take on the knowledge and skills through business experience and training challenge of a higher position, including willing Community overseas and to develop candidates for management at each Employees if they fulfill certain conditions set by the company. company through employee exchange. * Community Employee is a collective designation for Aeon Retail employees working in a specific location and not subject to geographic transfer. There are both hourly wage positions and monthly salaried positions. •Aeon Business School The Aeon Business School provides courses for personnel to learn • Improving System for Employing the Elderly the knowledge necessary for the jobs they aspire to. The system Aeon Retail instituted a mandatory retirement age of 65 starting supports self-actualization of motivated personnel. 22 courses in 2007 in order to meet the needs of the company, which wants were held in fiscal 2013 and up to 583 people attended. to continue employing people over the age of 60 that are highly motivated and hard working, and the needs of the worker, who want to continue working in a stable environment. In addition, today the number of consolidated subsidiaries that have instituted a mandatory retirement age of 65 has now reached 41. As of April 2014, more than 1,600 employees (full-time) across the Aeon Group were over the age of 60. Their broad range of AEON Sustainability Report 2014 68 • Group Recruitment System •Aeon DNA University This system enables personnel to challenge the business and job In September 2012, Aeon instituted the Aeon DNA University position they aspire to without being restricted by the domain to train the next generation of Aeon management by instilling or company they belong to. In fiscal 2013, recruitment was the philosophy and values of the company passed down since conducted for the junior employee overseas dispatch program its founding. Group CEO Motoya Okada himself is an instructor and other opportunities at various new businesses within at the university. In fiscal 2013 the first and second session of KAJITAKU Co., Ltd., AEON CULTURE CO., Ltd., and AEON Reit the university were held in August 2013 and February 2014, Management Co., Ltd. respectively, and today the third session is currently • Internal Certification Systems being taught. Students will Aeon has established a wide array of internal certification receive in-depth instruction systems for specific jobs. Eight of these certifications have been into Aeon’s DNA and accredited by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare and will contribute to Aeon’s recognized for their high quality. future growth as the nextgeneration of managers. DNA University Class Aeon’s in-house qualifications Number of qualifications holders* (As of February 28, 2013) ◎Fresh fish master (grade 1) 12 ◎Cycle advisor 1,296 TOPICS ◎Fresh fish master (grade 2) ◎Fresh fish master (grade 3) 1,678 3,301 Senior cycle advisor Beauty advisor 215 748 “Aeon Tsinghua Academy “ Launches Baby advisor 669 Handcraft advisor 193 its First Training Program Fashion advisor 929 Senior care advisor 75 Liquor advisor 521 ◎Hot deli master 2,474 Aeon and the Aeon Group’s head office in China, through a partnerFish advisor 418 ◎Sushi master 2,414 ship with Tsinghua University and the Tsinghua University EducaDigital advisor 313 ◎Farm product master 1,201 tion Fund, have established the Aeon Tsinghua University School of Home appliance advisor 93 ◎Greenery master 568 Social Science Social Development Research Center, with the goal of General appliance advisor 68 ◎Gardening master 338 promoting industry-academia cooperation in human resource devel◎ denotes qualifications accredited by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. opment and research in the field of social sciences. In May 2013, the * Total for Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd.,Aeon Hokkaido Corporation, AEON KYUSHU CO., LTD., AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD., Maxvalu Hokkaido Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Center started its first training program ,“Aeon Tsinghua Academy”.,for Kyusyu Co., Ltd., MAXVALU KITA TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., next-generation management resources of the Aeon Group MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD., Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd. AEON BIG CO., LTD, TAKIYA Co., Ltd, KOHYO CO., LTD. (18 companies) This training program, which comprises unique curriculum on management strategy, marketing, IT and other fields that leverage the expertise of Tsinghua University, will be held for the next 10 years involving classes of at least 10 management personnel each year. TOPICS Partnership Concluded with the Kanda Gaigo Group for Developing Human Resources that will be Leaders in the International Community In June 2013, Aeon and the Kanda Gaigo Group/ Kanda University of International Studies concluded a partnership agreement. This agreement is based on the shared awareness of the need to master the local language, values, culture and customs for providing the best possible products and services to customers in Asia. Under the agreement, Aeon will host internships, Aeon employees will receive language and cultural training by instructors of the Kanda Gaigo Group, and Aeon will organize public lectures on the university’s campus for students and local community members. This industry-academia partnership will play an important role in developing human resources that will be leaders in the international community as well as enhancing the knowledge and qualifications required of next-generation human resources. 69 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 FY2013 Results and Target of KPI Human Rights-related Training Creating Pleasant, Comfortable Workplaces Aeon respects the human rights of all people and does not 9 companies certified to use the Kurumin logo discriminate on the basis of nationality, race, sex, academic Target background, religion, mental or physical disability, or any other FY 2011 2012 2013 2020 attribute. Each and every Aeon employee strives to listen closely to co-workers and make the company a place where people respect one another as equals. 9 companies Promote initiatives under the General Business Action To accomplish this Aeon holds training programs to facilitate certified to use Plan for Japan's Act for Measures to Support the the Kurumin logo Development of the Next Generation (expand number correct understanding and deepen awareness of a variety of of companies certified to use the Kurumin logo) issues, among all employees including issues pertaining to social discrimination, foreign residents, abuse of power, diversity, people with disabilities and work-life balance. •Employee Satisfaction Survey The Aeon Group as a whole trains employees on human rights In October 2013, an employee satisfaction survey on morale was issues at training for new executive officers, training for new conducted targeting all Aeon Group employees. employees of the Aeon Group, Aeon Business School (personnel The results of this survey and employee feedback will be training course), and meetings held for human resource utilized to develop our organization and systems to improve managers across the Aeon Group. At training for new employees motivation and make our workplaces more employee-friendly, of the Aeon Group, participants acquire basic knowledge related while also enhancing employee and customer satisfaction. The to human rights that is required of employees. results will also enable us to improve business performance by At the individual company level as well, efforts are made identifying the strengths and weaknesses of each company. to raise human rights awareness through a variety of in-house The results of the survey in fiscal 2013 will be used to propose training programs. new measures for fiscal 2014 and beyond. Creating Pleasant, Comfortable Workplaces Securing Work-Life Balance Aeon has been a strong advocate of helping employees balance •Four Career Paths for Employees [AEON Retail Co., Ltd] their work life with their child raising needs. Specifically, we strive AEON Retail Co., Ltd established four career paths in 2004. Under to encourage employees raising children to take childcare leave, this system employees may choose to take on the challenge including fathers, to reduce their overtime work, to take annual of a different career path. Also, there are no differences in paid leave, and to take time off to participate in parents’ days at opportunities for acquiring qualifications or applying for new their child’s school. positions depending on the path, and employees are able to Continuing on from fiscal 2012, in fiscal 2013 we implemented participate in various training programs regardless of the path. initiatives at each Aeon Group company based on our general Going forward, we will further develop our programs and business action plan based on the Act for Measures to Support systems so that female employees in particular have a workplace the Development of the Next Generation. As a result, as of environment where they can thrive professionally, while February 28, 2014, a total of 12 companies* have been certified achieving a work-life balance between their job and marriage or to display the Kurumin logo. childcare. Going forward, we will continue to implement measures aimed at this KPI. The four career paths available to AEON Retail Co., Ltd. employees * Aeon Group companies certified as of February 2014: AEON CO., LTD., AEON Retail Co., Ltd., The Daiei, Inc., SUNDAY CO., LTD., AEON CREDIT SERVICE CO., LTD., AEON Mall Co., (As of February 28, 2014) Ltd., AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd., ORIGIN TOSHU CO., LTD., CFS Corporation, AEON GLOBAL SCM CO., LTD. • Norational  (N) staff: Can essentially be transferred anywhere in Japan overseas • Rregional  egional (R) staff: Can be transferred anywhere within a specific block • Cdaily/monthly  ommunity-based staff: No transfer requiring relocation. Option of salary or hourly wage. • C  ontract workers: No transfer requiring relocation. Part-time only AEON Sustainability Report 2014 70 •C hildcare and Nursing Care Support Programs Labor Union Status [AEON Retail Co., Ltd] Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. makes childcare leave available for up to April 20 of the year the child enters middle school. While the Aeon emphasizes dialogue between labor and management, legal requirement under Japan’s Child Care and Family Care and discussions are held with the labor union through Safety and Leave Act is to attempt to make this available until the child Sanitation Committees and the labor-management council. The enters elementary school, we have provided extra time because labor union has encouraged part-time employees to become workers often want to take time off after that for other events in members, and as of the end of May 2014, the labor union had their child’s life. 215,000 members, including 171,000 part-time employees. For employees with families for which nursing care is deemed We actively work to incorporate employee feedback through necessary, we have established a nursing care leave program and workplace meetings participated in by union members. a nursing care work program that provide time off or shortened working hours. The following chart contains data on the number of Helping Employees Maintain or Improve Their Health employees taking childcare or nursing care leave in fiscal 2013. Aeon is working to ensure that all of its employees receive (Unit: person) regular health exams and that it thoroughly conducts followup, Childcare leave Nursing care leave which includes recommendations for additional medical AEON Retail Co., Ltd. 965 (2) 97 (6) screenings and work schedule adjustments based on the results Aeon Group 1,646 (5) 133 (10) of the exams, in order to properly manage employees’ health in * Numbers in parenthesises indicate the number of male employees taking childcare/nursing care leave compliance with the provisions of Japan’s Industrial Safety and Health Act. To help employees maintain or improve their health, •Welfare Programs we also have developed an insurance program to provide more The Aeon Good Life Club, in which some 200,000 Aeon Group comprehensive health exams to employees over the age of 40 employees are enrolled, administers various benefit programs to that are enrolled in Aeon’s corporate health insurance society. help members and their families live life to the fullest. Programs A counseling office is provided to support good mental health. include the payment of gift money for celebratory occasions It is one of the member services of the Aeon Good Life Club, a or condolences (mutual assistance), subsidies for childcare and general foundation run by the Aeon Group. nursing care, various forms of insurance (self-help support), and support for leisure activities and health (motivational assistance). Health and Safety Committees Health and Safety Committees are organized at the store and business office level in order to ensure the safety and health of employees and promote the creation of pleasant, comfortable working conditions. For example, at Aeon Retail, store managers, managers of personnel and general affairs departments, employee representatives and labor union representatives attend the committee meetings, which are held once a month. 71 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 Update Report Aeon’s Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake Ongoing assistance under the theme: ‘Taking Action for Great East Japan Earthquake Reconstruction Putting Ideas into Practice’ Although reconstruction efforts continue in the disaster affected areas, there are some obstacles due to the large scale March 2012 and complexity of the projects and a decline in public interest. We launched a variety of initiatives under the theme ‘Taking Action for In view of that, the government needs to be concerned with Great East Japan Earthquake Reconstruction Putting Ideas into Practice’ creative reconstruction as well as recovery, and local governments need to team with the private sector to develop In March 2012, one year since the earthquake and tsunami struck, Aeon new attractions in Tohoku. Aeon is working together with confirmed the resolve of Aeon people to provide ongoing assistance to communities to build stores to create new city infrastructures. the reconstruction e¬ort with the announcement of the ‘Taking Action for Great East Japan Earthquake Reconstruction Putting Ideas into Practice” initiative. Under this, Aeon people from across Japan have taken the lead in independently promoting activities nationwide, including the March 11, 2011 – The Great East Japan Earthquake strikes ‘Joining Hands Reforestation Program,’ in order to replenish the trees in We exerted our best efforts and did everything possible as a member of the disaster-a¬ected area, and doing volunteer work together with local the local community and as a provider of life style infrastructure in local areas governments and NPOs. This ‘Project Aeon Joining Hands’ is slated to continue with its activities for the foreseeable future. In addition, we created the ‘From Tohoku’ initiative to deliver products from the Tohoku At 3:00pm, immediately after the Great East Japan Earthquake struck, region to people across Japan via our stores and catalogues in order to Aeon set up a headquarters response team at the Makuhari head office, help revitalize disaster-hit local economies. based on earthquake and disaster preparedness rules that lay out response protocol. Later in the day, an on-the-spot headquarters response team was established at the Tohoku Company (Sendai Office). Both of these teams took charge of efforts to help customers evacuate In order to replenish the stores, confirm the safety of employees, and check damages to stores. trees lost to the tsunami in Information collected by these teams was in turn utilized to dispatch the earthquake devastated areas, Aeon started ‘Joining support teams and establish a system for delivering relief supplies based Hands Reforestation on disaster prevention agreements with local governments. We also took Program’ to plant 300,000 steps to ensure the safety of survivors by opening up the sales floor at trees in a 10 year. certain stores as an evacuation site for the surrounding communities. To fulfill our role as an integral life style infrastructure for the local community, we reopened stores as quickly as possible, called on our customers across Japan to help the relief effort with donations, and conducted the Yellow Receipt Campaign. We also began mobile sales services to ensure access was available to our products and services. Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign for Disaster Relief continues. The campaign was expanded to three days in March 2012-2013. Floors of a shopping center were open to disaster victims. Aeon pharmacists used store inventories to fill prescriptions for disaster victims Aeon employees have continued volunteer efforts to work along with local governments and NPOs. Operations were restarted on the first Hearing that people in temporary floor of Aeon Ishinomaki store on March shelters were inconvenienced by stores 31, 2011 being far away, Aeon dispatches trucks carrying goods. Aeon has been engaged in a charity project to screen Collecting cash donations in front of a “Gambaro (Go) Japan! Yellow Receipt the documentary film store in Japan (March 12, 2011 – May 8, Campaign” disaster-relief campaign Utagokoro. A delicious peach of Fukushima 2011) (April 8-12, 2011) to the all over Japan AEON Sustainability Report 2014 72 Update Report Aeon’s Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake March 2013 We continue to work on urban development, and to re-open stores and create new stores. In FY 2013, we continued our ‘Taking Action for Great East Japan Aeon stores. Aeon people could also continue their support through tree Earthquake Reconstruction’ program and began a number of initiatives planting and volunteer activities such as the “Project Aeon Joining to work with the community over the long term for reconstruction of the Hands.” As a business in the community, Aeon is working hand in hand disaster affected areas. Our customers throughout Japan could with people in the affected areas. contribute to Tohoku economic stimulus by buying Tohoku products at Together with our customers Together with the people of Tohoku Integrated Aeon Group Supporting the Children of Tohoku 300,000 Trees Planted in 10 Years Aiming for Participation of 300,000 Aeon People The Aeon “Happy Yellow Receipt CamThere is a plan for the planting of Since 2012, Aeon management and paign” is carried out on the 11th day of 300,000 trees in the Tohoku coastal area employees have been engaged together every month. Starting in 2012, the camover a 10-year period, starting from 2012. in a number of volunteer initiatives paign has been extended every March to In fiscal 2013, 17,870 trees were planted. throughout Japan to support the disasthree days, during which period 1% of In 2013, as par t of this ef for t, Aeon ter affected areas. In fiscal 2013, 63,274 the value of receipts in a specially desigstarted the ‘Sapling Foster Parents Campeople participated. In fiscal 2014 as well, nated box is earmarked to benefit the paign of the Tohoku Reconstruction we are planning 20 dispatches of volunchildren of Tohoku. In fiscal 2014, along Hometown Forest Program,’ inviting teers to Rikuzentakata city Iwate prefecwith donations from other companies, customers to take seedlings home to ture, to help in the fields and villages, and 111 million yen nurture and then return a year later for to Minami Soma Fukushima prefecture, was donated to planting in the disaster affected areas of to mow grass and tidy up houses. foundations Tohoku. The seedlings that have been that support the cared for by ‘foster parents’ are to be ‘life’ and ‘educacollec ted tion’ for children from all in Iwate, Miyagi, over Japan and Fukushima. and planted with lo cal volunteers in Tohoku. Support performance of 2014 of February Total contributions of Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign for Disaster Relief Amounts of Contributions 543 million yen and Donations in Kind (As of May 2013) Approximately 5.5 billion yen The number of tree planted Donation amount inside, in the affected area had you approach from customers 1.45 billion yen (As of May 2013) 37,680 trees Employees who participated “Tohoku Reconstruction in the disaster area volunteer WAON” issue number Total 1,587 persons 71,000 cards Employees who participated in volunteer ‘Fast Fish’ sales in Tohoku activities in the company and around produced raw materials use Total 68,011 persons Pack more than two million 73 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 C lose UP! Promoting New Town Planning and New Product Development in Tohoku Creating Safe and Prosperous Living Contributing to Communities with Stores Aeon has been supporting people’s everyday living, including by serving as an economic base in employing local people, and has been committed to resumption of store operations in the affected areas ever since the occurrence of the Great East Japan Earthquake. In cities, towns, and villages that suffered extensive damage, much more than simply reconstructing stores is necessary. Large-scale reconstruction, including surrounding infrastructure redevelopment is required. Aeon is creating jobs in stores opened in the Tohoku region, and offering products and services to support daily life. In addition, through the variety of Aeon stores, ranging from super markets to discount stores, convenience stores, etc., Aeon’s is creating stores that are responsive to the needs of the community. In fiscal 2013, Aeon opened 33 stores in the six prefectures of Tohoku. In fiscal 2014, Aeon will go on opening stores and working together with local governments and local residents to build prosperous communities. Sendai, Miyagi Sukagawa City, Kamaishi City, Prefecture Fukushima Prefecture Iwate Prefecture The Big Express Shogen Store was opened in Sunday Sukagawa Store, a home improvement Aeon Town Kamaishi opened in March 2014. March 2013. It is the Aeon Group’s first urban shop, opened in October 2013. It offers home The buildings and facilities are reinforced commercial park store in Tohoku and it will play delivery and rental tools geared to local needs. against disaster. The new jobs it will create will a key role in neighborhood infrastructure. contribute to the revitalization and development of Kamaishi City. Support Through Products Aeon is supporting reconstruction and revitalization of VOICE Encouraging Aeon Tohoku agriculture and livestock industries mainly through Employee Support TOPVALU product lines and other products containing It has already been three years since the Great East Tohoku ingredients with a “From Tohoku” logo sticker and Japan Earthquake. Since 2013, we have received selling these items throughout Japan. The number of “From much encouragement Tohoku” products a n d su p p o r t f r o m Aeon in the form of increased five-fold letters and volunteers in 2013 in compariwho help with work in son with 2012, to our fields. Strengtho v e r 2 0 0 i te m s . ened by this, we sold Aeon continues to eggs, vegetables, and work with Tohoku flowers from our farm Hiroshi Kawamura Joint Chief of Salad-noen producers for prodDevelopment and felt energized and President of NPO Jin with Sanriku Minami Soma, Fukushima uct development Railways and hopeful. Prefecture in 2014. Catalogue Sales of Tohoku Kuji City Fishing Cooperative Seasonal Foods AEON Sustainability Report 2014 74 Strengtheing Our CSR Platform Corporate Governance Basic Approach Corporate Governance Framework Aeon engages in ongoing efforts that address the three core Aeon operates under the ‘Company with Committees’ system management challenges of corporate governance reform, Group of corporate governance. Supervisory and executive functions management reform and execution of the Group’s corporate of management have been clearly divided, with supervisory social responsibility as a means to building a foundation that functions assigned to directors and executive functions fulfilled will continually enhance the corporate value of the entire Aeon by executive officers. Executive officers have been given wide Group. ranging authority to work toward the realization of our medium and long-term goals, which serves to facilitate timely managerial decision making, while the transparency and objectivity of those tasks are ensured by strong supervision from directors, thereby Corporate Governance Framework (As of May 30, 2013) Shareholders’ Meeting Propose appointment/ Appointment/ Propose appointment/ Appointment/dismissal dismissal of directors dismissal dismissal of independent auditors Supervision, Nominating Committee Appointment/ Outside Directors：3 Independent Auditors Executive dismissal Inside Directors：1 Officers Chairman of the Board: Outside Director President and 17 other executives Board of Directors Accounting Compensation Committee audit (Three double as a director) Outside Directors：5 Compensation Outside Directors：3 Inside Directors：4 Inside Directors：1 Chairman of the Board: Chairman of the Board: Outside Director non-executive Aeon Management Committee Audit Audit Committee Cooperation Outside Directors：4 Management Audit Office Chairman of the Board: Outside Director Group Management Structure Peace G Chief Chief Business G Chief Products Officer G Chief Officer for G Chief Financial Officer G Chief G Chief Officer for Function The Human Resources Development Officer Customer Environmental Officer Administration Officer Strategy, Digital, IT People Community G: Abbreviation for Group Audit Committee Business Nomination Chief Executive Officer of General Merchandise Store (GMS) Business Companies within the General Merchandise Store (GMS) Business Committee Chief Executive Officer of Supermarket(SM) Business Companies within the Supermarket (SM) Business Compensation Committee Chief Executive Officer of Discount Store (DS) Business Companies within the Discount Store (DS) Business General Shareholders' Meeting (Shareholders) Chief Executive Officer of Strategic Small Size Store Business Companies within the Strategic Small Size Store Business Board of Directors' Meeting President and Group CEO Vice President and Group COO Chief Executive Officer of Drugstore and Pharmacy Business Companies within the Drugstore and Pharmacy Business Chief Executive Officer of Financial Service Business Companies within the Financial Service Business Chief Executive Officer of Shopping Center Development Business Companies within the Shopping Center Development Business Chief Executive Officer of Service Business Companies within the Service Business Chief Executive Officer of Specialty Store Business Companies within the Specialty Store Business Chief Executive Officer of E-commerce Business Companies within the E-commerce Business Chief Executive Officer of ASEAN Business Companies within the ASEAN Business Chief Executive Officer of China Business Companies within the China Business Aeon Tohoku representative 75 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 Strengtheing Our CSR Platform Risk Management helping increase shareholder value. Basic Approach Additionally, against the background in recent years of rapid Aeon regards risk management as an important task of expansion of our business, Aeon recognizes the necessity of an management that is the responsibility of each department. Based even stronger governance framework. Based on this recognition, on this recognition, daily risk management is handled at the we are pursuing reinforcements of compliance training, financial company and department level, while internal control divisions data monitoring, internal auditing, and our risk management monitor the status of risk management at each department. framework, in order to bolster our internal control, including The Risk Management Committee performs reviews of and thorough compliance and risk management. makes decisions regarding external risk factors, such as new infectious diseases and large-scale earthquakes, that cannot be Board of Directors’ Meeting and Corporate Committees addressed by individual companies, and risks found in products, facilities and services across the entire Aeon Group. We work to Held Main Role foresee, predict and prevent risks with particularly high impact ・Oversees the execution of work duties of directors and Board of 7 times executive officers. potential by assembling interdivisional task forces. Directors’ Meeting per year ・Determines matters that must be decided by the board of directors as stipulated by Article 416 of Japan’s Companies Act Aeon has taken an organizational respose that includes and matters that cannot be mandated to executive officers. establishing in-house regulations and forming close ties with ・Oversees the execution of work duties of directors and investigative agencies with the aim of eliminating aggressive Audit 9 times executive officers. Committee per year ・Determines resolutions concerning whether to appoint, anti-social forces. dismiss or reappoint the Company’s auditor to be submitted to the general shareholders’ meeting. ・Determines resolutions concerning the appointment and Response to Incidents, Accidents and Natural Disasters Nomination 3 times Committee per year dismissal of directors to be submitted to the general Due to the effect of global warming, there has been an increase shareholders’ meeting. Compensation 3 times in heavy rain in Japan, and a variety of damage has occurred. ・Determines compensation of individual directors and Committee per year executive officers. To respond to such risks, rules and procedural manuals have been devised at Aeon to respond tolarge-scale natural disasters Internal Control Systems and major incidents and accidents and we are implementing Internal control systems are being further developed by education and training to ensure swift and precise responses. reinforcing systems for promoting corporate ethics, the In the event that a large-scale earthquake occurs, we will foundation of internal control. We are working to disseminate strive to minimize impacts from the event by quickly guiding and instill good corporate ethics in all employees of the Aeon customers and employees at store sites to evacuation areas, Group in accordance with the Aeon Code of Conduct, which was using Disaster Response Divisions at each Group company to established in 2003. In addition, an internal reporting channel confirm the safety of employees, using the Internet and Aeon’s (hotline) has been set up as a part of our monitoring activities. intranet to ascertain the status of each Group company and store Overall internal control design and operation is overseen site, and sharing information between companies to implement by the Internal Audit Department, which reports to the Aeon organizational countermeasures. Management Committee (highest level management committee) and Audit Committee. 開催状況 主な役割 ・取締役及び執行役の職務執行の監督 取締役会 年8回 ・会社法第416条に定められる取締役会で決定しなければならない事項及び執行役に委 任することができない事項の決定 ・取締役及び執行役の職務執行の監査 監査委員会 年13回 ・株主総会に提出する会計監査人の選任・解任・再任しないことに関する議案内容の決定 指名委員会 年3回 ・株主総会に提出する取締役の選任及び解任に関する議案内容の決定 報酬委員会 年3回 ・取締役及び執行役が受ける個人別の報酬等の内容の決定 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 76 Strengtheing Our CSR Platform Compliance and Corporate Ethics Basic Rules Companies in the Aeon Group have appointed managers in —Aeon Code of Conduct charge of promoting the code of conduct and have established Aeon established the Aeon Code of Conduct in 2003 in order administrative offices for the same purpose. These managers to express the Aeon Basic Principles in terms of a specific set of conduct training at their respective companies, conduct fact guidelines. Education and training on the code, establishment of finding investigations for consultations reported through the a Code of Conduct Hotline as an internal reporting system, and hotline, respond to questions, and report to Aeon Co., Ltd. monitoring activities (the Code of Conduct Survey) were all also Additionally, each store and business office selects one to three started in 2003 in conjunction with establishment of the code. employees to serve as leaders in charge of promoting the code The Aeon Code of Conduct makes explicit to Group of conduct. They work as training instructors to disseminate and employees criteria for action, consideration and judgment, instill corporate ethics at the workplace level. under the Aeon Basic Principles, in order to serve customers. It is intended as a shared set of values for the Aeon Group. Code of Conduct Hotline Aiming to make the Aeon Code of Conduct shared and Aeon set up the Aeon Code of Conduct Hotline as an internal mutually recognized by all employees, training on the code reporting system for employees for employees in 2004. The for Group companies in Japan began on a full-fledged basis in hotline can be used not only to report non-compliance and 2004. The same training has been provided by Group companies improprieties, but also to speak to someone about various overseas since 2006. workplace issues, such as not being able to speak with a boss or Since fiscal 2011, we have been working to create a system encountering something that is troubling. The hotline handles to disseminate and instill the Aeon Code of Conduct at Group a wide variety of reports and consultations. It is available to all companies in China and ASEAN nations in line with the ‘shift employees working at the Aeon Group. There are two lines in to Asian markets,’ one of the strategies outlined in our medium operation, one for internal consultations and another to connect term management plan. and consult with an outside party. Reports and consultations are passed on to Group companies Aeon Code of Conduct concerned as feedback through managers appointed in charge of promoting the code of conduct. Within two weeks time, an 1. Aeon people are always grateful to the many investigation is conducted to ascertain the facts behind each other individuals who provide support and help, report or consultation, and a response is made, with the results never forgetting to act with humanity. reported directly to Aeon Co., Ltd. In addition, all consultation matters are conveyed to the executive management team of 2. Aeon people value the trust of others more than Aeon Co., Ltd. and the presidents of all Group companies in a anything else, always acting with integrity and weekly and monthly report. sincerity in all situations. 3. Aeon people actively seek out ways to exceed Implementing the Aeon Code of Conduct Survey customer expectations. Once a year since 2003 we have conducted an anonymous Aeon Code of Conduct Survey of employee awareness to 4. Aeon people continually challenge themselves to ascertain the extent to which the Aeon Code of Conduct has find new ways to accomplish the Aeon ideals. penetrated the organization as well as to gather information on workplace issues, employee working formats, motivation levels 5. Aeon people support local community growth, and the like. This survey is used as a basis for assessing employee acting as good corporate citizens in serving awareness and corporate culture across the entire Aeon Group, society. including its overseas locations, through evaluation of the visibility of promotional activities, the personal commitment Promotion Framework of employees and the situation of each workplace. Its findings The Corporate Ethics Team was established to promote are also compiled, analyzed as well as shared with Aeon Group compliance and the code of conduct throughout the Aeon companies, and are used to help resolve specific social issues. Group, and is under the direct control of the chief officer for In fiscal 2013, we followed on from efforts in fiscal 2012, Group human resources at Aeon Co., Ltd. The Corporate Ethics adding questions related to the Code of Conduct within the Team develops and executes policies for the overall Aeon Group morale survey in Japan, and received 96,917 responses from 67 based on an annual plan and proposes and recommends specific Group companies in Japan, representing an increase of 118.5% measures to address various problems and issues facing the in response rate compared with the previous year. Overseas, we company. The status of compliance issues and initiatives as well instituted a web-based format and received 29,849 responses as the promotion of the code of conduct pertaining to the overall from 58 Group companies, representing an increase of 116.3% Group are reported to the Aeon Management Committee, which in response rate in year-on-year terms. This significant increase is Aeon Co., Ltd.’s executive organ, and to the Audit Committee in responses from both Japan and overseas helped us to better (outside directors). ascertain employee attitudes and inclinations. 77 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 Promoting Corporate Ethics at Group Companies management both within and outside their own respective Overseas companies. The curriculum aims to empower participants with Since 2006, Aeon has begun introducing Code of Conduct the ability to make their own decisions based on the Aeon Code training, establishing hotlines, and instituting monitoring systems of Conduct and to lead as well as set a precedent for general (the Code of Conduct Survey) at Group companies overseas. employees. In fiscal 2013, 48 Group companies overseas participated in executive management training. We are expanding our shared •Training for Code of Conduct Promotion Leaders (since 2003) and mutual corporate activities year by year, both inside and Participants learn about corporate ethics and how to proceed outside Japan, including newly operating overseas business sites. with related practices. They also acquire skills for conducting study sessions at their own workplaces on the material covered. TOPICS •General Training (since 2006) Utilizing a Picture Book to Share the All employees of the Aeon Group participate in general training Aeon Basic Principles once a year to review the Aeon Code of Conduct. Reconfirming the necessity of corporate ethics helps create a shared set of Aeon makes use of the picture book Arigatou no Yakusoku (“The values among employees. Promise of Thank You,” Text by Masato Ochi with pictures by Soya Nagashima) as a tool to share and encourage mutual understanding of the Aeon Basic Principles among new employees, employees of new •Training for New Employees (since 2004) New employees of Group companies receive training as a part of Group companies, and employees overseas whose native language is new employee orientation. Through the Aeon Code of Conduct, not Japanese. employees learn about acting and making decisions while By providing the picture book, which introduces the importance putting customers front and center. of being grateful and saying ‘thank you’ in any situation, we aim to boost understanding of the essence of our principles in an intuitive manner. Creating Support and Awareness-Raising Tools In addition to training programs, Aeon also creates a variety of tools to disseminate and instill its Code of Conduct. Education and Training For example, the Aeon Code of Conduct Newsletter, Aeon conducts training to disseminate and instill the Aeon Code published monthly since 2004, presents issues reported or of Conduct as a buttress for corporate ethics, primarily through consulted on via the Aeon Code of Conduct hotline, reports four programs: training for executive management, training on the results of training programs, and conveys Aeon’s values for code of conduct promotion leaders, general training, and through excerpts from the writings of our founder. training for new employees. A code of conduct curriculum is also Every month 285,000 copies are printed and distributed to incorporated into problems asked on hiring examinations and in employees of Aeon Group companies. The newsletter has been recruitment training. very well received by employees, promoting some to revisit the Code of Conduct and take advantage of the hotline. •Training for Executive Management (since 2003) Executive management from Group companies learns about and shares the situation surrounding corporate ethics and risk Regarding the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission’s Primary Recurrence Prevention Measures Recommendation for an Administrative Monetary Penalty Payment Order to 1. H  old regular training sessions to raise compliance awareness and be Issued Against an Aeon Executive Officer. prevent insider trading On May 30, 2014, the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission announced that it had sent 1) Compliance training for executives (target: 1 session/year) a recommendation to the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Financial Services Agency for an 2) Compliance training for general employees (target: 1 session/year) 2. R  evise Aeon regulations on Internal Information Management and administrative monetary penalty payment order to be issued against one of Aeon’s executive officers Insider Trading Restrictions for insider trading, an infraction of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. We sincerely and deeply 1) Thoroughly strengthen a reporting system regarding trading apologize for this to all of our shareholders, investors, and other stakeholders. restrictions After being alerted of this case, we immediately organized a recurrence prevention committee 3. Submission of executive pledges and has proceeded to seek out the causes of the insider trading, formulate concrete measures to 1) Require executives to submit pledges once a year prevent recurrence, and thoroughly guide the entire Group in the matter. Once the case came to 2) Stringently enforce the pledges light, we immediately held a briefing for all employees to explain revisions to Aeon's insider trading 4. Bolster our information management framework prevention regulations, including information on the revisions, effective from April 1, 2014, to the Financial 1) Increase the stringent handling of confidential information among Instruments and Exchange Act, etc. In addition, we are working to increase compliance awareness by, for corporate committees 2) Enhance protection of confidential information at the head office example, requiring pledge forms from newly appointed executives. Going forward, we will strive for the and at business sites following measures to prevent recurrence. AEON Sustainability Report 2014 78 Strengtheing Our CSR Platform Environmental Management Environmental Policy System Aeon Environmental Policy* Aeon established the Aeon Sustainability Principle in line with the Aeon Basic Principles as the fundamental policy that governs We strive to balance enriching lifestyles with environmental the environmental and social contribution activities that all Aeon conservation by providing safe and comfortable stores, products Group companies should take part in. Following these policies, and services to our customers. the Aeon ECO Project and the Aeon Biodiversity Principle also We also operate an environmental management system to represent environmental goals and policies for the entire Group. implement measures, conduct periodical reviews, and promote Effective measures are conducted following the continual improvements. environmental policies and environmental management systems 1. We will strive to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases in established by each Group company based on their own unique all of our business activities in order to realize a low-carbon characteristics. This is because the Aeon Group encompasses a society. multitude of business areas and the challenges that each Group (1) We will continually improve the energy efficiency of our company faces may differ depending on their operating format stores. and sector. (2) We will strive to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases As an example, Aeon Co., Ltd. undertakes environmental in all phases of our products’ supply chain. protection activities based on the Aeon Environmental Policy, 2. We will promote conservation activities and ascertain the which sets targets and objectives for such activities pursuant to benefits and impact of our business activities on natural the key issues defined in the Aeon Sustainability Principle. ecosystems. Targets for the following fiscal year are determined by sharing (1) We will strive to develop and procure products that environmental activities undertaken across the entire Group use properly managed resources in consideration of under the guidance of the Group Chief Environmental Officer as sustainability. well as by an evaluation of the progress toward meeting previous (2) We will promote tree planting and raising activities as well targets. as undertake activities that safeguard the ecosystems of local communities. Environmental Policy System 3. We will strive to implement resources conservation and resources recycling initiatives in order to use resources in a Peace sustainable manner. Aeon (1) We will promote “reduce, reuse and recycle” for all the Basic Principles The Customer resources we use. p.1 People Community (2) We will strive to select raw and general materials that have less of an impact on the environment. Aeon Aeon ECO Project 4. We will comply with legal requirements and with other Group-wide Sustainability p.27 requirements related to our environmental aspects, and Policy Principle Aeon Biodiversity Principle strive to prevent pollution. In addition, we will communicate p.33 p.8 this policy to all persons working for or on benalf of the organization as well as making it available to the public. Policy of 5. We will develop partnerships with many stakeholders, Individual Environmental Environmental Environmental Companies Guideline of Policy of Policy of including our customers, and widen the reach of our Aeon Co., Ltd. Company B Company C initiatives. Enacted March 1, 2011 Motoya Okada President Aeon Co., Ltd. * The Environmental Guideline of AEON CO., LTD. is applied in the following group companies: AEON CO., LTD., AEON Retail Co., Ltd., AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd., MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., MAXVALU CHUKYO CO., LTD., MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD., AEON BIG CO., LTD., Aeon Integrated Business Service Co., Ltd., My Basket CO., LTD., AEONBIKE Co. Ltd., AEONLIQUOR Co., Ltd. 79 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 ISO Certification Environmental Education As of February 28, 2014, 36 companies in the Aeon Group have Aeon provides time in its various training sessions for learning acquired ISO 14001 certification, the international standard for about Aeon’s environmental principles and policies in order to environmental management systems. raise the awareness of employees regarding the environment. Since fiscal 2008 we have encouraged employees to take List of ISO-Certified Companies (As of February 28, 2013) the Certification Test for Environmental Specialists® (Eco Test)*. Department managers at the head office and higher ranked ISO9001 ISO14001 personnel as well as store managers and others take the test. To AEON CO., LTD. AEON Mall Co., Ltd. date, a total of 7,291 (903, fiscal 2013) out of 12,000 (1,816, fiscal AEON Retail Co., Ltd. AEON KYUSHU CO., LTD. 2013) Aeon personnel who took the test have passed. AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd. AEON CREDIT SERVICE CO., LTD. Companies that have acquired ISO 14001 certification MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD. AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD. provide training for their employees. For example, Aeon Retail MAXVALU KITA TOHOKU CO., LTD. Maxvalu Kyushu Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. has established a web-based training tool and requires MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD. Maxvalu Hokkaido Co, Ltd. employees to keep an ISO 14001 handbook with them. Training MAXVALU CHUKYO CO., LTD.* AEON DELIGHT CO., LTD. seminars for internal environmental auditors led by qualified MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD. LAURA ASHLEY JAPAN CO., LTD. instructors are also held every year to facilitate smooth operation MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD. Mega Sports Co., Ltd. of the environmental management system. As of February 2014, Aeon Integrated Business Service Co., Ltd. COX CO., LTD. a total of 1,799 employees (81, fiscal 2013) have attended the AEON BIG CO., LTD. Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd. seminars since 2000, when ISO certification was acquired. My Basket CO., LTD. Research Institute For Quality Living Co., Ltd. * The Certification Test for Environmental Specialists is a certification program sponsored by the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry. It was started in 2006 in order Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd. AEON Hokkaido Corporation to develop human resources who possess broad-reaching basic knowledge of AEON FOOD SUPPLY Co., Ltd. AEON GLOBAL SCM CO., LTD. environmental issues and who can utilize their awareness of these issues in everyday activities, and to help build a sustainable society with a balance between the Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd. Guangdong JUSCO Teem Stores Co., Ltd. environment and the economy. Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd.* Qingdao AEON Dongtai Co., Ltd. * In March 2013, Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd. was merged MAXVALU CHUKYO CO., LTD. Wastewater Management Wastewater discharged from Aeon stores rarely if ever contains Environmental Specialist Certification hazardous substances. Sometimes, however, this wastewater may contain large amounts of oils, which can exceed legal limits or clog up wastewater pipes leading to a leakage or other accident. As a result, Aeon conducts training for its employees and the employees of its tenants to ensure day to day maintenance is correctly performed, including compliance with cleaning rules for grease traps. We have also included grease trap monitoring as part of the required hygiene checks for our stores, and adopted a system where third-parties regularly perform these checks. Furthermore, Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. and several other Aeon Group companies perform water quality testing concurrently that includes sewerage as part of annual voluntary inspections. Stores where problems are identified are required to take corrective actions which helps to improve our overall wastewater management practices. We have set voluntary standards that are set 5% below legal requirements and take immediate action if any values exceed these standards during voluntary inspections. AEON Sustainability Report 2014 80 Strengtheing Our CSR Platform Environmental Management FY 2013 Environmental Accounting Aeon Group Category Accounting items Environmental Economic benefits Environmental conservation costs of environmental conservation (Yen) conservation (Yen) benefits (t-CO2) Installation cost for photovoltaic power systems 4,291,734 35,131 691,551.7 Investments in energy efficient equipment for new stores* 4,207,820 603,310 2,750,886.7 Adoption cost of CO2 refrigerant at new stores 209,254 7,636 160.1 Investments in energy efficient equipment at existing stores* 1,361,033 337,455 324,076.3 Realization of a Installation of LED lighting at existing stores 10,947,895 1,853,867 967,248.3 Low-carbon Society Visualization of energy usage at existing stores 261,971 60,643 1,256.8 Costs associated with energy management seminars (participation) 9,074 0 0.0 FC filling costs 169,891 0 0.0 Cost to train the LCA (life cycle assessment) calculation 1,767 0 0.0 Total 21,460,441 2,898,045 4,735,179.8 Aeon Hometown Forest program implementation costs 122,644 0 0.0 Aeon Hometown Forest program tree planting festival 105,163 0 0.0 Conservation of Biodiversity Cost of regular maintenance for planted zones 576,623 0 0.0 Cost of measuring the impact assessment of the ecosystem 300 0 0.0 Total 804,730 0 0.0 Payment of third-party processing required under the Act on the Promotion of Sorted Collection and Recycling of Containers and Packaging 739,856 0 0.0 Operating costs for home appliance recycling program 113,265 0 0.0 Better Use of Resources Payment of 2 yen to customers who declined plastic bags 747,663 543,257 0.0 Processing cost of recyclables collected in-store 360,080 235,911 0.0 Processing cost of recycling of food residue 270,191 7,772 0.0 Total 2,231,057 786,941 0.0 Contributions to the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign 275,056 0 0.0 Addressing Social Issues Activity costs of the Aeon Cheers Club 3,485 0 0.0 Total 278,542 0 0.0 Cost of preparing the Aeon Environmental and Social Report 9,341 0 0.0 Operating costs of environmental website 1,878 0 0.0 Cost of operating or exhibiting at environmental events 1,283 0 0.0 Environmental Communication Environmental advertising (external) 11,536 0 0.0 Cost of Eco Test 15,694 0 0.0 Membership dues in and donations for environmental organizations 66,650 0 0.0 Total 106,385 0 0.0 Processing cost of waste generated by stores and offices 9,692,076 0 0.0 Maintenance of pollution prevention equipment and devices (including inspections and testing) 2,970,010 0 0.0 Personnel costs 236,567 0 0.0 Environmental Management Operating cost of environmental management system 62,796 0 0.0 Costs for preventing environmental accidents and for restoring in case of accident 574,934 0 0.0 Cost of organizing waste management seminars 31 0 0.0 Total 13,536,415 0 0.0 81 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 GMS/SUC/DS SM Small Size Stores Developer Subtotal Subtotal Subtotal Subtotal Environmental Economic benefits Environmental Environmental Economic benefits Environmental Environmental Economic benefits Environmental Environmental Economic benefits Environmental conservation of environmental conservation conservation of environmental conservation conservation of environmental conservation conservation of environmental conservation costs (Yen) conservation (Yen) benefits (t-CO2) costs (Yen) conservation (Yen) benefits (t-CO2) costs (Yen) conservation (Yen) benefits (t-CO2) costs (Yen) conservation (Yen) benefits (t-CO2) 24,126 933 29.4 4,250 3,107 30.6 2,466 31,090 691,310.0 4,260,891 0 181.7 1,590,806 354,575 836,121.3 307,622 138,723 1,668,422.3 762,745 110,012 246,343.1 1,546,646 0 0.0 188,200 2,719 57.1 21,054 4,917 103.0 0 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 817,096 248,620 5,933.2 169,253 18,555 370.1 274,105 33,000 317,773.0 100,577 37,279 0.0 10,019,607 1,662,064 42,026.0 384,765 78,007 673,889.5 54,098 27,461 249,701.1 489,423 86,332 1,631.7 7,532 3,833 89.4 230,021 56,809 1,167.4 0 0 0.0 24,418 0 0.0 9,045 0 0.0 29 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 112,371 0 0.0 57,519 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 1,767 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 12,768,785 2,272,747 884,256.4 1,176,282 300,120 2,343,982.9 1,093,415 201,564 1,505,127.2 6,421,957 123,612 1,813.3 37,587 0 0.0 29,205 0 0.0 0.0 0 0.0 55,851 0 0.0 94,119 0 0.0 6,332 0 0.0 0.0 0 0.0 4,711 0 0.0 121,559 0 0.0 32,596 0 0.0 0.0 0 0.0 422,467 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0.0 0 0.0 300 0 0.0 253,266 0 0.0 68,134 0 0.0 0.0 0 0.0 483,330 0 0.0 406,350 0 0.0 266,345 0 0.0 67,160 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 113,241 0 0.0 23 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 366,680 354,050 0.0 380,983 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 132,158 125,342 0.0 227,921 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 49,792 0 0.0 189,784 0 0.0 30,614 7,772 0.0 0 0 0.0 1,068,222 479,392 0.0 1,065,058 0 0.0 97,775 7,772 0.0 0 0 0.0 219,974 0 0.0 49,090 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 5,992 0 0.0 3,315 0 0.0 170 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 223,289 0 0.0 49,260 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 5,992 0 0.0 2,069 0 0.0 3,572 0 0.0 3,700 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 118 0 0.0 1,760 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 519 0 0.0 764 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 9,255 0 0.0 2,280 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 7,656 0 0.0 2,789 0 0.0 337 0 0.0 4,910 0 0.0 24,604 0 0.0 41,935 0 0.0 110 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 44,223 0 0.0 53,103 0 0.0 4,147 0 0.0 4,910 0 0.0 6,415,467 0 0.0 1,311,423 0 0.0 476,868 0 0.0 1,488,317 0 0.0 677,731 0 0.0 383,230 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 1,909,048 0 0.0 135,517 0 0.0 88,890 0 0.0 12,159 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 23,430 0 0.0 15,319 0 0.0 3 0 0.0 24,042 0 0.0 1,402 0 0.0 3,828 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 569,703 0 0.0 19 0 0.0 12 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 7,253,569 0 0.0 1,802,704 0 0.0 489,030 0 0.0 3,991,112 0 0.0 Companies covered: AEON Retail, The Daiei, Companies covered: MV Hokkaido, MV Companies covered: MINISTOP, ORIGIN Companies covered: AEON Mall, AEON TOWN AEON Hokkaido, AEON KYUSHU, AEON Tohoku, MV MINAMI TOHOKU, MV KANTO, TOSHU, My Basket, RECODS RYUKYU, SUNDAY, JOY, Bon Belta, AEON AEON MARKET, MV Tokai, MV HOKURIKU, MV SUPERCENTER, AEON BIG NAGANO, MV Chubu, KOHYO, MV Nishinihon, marunaka, SANYO MARUNAKA, MV Kyushu (MV: MAXVALU) AEON Sustainability Report 2014 82 Strengtheing Our CSR Platform Environmental Management FY2012 ISO 14001 Targets and Performance AEON Retail Co., Ltd., Maxvalu six companies*, AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd., AEON BIG CO., LTD. ◎＝Achieved △・×＝Did not achieve, but will continue to make efforts Environmental Percentage over Category Targets Performance Evaluation Department responsible Policies target FY2011 Results: 2,228,278 thousand kWh FY2012 Target: 2,086,655 thousand kWh Stated target: 101.3% •G  eneral Affairs Division Reduction of electricity FY2012 Results: 2,113,695 thousand kWh Comparison last year: △ (Facility Management consumption * Total for AEON Retail Co., Ltd., MaxValu Co., Ltd., 6companies, 94.9% Group) AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd., and AEON BIG CO., LTD. Stores •C  onstruction Department Smart Aeon concept developed To promote Eco Store of new •G  eneral Affairs Division Realization of a Concept embodied AEON Mall Yahatahigashi, AEON – ◎ stores and existing stores (Facility Management Lowcarbon Society Mall Osaka Dome City, Maxvalu shinhfunabashi Group) Evaluation MSC: Domestic most 13 fish species, 21 kinds sale – for each • Each product division (February 28, 2013) Sales of environment-friendly department Products products Evaluation SELF + SERVICE, expand the PB products carbon offset 110.9% of previous for each • S ELF+SERVICE Department Conducted collection of clothing year department FY2011 Results: 9,234,431kg FY2012 Target: 8,222,858kg Stated target: 110.0% •G  eneral Affairs Division Reduction of the amount of FY2012 Results: 9,046,334kg Comparison last year: △ •D  epartment of Environment material *T  otal for AEON Retail Co., Ltd., MaxValu Co., Ltd., 98.0% and Social Contribution 6companies, AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd., and AEON BIG CO., LTD. Better Use of Stores FY2011 Results: 0.61% Resources FY2012 Target: 0.48% FY2012 Results: 0.55% Stated target: 109.6% Maintain food waste-to-sales • S tore Operations Department *A  verage Value of AEON Retail Co., Ltd., MaxValu Co., Comparison last year: △ ratio at below 0.5% • F ood Products Division Ltd., 6companies, AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd., and 89.4% AEON BIG CO., LTD. (AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd. achieved) • Management skill improvement at the local training Continuation of tree planting and management development manual •C  onstruction Department Conservation of With activities and education activities • Creating a separate store management book – ◎ •D  epartment of Environment Biodiversity Customers tree “Aeon Hometown Forests •P  lanned implementation of the budget and maintain and Social Contribution Program” simple settings by store •G  eneral Affairs Division Thorough cleaning grease traps, • First voluntary standards violation stores: 11 stores (Facility Management Pollution Violation rate: 4.4 % Stores to comply with effluent water down. △ Group) Prevention decrease quality standards • Concrete measures against violation stores advance • Department of Environment and Social Contribution •G  eneral Affairs Division • Creating a procedure manual for stores, headquarters Establishing an environmental (Facility Management for. And, began the operation of the store. In general Management management system for small – △ Group) • To the development of management system has not stores. •D  epartment of Environment been. and Social Contribution * MAXVALU KITA TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., MAXVALU CHUKYO CO., LTD., MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD. 83 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 FY2012 Environmental load in business activities Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. (including head office building) Output Customers Packaging Disposal Input Output CO2 absorption through tree planting*2 1,193t-CO2 Electricity:2,015,043,893kWh Products CO2 CO2 Private power generation: 91,510,387kWh In-store CO2 Renewable energy power generation: 6,463,169kWh CO2 emissions*1 1,008,582t-CO2 CO2 Energy*4 CO2 CO2 collection boxes Utility gas : 34,627,951m3 LPG : 1,910,105kg Packaging Discharge 211,812t Discharged into air Heavy oil : 6,317kℓ Plastic bags : 7,080t Light oil : 25kℓ Food trays : 5,275t Gasoline : 159kℓ Wrapping paper, Stores Kerosene : 175kℓ paper bags : 1,097t Recycling Separated Food scraps CO2 reduction collection Styrofoam volume reduction through collection boxes Waste oil of recyclable items Cardboard 26,461t-CO2*3 Other materials*4 Waste products Recycled Water Flyers : 5,999t Products 77,091t 9,161,800m3 OA, photocopy paper : 1,136t Disposal Recycling manufacturers Input Output Recyclable items collected CO2 emissions*5 Suppliers Aluminum cans: 109,970t-CO2 Energy*4 1,306t Light oil：41,973kℓ Food trays: 708t Waste products Products Paper cartons: 1,458t Distribution center Cardboard PET bottles: 2,789t *1 Calculations based on energy consumption of equipment at stores and business places. Calculated using the CO2 emission coefficient (2.62t-CO2/kl) for light oil. *2 Calculated based on the group-wide total number of trees planted under the “Aeon Hometown Forest” program. *3 Calculated based on the 3R basic unit method (Waste Management and Recycling Department, Ministry of the Environment; March 2013). *4 Calculated by multiplying the ratio of Aeon Retail by the total energy used by Aeon Global SCM. *5 Calculated using the CO2 emission coefficient (2.62t-CO2/kl) for light oil. AEON Sustainability Report 2014 84 Independent Review Heritage Item. Aeon is deserving of respect for being a major Japanese retailer that has endeavored to offer MSCand ASC-certified products from an early date. However, to protect marine resources, programs are necessary that are capable of effecting a transformation of the Japanese diet. Walmart has announced that it is switching all of the seafood in its stores to MSC-certified products. Above and beyond fresh seafood, I hope Aeon considers adopting MSC and ASC products for canned goods and for prepared lunches in its convenience stores. At the same Kawaguchi Mariko time, from the perspective of conserving biodiversity, forest resources Daiwa Institute of Research must also be included. Over and above the sale of FSC-certified paper Chief Researcher Research Division products, I am hopeful for FSC-certified lumber to be utilized when rolling out new convenience stores. I expect this to be an opportunity 2003 is often referred to in Japan as ‘CSR gannen’ (the first year of CSR). for Aeon to communicate to consumers the importance of conserving The Aeon Group was Japan’s first retailer to sign the United Nations biodiversity, while simultaneously ensuring the sustainability of the Global Compact in 2004, while also commencing sales of Fairtrade Group’s supply chain. products. Afterwards, Aeon was the first major corporation to acquire Supply chain management is, however, thoroughly considered the SA 8000 human rights certification. Since CSR activities began at throughout the Aeon Group’s four key issues. At present, Aeon Supplier Japanese corporations, the Group has continued to be a leader in CSR, Code of Conduct agreements with approximately 900 business partners including measures such as continually building a sustainable supply appear to be a driver of growth for more products carrying MSC, ASC, chain. FSC, and Fairtrade certifications. On being requested to write an Independent Review, I began by Ethical consumption is rapidly spreading, specifically among the reexamining the Group’s activities overall, which showed me that CSR younger demographic. Rather than only selling individual organic, MSC, is comprehensively and strategically built into Aeon’s operations, with eco-products, etc., is not now the time to present the new framework over 10 years of actual implementation backing up their policies. As a of ethical consumption to consumers? This offers the possible transition customer who shops at Aeon stores, I can directly attest to this fact. For beyond just food products, and into apparel, such as organic cotton, this Independent Review, I would like to comment on two distinctive as well as accessories, bags, and other items. From the perspective initiatives from the four key issues that Aeon has announced. of educating consumers, I would like to encourage Aeon to consider First, with regard to the “realization of a low-carbon society,” providing information on ethical consumption. Aeon has announced an ambitious goal of reducing energy usage, With regard to the activity of female employees, the Group has per unit area of floor space in stores, to approximately half of 2010 announced an ambitious 2020 target that surpasses “Abenomics” with levels by 2020. One means of doing so is their acquisition of the energy a 50% ratio of female managers. However, there are more than a few management standard ISO 50001. Looking at Aeon’s results up to fiscal areas in Asia that already have large numbers of female managers. 2013, the Group is ahead of its own goals, which demonstrates the When I am shopping, I feel more of an affinity toward stores run by seriousness of their intent. In addition, Aeon’s mall business is actively women. Furthermore, a society where women are able to work and rolling out Eco Stores. Committing to eco-conscious changes at malls raise children with peace of mind is also a preferable society for men, is a very socially significant action, over and above its significance as an children, and the elderly. action for reducing the environmental impacts of the Group. Given the I feel that Aeon’s corporate culture overall is one with lofty strong draw that malls have on customers, Eco Stores can powerfully medium-to long-term goals, and one where promises are fulfilled. At lead the community in environmentally-friendly actions and can affect the same time, some of the current plans and targets remain abstract the consciousness and lifestyles of customers who visit the stores. in areas, and include numerical statements that are difficult to grasp. Four malls (Smart Aeon) opened in 2013, and I am interested in seeing I encourage Aeon to standardize and unify the expressions used in its Aeon’s plans going forward. Does the Group have a target for the objectives. While carrying out its social duty as a leading Asian retailer, I number of stores it wants to open by 2020? If no store target has been am hopeful that Aeon will aim for further development as a corporation set, is there a target floor space ratio for their eco-friendly changes? by contributing to building a sustainable society. A concrete numerical target is easy for stakeholders to understand and should prove to be motivational for activities inside the Group. In Profile addition, global warming is at a level that cannot be forestalled by lowMs. Kawaguchi joined Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. after getting her Master’s carbon efforts, such that social infrastructure is now being damaged by Degree from Hitotsubashi University’s Graduate School in 1986. Then abnormal weather phenomena such as atypical rainfall, tornados, etc. I she transferred to the Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd. in 1994 and, after believe that adaptive countermeasures such as strengthening regionconducting corporate research, was promoted in 2010 to Director of the wide disaster prevention will be necessary in order to minimize damage CSR Promotion Department /CSR Manager of the Corporate Comunication from abnormal weather phenomena caused by climate change. Department at the Daiwa Securities Group Inc. She returned to the Daiwa With regard to conservation of biodiversity, so-called social Institute of Research Ltd. in July 2011 and became a Chief Researcher in the contribution programs such as conserving the medaka (Japanese Research Division t from April 2012. Her research at Daiwa covers overall CSR, killifish) and other scarce species are popular. However, the Aeon social business, ethical consumption, and socially responsible investing (SRI). Group’s initiatives stand out because the Group is proactively She also serves as Chief Executive of the NPO Japan Sustainable Investment developing and marketing products that contribute to conserving Forum. She is a Chartered Member of the Securities Analysts Association of biodiversity, while the Group is actively devoting effort to sustainable Japan, a Council Member of the Sustainability Forum Japan, and a Member seafood, a topic beginning to garner attention recently. Focus is of the Tokyo Metropolitan Government’s Environmental Council. Her increasingly turning to catch limits on freshwater eel and Pacific bluefin publications include “Introduction to Socially Responsible Investing,” jointly tuna, though globally, the issue of endangered marine resources is not authored (Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc.), and “CSR: Raising Corporate Value,” a new one — MSC certification started in the late 1990s. High quality jointly authored (Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc.). and tasty seafood is also indispensible for handing down to future generations Japan’s traditional cuisine, which has become a World 85 AEON Sustainability Report 2014 Group Chief Environmental Officer's Commitment Primary environmental conservation and social contribution activities 1965 Donation of 1,000 cherry trees to the city of Okazaki at the opening of the Okazaki Okadaya Store 1977 Established of the JUSCO Company Welfare Fund (now known as the Aeon Welfare Fund) 1979 Established Cultural Foundation of Okada 1989 JUSCO Group is renamed Aeon Group, and the Aeon Group 1% Club (now known as the Aeon 1% Club) is established 1990 Launched the JUSCO Earth-Friendly Committee The Aeon 1% Club started the Small Ambassadors (now known as Teenage Ambassadors ) Program as a part of its international cultural and personnel exchange activities Yukio Ishizuka 1991 Launched the Aeon Hometown Forests Program, at Jaya JUSCO Malacca Store (Malaysia) as its first store Group Chief Environmental Established the Aeon Group Environment Foundation (now known as the Aeon Environment Officer Foundation) AEON CO., LTD. Started Clean & Green activities Commenced the Bring Your Own Shopping Bag campaign on a trial basis Began trial operation of the food tray collection and recycling campaign Aeon is promoting ‘sustainable management’ that contributes both 1992 Planted trees at JUSCO Shin Hisai Store (now known as Aeon Hisai) – the first store in Japan to the development of a sustainable society and to the growth of the under the Aeon Hometown Forests Program Aeon Group. 1993 Started development of organic and other agricultural produce as the Gurinai (now known as TOPVALU Gurinai) private label Aeon’ s sustainable management is built on the foundation of 1994 Formulated the independent Aeon Heart Building Design Standards based on the Heart Aeon’ s basic principle, “pursuing peace, respecting humanity and Building Law ( the Barrier Free New Law from December 2006). Opened JUSCO Minamikata Store as the first building in Japan certified under the Heart Building Law contributing to local communities, always with the customer’ s point 1995 Introduced returnable food container and reusable hanger systems of view at its core.” Aeon people around the world share the Aeon 1996 Launched the Environment Committee philosophy and are able to respond to global social issues as well as to 1997 Founded the JUSCO Children's Eco Club (now known as the Aeon Cheers Club) 1998 The Aeon Group Environment Foundation conducted the 1st tree planting project to the demands of each particular community. revitalize the forests at the Great Wall of China Considering the four key issues of the Aeon Sustainability Principle 2000 Launched the My Basket and My Bag campaigns Started sales of TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN products (formulated March 2011): 1) realization of a low-carbon society, 2) Commenced development of SELF + SERVICE ecology shops conservation of biodiversity, 3) better use of resources, 4) addressing Acquired ISO 14001 certification across the entire company social issues, we have set medium-term (through 2016) and long2001 Changed company name to Aeon Co., Ltd. and started the Aeon Day Started the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign term (through 2020) goals for each key issue and instituted a system Aeon 1% Club starts support for the construction of schools in Cambodia (total of 149 of Key Performance Indicators (KPI) to quantitatively measure levels of schools from 2001 to 2003) achievement. KPI performance is reported to all stakeholders annually 2002 Started Aeon Clean Road Activities in partnership with the Volunteer Support Program of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism in the “Aeon Environment and Social Report” on our website (the 2014 2003 Began use of biomass packaging materials edition is scheduled to be available in September) Formulated the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct In fiscal 2013, along with checking the progress of KPI, and 2004 Formulated the Basic Policy for the Prevention of Global Warming Announced participation in the Global Compact advocated by the United Nations strengthening links between our CSR activities and our operations Achieved SA8000 certification for TOPVALU supplier management and Aeon headquarters strategy, we organized new goals, such as “working towards zero waste operations Commenced sales of TOPVALU Fair Trade Coffee under the TOPVALU label in stores,” “providing products to support our customers’ healthy life,” Aeon 1% Club starts support for the construction of schools in Nepal (total of 57 schools and “providing more fair trade products,” in a “Big Challenge 2020” from 2004 to 2005) campaign. 2005 First Eco Store, Aeon Chikusa SC, opens 2006 Second Eco Store, Aeon Kashiwa SC, Third Eco Store, Aeon Dainichi SC, opens In 2013 we celebrated over 10 million trees planted since 1991. Stores and shopping centers acquire chain of custody certification for processing and Commemorative celebrations in several countries, and publication of a distribution of MSC certified products (MSC-CoC), the first such certification by a general merchandiser in Japan booklet outlining the significance of our tree planting activities and our Aeon 1% Club starts support for the construction of schools in Laos (Total of 120 schools Basic Principles, have given us new resolve in our initiatives and for the from 2006 to 2009) next 10 million trees. 2007 Stop Free Plastic Shopping Bag Program begins with the JUSCO Higashiyamanijou Store Aeon Co., Ltd. becomes the first company in the general retailing industry to sign an Aeon plans to continue active dialogue with our stakeholders to agreement on initiatives towards the establishment of a recycling-oriented society with the intensify sustainable management and realize a sustainable society. Japanese Ministry of the Environment Forth Eco Store, Aeon Kagoshima SC, open 2008 Aeon formulates the Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming, becoming the first retailer in Japan to name a specific goal for reducing output of CO2 Aeon Clean Japan campaign started as an initiative to mark Aeon’s 250th anniversary Ran a carbon offsetting campaign for the CO2 produced when delivering year-end gifts Fifth Eco Store, Taki Crystal Town CS, Sixth Eco Store, Aeon Tomakomai SC, Seventh Eco Store, Aeon Laketown, Eighth Eco Store, Aeon Hiezu, Eco shopping mall (ninth Eco Store), Aeon Mall Kusatsu, opens 2009 Trial sales of Carbon Footprint product labeling for nine varieties across seven TOPVALU products Tenth Eco Store, Aeon Tsuchiura SC, opens Aeon Environmental Foundation establishes Japan Awards for Biodiversity Participated in Japan Climate Leaders' Partnership as a founding member 2010 Established Aeon Biodiversity Policy The “Tree planting project to revitalize the forests at the Great Wall of China” by the Aeon Environmental Foundation, the number of seedlings planted had reached one million MIDORI Prize for Biodiversity Established by the Aeon Environmental Foundation 2011 Established the Aeon Sustainability Principle Eleventh Eco Store, The Aeon Itamikoya Shopping Center, opens 2012 Twelfth Eco Store, AEON Mall Funabashi, opens Developed KPI System Developed Aeon China CSR Principles Established the Sustainable Management Committee Started Aeon ECO project AEON Sustainability Report 2014 86 GRI Guidelines Indicators 2014 Section Index Aeon Environmental and Social Report (2013) 1 Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, 1.1 or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization p.3 Top Message and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2 Organization Profile 2.1 Name of the organization Front cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services p.6  TOPVALU Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating 2.3 p.5-6 Aeon Group's Business companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of the organization's headquarters Back cover Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries that p.5-6 Aeon Group's Business 2.5 either have major operations or are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues p.15-16 CSR activities that are carried out in each country and the number of covered in the report store openings around the world 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of p.15-16 CSR activities that are carried out in each country and the number of 2.7 customers/beneficiaries) store openings around the world Scale of the reporting organization, including: • Number of employees • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector 2.8 organizations) p.5 Settlement Report • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) • Quantity of products or services provided Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including: • The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and 2.9 expansions • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alterationoperations (for private sector organizations) 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 3 Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided p.2 Report period 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) September 18, 201 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biannual, etc.) p.2 Report period 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Back cover Report scope and parameters Process for defining report content, including: • Determining materiality p.2 Editorial Policy 3.5 p.2 Scope of report • Prioritizing topics within the report p.2 Target audience • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report Parameters of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint p.2 Editorial Policy 3.6 ventures, suppliers) p.2 Scope of report p.2 Editorial Policy 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or parameters of the report p.2 Scope of report Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 3.8 operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions p.- Environmental Accounting 3.9 and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators p. ISO14001 Targets and Performance and other information in the report p. Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier 3.10 reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, parameters, or 3.11 p.23-26 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI measurement methods applied in the report GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report p.8- GRI Guidelines Indicators Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain 3.13 p. Independent Review the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 8 AEON Sustainability Report 201 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest 4.1 governing body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational p.-7 Corporate Governance oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governing body is also an executive officer 4.2 (and, if so, their function within the organization's management and the reasons for p. 3 Top Message this arrangement) For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of 4.3 p.-7 Corporate Governance the highest governing body that are independent and/or non-executive members. p. Part-time employees also join the labor union Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or 4.4 p.-7 Corporate Governance direction to the highest governing body. p.71 Code of Conduct Hotline Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governing body, senior 4.5 managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governing body to ensure conflicts of interest are 4.6 p.-7 Corporate Governance avoided. Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest 4.7 governing body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, p.-7 Corporate Governance and social topics. p.1 Aeon Basic Principles Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles p.8 Aeon Sustainability Principle 4.8 relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their p.7 Aeon Code of Conduct implementation. p.7 Aeon Environmental Guideline Procedures of the highest governing body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, p.7 Joining the Global Compact 4.9 including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with p.5 SA8000 internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governing body's own performance, particularly 4.10 with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitments to External Initiatives Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed p.7 Risk Management 4.11 by the organization p.7-7 Compliance Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other p.7 Joining the Global Compact 4.12 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses p.5 SA8000 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ international advocacy organizations in which the organization: • Has positions in governing bodies 4.13 • Participates in projects or committees • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues • Views membership as strategic Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization p.8 Aeon's Sustainable Management 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type 4.16 and by stakeholder group Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, p. TOPVALU Product Development and Distribution 4.17 and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including p.6 System of Dialog with Customers through its reporting 5 Management Approach and Performance Index Economic Disclosure(s) on Management Approach Goals and Performance Policy Additional Contextual Information Economic Performance Index Aspect: Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, EC1 employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities EC2 due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government AEON Sustainability Report 201 8 GRI Guidelines Indicators Aspect: Market Presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at EC5 significant locations of operation Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant EC6 p. 5 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct locations of operation Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local EC7 community at locations of significant operation Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts p.2, 3,  Aeon Environmental Foundation p.2 Aeon 1% Club'PVOEBUJPO Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily p.4-5 Community Involvement EC8 for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement p.5 Fair Trade p.- Consumer Issues (Store Safety and Security) p.- Aeon’s Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the EC9 extent of impacts Environmental p.8 Aeon Sustainability Principle Disclosure(s) on Management Approach p.23-24 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI p. Aeon Environmental Guideline p.23-26 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI Goals and Performance p.27 Aeon ECO Project p. ISO14001 Targets and Results p.8 Aeon Sustainability Principle p.27 Aeon ECO Project Policy p.3 Aeon Biodiversity Principle p. Aeon Environmental Guideline p.77 ISO14001 Targets and Performance p.7- Environmental Management Organizational Responsibility p.8 Group Chief Environmental Officer's Commitment Training and Awareness p. Environmental Education Monitoring and Follow-up p.- Environmental Accounting Additional Contextual Information p. Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities Environmental Performance Indicators Aspect: Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume p. Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities EN2 Percentage of recycled input materials used Aspect: Energy p.23-24 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source p. Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities p.23-24 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source p. Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities p.23-24 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements p. ISO14001 Targets and Performance Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, EN6 p.-3 Reduce CO2 Emissions in Stores and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved p. Reduce CO2 Emissions in Stores Aspect: Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source p. Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Aspect: Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas EN11 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in EN12 p.3- Conservation of Biodiversity protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity p.3 Aeon Biodiversity Principle Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in EN15 areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight p. Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities p.3 Scope3 Emissions EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight p. Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities p. Reduce CO2 Emissions in Stores EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved p. Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities 8 AEON Sustainability Report 201 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination p. Wastewater Management EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under EN24 the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related EN25 habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff Aspect: Products and Services p. Eco Stores p.3 Carbon footprint initiatives p.3 Carbon offsets Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of EN26 p.3 MSC certification (marine eco-label)/FSC certification impact mitigation p.3 TOPVALU Gurinai p.4 Plastic bag Reduction p.41 TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by p.4 Recycling Food Product Waste EN27 category p.41 TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for EN28 noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Aspect: Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and EN29 materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the p.33 Logistics Initiatives workforce Aspect: Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type p.- Environmental Accounting Social Performance Index Labor Practices and Decent Work (Fair Employment Conditions) Disclosure(s) on Management Approach p.25 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI Goals and Performance p.25-26 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI p.8 Aeon Sustainability Principle Policy p.6 Basic Principales on Personnel p.7 Aeon Code of Conduct p.6- Human Rights Organizational Responsibility p. Labor Practices p.7-7 Compliance p. Human Rights-related Training Training and Awareness p.6 Education System p.7-7 Compliance Monitoring and Follow-up p. Compliance Additional Contextual Information Labor Practices and Decent Work (Fair Employment Conditions) Performance Index Aspect: Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or partLA3 time employees, by major operations Aspect: Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is LA5 specified in collective agreements Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management worker health LA6 and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workLA7 related fatalities by region Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskcontrol programs in place to assist LA8 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions AEON Sustainability Report 201  GRI Guidelines Indicators Aspect: Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued LA11 p.6 Education System employability of employees and assist them in planning the end of their careers Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development LA12 reviews Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governing bodies and breakdown of employees per category LA13 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Human Rights Disclosure(s) on Management Approach p.25 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI p.7 Joining the Global Compact p.25-26 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI Goals and Performance p.5 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct p.5 SA8000 p.7 Joining the Global Compact p.5 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct Policy p.5 SA8000 p.6 Basic principles on personnel p.7 Joining the Global Compact p.5 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct Organizational Responsibility p.5 SA8000 p.6- Human Rights p.5 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct Training and Awareness p.5 SA8000 p.6- Human Rights p.7 Joining the Global Compact Monitoring and Follow-up p.5 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct p.5 SA8000 Additional Contextual Information Human Rights Index Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human HR1 rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on HR2 human rights and actions taken Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of HR3 human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Aspect: Non-Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Aspect: Freedom of Association Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and p.7 Joining the Global Compact HR5 collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these p.5 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct rights p.5 SA8000 Aspect: Child Labor p.7 Joining the Global Compact Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures HR6 p.5 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor p.5 SA8000 Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor p.7 Joining the Global Compact Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory HR7 p.5 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor p.5 SA8000 Aspect: Security Practices p.7 Joining the Global Compact Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures HR8 p.5 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations p.5 SA8000 Aspect: Indigenous Rights Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and HR9 actions taken Society Disclosure(s) on Management Approach p.25 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI Goals and Performance p.25-26 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI p.8 Aeon Sustainability Principle Policy p.7-7 Compliance AEON Sustainability Report 201 Organizational Responsibility p. Compliance Training and Awareness p. Compliance Monitoring and Follow-up p. Compliance Additional Contextual Information Social Performance Index Aspect: Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage SO1 the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting Aspect: Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and SO3 p.7-7 Compliance procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Aspect: Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and SO6 related institutions by country Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly SO7 practices and their outcomes Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for SO8 noncompliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility Disclosure(s) on Management Approach p.25 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI Goals and Performance p.25-26 Reports on the status of implementation of the KPI Policy p.71 Aeon Code of Conduct Organizational Responsibility p.5- Product Safety and Security Training and Awareness p.5- Product Safety and Security Monitoring and Follow-up p.- Product Safety and Security Additional Contextual Information Product Responsibility Performance Index Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are PR1 assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services p.5 TOPVALU Quality Assurance categories subject to such procedures Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR2 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by p.5 TOPVALU Quality Assurance type of outcomes Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of PR3 significant products and services subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR4 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring PR5 p.6 System of Dialog with Customers customer satisfaction Aspect: Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing PR6 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Aspect: Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and PR8 losses of customer data Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations PR9 concerning the provision and use of products and services AEON Sustainability Report 201 86
