open the future Sustainable Development Report 2013 Sustainable Development Report 2013 We’re helping to open a sustainable future for everyone Fundación Smurfit Cartón de Colombia CO n t e n ts 2 Smurfit kappa at a Glance 32 Environment 4 Highlights 49 Social 5 Letter from our CEO 66 Innovation in Design and 10 Corporate Governance Sustainability Awards 12 Engagement with 68 Sustainability in Our Business Stakeholders 78 Data tables 14 materiality 87 About the Report 15 Strategy 88 GRI table 16 Our Vision on Sustainability 93 Business in the 17 Our Commitment and Community Ireland Approach to Sustainable 94 uN Global Compact Development 95 Independent 20 key Risks, Challenges and Assurance Report Opportunities 96 Glossary 23 Long-term Sustainable Development Commitments the first section of the Report summarises our policy on engagement with stakeholders, materiality, our overall approach to sustainability, and our long-term commitments. this is then followed by three major sections covering Environment, Social Development and Sustainability in our Business. the Report concludes with a detailed information section and a glossary of technical terms. In preparing this Report we have followed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 3.1 guidelines with application level A+. Sustainability for Smurfit kappa is about improving the quality of life today and in the future, for people and for our planet. It is what we do and have always done. Sustainability is about satisfying customers with creative and innovative products and services that carry their products, optimise their supply chains and extend the longevity of their products. We achieve this by using resources and materials responsibly through our forestry and recycling businesses; providing safe working environments; caring for our people; working to benefit the local communities; and safeguarding our reputation. We take our responsibilities in sustainability seriously and are conscious of our responsibilities to the environment, our people and the communities in which we are located. Smurfit Kappa at a Glance 32 countries 21 Europe 11 the Americas revenue 8bn eBitdA 1.1bn CustomeRs emPLoyees 38 41,000 people employed worldwide Paper mills suPPLieRs 229 200 60% of customers strategic and important suppliers in in the fmCG Europe and the Americas Corrugated segments plants LoCaL & nationaL GoVeRnments 30 inVestoRs  122m income and other taxes Other converting plants 51 Recovered Paper Facilities 103,000 €70m dividends paid Hectares forest plantations Our Vision on Sustainability Achievements CO2 emissions Chain of Custody -21% reduction of relative fossil CO2 91% of all Group converting emissions in our mill system operations certified reached in 2013 compared to 2005. Chain of Custody by the end of 2013. Product life cycle targets LOGISTICS TO RETAILER RETAIL 5% HEALTH AND SAFETY Annual reduction in the lost-time and injury rate for the next 5 years (2013-2017). PRODUCTS ⅓ CUSTOMERS Paper-based packaging Bag-in-box CONSUMERS WATER Displays Decrease COD in our mill system by ⅓ by 2020. CORRUGATED & CONVERTING PLANTS Community PRODUCT PROCESS 100,000 people reached in local communities by 2020 by spending at least e1m SERVICE yearly on education of children. INNOVATION Sustainable sourcing E8m Implement our key sustainable sourcing principles with our Research and development suppliers. PAPER RECOVERED REELS PAPER E369m FACILITIES Gross capital expenditure waste Conduct an assessment before end of 2015 to minimise (non-) hazardous waste. RECOVERED FIBRES PAPER MILLS VIRGIN FIBRES Highlights CO2 Reduction Investments in fossil CO2 Reduction The long-term target to reduce the relative  Completion of a new lime kiln in our Cali fossil CO2 emissions by 20%, compared to paper mill in Colombia in March 2013 the base year 2005, has been met, with a reducing fossil CO2 emissions by 13,000 relative reduction in emissions of 21% tonnes on an annual basis. achieved by the end of 2013.  the new CHp in our barranquilla paper mill in Colombia is fully operational since Certifications August 2013, reducing fossil CO2 Chain of Custody. Currently, 91% of all emissions by 13,000 tonnes on an Group converting operations are certified annual basis. Chain of Custody, which exceeds the  A new CHP that has become Group’s long-term commitment to reach operational in the second quarter of at least 90% by 2015. 2014 in our Hoya paper mill in Germany Certified Packaging. Close to 90% of our completed a multiyear investment packaging produced in Europe can be project which reduced fossil CO2 declared as certified Chain of Custody. emissions by 15% on a per tonne basis. Once the expected certification of our Code of Business Conduct Venezuelan operations is completed by the end of 2014 the same will be true A Group-wide awareness campaign to for our products from the Americas. inform all our employees about the core principles of the Code was initiated in the isO Certifications course of 2013 and will be completed in  Our paper mills in argentina, bernal the course of 2014. and Coronel Suarez and our paper Sustainable Packaging mill in Valencia in Venezuela obtained their ISO 14001 certifications in At Smurfit Kappa’s Group Innovation Event, environmental management in 2013. awards for the most innovative sustainability ideas in process, product, supply chain and  Five of our paper and board mills in social engagements were given as part of Germany and the Netherlands (Baden our biennial Sustainability Awards. In the Karton, Herzberger, Zülpich, CD Haupt Americas, Sustainability Awards were and Roermond) and our corrugated also handed out at the innovation and packaging factory Atlacomulco in Sustainability Event for categories Mexico were certified under ISO 50001 including environment, product/process for their energy management system. improvement, social engagement and safety.  by the end of 2013, 92% and 22% of our mills are certified under ISO 14001 Acquisitions and ISO 50001 respectively. CRP Print and Packaging was acquired in October 2013. This UK-based company COD Discharge Reduction specialises in litho-laminated packaging, Globally, in 2013 our mills discharging to 3D point of sale products, high definition surface waters reduced COD discharges preprint, food contact and heavy duty by 0.4% per tonne of paper and board packaging. The company employs produced compared to 2012. approximately 220 people and will be operating under the name of Smurfit Kappa CRP. 4 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 letter from our CeO GARY mcGANN GROUP CHIEF ExECUTIVE OFFICER Introduction by Gary mcGann As a further introduction to the We aim to give preference to suppliers I am pleased to introduce Smurfit Kappa’s Sustainable Development Report 2013 who share our rigorous environmental, seventh annual Sustainable Development I would like to highlight a number of social and technical standards and are Report. Sustainability and social developments. willing to partner with us in our drive to responsibility are core values at Smurfit reach our business and sustainability Our Vision on Sustainability objectives. By taking a long-term, Kappa. They are at the heart of how we operate and interact with customers, In last year’s report, we set out our inclusive and comprehensive approach employees, suppliers and the long-term vision on sustainability. As a to understanding and addressing our communities in which we do business. company we are uniquely positioned to sustainability impacts, we aim to be a We see sustainability as a key business make a real difference for our various partner of choice for non-governmental driver providing challenges and business stakeholders through our efforts in the organisations. For local governments we opportunities. It is therefore one of our area of sustainability. aim to be a trusted partner when it key platforms for differentiation in a comes to compliance and we will also be For our customers we want to be their competitive market. supportive in the social development of proactive supplier and partner of choice. local societies. We have reflected our in 2013 we have again broadened our This is an objective to which we are aims in our vision on sustainability and commitment to, and delivered proof of, committing ourselves. Not only when translated them into intermediate and our dedication to sustainability by a) it concerns an answer for their direct long-term measurable targets both of continuing to invest in the environment, packaging needs, but also when it which are steps on a long lasting journey. b) adding measurable long-term comes to providing the best and most commitments to our existing sustainable packaging solution for the Engagement with Stakeholders commitments and c) by achieving two part of their supply chain where we can We consider open and transparent of our existing long-term commitments make a difference. For our people we communication with our stakeholders to several years ahead of schedule. want to be the employer of choice in be central to our efforts in becoming a terms of their personal development, partner of choice. We proactively seek the best way to demonstrate that our working conditions and health and safety their input and feedback, recognising sustainability objectives are achievable, standards. For the communities, we aim that it deepens our understanding of beneficial to our business and to be the corporate citizen of choice by their priorities and sustainability agenda. economically viable is by creating investing in the social and economic We bring to the table our knowledge of economic, social and environmental development of the communities of designing supply-chain-optimising win-win situations for all stakeholders. which we are an integral part. We packaging solutions and our knowledge In 2014, we will focus our efforts on sustainably operate our manufacturing of producing these sustainably. Our creating value for our shareholders by facilities and limit any negative impact on stakeholders provide input in a variety growing our business in existing and new the environment as much as possible of ways ensuring a continuous exchange markets, proactively building strategic while concentrating on delivering positive of information. This creates strong, relationships with our customers, and impacts. We want to be recognised as a mutually beneficial relationships providing them with sustainable and valued and trusted corporate citizen which support our efforts to take our differentiated packaging solutions. This when it comes to the social environment sustainability approach to the next level. will continue to be the basis from which in which we are embedded locally. we will also be able to create value for our people while enhancing the social and natural environments in which we are embedded. SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 5 Letter from our CEO (continued) To further understand the demands reporting on progress made will be This campaign will be completed in the of our stakeholders, we continuously covered in our Sustainable Development course of 2014. analyse their sustainability reporting Report 2014. and have discussions with their key Competitiveness of Industry Progress on existing commitments Prerequisite for Investments in executives. Short interviews with in 2013 representatives from our stakeholder Sustainability base complement the materiality Good progress has been made during To play our part in the environmental and analysis, highlighting the sustainability 2013 in the realisation of our long-term social challenges the world is facing, it is aspects that are important to them. This sustainable development priorities. 91% a precondition that companies, such as year we extended our analysis to a total of our converting operations worldwide are now certified Chain of Custody under Smurfit Kappa, can operate under fair, of 81 stakeholders, both customers and FSC and/or PEFC, realising one of our predictable and competitive conditions. suppliers. The analysis shows that issues commitments on the sustainable use of The economic and financial crisis has such as health and safety, sustainable packaging, climate change, energy usage, fibres. We expect to reach the certified highlighted the need to reignite industrial water intake and discharge, sustainable Chain of Custody status for the growth in Europe. In that respect we forestry and human rights are among remaining relevant converting operations welcome the various policy intentions the most important issues for our in 2014, allowing us to deliver close to that were published by the EU stakeholders. All of these issues are 90% of our packaging solutions to Commission in January 2014 and the core to our sustainability agenda, and customers under the label certified explicit objective of raising the share of we continue to review their developing Chain of Custody. industry as a component of GDP from impact. More details of this analysis can the current 16% up to 20% by 2020. We also reached our long-term be found on page 14 of this report. To reach that objective, industry needs commitment for the relative reduction of fossil CO2 emissions resulting from our a completed single market while policy Long-term Sustainable areas such as energy policy, balanced mill system. By the end of 2013, relative Development Commitments fossil CO2 emissions were reduced environmental regulation and labour Additional commitments in 2013 year-on-year by over 6% and by close mobility need to be addressed. In 2013, we added four long-term to 21% compared to 2005, meeting We believe there is a need for greater commitments to cover new areas in our 20% reduction target. To show our certainty and a reduction in the excess which we had not previously set targets. commitment to further decrease relative of regulation in order to create an These commitments have been made CO2 emissions we will announce a new environment for industry, which is in the areas of Health and Safety, target in the course of 2014. enabling, makes business more efficient, Community Involvement, Waste and more effective and ultimately more Our production related COD discharges Sustainable Sourcing. The total set of competitive. are now more than 25% lower than in commitments (new and existing) covers 2005 and 0.4% lower than in 2012. After The Climate and Energy package 2030, all our main sustainability areas, ranging the approval by our Board of Directors published by the EU Commission in from lower CO2 emissions to Waste of the revised and updated Code of January 2014, sets a stricter fossil CO2 reduction and from Health and Safety to Business Conduct, a comprehensive emission reduction target that demands Sustainable Sourcing. We will continue to awareness campaign in 17 languages was an increase from 20% by 2020 to 40% report on each of these commitments initiated across all of our operating sites by 2030. Although this target will be a on an annual basis. More details on what with the ultimate objective of ensuring formidable challenge for the industry, we the new commitments entail can be that all our employees are familiar with welcome the clarity it provides on how found in this report and first time the new Code and behave accordingly. Europe will move forward on becoming 6 smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 less carbon intensive and what role renewable energy and the use of biomass will play in order to realise this objective. For energy intensive industries, such as ours, to remain competitive we believe the EU has the responsibility to ensure that our industry has secure and longer term access, at affordable and competitive prices, to energy, wood, recovered paper and water without distortive taxes and/or subsidies. In the context of energy availability, certainty and cost, we urgently need the completion of the internal single market. We will continue to advocate that sustainable growth is only possible over time when the right trading conditions exist. As an industry firmly embedded in and committed to the European market, in those conditions we will be able to deliver our commitments to sustainable growth. I hope you will find the content of our Sustainable Development Report 2013 both interesting and informative, and look forward to any feedback that you may have (sustainability@smurfitkappa.com). Gary McGann Group Chief Executive Officer 23 June 2014 smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 7 ingenuity Terry McGivern and Aiden Costello from Smurfit Kappa Yate in the UK Smurfit kappa’s success is built on constantly delivering original and inventive solutions that unlock opportunities for our forward-thinking customers. Applying our ingenuity requires that we constantly approach every challenge and opportunity from multiple perspectives and apply our best thinking. In a world that is constantly changing our customers will continue to look for us to be original and inventive. Corporate Governance the board and management of Smurfit in Europe and the Americas as well as Kappa support the highest standards Group headquarters. This Working of Corporate Governance and ethical Group’s task is to monitor the business conduct. It is our view that a achievement of targets across a wide culture of high standards of governance range of sustainability indicators and to must be promoted from the top and promote the theme of sustainable must be fostered throughout the whole development in Smurfit Kappa’s interface organisation. The following section with customers, suppliers and the general describes in summary the Group’s environment. The Working Group is also governance at Board level insofar as it responsible for the preparation and relates to corporate social responsibility. production of the Annual Sustainable The full Corporate Governance Development Report. Statement, together with the Directors’ Report, Remuneration Report and Organisation and Reporting Remuneration Policy, is set out in the Sustainability is embedded into our SKG Annual Report 2013. operations and reporting structures in various ways. The sustainability aspects Sustainability Governance of our packaging solutions and the Sustainable development is a core benefits they can bring to our customers principle in all facets of Smurfit Kappa’s are the prime management responsibility operations and activities. The Board has of our sales and marketing teams, both at overall responsibility for ensuring that central as well as at local level. Managing the Group plays an appropriate role in environmental issues such as energy and promoting a realistic sustainable water, and also people issues such as development agenda in the paper-based health and safety and local community packaging sector. The development and involvement, are the responsibility of the implementation of Smurfit Kappa’s management of the local operations and policies in this area are sponsored by the divisional management to whom they the Group CEO. report. Reporting on these aspects takes place through regular monthly and/or At executive management level, a Group quarterly reports to the various Steering Committee sets out our management levels or through specific strategy and objectives for sustainable reporting in areas such as the progress development and reviews the progress being made on our long-term sustainable made in meeting our commitments. This development commitments. A Board committee comprises the most senior report on our sustainability activities, executives in the company including the including progress on indicators and three executive directors (Group CEO, targets, is reviewed at Board level twice Group COO and Group CFO) and a year. management from each division and from the Group headquarters. Code of Business Conduct and The Group Steering Committee is Group Policies supported by a Sustainability Working The Smurfit Kappa Code of Business Group comprising key representatives Conduct (the “Code”) was revised during from each of the main operating divisions 2012. The Code applies to the Group’s 10 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 Board of Directors, officers and policy statements cover Environment, rules determined by the jurisdictions in employees worldwide. We also require Sustainable Forestry, Sustainable which they operate. individuals, entities, agents or anyone Sourcing, Social Citizenship, and Health In that context, Smurfit Kappa adopts acting on the Group’s behalf to comply and Safety issues. positions on a variety of matters that are with its Code. The Code has been All of these Codes and policies are relevant to its business, making its views translated into 17 languages and available on our website known to the parties concerned, either introduced to all employees in each www.smurfitkappa.com. directly or through industry bodies such as of our areas of operation. the Confederation of European Paper The Code takes account of the following Audits Industries (CEPI), the European Federation international conventions and codes: Each significant business unit is the of Corrugated Board Manufacturers subject of an external and independent (FEFCO) and the European Round Table of 1. International Labour Organisation financial audit conducted by the Group’s Industrialists (ERT). It also works closely (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental external auditors on an annual basis. with the Irish Business and Employers’ Principles and Rights at Work (core Most other business units are the subject Confederation (IBEC) and equivalent conventions). of local statutory financial audits. bodies in other countries. 2. UN Declaration on Fundamental Human Rights. Our Internal Audit Department has its At all times those representing the views own extensive work programme in the of Smurfit Kappa, do so having due regard 3. OECD Guidelines for Multinational context of the Group’s Financial Risk to its Code of Business Conduct and the Enterprises. Management System. During the course local laws and regulations applying to the 4. UN Global Compact. of 2013, 82 detailed internal financial and Group’s operations. There were no Our Code provides the underlying IT audits were completed. significant criticisms of the Group in this standards of behaviour required from respect in 2013. In line with the Group’s In addition to these internal audits, all each and every employee in every Code of Business Conduct no financial operating entities must adhere to the jurisdiction. It sets out our position in contributions were made to political Group’s Financial Monitoring Policy. This relation to compliance with the law, parties in 2013. No national government is includes completing risk assessment adherence to ethical standards, and a direct shareholder in Smurfit Kappa. analyses covering over 50% of the Group’s commitment to quality and service. larger facilities carried out by relevant Compliance Each Group company and its employees, personnel from within each country. It is Group policy to comply at least with regardless of geographic location, is The various audits and analyses include the applicable laws and regulations in required to apply the Code and abide risks primarily related to significant each of the countries in which it operates by the particular laws and practices material misstatement of financial and to ensure that its employees are applicable to their industry and/or results, deliberate or otherwise, arising aware of this and conduct themselves required by the jurisdiction in which they from a poor control framework. During appropriately. In respect of a breach of operate. The Code makes it clear that 2013, no such misreporting was such laws and regulations, one significant personal and professional integrity is the identified. fine related to an accident of a worker responsibility of each employee. was imposed on the Group in 2013. In During 2013, there was one incident In addition to the Code, the Group also 2013, there were situations where some related to discrimination reported which has a series of policies covering a number of our operations operated outside the the Group considered to be nonof areas relating to our operational and limits of their environmental permits. In compliant with the Code of Business managerial practices. these situations we worked with the Conduct. authorities to address the relevant issues We have also created specific policy in as timely and efficient a manner as statements in key areas of sustainability Public Policy possible. that are integral to the drive to improve As a multinational organisation, our Smurfit Kappa’s performance. These businesses are subject to legislation and smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 11 engagement with Stakeholders Our Stakeholders Out of these interactions we concluded In the continuous interactions we have that the following topics are the most with our various stakeholder groups we important for stakeholders: Chain of consider transparency, ethical behaviour Custody of raw materials and sustainable and orientation on future cooperation of forestry, Climate Change and energy, key importance. Frequent interaction with Health and Safety, Sustainable Packaging our stakeholder communities, in all and Water intake and discharge. In the countries and areas where we operate, various sections of this report we state offers us great opportunities to further our view, approach and activities with develop ourselves in all aspects of regard to these topics. sustainability thereby meeting and, where possible, exceeding their expectations. memberships in Organisations Our stakeholders are crucial to the We believe it is important to be an active realisation of our sustainability objectives participant, a member, a signatory or to whether their concerns are be otherwise supportive of relevant environmental, social or economic. associations, topical initiatives, advocacy groups and institutions that represent or Stakeholders are a) entities or individuals bring together relevant stakeholder that reasonably can be expected to be groups. The value of these organisations significantly affected by our activities or for us can be significant. This ranges from products or b) whose actions can representation to policy makers, as part reasonably be expected to affect our of an industry group, to having access to ability to successfully achieve our relevant industry statistics. We focus our objectives. In principle we consider any efforts in that regard particularly on person or entity with whom we engage to national and international industry be part of our stakeholder community. associations such as: This ranges from customers to suppliers, from employees to investors and from  CEPI, at Group level and through local residents and local authorities to various national paper manufacturer NGO’s and supranational institutions. associations, Many stakeholder interactions take place  FEFCO, at Group level and through at a local level where our teams engage a number of national corrugated on a daily basis with customers, manufacturer associations, employees, suppliers and local authorities. We also receive stakeholder  the international Corrugated Cases feedback through customer satisfaction Association (ICCA), surveys, dialogue with trade unions,  the European sack kraft employee questionnaires and manufacturers’ association communication with investors. (Eurokraft) and Our stakeholder relations are guided  ACCCSA, Asociación de by our Code of Business Conduct and Corrugadores del Caribe Centro y Sur related policy statements setting out América. the principles that all Smurfit Kappa Besides contributing to these employees are obliged to follow in their associations through annual membership relations with stakeholders. More fees, several senior Smurfit Kappa information about this Code is given on executives are board members of CEPI, page 29. Our main stakeholder groups CEPI Containerboard and FEFCO. Our are listed overleaf including a summary Group CEO is currently Chairman of CEPI, of how we engage with them. our divisional CeO of european 12 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 Corrugated is currently President of  CDP, information, engaging with them on FEFCO and one of our Colombian  the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange developing policies, strategies, managers is President of ACCCA. Also, (Sedex), appropriate targets, and execution. representatives of Smurfit Kappa are  the Water Footprint Network (WFN), Our Group CEO is a member of the typically involved as active participants in  the Programme for the Endorsement European Round Table, a forum of committees, issue groups and task forces of Forest Certification (PEFC®), approximately fifty chief executives on specific topics of interest to these  the Forest Stewardship Council® and/or chairmen of major multinational associations. (FSC®), companies of European parentage Smurfit Kappa is also actively involved as a  the UN Global Compact (see also covering a wide range of industrial and member of, participant in or as a signatory page 94). technological sectors. to a number of organisations active in the We are active members in such Smurfit Kappa’s subsidiary companies area of environmental reporting and organisations, customarily providing them are also members of national industry sustainability. These include: with information on our operations as and business associations in both Europe input for statistical (industry) data and and America. Examples of how we engage with our stakeholders Customers We are continuously looking to intensify our engagement with customers and in turn their customers (e.g. retailers) on key sustainability issues. Important areas of interaction are sustainable fibre sourcing, carbon footprint and social compliance. These interactions with customers can be in the form of conferences and round-table discussions with sustainability officers from customers, jointly working on specific projects in sustainability, attending customer conferences or supporting customers with their specific sustainability initiatives. Employees Our employees are the key to our success. Their health and safety is a core value and we place significant emphasis on their well-being. There are numerous training and development programmes for our people ranging from training on the job to advanced management courses, both internal as well as external. There is extensive interaction between our management and representatives of our employees through the various employee representative bodies. Our Code of Business Conduct reflects how we conduct our business and the important role our employees play in that. Investors There is an extensive programme involving road shows and investor days where analysts and investors have the opportunity to engage in dialogue with senior operating management. One-on-one meetings, telephone conferences, and participation in industry-related investor conferences also form part of our investor relations initiative. Suppliers Besides the usual interactions with suppliers, there are specific programmes and initiatives in place to assure we can realise our sustainable sourcing objectives such as audits and questionnaires and the requirement that our suppliers deliver in conformity with our Sustainability Sourcing Policy. Smurfit Kappa’s operations are required to source products and services from local suppliers where possible, consistent with the need to ensure the best appropriate quality at the right price and appropriate support for sustainability. NGOs Memberships of, or participations in, organisations such as FSC, PEFC, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex), CDP and Water Footprint Network. Dialogue, both direct and indirect, (through membership organisations) and cooperation on specific topics such as water and CO2 sequestration. Local We engage in social projects and health, employment and environmental initiatives in the countries in which we communities operate. In Latin America, in particular, there are some extensive programmes involving significant expenditure together with the devotion of our employees’ time and expertise. The aim is to assist communities in self-help. The Smurfit Kappa Group Foundation targets social responsibility, particularly in the area of youth health and education in those countries in which Smurfit Kappa operates. Government We foster membership of industry associations at national and international level, and participation in forums and society related to broader business issues and society in general. smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 13 materiality Health and Safety Climate Change Sustainable Packaging Human Rights Water Intake energy & Discharge Sustainable Sourcing Sustainable Forestry level of interest of stakeholders Transparency/Traceability Product Development & Child Labour & Forced Labour innovation business Stakeholder Engagement Ethics & Values Environmental Incidents Waste Community involvement land use management biodiversity Compliance with Laws Certification Food Safety Raw material emissions due Corporate Governance availability to transportation employee Relations Workforce Training & Development Talent Attraction & Retention Significance of Indicators for Smurfit Kappa General Topics Environmental Topics Social Topics Economic topics Our objective when determining materiality Sedex and Dow Jones Sustainability Index material for our customers, suppliers and/or is to identify issues reflecting Smurfit (‘DJSI’), regulatory and compliance drivers peers are, in many instances, material to us Kappa’s significant economic, and general trends in the marketplace. as well. As a first step we analysed how environmental and social impacts on the as in previous reports we also interviewed many of the companies performed a markets in which we operate or participate. representatives from different stakeholder materiality analysis and we then analysed These then form the basis of our work in groups for their specific input. These the frequency with which material issues sustainability. interviews can be found throughout the were mentioned or highlighted. We report and provide examples of issues that considered the frequency with which a Smurfit Kappa is faced with a wide range are important for our stakeholders as a topic/issue was mentioned to be an of topics on which we could report. We aim whole. indicator of the importance of that topic/ to limit reporting to those topics and issue for the investigated group of indicators that are sufficiently important to Furthermore, we performed an analysis of companies. The graph above reflects warrant inclusion in our report. Given that the topics that are material for a group of this interpretation while also indicating not all material topics and indicators are of relevant and important stakeholders. the significance of these issues to equal importance we aim to give relative Prioritisation of the various topics was Smurfit Kappa. priority to the most important topics and determined by using both a qualitative and indicators. a quantitative approach. For the internal This approach resulted in an extensive list of and external factors mostly a qualitative topics that can be classified under four main A combination of internal and external approach was used, for the analysis of the headings: factors have been used to determine material topics for relevant and important I. environmental, materiality. Internal factors include our own stakeholders a quantitative approach II. social, overall mission, vision on sustainability, was used. III. economic and long-term strategy and the various Group IV. general. policies, covering a wide range of policy We studied the materiality analysis of a areas, including our own Code of Business group of 81 companies that we consider Individual topics which we have included Conduct. External factors include the Global important or relevant to us. This group under each of these headings are Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidance on includes mostly customers (70%) and is highlighted in the graph above. materiality and completeness, topics complemented by suppliers and peers Issues shown are plotted according to the highlighted by organisations such as CDP, (30%). In our view, the issues that are GRI guidelines. 14 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 Strategy The Group’s objective is to develop  to become the supplier/partner of We will do this through: long-term relationships by providing choice of its customers by:  high quality graduate and other customers with differentiated packaging  developing proactive initiatives to recruitment initiatives, solutions that enhance the customers improve customers’ offering; progressive goal setting, and prospects of success in their end performance appraisal markets. In that context, by generating  constantly innovating its programme; strong sustainable revenue and products, service, quality and profitability, together with judicious delivery and  focused job training and capital allocation decisions, we expect to coaching;  pursuing superior performance deliver an increasingly strong return on measured against clearly defined  constant team-building capital through the cycle. This objective metrics. initiatives; is underpinned by the Group’s clearly stated ambition to maintain its premier  to focus on enhancing its operational  cross divisional in-house position in the industry by delivering excellence, from the forests or development programmes; and superior customer satisfaction; pursuing recycling depots to the customers’  selective executive development cost and operating efficiencies; end markets by relentlessly pursuing programmes. maintaining proactive environmental the continuous upgrade of its awareness; reinforcing its commitment customers’ offering. This will be  to maintain a disciplined approach to to continuous improvement in the areas facilitated by: capital allocation and maintain the of health and safety and corporate social focus on cash generation as a  improving the output from the responsibility, and thereby maximising its fundamental basis for delivery Group’s high quality asset base; returns to its shareholders. optimal shareholders returns.  increasing the proportion of The Group’s Objectives and differentiated ideas, products Strategies are: and services on offer; and  to expand its market positions initially  ensuring that the driving force in Western Europe, Eastern Europe behind all its operations is one of and the Americas through selective customer satisfaction and focused growth, including: excellence in the marketplace.  organic growth from increased  to recruit, retain, develop, and market share. motivate the best people who,  the pursuit of accretive working optimally in teams, will excel acquisitions in higher growth in a dynamic progressive company, markets. thereby achieving their full potential. smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 15 Our Vision on Sustainability by 2050, nine billion people will live on We aim to play a leading role in the area This helps us secure the practical and our planet compared to seven billion of sustainability: moral authority to operate in all our today. This development provides chosen locations. (a) in providing our customers with an opportunity and imperative for innovative and sustainable packaging Sustainability is part of a journey of companies to offer products that solutions and optimising their supply striving for excellence in all aspects of our meet the increasing needs of a growing chain; business. For us, it is an important factor population within natural resource to be successful and profitable allowing constraints. The key to future success (b) in sustainably using natural us in turn to re-invest in our business, the will be to find growth opportunities resources; environment, our people and that are economically, socially and (c) in creating value for our shareholders; communities while rewarding our environmentally balanced. shareholders. To measure the progress (d) in how we care for the health, safety As a leading company in the design and we make on that journey, we have defined and development of our people; manufacture of paper-based packaging, key building blocks that allow us to we view sustainability as a key business (e) in helping to develop strong local formulate objectives and measurable driver, a fundamental part of our supply Smurﬁt Kappa communities, committed to targets sociallyisand applying to beits achieved within as expertise a agreed chain management and also as an leading paper-based packaging producer economically. timeframes. to the sustainable important responsibility which we take growth of the company and its customers very seriously. Health and Chain of custody safety Sustainability for us is about improving KEY BUILDING BLOCKS the quality of life today and in the future, Community for people and for our planet. For 80 CO2 emissions involvement years we have been producing innovative packaging solutions from renewable and Sustainable Waste recyclable raw materials. We aim to make sourcing a unique difference through sustainability in our key area of expertise: providing Water creative and innovative paper-based packaging solutions that support our customers’ growth and development. as part of this, we will optimise their Seven building blocks impact four key pillars of our business supply chains and extend the longevity of their products; by using resources and materials responsibly through our Supply Chain Production Customers Responsible forestry and recycling businesses. Ensure all operations Provide employer We also aim to provide a safe working suppliers Sustainable innovative We value IMPACTED AREAS environment; for our people; work to support production packaging people as benefit the local communities; and Smurﬁt Kappa taking into solutions they are at in reaching its account local that improve the heart of safeguard our reputation. In addition, sustainability conditions sustainability our business we wish to deliver optimal shareholder objectives impacts for and the returns to sustain investment, progress our customers communities in which we and employment. operate 16 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 Our Commitment and Approach to Sustainable Development Our objective is to be a customer1. Environment providing jobs to our employees and oriented, market-led company where the We take a special interest in safeguarding business for local suppliers. Our satisfaction of customers, the personal the environment as our products are managers are encouraged therefore, to development of employees and respect composed of materials that are natural actively participate in initiatives at the for our local communities and the resource-based, renewable, recyclable local community level to assist in all forms environment are seen as being and predominantly made from recycled of ‘self help’. inseparable from the aim of creating material. We commit to doing so not only value for our shareholders. For us 3. Business in operating our facilities but, at least as sustainability is a platform that will help importantly, in designing and developing We need profitable growth to reward our us to reach our objectives. It is an integral packaging solutions for our customers shareholders and to continue our drive part of our operations and part of our that improve their environmental for sustainability. Due to the nature of our daily business life. Sustainability to us performance. business, we see many opportunities to makes perfect business sense as it combine both the need for profitable helps us grow our business. For our Packaging is part of the complex system growth with the opportunity to advance full commitment and approach to of delivering products from where they the various sustainability principles. sustainable development see our are produced to promoting their Sustainability is an integral part of our website www.smurfitkappa.com purchase and consumption. Our business commitment and product packaging products typically have an offering. Sustainability is natural to our Our Commitment and Approach important function in logistical processes business, a key business driver and a Our Vision on Sustainability sets out and because of this function, paperdifferentiating factor in the market. a clear commitment to the three based packaging makes a positive environmental impact by preventing We recognise that factors such as ethical important sustainability elements: Planet, products from becoming waste. behaviour, transparency in governance People and Profit. Our approach to these Research suggests that our products, standards, identification of risks and three elements is as follows: if properly designed and applied, can stakeholder engagement are  Environment – we operate in an decrease the carbon impact of aspects fundamental for the sustainable success environmentally sound manner. of our customers’ supply chains by of the Group. Our objective is to considerably more than the carbon continuously progress Smurfit Kappa’s  People – we are socially conscious impact our own products have. recognition as a truly responsible and pro-active. company by all stakeholders and other  Business – we remain economically 2. People parties. In the remainder of this report, viable, doing business on an ethical Our primary focus is on the safety, information is provided on how we basis. well-being and development of all our substantiate our commitments and employees. We do so by permanently approach to sustainability. In doing so we will ensure that the social and natural environment within which investing in their safety at work through Smurfit Kappa operates is respected and training and the provision of a safe work protected both today and into the future. environment, by providing them with The Group provides direct income to challenging and satisfying jobs and by approximately 41,000 people and offering career opportunities. Our other indirectly (via its suppliers) to at least key focus is on the local communities the same number and it continues to where we operate. Our operating carefully use and recycle a wide range facilities are frequently located in of natural resources. communities where we are seen as an important partner in the local economy, smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 17 experience Willard Pereboom from Smurfit Kappa Zedek in the Netherlands Our experiences have helped us refine our skills and build a strong and respected reputation. Our experience lets us approach each new challenge with confidence and offers our customers the reassurance they need to move forward. Key Risks, Challenges and Opportunities Sustainability is the collective term under water, food safety and sustainable example, which has turned from a which many issues and topics can be packaging are therefore key challenges wood-exporting country into a woodplaced. Some of these issues comprise which we and our industry face as a importing country due to the building of risks to us such as the issue of climate whole. subsidised biomass power plants. In its change or the availability of raw materials; framework document for climate and others provide us with business 1. Fibre Availability energy for the period 2020 2030, the opportunities such as optimising the Fibres from wood and recovered paper EU Commission proposes to increase supply chain of our customers. We are the fundamental raw materials we the target for renewable energy to 27% consider all issues under the collective need and their availability at competitive by 2030. We welcome that the EU also term sustainability to be challenges. Not prices is key for our business and states that in the future, benefits of surprisingly therefore, sustainability is industry. Sustainable forestry and renewable energy must be exploited in one of our key business drivers. In a world well-functioning paper recovery systems a way which is principally market-driven. where the supply of natural resources is are of paramount importance for We also welcome that the EU calls for an finite, optimal use of these resources in companies such as Smurfit Kappa. improved biomass policy to allow for fair our business is key in helping to mitigate competition between the various uses of Various factors influence the potential climate change and limit, as much as biomass resources in, for example, paper availability of fibre for our business, possible, other environmental impacts and pulp industries. The EU is in effect ranging from the need for a low carbon, on air and water systems. The main supporting our favoured concept of resource-efficient economy, and the cost resources we need as raw materials are resource hierarchy with policy support of energy to policies adopted by the EU wood, recovered paper, and energy and for the highest added value applications on the need for the use of renewable water to make the manufacturing for fibre, such as producing paper, over energy. More general factors such as process of paper and board possible. lower added value applications, such as population growth, changing consumer thermal use. Another critical element of our business patterns and food scarcity can also have is that our packaging solutions are fit for an impact. Our risk concerning wood fibre availability use in food contact applications. Food is mitigated by our ownership of forestry Our industry faces a number of safety is therefore also a key concern. in the Americas and the relationships we challenges in this respect. Need for land have with key suppliers of wood in both We significantly add value to our and water to feed an increasing Europe and the Americas. customers if our packaging products and population may limit land availability for services help them to better market and growing wood while new applications for The recyclability of paper fibres is an secure the durability of their products, the use of wood fibres in the biochemical important contributor to the sustainable improve their logistical processes and industry may limit fibre availability for nature of our products. Recovery of used lessen the impact on the environment of papermaking. On the other hand, paper is a global necessity and policies their supply chain. Our main objective is population growth and the inherent should stimulate setting up wellnot only to provide marketing and retail need to decrease food waste, to which functioning paper recovery systems. ready packaging to our customers, but packaging is part of the solution, will We expect global collection rates to also to proactively help them to optimise increase the demand for (paper) continue to increase. In Europe, their supply chains and to minimise their packaging offering business collection rates have reached on average product waste by securing the durability opportunities to us. over 70%, with additional potential in of products. The 2020 EU Renewable Energy Policy Eastern European countries. Increasing In this dynamic business environment, targets are supported by subsidy demand for recovered paper in countries risks and opportunities regarding the schemes that both increase prices as such as China and India has put upward issues of fibre availability, energy, well as impact the availability of our raw pressure on global recovered paper regulation concerning CO2 emissions, materials. This can be seen in Austria, for pricing as local recovery systems in these 20 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 countries are lagging behind. As Europe significant costs to the price of energy risks concerning costs and supply of is a major exporter of recovered paper have, in a number of countries, outgrown energy, we focus our efforts on further to China, this development is a concern the production costs of energy itself. We increasing energy efficiency and the use to us regarding future availability of welcome the understanding by the EU of biomass where economically feasible. recovered fibre for our European Council that European energy prices are We also support our European industry operations. clearly uncompetitive and that the association CEPI, as well as the ERT, in difference with other trading regions in their advocacy for competitive costs of The quality of recovered fibres is the world is unsustainable. A critical first energy supply in Europe. deteriorating as the number of times step to address this is to complete the paper is recycled is growing. Fresh fibre 3. Climate Policy Impact internal European single market in energy. inflow into the paper production and In January 2014, the EU published its recycling system is therefore a necessity, Another concern is that the global energy policy framework for climate and energy which is another reason why the above ‘landscape’ has changed significantly in a in the period from 2020 2030. In short, mentioned resource hierarchy is relatively short period of time. Shale gas the EU proposes to leave the current ETS important. To ensure the future and shale oil have already led to a III intact and to increase the fossil CO2 availability of suitable recovered paper, decrease in energy costs (notably natural emission reduction target to 40% in 2030 governments and industry collectively gas) for United States industry and led to relative to emissions in 1990. The EU also need to continue their drive to increase the export of more economically-priced proposes renewable energy to comprise collection rates. coal from North America to Europe. 27% of the European energy mix by Within Europe this development has led, As for wood fibres, also for recovered 2030. in combination with the growing use of paper, the resource hierarchy is of utmost (subsidised) renewable energy, to a Smurfit Kappa supports global efforts to importance assuring that recovered situation of overcapacity of energy curb climate change if and when a global paper is first used for producing paper supply. Gas-fired power plants, including level playing field is established. We and board, and only at the end of its life gas-fired combined heat and power believe that European policies regarding cycle should it be used as fuel for energy installations (CHP) can, in certain market climate change should not be tightened generation which generates the same conditions, no longer compete against in the absence of international level of calorific content. subsidised renewables such as wind and agreements. The EU itself forecasts that Our risk concerning recovered paper solar energy and the use of (imported) greenhouse gas emissions, relative to availability is mitigated by our position cheap coal. This development is of emissions in 1990, are expected to in the supply chain, through our own considerable concern to us as we already reduce by 24% and 32% in 2020 and recovered paper operations and have made significant investments in 2030 respectively. We therefore long-term supply agreements with gas-fired CHP installations on the basis recommend that the EU gives greater key suppliers. of their high energy efficiency and their priority to improving the overall relative environmental friendliness. We competitive situation of industry in 2. Cost and Supply of Energy welcome that the EU recognises that the Europe towards which lowering energy Energy policies must focus on security rapid (subsidised) deployment of prices forms an important step. of supply at competitive prices while renewable energy sources affects the We have made significant steps in mitigating environmental effects. As our competitiveness of other, e.g. CHP, reducing our CO2 emissions and have sector is energy-intensive, high energy sources that will continue to be been instrumental in setting industry costs also put us in a vulnerable fundamental for the EU’s energy system. benchmarks that are the basis for free competitive position vis-à-vis alternative, These developments are creating allocation of carbon credits to our less energy intensive packaging materials. significant challenges for our operations industry in the 2013-2020 trading period. European and national policies that add in Europe in particular. To mitigate our smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 21 Key Risks, Challenges and Opportunities (continued) To mitigate the risks as a result of the We also support initiatives that develop We also engage actively within the impact of climate change policies, we methodologies to calculate water European paper and packaging focus our efforts on reducing specific footprint accounting, water footprint associations, CEPI and FEFCO, to types of energy usage. We are also impact assessment, and water develop industry initiatives and to define aiming to reduce greenhouse gas stewardship standards. We are a partner best practices to be applied both in emissions by investing in more energy of the Water Footprint Network. We are Europe and the Americas. Smurfit Kappa efficient systems such as CHP plants, also closely monitoring the upcoming has an experienced internal team which alternative energy options such as the ISO standard on water footprinting is dedicated to food contact and food use of biomass, and by driving production through the different national safety issues. efficiencies. standardisations as well as via our industry association CEPI. 6. Sustainable Packaging 4. Water Packaging is about collecting, storing, Water availability and the impact of our 5. Food Contact and Food Safety transporting, distributing, marketing, water consumption and discharge on the In our opinion, it can be objectively proven advertising and preserving goods. environment are key issues for us. that paper-based packaging is the most Through packaging, the global population Sufficient availability of good quality water sustainable form of transport and display is able to have safe access to essential at an affordable cost is fundamental for packaging for food products. It is a clean products such as food, clothes and an industry like ours. Fresh water and hygienic product used for only one medicines. Paper packaging is the most availability is clearly a growing concern for delivery. The challenge our industry faces sustainable solution to maintain local and certain areas of the world. Although the to meet the standard of securing safe global flows of goods. It is based on a vast majority of our facilities are located and hygienic products is made more natural renewable resource (wood) that in areas where fresh water is currently difficult by the fact that we repeatedly can be recycled many times. As a available in sufficient quantities, as a recycle our paper materials in the interest paper-based company, we see a suite of Group we will reduce our water usage of environmental sustainability and cost opportunities to provide our customers where feasible. We have therefore efficiencies. As our raw material is mostly with sustainable packaging solutions and committed to perform water impact post-consumer recovered paper, it is to make their supply chains more assessments of all of our sites on their important that we ensure that the sustainable. The clear environmental environment in relevant areas and recycled products we produce comply advantages of paper-based packaging develop water usage measures as with the European Regulation on results in overall desirability of these appropriate before 2017. materials that come into contact materials by consumers, retailers and with food. customers. Many of our customers have We believe water policymakers will targets for packaging from renewable increase their focus on the consumption Smurfit Kappa is actively continuing its materials such as paper. We see of water and the treatment of waste efforts to further increase the safety of opportunities by supporting our water. We treat waste water as a resource recycled packaging. Specifically, for food customers with creative and innovative containing value that should be recovered packaging Smurfit Kappa follows both products and services that market their before the water is released to the public Good Manufacturing Practice and products, protect their products, water body in compliance with legislation. hygiene standards such as: optimise their supply chains and extend We already retrieve valuable biogas from  EN 15593, European Standard in the longevity of their products. waste water sludge (see page 41) and we respect of the management of are researching how to recover other Our manufacturing process also provides hygiene in the production of valuable resources from waste water opportunities that contribute to packaging for foodstuffs. flows. packaging becoming more sustainable.  ISO 22000, International standard for In our paper and board mills, the process Although the process of paper and board food safety management systems. needs both steam and power that production requires substantial volumes provides us with the opportunity to of water, we return over 90% of that water  British Retail Consortium/Institute generate power and heat at a very high to the water, systems from which it was of Packaging Global Standard for efficiency rate using Combined Heat and extracted. We are strongly committed to Packaging and Packaging Materials. Power installations. In our kraftliner mills further improve water usage efficiency  European Federation of Corrugated we have the opportunity to minimise the and also to improve the quality of the Board Manufacturers (FEFCO) use of fossil fuels by using biomass water returned. Since 2008 the water International Good Manufacturing boilers for the generation of electricity intake of our paper and board mill system Practice Standard. and steam. In 2013, 44% of all fuel used has decreased by 13% per tonne of to generate energy was biomass-based product. Since 2005 we have achieved a  International Featured Standards IFS and we are further investigating reduction of over 25% in the organic load Food version 5 as it relates to opportunities for using even less (COD) discharged with the effluents. packaging together with the IFS fossil-based fuels in the future. Packaging Guidance document from June 2010. 22 smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 long-term Sustainable Development Commitments To measure the progress we are making  Chain of Custody Our sustainably-managed planted on our activities in sustainability we have forests are not only productive, they also  CO2 emissions defined specific tangible and measurable secure biodiversity (page 36). targets within certain time frames.  Waste COmmItmENt in 2010, we adopted four long-term  Water commitments with measurable targets By 2015, all fibres produced and  Health and Safety purchased will be labelled as Chain of to state our ambition to be a leading sustainable company. In mid-2013,  Sustainable Sourcing Custody certified under FSC, PEFC or SFI. As a minimum requirement fibre we made our long-term vision on  Community involvement. should be from a sustainable origin. sustainability public in a paper entitled ‘The Smurfit Kappa Vision on in addition, the progress made in the By 2015 over 90% of our paper-based Sustainability’. In that publication we implementation of our Code of business packaging will be labelled as Chain of widened the scope of our long-term Conduct is described. Custody certified under FSC, PEFC or SFI. objectives and commitments to include a number of other sustainable 1. CHAIN OF CuStODY development issues that we consider the sustainable origin of raw material The packaging solutions that we deliver important. These issues are waste is of the utmost importance for us. to our customers should contain only management, water usage, safety at It ensures the protection of biodiversity, certified fibres and/or fibres of nonwork, sustainable sourcing and our indigenous peoples’ rights, workers’ controversial origin. Our products should involvement in the local communities rights, and areas of significant also meet the commitments we make in where we operate. environmental or cultural importance. our various policy statements (Forestry According to our materiality analysis, Policy, Code of Business Conduct, Social In this section we describe the Citizenship etc.). This concerns all fibres it is also one of the key issues for our achievements to date, activities in 2013, and fibre-based products we use or stakeholders. Sustainable fibre means and current and future activities related manufacture whatever the origin or form fibres that are certified or are of a to the objectives and targets defined in of the fibres. non-controversial origin. We are fully the following seven building blocks that committed to that principle, both for our impact the four key pillars (our supply virgin fibres as well as the recovered fibres chain, production operations, customers that we use as raw material. and our role as responsible employer) of our business: Origin of fibre Pu (P Re Pu Pu rc re c rc h -a y nd cle rc h as po d h as as ed st P ed ed wo -c ap pa on e pu pe od su r lp m er r ) CONVERtING Packaging FOREStRY Wood PuLP PRODuCtION Pulp PAPER PRODuCtION Paper solutions to OPERAtIONS customers Smurfit Kappa target 1: Smurfit Kappa target 2: By 2015, all fibres produced and purchased will be labelled by 2015 over 90% of our paper-based as Chain of Custody certified under FSC, PEFC or SFI. As a packaging will be labelled as Chain of minimum requirement fibre should be from a sustainable origin. Custody certified under FSC, PEFC or SFI. Smurfit Kappa Smurfit Kappa External wood operation wood-based product based product SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 23 Long-term sustainable development commitments (continued) Fossil CO2 Emission Reduction (basis 2005) 0% -2% per tonne of paper produced -4% -6% TA R G E T -8% -10% -12% -14% -16% -18% -20% -22% 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Wood and virgin pulp produced or  All but one converting operations Current and future activities purchased are preferably Chain of in Argentina are Chain of Custody  In March 2014, we reached a global Custody certified with the remainder of certified under FSC since 2012. level of 91% Chain of Custody non-controversial origin. A total of 56% Our two recycled paper mills in certified for all of our converting of the wood used in the Smurfit Kappa Argentina and the remaining plants, enabling us and our mill system for producing virgin paper converting operation not customers to trace the origin of or pulp is currently Chain of Custody previously certified in Argentina the fibres we use. certified under the FSC and/or PEFC (in Mendoza) passed the FSC schemes and the remaining 44% is certification audit in January  In Europe 94% of our converting controlled wood (from a non2014. plants operate under a Chain of controversial origin). This status is verified Custody certification scheme.  By the end of 2013, 87% of paper Consequently we can service our by a third party under the chain of and board produced in our Group was customers fully with packaging custody scheme FSC and/or PEFC. certified for further labelling Chain of solutions that are Chain of Custody Achievements to date Custody according to either PEFC certified. Our objective by the end  In Europe: or FSC. of 2015 is that at least 90% of our  An overview of activities that are packaging solutions delivered from  Our complete paper and board certified can be found on page 86 Europe are sold as Chain of Custody mill system is Chain of Custody with full details on our website. certified. certified under both schemes we support in Europe (FSC and Activities and results in 2013  Completion of FSC certification of PEFC). This includes mills our paper mills in Venezuela is  In 2013, we completed the three year producing virgin and recycled envisaged for 2014. certification programme of our containerboard, carton and solid European converting operations. 2. CO2 EMISSIONS board, sack paper and machine Considerable progress was also glazed papers. Climate change and ‘global warming’ are made in the certification process of widely seen as high priority sustainability  94% of our European system of our converting operations in the issues. Our materiality analysis confirms converting business operates Americas. that Climate Change is also a key issue under a FSC and/or PEFC Chain  99% of customer packaging for our stakeholders. Customers regularly of Custody certification system. solutions produced in Europe ask for our input into the calculations of  In the Americas: originates from certified FSC their products’ carbon footprint. For us and/or PEFC operations. these issues are among the most  Our Colombian forests have important sustainability issues as they been FSC certified since 2003.  In December 2013, our converting are closely related to our business. Our forest activities in Venezuela operation in the Dominican Republic Energy generation involves significant passed the FSC Controlled Wood passed the FSC audit. CO2 emissions from burning fossil fuels. certification audit in January  We continued auditing our suppliers Therefore our fossil CO2 reduction 2014. to ensure that no wood fibres programme is to a large extent directed  All of our US, Colombian and originate from controversial sources. at increasing efficient energy usage and Mexican mills and converting At the end of 2013, 98% of paper increasing the use of biomass where it is operations are Chain of Custody purchased from third parties and economically viable. certified under FSC. These (partly) containing wood fibres is include the operations from certified Chain of Custody under Orange County that were PEFC, SFI and/or FSC Mix or acquired in December 2012. Controlled wood. 24 smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 We have taken initiatives both in Europe lower than those at the end of 2012. UK we will replace the two existing and the Americas to address this subject. During 2012 and also in 2013, a paper machines with one new We continuously invest in projects that number of energy-related machine which has a slightly higher should lead to higher energy efficiency investments was completed, production capacity. This machine and reduction of fossil CO2 emissions. resulting in the achievement of our will have an improved energy long-term development objective efficiency compared to the two COMMITMENT to decrease relative fossil CO2 existing paper machines and emissions of our global paper and therefore save 25,000 tonnes of A 20% reduction in relative fossil CO2 emissions in our mill system by 2020 board mill system by 20% relative to direct fossil CO2 emissions. The compared to 2005. 2005. start-up of this machine is planned for the first quarter of 2015. Collaborate with customers to  In our recycled paper mill in determine the carbon footprint of the Barranquilla in Colombia the  In our recycled mill in Roermond in packaging lifecycle. installation of one large gas turbine, the Netherlands, a project has been producing both steam and electricity approved to modify the PM-1 into a Achievements to date and replacing older units, which medium/light weight paper machine  We have been switching from fossil produced only electricity, has been and to increase its capacity. The fuels to renewable energy where fully operational since August 2013. changes to the machine will result possible and economically feasible The reductions of fossil CO2 in more efficient use of energy and (biomass boilers commissioned in emission are estimated to be 13,000 generate relative CO2 emission Sweden (2007) and France (2010), tonnes on an annual basis. reductions. new black liquor boiler installed in  In our recycled paper mill in Hoya in  In our recycled paper mill in Zülpich Colombia (2008), switch to biomass Germany a multi-year investment in Germany, the replacement of the fuel in the lime kiln in Piteå in Sweden project has been completed in Q1 size press by a spray sizer is planned (2008) and use of biogas from the 2014. The first phase reduced fossil to be completed in the second new and/or extended water CO2 emissions on a per tonne basis quarter of 2014. Due to this treatment plants in various paper by 6-7%. The second phase involved investment, water usage can be mills). the installation of a CHP. Once the reduced leading to less energy needs  For over two decades we have been CHP is fully operational, relative fossil to produce steam. Total fossil CO2 focused on reducing CO2 emissions CO2 emissions are expected to emissions are expected to be from fossil fuels relative to output. decrease by approximately 15% reduced by 14,000 tonnes. For example, our Nettingsdorfer mill relative to the start of the project.  In our recycled paper mill in Ania in in Austria and our Roermond mill in  In our kraft paper mill in Navarra in Italy, a new CHP will be installed which the Netherlands have realised over Spain, the rebuilt biomass boiler that will generate all electricity needed 30% reductions in CO2 emissions per has been in operation since October on-site resulting in a decrease of tonne of paper. 2012 showed its full effect in 2013. fossil CO2 emissions by 2,400 tonnes.  Between 2005 and 2013, fossil CO2 Direct fossil CO2 emissions decreased by approximately 22,000 3. WASTE emissions per tonne of paper and board produced have decreased tonnes on an annual basis. Given that the global population is by 20.7% thereby achieving our expected to increase by 2 billion by 2050  In our kraft paper mill in Cali in commitment to decrease by 20% and that average incomes, particularly in Colombia, a new more energysix years ahead of schedule. This is emerging countries, will grow strongly, efficient lime kiln was commissioned illustrated in the graph on page 24 the existing issue of waste generation will in March 2013. Direct fossil CO2 which shows the annual become even more important over the emissions are expected to decrease improvement compared to next years. Although not at the top of on an annual basis by 13,000 tonnes. the base year 2005. their agenda, for our stakeholders waste  In our recycled paper mill in Mengibar is increasingly important. However for us, Activities and results in 2013 in Spain, a boiler was installed using waste is already today an important issue  In 2013, the total fossil CO2 biogas produced in the water as we generate sizable volumes of emissions of our global paper and treatment process as fuel for the non-hazardous waste in our board mill system decreased by 1.4% production of steam. Previously the manufacturing process with compared to 2012 despite the biogas was flared. Using the biogas approximately 57% being sent to landfill. addition of the Forney paper mill in decreases the need for natural gas Our objective is to contribute to a circular the US to our system in December resulting in a decrease of 2,500 economy. Eventually we will take all 2012. Excluding Forney, fossil CO2 tonnes of fossil CO2 emissions. avoidable waste out of our production emissions have decreased by 5.1%. system and we will minimise our waste to Current and future activities landfill to those materials that are not  By the end of 2013, volume adjusted  In the rebuilding of our recycled further recyclable, renewable or fossil CO2 emissions per tonne of paper mill in Townsend Hook in the recoverable. paper and board produced were 6.5% smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 25 Long-term sustainable development commitments (continued) COD Discharge Reduction (basis 2005) mills discharging to surface 0% -3% per tonne of paper produced -6% -9% TA R G E T -12% -15% -18% -21% -24% -27% -30% -33% 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 process. We will determine best the environment, the water ecosystems COMMITMENT practice on how to prevent waste and the water balance of the areas where Conduct before the end of 2015 a and how to recover waste. our operations are located. In areas with company-wide assessment with the fresh water scarcity, we are committed to aim to minimise:  In 2014, we will make a companyhelping safeguard the availability of fresh wide analysis of the generation of • Non-hazardous waste generation water for the local communities where hazardous waste by our operations. • Waste to landfill we operate. • Hazardous waste generation.  A number of mills are already While the original commitment of performing initial waste assessments reduction of COD discharge by one third Achievements to date and activities at mill level. by 2020 compared to 2005 has remained in 2013  Before the end of 2015, we will the same (COD discharge per tonne of  Since 2008, we have gathered assess whether there are paper produced), we modified this target detailed information on our waste economically feasible ways to reduce in 2013 to take into account those mills streams from all our operations on our waste streams that are currently that directly discharge to the water a regular basis. going to landfill. bodies. This better reflects the impacts our mills have on the environment.  In 2013, eight of our 24 paper mills 4. WATER in Europe did not send any waste Water is seen as a sustainability issue of COMMITMENT to landfill. increasing importance. Water is Perform water impact assessments of  In 2013, 40% of non-hazardous abundantly present on Earth: yet the our sites on their environment in waste generated by our operations availability and quality of fresh water is relevant areas and develop water usage was recovered. This comprised the limited and, according to the Food and measurements as appropriate before recycling of certain waste Agriculture Organisation of the UN, is 2017. components into new products or decreasing and unequally distributed. Reduce the organic content discharged different products and by For the paper and packaging industry, in the process water (COD) of our mill composting or by incinerating waste after fibre, water is the most important system by one third by 2020 compared as fuel for energy production, thereby natural resource for our business. As we to 2005 and assess specific mills for recovering the caloric value of the return approximately 90% of the water phosphorous and nitrogen effluents waste. we take into the public water body, our before the end of 2015. The reduction is primary commitment for water and our relative to the organic discharge  During 2013 we performed an measured by COD, expressed per investment focus in this area is on the in-depth assessment of the different tonne of paper discharged directly on quality of the water that is returned to the water bodies. types of waste generated by our public water body. The COD content is a operations (mills and converters). good indicator for the quality of the water This assessment is a first step to Achievements to date returned. identify which types of waste are  Investments in water treatment generated at which stage of the With regard to water scarcity in the areas plants has taken place in a number manufacturing process and which where our operations are located, we use of paper mills since 2005 including: operations are the main contributors various tools that have been developed Alfa d’Avignon, Cellulose du Pin and to our total waste generation and by organisations such as WBCSD, World Rethel in France, Mengibar and waste disposal. Resources Institute and WWF that Navarra in Spain, Hoya in Germany, provide insights into regional and national Roermond in the Netherlands, SSK in Current and future activities water risks. These tools will be used to the UK, Ania in Italy and Bernal in  In 2014, we will further detail our analyse which of our mills are located in Argentina. company-wide waste assessment, water-stressed areas. including analysing which waste  Since 2008, our mills in the Americas streams are generated during the Our objective is to minimise the impact have taken initiatives resulting in a different stages of our production our water usage and discharge have on 20% decrease in water intake per 26 smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 tonne of product produced. However our operations have on the water adoption of proven health and safety since the addition of Forney at the end availability in those regions. practices and their verification of 2012, the actual decrease is now through a comprehensive audit 40%. 5. HEALTH AND SAFETY process. Providing healthy and safe working  Between 2005 and 2013, COD  During 2013, we held a series of conditions for our people is a core content in the process water regional health and safety workshops commitment. Our stakeholders discharged by our global paper and in which all business divisions were consistently emphasise that this issue is board system has decreased relative represented resulting in the also of utmost importance to them. At to production by over 25%. This is establishment of a collaborative Smurfit Kappa, health and safety in the illustrated in the graph on the professional health and safety workplace has been receiving increasing previous page which shows the network and agreement on both focus for many years. This focus has annual improvement compared to common priorities and the resulted in the continually strengthening the base year 2005. We calculate this engagement approach necessary to global approach to the prevention of indicator with the mills that discharge facilitate continual improvement. injuries and ill health defined, coordinated their treated, process water after use and reviewed from our Group Head  Collaboration across our divisions to a surface water body. Those mills Office. Annual targets are set relating to has also led to the development of a that have their process water treated the reduction of injuries. Our objective is common health and safety audit tool at a local water treatment plant are to adopt a structured and systematic that will enable all plants to undergo not included in this commitment. approach to the management of safety audits using common criteria chosen Activities and results in 2013 and well-being aspects in the workplace. to verify the presence of the  Due to under performance in some We are absolutely committed to appropriate protective measures of our water treatment plants during implementing targeted risk mitigation relating to our operations. part of 2013, we were not able to measures to achieve zero fatalities in  We recently established a new safety achieve further decreases in the our operations. Through our continual incident bulletin process designed to organic load discharges of our mill investment in awareness and progressive share the key lessons from incidents. system compared to 2012. This was competency development programmes, Known as Safety Incident Bulletins, also partly due to the fact that no we expect to achieve further reductions lessons are now being shared across additional water treatment plants in the number of work related accidents. our operations each month; the were commissioned in 2013. bulletins are posted on information COMMITMENT  Over 90% of our paper and board is boards within our plants allowing produced in mills where best Zero fatalities is an objective in all our employees to learn from safety practices are implemented. Best operations. events at other plants. This tool helps practice for water treatment includes ensure safety incidents receive Safe behaviour and well-being at least one step with biological appropriate senior management • Develop a holistic approach to treatment before discharging. focus within reviews and increase safety and well-being at work communications.  We have performed an initial analysis • Increase awareness of safety in the of suitable tools to determine in working environment by promoting Current and future activities practices such as near miss reporting which regions where we have  A new one page Group Health and operations, there exists water • Stimulate pre-emptive actions on Safety Policy statement that will reporting of near misses to avoid scarcity and/or water risks regarding replace the existing policy serious accidents. availability of sufficient fresh water. statements is being developed. This Injuries: Reduce the lost-time and injury policy statement will be adopted by Current and future activities rate by 5% annually for the next 5 years all plants and promotes greater  There are several investments in (2013-2017). consistency in our health and safety water treatment facilities in both commitment. Europe and America that are being Achievements to date planned for implementation in the  Together with all divisions, a set of  During 2013, we successfully next few years. Good Health and Safety Practice achieved a 16% reduction in our lost requirements is being developed.  We are continuing our programme of time accident frequency rate while These good practice requirements best practice in the treatment of our achieving an 11% reduction in injury will be adopted as minimum process water in the Americas. severity rate compared to 2012. mandatory requirements across all  In the regions where we have Activities and results in 2013 divisions. A corresponding good operations we will determine,  During 2013, Smurfit Kappa health and safety practice according to generally accepted appointed a Group Director of Health assessment questionnaire that will tools, which areas represent the and Safety whose priority has been enable self-assessment, reporting highest risks in terms of water the development of processes that and future verification is also being scarcity and in terms of the impact ensure the consistent and global developed. smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 27 Long-term sustainable development commitments (continued)  During 2014, we plan to train a panel Activities and results in 2013 COMMITMENT of health and safety coordinators in  In 2013, a total of 50 supplier audits the use of the new health and safety took place. Smurfit Kappa foundations to reach audit tool mentioned above. This will 100,000 people in local communities by  We started to audit our supplier base 2020 by spending at least €1 million per assure our employees of the in the Americas. Six strategic annum on the education of children and presence of the necessary suppliers of key materials were €1 million per annum on scientific programmes and protective audited. research on e.g. biodiversity. measures at all our operations.  The auditing of suppliers of non-key Local management teams (mill/plant 6. SUSTAINABLE SOURCING materials in Europe was accelerated level) to comprise at least 90% in 2013. This group comprises goods residents in every country where we Sustainability in our supply chain is a core such as cutting dies, printing plates, operate. issue for us. Working with thousands of suppliers, ranging from multinational strapping tapes and pallets. We looked at the feasibility of Achievements to date companies to local family-owned  businesses, means that we have to performing online audits of suppliers.  The Fundación Smurfit Carton de critically assess their potential impact on  Ten training sessions of Smurfit Colombia celebrated its 50th our own sustainability profile. Kappa auditors were held in both anniversary in 2012 and focuses on Transparency throughout the value chain Europe and the Americas. An internal issues such as education of children together with sustainable packaging are reference guide to ensure and the eradication of youth poverty important for our stakeholders. We are consistency by different auditors has in Colombia. therefore fully committed to managing been developed.  The Health Brigades programme in our suppliers in line with our sustainability Venezuela, was established in 2009 Current and future activities objectives. Our primary focus is the and is designed to offer preventive suppliers of materials that are used to  We will continue to ask our suppliers health service in the rural produce our products. Our approach is to apply our key sourcing principles, communities neighbouring our to engage with our suppliers, requesting while focusing on working towards Venezuelan operations. The them to employ sustainable practices. more sustainable practices and also programme has provided medical Recurring audits and follow up taking our commitments on service to almost 360,000 people programmes are being used to assure sustainability into account. since its inception. continuous progress.  We will start the next cycle of audits of our European strategic supplier  The Smurfit Kappa Foundation was COMMITMENT base. established by the Group Head Office in February 2011 and focuses Perform risk assessments of suppliers  We will continue the first cycle of on projects involving young regarding food safety, technical data auditing of strategic suppliers in the disadvantaged children. sheets, material safety and substances Americas. of high concern.  Our management teams in plants  There will be special focus on the Implement system of auditing based on continuous improvement throughout the Group have taken the key sustainable sourcing principles. programmes agreed with suppliers local community initiatives over the that have been audited. past years ranging from charity Implement our key sustainable sourcing fundraising to volunteering activities principles with our suppliers.  Additional training sessions of at local projects and activities. Smurfit Kappa auditors will be held in Achievements to date both Europe and the Americas. Activities and results in 2013  A formal sustainable sourcing policy  In Colombia and Venezuela, specific 7. COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT has been effective since 2010 and programmes provide education to We strive to be an integral part of the teenagers at Smurfit Kappawas updated in 2013. communities where we operate by sponsored high schools. These focus  By the end of 2013 we finished our making positive contributions to their on areas such as agriculture, forestry, first three-year programme to audit economic and social development. Our livestock and pulp and paper. In both our strategic European supplier base. focus is on supporting activities and countries, Smurfit Kappa also All of the audited suppliers deliver key community support programmes in sponsors development projects for materials to us such as paper, starch, areas such as education and health disadvantaged children or children chemicals, printing inks and glues programmes as well as areas that align living in the area surrounding Smurfit that are all part of our final products. with our specific expertise. We do this in Kappa operations. In 2013, two fundamental ways: through making approximately €1 million was spent  By the end of 2013, 54 additional financial contributions (generally on the various educational European suppliers delivering both “matching funds”) and by volunteering. programmes in these two countries. key and non-key goods and materials have been audited (see page 73).  The Smurfit Kappa Foundation supports a number of projects in countries where we operate. 28 smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 These focus on young disadvantaged environment and community  The Code of Business Conduct was children. In 2013, the Foundation involvement. The Group’s commitment subsequently reviewed and cleared committed to (co-)sponsor two to these principles is officially with the respective Works Councils. such projects in addition to existing underpinned by our Code of Business  The Code has been translated into projects. By the end of 2013, the Conduct, to which all of our companies 17 languages and has been published Smurfit Kappa Foundation had either and employees alike must adhere. The on the Group’s website in the various sponsored or committed to sponsor fundamental driver of this policy is that languages projects in Colombia, Germany, the tone is set from the top. Ireland and the Netherlands.  The Code of Business Conduct The Code of Business Conduct is Expenditure in 2013 amounted to “Group-wide Awareness Campaign” supported by a number of policies over €200k, thus bringing was formally launched on 10 detailing the Group’s commitment to expenditure in its first two years of September, 2013 and will be excellence in our relationships with our operation to over €0.5 million. completed in the course of 2014 in employees, shareholders, customers and each of our areas of operation. The  In Europe, Smurfit Kappa cosuppliers, and governmental authorities purpose of the campaign is to inform sponsors and actively participates in the countries in which we operate. all our employees about the core in an initiative led by the European principles of the Code via a training Round Table of Industrialists, Junior COMMITMENT course. Achievement-Young Enterprise To continuously emphasise the Europe and European Schoolnet  In 2013, an internal control importance of the Code of Business called Global Entreprise Project Conduct to our employees and to questionnaire was completed across which aims to promote greater integrate these principles into our our operations. The Group’s Code of understanding and awareness day-to-day business dealings. Business Conduct and Good Faith among young people about Reporting Statement have been globalisation, entrepreneurship and Achievements to date distributed to the plant management the skills they need to succeed in the and support staff in every Group  Established and implemented a global economy. facility, which accounts for about 30% number of Group-wide policies in of the entire workforce. All general  Our Colombian operations spend areas like ethical business behaviour, plant managers and financial approximately €1 million on forestry finance, health and safety, controllers gave written confirmation research focussing on areas such as environment and sourcing. of their understanding and species improvement, how to  Established an overarching Code of adherence to the Code of Business maintain conservation banks in both Business Conduct, that is applicable Conduct; that all employees had pines and Eucalyptus and tree to all employees across the Group. been made aware of the Code of breeding, plantation management Business Conduct and Whistleblower and phytosanitary protection.  Appointed a Group Compliance Code; and that any known or Officer with an active reporting role Current and future activities suspected violations had been to the Group Board (Audit  In Colombia and Venezuela our reported appropriately. Committee). intention is to broaden the scope of  Every level of management existing programmes such as the El  Introduced a Good Faith Reporting throughout the Group has a Caracoli project and day care and Policy Statement (‘Whistleblower responsibility to monitor and early childhood educational Code’), which provides channels for enforce the Group’s guidelines on programmes. all employees to confidentially raise competition policy. Approximately concerns in relation to perceived  In Europe, the Smurfit Kappa 900 managing and sales directors, improper actions. Foundation intends to sponsor sales managers and other senior additional projects and has already  Signed up to the UN Global Compact management across the Group committed to support a project in initiative. confirmed their understanding of the Birmingham in the UK, supporting Group’s zero tolerance policy with  Audited our strategic suppliers on children in one of the most regard to anti-competitive behaviour. their code of conduct programmes disadvantaged areas of this city. The process required written through our Sustainability Sourcing certification from each manager that Policy. CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT he/she had not been engaged in, nor Over the years, the employee base of our Activities and results in 2013 was aware of, any such actions. multinational Group has grown  The updated Code of Business Current and future activities considerably, both in size and in cultural Conduct was formally announced to  The Group will continue to actively and social diversity. This diversity the Group in April 2013 and was communicate and promote the core demands the development and subsequently communicated principles of the Code of Business adherence to shared core values and through the divisional and country Conduct through the Group business principles in the area of structures through to plant level structure to all employees. business practice, health and safety, employees. employee relations, human rights, smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 29 expertise Juan Moreno Sánchez at work at Smurfit Kappa Bogotá Corrugated in Colombia Our expertise in forestry, recovery, paper, packaging and related systems is recognised as industry leading and sets the standard for eﬃciency, sustainability, quality and innovation. Our focus on training and innovation ensures that our expertise continues to evolve and expand to meet the needs of our customers and the environment. environment Respecting the natural environment in it often helps to preserve the product, which we operate is part of our overall carries important product information mission. The environmental challenges for consumers and provides marketing the world is facing today are, to a opportunities for both manufacturers significant degree, challenges we face in and retailers. our operations on a daily basis. Issues The paper-based packaging solutions such as efficient use of energy to mitigate that we supply to our customers are an climate change, sustainable forestry, environmentally friendly form of reducing the use of water and prevention packaging as the raw material comes of waste are important to us and to our from renewable sources and the end stakeholders. We are committed to product is fully recyclable. We use a mix progress on these issues and we aim to of virgin or recycled papers depending minimise the impact our activities have on product requirements and the supply on the environment as much as we can. chain specifics. Our principle focus will be on those areas where our activities potentially have the A fresh virgin fibre inflow into the recycling largest impact. These areas are the use system is required as wood fibres of fibres and the use of wood, the use of degrade every time they are recycled. energy and fossil CO2 emissions, the the length of a wood fibre is shortened avoidance of waste and the usage and during every cycle and totally degraded discharge of water. As forest owners and after a certain number of cycles. users we practice sustainable forestry Therefore, virgin fibre is constantly added supporting biodiversity; as users of wood to the system to compensate for the loss and paper fibres we guarantee the of degraded fibre and the loss through sustainable origin of our raw materials; normal use and disposal of certain paper and as users of energy and water we products (e.g. tissues). invest continuously to make our Paper-based packaging is almost totally processes more energy and water renewable and recyclable. The recycling efficient. In 2013 we committed ourselves rate for paper and board packaging within to also include the issue of waste in our the EU’s 27 member states for 2011, primary focus. which is the latest year for which official 1. SuStAINABLE uSE OF FIBRES Eurostat statistics are available, was 83%. Five out of every six paper-based Almost all of our products are made from packaging units are recycled, far higher paper and support our customers in than for example the number of glass making their supply chain more and metal units being recycled. Plastic sustainable. Our products are made from packaging is far behind, with only two out both virgin and recycled fibres that have a of every six plastic packaging units being sustainable origin and are recyclable. recycled. (see graph page 33). Smart and efficient packaging solutions help to make the total supply chain of goods more sustainable. Packaging not only protects products during transit, 32 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 fibre origin 2013 Packaging recycling rate in eu (%) ALL OPERAtIONS Source Eurostat 16% 100 58% 2010 2011 6% Recycled pulp produced internally 80 84 83 Wood pulp produced internally 1% 71 72 72 Market virgin pulp 69 60 Virgin papers purchased Recycled paper purchased 19% 40 33 34 20 0 Paper & Board Glass Metallic Plastic For the last few years we have been of Chain of Custody certification, giving Europe. With the acquisition of Orange engaged in extensive Chain of Custody initial priority to our operations which County at the end of 2012, 88% of our certification programmes to ensure that handle wood. We have extended this recovered paper needs in the Americas the natural resources, which we need and management system to our entire mill in 2013 were secured either through depend upon, are responsibly managed. system (both virgin and recycled paper collection in our own system or through We expect to complete our global and board) and to our packaging term contracts with third party suppliers certification programme by the end of operations. (70% in 2012). 2014 but are already in a position today We are both the largest producer of virgin Sustainable fibres Our approach to service our customers with the containerboard in Europe as well as in sustainably produced products that Smurfit Kappa recognises and utilises the those countries in the Americas where they require. Forestry Stewardship Council (FSC), the we have virgin containerboard production programme for the endorsement of By making tangible and measurable facilities. 70% of the virgin Forest Certification (PEFC) and the commitments for the sustainable use of containerboard used for the manufacture Sustainable Forest Initiative (SFI) fibres we are showing our drive to apply of packaging is produced internally: the schemes. These are the three major the principles described in this important remainder is purchased from third international forest certification bodies sustainability area. parties. Through a verification to qualify the wood and the virgin programme with external suppliers we use of virgin fibres fibre-based products we purchase, as ensure that the supply of virgin paper is well as the paper, board, and packaging Typical products containing virgin fibres either certified or is of non-controversial we produce in our operations. are wood, virgin pulp and certain origin. categories of paper and board. The Chain of Custody certification Our Sustainable Forestry statement and process we have implemented in our more than 84% of the wood we use for our Sustainable Sourcing policy are operations ensures that assessments the production of virgin fibres and virgin available on our website and describe our are performed regularly by independent papers is purchased from external codes of conduct with regard to all accredited organisations, providing suppliers. In order to supply us and to supplies of wood products, whether assurance that the wood and fibres we make sure our supply of wood is from a originating from our own forests or source externally originate from sustainable origin, external suppliers have purchased from third party suppliers. sustainable and well managed forests to maintain strict policies for monitoring use of recycled fibres and are legitimately sourced. This the origin of wood fibres thus ensuring certification process is important for our the protection of natural resources in the In 2013, 74% of our fibrous raw materials own operations, our customers and our countries from which we source them. came from recycled fibres. suppliers. It proves that our commitment The policies in place are based on We consume approximately 5.5 million to a sustainably managed supply chain, well-established forest certification tonnes of recovered paper each year. ranging from sustainable forest systems. Of this figure, 4.3 million tonnes are management practices to delivering both our own forest operations and our processed in Europe and most of this is Chain of Custody certified products to wood purchasing practices are based on supplied through our own recovery and our customers, leads to measurable and the principles of environmentally recovered paper supply system. This tangible results. compliant forest management schemes. makes us the clear industry leader in In 2007, we committed to a programme consumption of recovered paper in SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 33 Environment (continued) Forestry Smurfit Kappa owns and manages approximately 105,000 hectares of forests in Colombia and Venezuela. these plantations provide our mills in both countries with almost all of their virgin fibre requirements. We manage forest holdings based on our sustainable development principles, promoting economic growth, a responsible use of natural resources and fostering social equity in the regions where the forest plantations are located. Chain of Custody-status paving forest roads in Colombia, where we have our largest for every reel along the by recycling asphalt forest plantations we have approximately total supply chain and tyres 69,000 hectares, including 5,900 An innovative combination of Smurfit In Colombia, Smurfit Kappa recycles hectares in partnerships with private Kappa’s logistical expertise and IT skills asphalt and car tyres to create new landowners. This area comprises over has resulted in a Chain of Custody pavements and retention walls, 44,000 hectares of commercial (CoC) breakthrough. thereby reducing the use of nonplantations, approximately 22,000 renewable natural resources like rock, hectares of protected natural forest The CoC-certification guarantees cement, metals and fossil fuels. and just over 3,000 hectares for customers that Smurfit Kappa makes infrastructure. Of the commercial use of only sustainable fibres in CoC in 2013, the programme for plantations, 60% are pines, 39% certified products, enabling them to construction and maintenance of Eucalyptus and 1% is dedicated to realise their own sustainability targets. forestry roads in Smurfit Kappa’s areas forestry research. We operate our Since there was no ready IT solution of influence in Colombia, collected Colombian forest holdings under a available on the market, Smurfit Kappa 10,000 square meters of tarmac from management system that has been created its own system by adapting the government’s public roads that certified in accordance with the FSC SAP, local Smurfit Kappa IT technology were heading to landfills. The material since 2003. and the paper industry standard is now used successfully in the PapiNet, and introduced new working maintenance of forest roads and In Venezuela, we own approximately procedures which can be seen as a public roads of neighbouring rural 35,000 hectares in three western states new industry segment standard. communities. In 2013, Smurfit Kappa of the country. Of this total 21,000 paved five kilometres of roads with hectares are commercial plantations, the new system guarantees recycled asphalt and the depot 13,000 hectares are natural reserves and traceability from tree and bale to contains enough for several kilometres the balance is given over to infrastructure. certified box for both FSC and PEFC more. Commercial plantations include 12,600 certification schemes on a scale that is hectares of short fibre (Eucalyptus and unique within our industry. It is able to Another successful recycling Gmelina) while 6,400 hectares are long accommodate significant complexity, programme concentrates on used fibre pine trees. The balance is used for which is crucial given that paper tyres from industrial equipment. research and development such as products are supplied by almost 270 tyres are not biodegradable and silviculture, plantation management, internal and external paper mills to accumulating them is illegal since tyres forest protection and forestry research. over 200 CoC-certified corrugated can negatively impact health as ideal Since early 2014, the forest plantations in plants, and the Smurfit Kappa supply hiding places for rodents and Venezuela are FSC Controlled Wood chain system as a whole must keep mosquitos. Instead, Smurfit Kappa certified. track of 5 million tonnes of paper, uses the tyres as a self-supporting 2 million reels and approximately structural element in the construction The main species harvested in both 250,000 trucks on an annual basis. of retention walls both for public roads countries are varieties of Eucalyptus and for Smurfit Kappa’s own lumber and pine. transportation roads. During the plantation life cycle, we conform to a comprehensive set of governmental approved legal, technical and environmental regulations. In most cases annual permit renewals are required under these regulations. 34 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 Paper and Board production packaging. For virgin papers, this means Overview of certification in place In Europe all our wood handling that fibres originate solely from at the end of 2013 operations are Chain of Custody certified sustainably managed forests and, for The table below gives a detailed overview by FSC or PEFC. These include all our recycled paper, it means that a significant of our paper capacity operating under mills producing virgin fibres and our wood amount of post-consumer recovered Chain of Custody certification by type of supply companies in France and Spain. paper is used as raw material. The entire paper together with the number of supply chain is traceable to prove this to converting operations also Chain of Our complete paper and board mill our customers. Custody certified. system in Europe is Chain of Custody certified since early 2011. Our European Although our three year programme The first two sections of the table give mills are certified under FSC and PEFC described above was completed early the percentage of our paper or board schemes. 2013, we continued in 2013 with the production capacity operating under process of certifying additional Chain of Custody certification, while the In the Americas in 2013, we achieved last column reports the exact percentage operations both in Europe and in the certification under Chain of Custody for of the paper or board that can be sold as Americas. By the end of 2013, 94% of our our two paper mills in Argentina. We had Chain of Custody certified, taking into paper-based packaging operations in achieved this status already for our paper account also the certified raw material we Europe were operating under a Chain of and board mills in Colombia, Mexico and can obtain. This information is provided Custody certification scheme, reaching a the USA. Our three paper mills in by type of paper and board produced in level of 74% for our packaging operations Venezuela are expected to be certified by both Europe and the Americas. in the Americas. For the Group as a the end of 2014. These percentages reflect the situation whole, we reached a level of 91% thereby achieving our initial long-term at the end of 2013. To simplify the Packaging operations calculation, where a mill obtained the commitment to reach a level of 90%. The Chain of Custody certification certificate during the year, the annual A new target is now to assure that over programme we initiated for our production of the mill is taken into 90% of our total paper-based packaging packaging operations in 2009 has been account for calculating the percentage. volume delivered to customers is completed in Europe and is due to be The third section of the table relates to certified under either FSC, PEFC or completed towards the end of 2014 in the packaging operations. Here the SFI by 2015. the Americas. As described above, Chain number of sites operating with Chain of of Custody certified packaging provides Custody certification is reported and the our customers with a guarantee that only second column gives the percentage of sustainable fibres are used in their sites with Chain of Custody certification. SMURFIT KAPPA MILLS AND CONVERING PLANTS CERTIFIED CHAIN OF CUSTODY UNDER PEFC AND/OR FSC* VIRGIN PAPER EUROPE Production Production % certified ktonnes capacity with CoC paper certification Kraftliner products 1.605 100% 80% Other virgin papers (sack paper, MG paper) 251 100% 46% THE AMERICAS Kraftliner, printing & writing paper, SC fluting 300 79% 79% RECYCLED PAPERS & BOARD EUROPE Production Production % certified ktonnes capacity with CoC paper certification Containerboard recycled papers 2.858 100% 100% Solidboard & carton board 858 100% 100% THE AMERICAS Containerboard recycled papers 954 80% 66% Cartonboard 134 66% 26% PACKAGING EUROPE Number of Percentage of sites certified sites owning CoC Certification Corrugated packaging 169 93% Solid & carton packaging 9 100% THE AMERICAS Corrugated packaging 26 74% Folding packaging 2 67% Sacks 4 80% *Certification at the end of 2013 smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 35 Environment (continued) Suppliers Together with the National Centre for present in our forest areas, we focused To make further progress in the Coffee Research (CENICAFÉ) we have on determining which of these species certification of our products, in 2013 we worked on the potential carbon were categorised as endangered by continued our verification programme sequestration capabilities of the pine and international organisations such as the with external paper suppliers to ensure Eucalyptus species planted by Smurfit International Union for Conservation of that, as a minimum, all virgin fibres Kappa. The “3CFix” (Cartón de Colombia Nature (IUCN). contained in the supplied papers or board Carbon Fix) model was developed and Since 2010, Smurfit Kappa has been are of non-controversial origin and are carbon sequestration figures are available carrying out a study in the natural forests preferably Chain of Custody certified since 2007. of Colombia within the company’s under FSC and/or PEFC. This verification Also since 2007, research has been forestry estate. In 2013 a new project process includes all our external paper undertaken to improve growth, lumber phase began in partnership with the suppliers and is based on physical density, straightness and resistance to Biology Programme of the Natural independent audits. At the end of 2013, diseases in various Eucalyptus species. Science School of Universidad del Valle. 98% of all our external virgin supplies for The research indicated potential volume The focus is on the “Diversity of birds, our global converting system were FSC, gains between 17 50% compared to mammals and plants in the natural PEFC and/or SFI certified or have PEFC local types of the Eucalyptus species in forests of the forestry nucleus in Sevilla”. and/or FSC controlled wood status. Colombia. This project allows our The remaining 2% is purchased through At the end of 2013, four new bird species nurseries to supply the plantlet market of agents who are not certified. However, were identified, which are endangered to Colombia with the best genetic material the majority of that 2% (70%) has a a certain extent: available. certified origin while the balance is from  Bolborhynchus ferrugineifrons non-controversial origin. In 2013, the combined growth of pines (Rufous-fronted Parakeet) and Eucalyptus in our Colombian Biodiversity plantations absorbed some 1.1 million  Chondrohierax uncinatus tonnes of CO2 from the atmosphere (Hooked-billed Kite) Both in Colombia (32%) and in Venezuela thereby fixing 302,000 tonnes of carbon (37%) significant parts of our total forest  Patagioenas subvinacea within it. The wood harvested in the same area are protected natural forest. These (Ruddy Pigeon) period contained approximately 278,000 protected parts of our forests are not tonnes of carbon, giving a positive carbon  Sericossypha albocristata replaced by plantations and thus help balance of over 24,000 tonnes of carbon (White-capped Tanager). maintain the rich biodiversity of the areas, or its equivalent of 87,000 tonnes of CO2. preserve watersheds and conserve During the past three years, in the studies As forestry planning is essential to natural habitats. developed by Smurfit Kappa, 990 species guarantee a sustainable supply of wood were recorded and identified in our The guiding principles of the Group’s fibres, our forestry operations have forests. This includes 458 trees, 473 forestry policy in the Americas are to: developed several tools with which birds, and 59 mammals of which 30 planting, fertilising, growth status and  Continuously and systematically species are to some extent endangered. harvest planning can be optimally develop research programmes to managed. In 2013, a total of 2,500 From this research it is clear that the preserve and enhance soil hectares were planted of which 77% with forest plantations and the neighbouring productivity. Eucalyptus species and the remainder protected natural forest form important  Identify appropriate species and with pine species. wildlife corridors which contribute to forestry practices that will enable species conservation in the Andean Since 1969, when we began our forestry an increase in plantation yields while ecosystem. activity in Colombia, we have been protecting the environment. committed to protect all natural forests Additionally, in 2013 we continued having  Conserve natural forests located located in our expanding land holdings, meetings with employees, customers, on company lands to ensure the respecting the existing biodiversity in environmental NGOs and environmental sustainability of forest diversity and both types of forests. authorities to share information about thereby contribute to the protection the wide range and significant impact of To effectively protect and promote of water sources and habitat of flora our sustainability actions on forestry and conservation, since 2009 we have been and fauna. biodiversity. Apart from these meetings working with two local universities (Cauca we engage in frequent dialogues with In line with our commitment to invest in and Quindío) on studies of the flora and other stakeholder groups interested in the local communities where we operate, fauna populations in our protected our actions related to forestry and we are continuously investing in natural forests that are within, or biodiversity. Forestry studies have been Colombia in forestry related research surround, the planted forests. These actively promoted over the past number projects, frequently in cooperation with studies focus on mammals and birds. of decades and we have been involved in other research institutes as the following Apart from the objective of identifying numerous publications on forestry examples show. the existence of which species are research about topics related to 36 smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 Protecting the habitat of Red Howler monkeys In 2013, Smurfit Kappa received a formal request from members of the local community of Santa Rosa de Cabal in Colombia to help protect a group of howler monkeys in the region where Smurfit Kappa operates forestry plantations for pine tree harvesting. The red howler monkey (Alouatta seniculus) measures 56 to 92 cm. These monkeys are famous for their loud howls, which can travel three miles through dense forest, and are recognised by their short snouts and wide-set, round nostrils. Most howler species live in groups of up to nine animals and eat mainly top canopy leaves, fruits and nuts. Smurfit Kappa formed a partnership with the local energy company (CHEC), the local environmental authorities (CARDER) and other stakeholders, to eliminate and minimise hazardous conditions. Conventional power cables were replaced by ecofriendly coated cables so the primates are protected from electric shocks. Smurfit Kappa built hanging bridges to help the monkeys pass unharmed over the forestry truck roads, thereby reducing danger and potential stress caused by the forestry activities. silviculture, tree breeding and forest new European climate change and energy 2. Reducing our absolute use of energy health for Eucalyptus as well as tropical package. The policy framework proposes through investment in research and and subtropical pines over the past to increase the fossil CO2 emission new replacement technologies decades. reduction target to 40% compared to 3. Reducing carbon emissions through 1990, up from the 20% reduction to be a shift to biomass and investment in in europe we have identified those of our reached by 2020 compared to 1990. The efficient energy generation. operations that are either within or in final outcome of this proposal will be close proximity to legally protected areas 1) investing in efficient energy crucial for Smurfit Kappa and our industry or areas of high biodiversity value. We are generation as a whole as our daily operations are taking necessary steps to ensure both the affected by the policy package. The EU Combined Heat and power generation environmental protection and the can meet its objectives in this area only if (CHP) is the most efficient method of sustainability of these sensitive areas. there is sufficient biomass availability. To producing electricity and heat (steam). Eleven of our European sites are located this end, an improved biomass policy will Our industry is well suited to install these within or adjacent to areas that are part of be necessary, as the EU has indicated. co-generation units given our need for Natura 2000 which is an ecology network Currently our industry is the largest user both electricity and steam. In 2013, the of protected areas in the territory of the and most efficient generator of biomass proportion of our electricity coming from EU. The Natura 2000 network has been in Europe. This is realised through the CHP installations was 49% compared to created through EU legislation in 1992 extensive use of biomass boilers that are 52% in 2012. This is the result of positive protecting the most threatened habitats mainly fuelled by biomass residuals such effects from the efficiency savings from and species across Europe. as bark, sawdust, thinnings and stumps. the installation of a new CHp installation in our paper mill in barranquilla in Ten other sites are adjacent to or within In 2013, in Smurfit Kappa, 44% of all fuel Colombia as well as some negative areas protected by national or local used by Smurfit Kappa to generate energy effects arising from under performance legislation. Additionally, four of our was biomass-based. The remainder and operational disruption at certain operations draw from or discharge water consisted of the relatively low CO2existing CHP installations. In some cases, to watersheds that are protected or emitting fossil fuel, natural gas (47%), with closure of CHP formed part of necessary classified as sensitive. the balance split between coal (6%) and upgrade work to our mills, such as in other fossil fuels (3%). A total of 80% of all All of the affected operations take the Townsend Hook in the UK, where a new fuels used to generate electricity and necessary steps to protect the sensitive CHp installation will be operational in due steam are produced through a Combined environment in which they are located. course. Heat and Power (CHP) system. a new boiler has also been installed in our 2. EFFICIENt uSE OF ENERGY Combatting climate change recycled paper mill in Mengibar, Spain, at AND CARBON mANAGEmENt Our approach to tackling climate change which biogas from the water treatment towards a low carbon economy comprises a three-pronged approach: plant is now being used to produce steam for the production process, instead of In January 2014, the EU released its policy 1. Generating energy efficiently through being simply flared off. framework for climate and energy in the investment in Combined Heat and period from 2020 to 2030. Together with power systems other policy documents, this will lead to a SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 37 direct fossil (scope 1) CO2 emission direct fossil (scope 1) CO2 emission EuROPEAN mILLS tHE AmERICAS mILLS ktonnes kg/tonne ktonnes kg/tonne 1,000 2,000 1,000 2,000 900 1,800 900 1,800 800 1,600 800 1,600 700 1,400 700 1,400 600 1,200 600 1,200 500 1,000 500 1,000 400 800 400 800 300 600 300 600 200 400 200 400 100 200 100 200 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Absolute emissions (ktonnes) Speciﬁc (kg/tonne) Absolute emissions (ktonnes) Speciﬁc (kg/tonne) Biofuels and fossil fuels Biofuels and fossil fuels EuROPEAN mILLS tHE AmERICAS mILLS 32 16 32 16 28 14 28 14 24 12 24 12 Speciﬁc (GJ/tonne) Speciﬁc (GJ/tonne) Absolute (PJ) Absolute (PJ) 20 10 20 10 16 8 16 8 12 6 12 6 8 4 8 4 4 2 4 2 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Biofuels Fossil fuels Biofuels Fossil fuels Absolute (PJ) Speciﬁc (GJ/tonne) Absolute (PJ) Speciﬁc (GJ/tonne) Our recycled paper mill CD Haupt in per paper and board mill. A number of in 2013, the energy intensity on a per Germany installed an engine that is projects identified for reductions in tonne basis of our paper and board fuelled by biogas generated in the on-site energy use and fossil CO2 emissions form production decreased by 1.5% compared waste water treatment facility. In addition, part of larger projects already in progress; to 2012. a waste heat recovery unit has been however, in 2013, several initiatives to energy, CO2 emissions and other air installed, which circumvents the need to reduce the use of energy were approved, emissions related data are reported for produce fresh steam. Previously, the with a number also delivered as the all our operations (including details for biogas was burned in a CHP boiler. The following examples illustrate. individual mills in europe and the new application of the biogas results in At our recycled paper mill in Hoya in Americas) in the tables on pages 80-85. more electricity generated by the CHP Germany, a multi-year investment was Those tables report energy consumption installation than previously while nearing completion by the end of 2013 for the production of the paper or board delivering reductions of fresh steam with the installation of a new CHP. This manufactured while the two input/output usage and direct fuel consumption. builds on a series of investments in the tables on page 78 (European operations) Our Cali mill in Colombia invested in 2013 paper machine which have been carried and on page 79 (the Americas in a new lime kiln for the virgin paper out since 2011, both to expand the operations) report the total energy process. Whereas the old kiln was fired by capacity and also to reduce energy consumption of the site, taking into heavy fuel oil and typically ran above its usage. account the fuels used to produce capacity limits, the new kiln uses natural electricity and/or thermal energy sold We have also been able to make energy gas to burn lime more efficiently, resulting externally. The methods applied for reductions at our paper mill in Zülpich in in a lower fuel usage per ton of lime calculations as well as details on specific Germany with the replacement of a size produced. definitions, are given in the Glossary on press with a more efficient spray sizer, pages 96 to 98. 2) investing in energy reduction which will lower the need for steam programmes required to evaporate the water from the 3) investing in fossil CO2 emission In 2013, we completed the strategic produced paper. reductions overview of all potential larger energy Further energy reductions resulting from In 2013, we achieved our commitment to reduction projects for our European investment in higher energy efficiency will reach a 20% reduction of fossil CO2 paper and board mills. This built on an be achieved at our recycled paper mill in emissions relative to production by 2020 internal study from 2011 which identified Roermond in the netherlands by compared to 2005 in our global mill all theoretically possible savings on rebuilding one of the paper machines. system. The mill systems in Europe and energy needs and fossil CO2 emissions the Americas both achieved relative 38 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 direct fuel consumption 2013 ALL OPERAtIONS 44% 47% 3% 6% Biofuel Coal Other fossil fuels Natural Gas emission reductions. These relative Germany Zülpich – Next Replacement of diesel reductions were the result of energy generation sizer lowers water engines by gas turbines related investments as well as the effect of the temporary closure of the use and saves on fossil CO2 saves fossil CO2 emissions Townsend Hook paper mill in the UK. In emissions Our mills in Venezuela need to be able to 2013 our total fossil mill CO2 emissions In 2012, a new technology of spraying operate independently from the national (direct and indirect) increased by 4,300 water and starch to fluting paper was electricity grid during certain periods. tonnes compared to 2012, mainly due to successfully tested in our recycled paper Until 2012, the Valencia paper mill’s the acquisition of the Forney mill in Texas mill in Viersen in Germany. Through this electricity was partly generated through (USA). Without the addition of the Forney technology the concentration of starch in diesel motors and party by a CHp mill and taking into account the effect of the water can be increased from 10-15% installation fuelled by natural gas. the temporary closure of the Townsend to 15-25%, a decrease of approximately Some gas turbines did become available Hook mill in the UK, overall absolute fossil 50% water used per kg starch. This new from the San Felipe mill and are now CO2 emissions would have been reduced technology, which is replacing the operational in the Valencia mill. All by 50,000 tonnes. Temporary changes in traditional pondor filmsizer, has multiple electricity is now generated by the use CHp operations both had a positive as environmental benefits. The higher of natural gas which is a ‘cleaner’ fuel well as a negative impact on the absolute concentration of starch means less water than diesel oil and therefore reducing the emissions. is needed to bring the starch onto the CO2 emissions from the Valencia mill. paper. Less water used means also less Any surplus electricity generated by Examples of mills in Europe that water needs to be evaporated in the the turbines is used by the offices and contributed to this reduction are Navarra drying section of the paper machine. Smurfit Kappa’s corrugated and folding in Spain (rebuild of biomass boiler), Saillat less evaporation means less need for carton plants neighbouring the mill. in France (import of green steam from energy and hence lower CO2 emissions. A further positive of this project is that the neighbouring paper mill) and Piteå in A third benefit is that less paper breaks one of the existing (smaller) gas turbines Sweden (fossil fuel replaced by biogenic are expected. The paper sheet has a at the Valencia mill can now be moved to fuel in the lime kiln) For the Americas, CO2 higher dryness after the sizing treatment the Caracas mill to replace motors that emission reductions were achieved by and is therefore stronger compared to generate electricity in that mill using Cali in Colombia (installation of a new lime using the traditional technology. This heavy fuel oil. kiln), Valencia in Venezuela (electricity should lead to less paper breaks in the production by gas turbines instead of paper machine and therefore to less diesel motors), and barranquilla in energy usage per tonne of paper Colombia (installation of a CHP). produced. Historic trends in the fossil CO2 The technology is being tested for the emissions for both europe and the production of testliner in our recycled mill Americas are shown in the graphs in Zülpich in Germany. If successful, the on the previous page. technology opens up the opportunity to A further reduction in fossil CO2 save on water and energy and to emissions can be expected in two main decrease fossil CO2 emissions further. areas. Firstly, projects that will reduce the need for steam and electricity in the mills, and secondly those that will bring more efficient use of fossil fuels, mainly by additional investments in CHP capacity. these potential investments in CHp installations can decrease CO2 emissions as well as contribute to a further shift to biomass usage as fuel. SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 39 Environment (continued) Thomas Berger from Smurfit Kappa Piteå in Sweden near the lime kiln. Piteå reduces use of fossil Germany Hoya – Extension Germans take the heat fuels to only 2% of the CHp installation off the environment The Smurfit Kappa kraftliner mill in Piteå Our paper mill in Hoya, in northern Smurfit Kappa Rheinwelle in Kreuzau, is always investigating ways to switch to Germany, operates a carton board Germany utilises compressed air in its green energy. A good example of that is machine and a testliner/fluting machine. production facilities. The heat that is the lime kiln, which has been partly fuelled The production capacity of the latter has generated when air is compressed was by solid biomass for several years. been increased from 290,000 tonnes to not used in the past. Rheinwelle’s team 420,000 tonnes through a multi-year developed applications for this heat The main challenges for fuelling the investment programme which was leading to lower CO2 emissions. lime kiln with 100% solid biomass were recently completed by the installation the particle size, the dosing and the Most of the heat generated in the factory of a refurbished CHP. availability of the biofuel. The team in stems from cooling the compressor. Piteå, together with the supplier of the as part of the investment programme, this heat was lost in the past, while at lime kiln burner, developed a solution for several heat reduction measures were the same time energy was needed for these issues: saw dust that is dried with taken resulting in a decreased heat heating the offices during the winter. The flue gas and then ground. Since 2013, the consumption on a per tonne basis and objective was to recover at least 75% of lime kiln is fuelled with 100% biomass and only a small increase in the steam usage the discarded heat by installing a heat biofuel. per hour. Electricity usage per hour has exchanger. In winter Rheinwelle now increased as faster running machines recycles heat for approximately 1,000 m² The Piteå mill is now running for more need more electricity. office space. That means 100% of than 98% on biogenic energy and Piteå heating capacity for the offices is now has the lowest carbon footprint of all Electricity and steam is provided by a covered by using the previously unused Swedish mills producing kraftliner. Combined Cycle Gas Turbine installation heat. Operating the lime kiln with solid biomass (a combination of a gas turbine, waste instead of fuel oil reduced fossil CO2 heat recovery boiler and steam turbine) For using the heat in the summer emissions by 27,000 tonnes. and three separate steam boilers. As the Rheinwelle also developed a solution. gas turbine installation has been running With the generated heat the temperature at maximum capacity, the additional of fresh water for the boiler was electricity requirements of the enlarged increased from 15°C to 75°C. The annual paper machine had to be imported from effect of the recycling of the otherwise the national grid. lost heat is a reduced usage of natural gas resulting in a decrease in fossil CO2 To decrease the electricity intake from emissions of 158 tonnes representing the grid a refurbished CHp has been 5% of Rheinwelle’s fossil CO2 emissions. installed. With this installation, which has And finally, the project generated further been operational since Q2 2014, fossil awareness for sustainability aspects of CO2 emissions will be decreased by Smurfit Kappa’s business among the approximately 8,000 tonnes, while the team members. cogeneration ratio will be increased. 40 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 Biogas produced in our water treatment plants facility. the motor is used to heat up water, needed for spraying the felts in the drying section of the paper machine. supports fossil CO2 emission reductions Water is a vital element in the manufacturing process of paper and  mengibar in Spain installed a new boiler in 2013, where biogas board. It is needed to dissolve wood or recovered paper into fibres from the water treatment plant, which was flared previously, is from which we can produce paper. During the paper-making burned to produce steam. process, the water is taken out in a number of steps resulting in a  CD Haupt in Germany installed an engine that is fuelled by final reel of paper with a humidity of only 9%. Resulting process biogas generated in the on-site water treatment facility. the water is then cleaned in our water treatment facilities using an motor is used to heat up process water, which makes injection anaerobic process in which bacteria ‘eat’ certain components of fresh steam for heating this process water unnecessary. present in the water and as a result, produce biogas.  Ania in Italy modified the burner of an existing natural gas the energy content of a cubic meter of biogas is on average 75% boiler to enable co-firing of biogas produced by the the newly of that of natural gas and therefore this biogas, instead of flaring installed water treatment plant, replacing part of the natural it, can be used in an installation on-site that has been fitted for gas used in the past. this source of fuel.  until 2013, Saillat in France could only use 40% of the biogas, the main applications for the use of biogas are: due to boiler restrictions, to produce steam. Early in 2014, we  Burning the biogas in a stand-alone boiler or co-firing it in an replaced two small boilers with a large one, in which all biogas existing boiler to produce steam. this replaces directly fossil can be co-fired. this boiler is operational since Q2 2014 and fuel (mostly natural gas) and decreases direct fossil CO2 has increased the steam production capacity of the mill. emissions. the steam produced in this way, if flowing through  In 2013, Bernal in Argentina installed new multi-fuel burners in a steam turbine, also produces electricity, resulting in a its steam boiler that are also capable of burning biogas. In decrease of indirect CO2 emissions. 2014 the connection from the water treatment plant to the  Burning the biogas in a biogas motor to produce green boiler will be made so that all the biogas can be burned instead electricity. this reduces indirect CO2 emissions. these motors of flaring it as is done today. on average have an electrical efficiency of 40% and the  Also in 2013, Roermond in the Netherlands replaced an remainder of the energy of the biogas converts to heat either existing biogas boiler by a larger one so that additional in the flue gas of the motor or in heat in the motor itself. Both amounts of biogas that will be produced in the next few years sources of heat can be used to replace fresh steam, which also as a result of the capacity expansion of the mill can be used. reduces direct fossil CO2 emissions of the mill.  townsend Hook in the uk will install two biogas motors in the  Replacement of fuels in other installations, such as in the lime new paper machine (which will be operational in 2015), to kiln of a kraftliner mill, decreasing direct CO2 emission of this produce green electricity. the heat of these motors will be mill. used partly for heating process water and partly for heating Over the past few years we have invested in a number of our spray water of the drying felts in the paper machine. paper and board mills around the Group in one of the above Collectively, all Smurfit kappa initiatives to efficiently use biogas applications decreasing emissions of fossil CO2. produced on our sites have led to a reduction of the equivalent of the following examples are illustrative of this development: 613 tJ of fossil fuel resulting in a decrease of 34,000 tonnes of fossil CO2 emissions.  SSk in Birmingham in the uk installed an engine in 2012 that is fuelled by biogas generated in the on-site water treatment SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 41 Environment (continued) Fresman Zapata and German Arley Ramírez llama Felipe Ramos near the myrggo boiler from our Medellín Corrugated plant in located at Smurfit Kappa Atlacomulco Colombia. Corrugated in Mexico. Sustainability and profitability Knowledge sharing in Mexico Emission from transport go hand in hand in Colombia supports environmental the vast majority of our CO2 emissions the environmental programme of performance stem from our manufacturing activities Smurfit Kappa in Colombia shows that at our production locations. Of the at the end of 2012, the Converting implementing the good practice policy remaining CO2 emissions, those caused Division of Smurfit Kappa Mexico took concerning the use of water, gas, and by the transport of raw materials, a holistic approach to sustainability. A electricity, has significantly decreased network was created with all operations intermediate and final products to and the consumption of these resources. and the Mexico head office participated from our production locations are also Simultaneously, these changes have in knowledge sharing on value-added significant. For our European operations improved operational conditions with projects in areas such as environment, we calculate, on an annual basis, the CO2 regard to machines, productivity, quality social and economic. emissions related to the transport of the and waste. main raw materials to our mills and The network stimulated an exchange of converting plants. For 2013, we have, Using different continuous improvement training materials, knowledge sharing and for the first time, estimated the CO2 tools the packaging operations in involvement and commitment at all levels emissions related to the transport of Colombia have realised many technical of the organisation. Plant managers were customer products from our European improvements;changes driven by both an appointed as sustainability champions corrugated operations to customer with the task to stimulate their own environmental concern and an economic points of delivery. Transportation of our organisation to participate in and to share challenge. The cost of energy in products is mostly outsourced to with the other network participants. The Colombia has been rapidly increasing and external parties. Mexican head office functioned as a therefore much focus is aimed at sponsor and facilitator compiling training in the CO2 emissions reported we include controlling energy use to create a and reference materials, publishing a the transport of wood, recovered papers competitive advantage. monthly sustainability bulletin and by and market pulp used in our mills. We also The new measures include a decrease creating a virtual sustainability library. take into account CO2 emissions from in machine section temperatures, new in this environment, the operations the transport of intermediate products temperature control systems, extra identified many improvement to paper mills and/or converting plants insulation, new machine start-up order, opportunities for environmentally (reels of paper, corrugated board sheets, more continuous corrugator runs, efficient projects in the area of raw solid board sheets, plastic films and other replacing lamps and installing a material usage, energy, water and waste. items to the converting plants) as well as translucent roof, new buffer tanks, switch not surprisingly, environmental CO2 emissions of the transport of to electric pumps, using rain water and performance for the division increased finished products to our customers condensate recovery, and the and several key indicators showed in the (mainly packaging solutions). optimisation of the machine printing first 6 months of 2013 an encouraging wash system. All these measures have improvement already. Both fuel and While the calculation of CO2 emissions resulted in a 29% reduction in gas usage electricity consumed per unit output for the transport of paper reels between and a 10% reduction in electricity usage decreased by 5%, Water consumption our own mills and the converting plants is saving energy and reducing CO2 and waste generation per unit output accurate (representing 70% of the total emissions. Also the usage of water decreased by 4% and 3% respectively. volume), we believe we have made a was reduced by 29%. these were just the result for the good estimate of emissions for the environmental projects, in the area of transport of the remaining reels of paper energy management systems, social supplied to our corrugated plants by third responsibility and health and safety parties. likewise initiatives were taken and successes achieved. 42 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 C02 emissions for transport of raw distribution of transport of raw materials 2013 european operations materials by mode of transport 2013 EuROPEAN OPERAtIONS 250,000 9% 200,000 56% CO2-eq (tonnes) 35% 150,000 Rail 100,000 Road 50,000 Ship 0 Rail Ship Road For 2013, CO2 equivalents for transport of raw materials amounted to 216,000 tonnes. The breakdown by mode of transport is shown in the graphs above. the CO2 emission factors by transport mode are extracted from the European Reference Life Cycle Database version II (ELCD). edwin van Woudenberg harm Koopman Commercieel Manager at Director of Cargo Transportation for the above activities Koopman Cargo Operations represents 6.2 billion so-called tonnekilometres and the pie-chart displays the ENGAGEmENt WItH StAkEHOLDERS split by type of transport. 54% of our transport needs are carried out by road, On the road to even more sustainable logistics 35% by sea with the balance carried out Koopman Logistics Group is Smurfit Kappa’s preferred supplier in The by train. Netherlands for the transportation of its paper and board products. Since 1998 the family-owned company has been working closely together with For the calculation of the CO2 emissions Smurfit Kappa to improve the quality, efficiency and sustainability of Smurfit for the transport of finished products Kappa’s transport, cargo and warehousing needs. Every day Koopman from our converting plants to customer transports more than 300 Smurfit Kappa truck loads across the roads in points of delivery, we have accurate data The Netherlands and neighbouring countries. for 29% of the total volume. We consider this figure to be representative for all “Both Smurfit Kappa and Koopman are early innovators”, says director of finished goods transport. By way of cargo operations Harm Koopman. “Nowadays you can earn special simple extrapolation, we have estimated certificates for planning logistical efficiency by combining cargo loads of the total relevant CO2 emissions to be multiple companies. We already made that kind of efficiency planning part 101,000 tonnes (100% by road). of our relationship 16 years ago. We have invested in special software that enables us to combine all of our truck loads in the smartest possible way with the least empty transport kilometres. Our efforts earned us a ‘Lean and Mean’-certificate and we have been rewarded because we managed to reduce our CO2-emissions by 20% in a time span of five years.” Commercial manager Edwin van Woudenberg continues: “Koopman was one of the first transport operators with a whole fleet of euro-V proof trucks. We now even have a novelty with several Euro-VI classifications. Many of our trucks make use of bio-gas and to save fuel we also employ Longer Heavier Vehicles which measure up to 25 metres. The driving habits of our truck drivers are monitored through a special programme. This effort has resulted in another 4% fuel reduction. All our drivers and other personnel are employed according to the Dutch Collective Labour Agreement, which means they are fairly rewarded for their work and that we adhere to all safety standards.” Harm Koopman concludes: “Together with Smurfit Kappa we are working to continuously improve the way we forecast logistical movements and we expect that with the efforts of both companies we can even further improve our efficiency and sustainability in the future!” SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 43 Environment (continued) Recycling all rest streams using 100% of the paper in Germany in Spain Plastics, metals, and various other nowadays the ropes are transported to A team of Smurfit Kappa Huelva in Spain materials are non-fibrous contaminants one of our German recovered paper got to the core of the issue, literally, when present in the recovered paper bales that depots next to the Hoya paper mill. This they developed a new way to reduce are supplied to Smurfit Kappa’s paper depot receives waste ropes from several paper core waste. mills to produce recycled paper. These Smurfit Kappa paper mills and through a The initial idea was to take advantage of materials cannot be used in the specialised installation, the pulper ropes every meter of paper by making better production of recycled paper and are recycled into three components: use of the last meters of paper left at the routinely are sent to landfill. A team from metal (23%), fuel substitute (70%), and core when using reels of paper to the German paper mills in Hoya and water (7%). As a result Smurfit Kappa now produce corrugated board. The core Zülpich together with a third party annually sends 10,500 tonnes of waste paper waste reduction was achieved by developed an entrepreneurial solution less to landfill and re-uses even more making use of an innovative automatic to recover most of these materials to recyclable materials. splice at the final stage of unwinding reels further reduce the amount of materials of paper. Then the idea was extended to sent to landfill. any break during the unwinding of reels of The recycling process starts when paper. This led to a significant reduction recovered paper is put into the pulper. In of paper waste, contributing to a the pulper fibres dissolve in water and at reduction in the carbon footprint. the same time most of the non-fibrous A paper break in the corrugator can occur components are filtered out by making as a result of damages in the reel or use of a large rotating rope. When the because the end of the reel is reached. rope is fully loaded it is sent to landfill The inventors of the concept call the as waste. process ‘best reel improvement’. Smurfit Kappa Huelva is specialised in industrial and agricultural performance packaging, but the new approach can be used in other corrugator settings as well. 44 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 3. WASTE approximately 50% due to the following Water sources Using data from 30 OECD countries it reason. The different waste fractions are ALL OPERATIONS has been estimated that a 1% increase in stem mostly from various steps in our national income leads to an increase of paper and board manufacturing process 3% 1% municipal waste of 0.7%. The growing in which large quantities of water are 12% global population and the expected added to the primary raw materials and growth in average incomes of emerging subsequently taken out in the countries in particular, will make the issue manufacturing process. The waste of waste generation even more generated in the pulping and screening important in the next few years. The EU process and in the water treatment has adopted legislation that over time will process contains mostly water which is 84% only allow final waste to be sent to landfill. then partly removed by pressing the For us, waste is an important issue as we material. Still approximately 50% of the generate sizable volumes of nonremaining waste consists of water. Surface Ground Grid Other hazardous waste in our manufacturing During 2013, we performed an in-depth process. Our objective is to contribute to assessment of the different types of a circular economy. Eventually we will take waste generated by our operations (mills all avoidable waste out of our production environment, and specifically the water and packaging operations). This system and we will minimise our waste to ecosystems. assessment is a first step in identifying landfill to those materials that are no which types of waste are generated at Over ninety percent of the water used is longer recyclable and/or recoverable. which stage of the manufacturing actually returned to the water bodies in The vast majority of waste generated in process and which operations are the good condition. Most of the remaining our operations is non-hazardous, main contributors to our total waste water evaporates and returns at a later consisting mainly of waste from the generation and waste disposal. In 2014 stage as precipitation into the global recovered paper pulping and screening we will add further detail to this (fresh) water systems. Furthermore, in process, sludge from the process water assessment, including analysing which general, the water we take in is used treated in our water cleaning facilities, waste streams are generated during the many times in the production process calcium carbonate residues from lime different stages of our production before it is treated in our water treatment kilns, and ashes from biomass boilers. process and determining best practices facilities. For example, of all water that is Over 90% of all waste is generated in our on how to prevent waste and how to in use by a paper and board mill at any paper and board mills with the balance recover waste. point in time, 98% is being re-used generated by the packaging operations. before being treated. Once we have appraised our waste Currently, approximately 57% of the streams and possibilities to reduce the Underpinning our commitment, we are non-hazardous waste generated is sent amount of waste we will set a challenging investing in the best available techniques to landfill. We operate landfill sites at and measurable target for waste to treat water before returning it to the three of our paper and board mills. reduction. water source. Since 2005, we have made Legislation on waste to landfill differs by considerable efforts and sizeable 4. WATER MANAGEMENT investments in upgrading water country/region. Also the opportunity to economically re-use certain elements of Apart from energy, water is the next most treatment facilities. One of our largest the waste within the vicinity of our important element in the production paper mills, Zülpich in Germany, is operations differs. These two factors process of paper and board. UN data operating a 100% closed loop process greatly determine whether waste indicate that global water use has been water system. eventually is sent to landfill or re-used. growing at more than twice the rate of population growth in the last century and Water performance Examples of re-use of waste streams can be found in the Netherlands, where our the UN estimates that by 2025, two Over 98% of our total water intake is in Roermond paper mill converts 99.5% of thirds of the global population will be our paper and board mills. In 2013, our its recovered papers and other raw affected by water stress. For our mills collectively used 123 million m3 of materials into valuable and useful stakeholders, intake, usage and water. Our global converting system products and applications (see page 75 discharge of water is also a key topic. which requires limited amounts of water under ‘Recognitions’) and in Germany, Therefore, although we have always tried relative to production volumes used where our Hoya paper mill, together with to limit water intake where we can, we 2.3 million m3. Despite the addition of SK the recovered paper operations, have committed to perform water impact Orange County to our operations at the developed a solution for waste resulting assessments of our sites on their end of 2012, in 2013 our total water from the primary pulping process of environment in relevant areas and intake is similar to 2012. For 2013, the recovered paper (see insert on the develop water usage measures as average water intake by our paper and previous page). appropriate before 2017. This board mills equalled 17,7 m3 per tonne of commitment is in addition to our existing product produced, down from 18,7 m3 What is registered as waste is actually commitment to minimise the impact our in 2012. waste with a water content of water usage and discharge have on the smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 45 Environment (continued) Water intake Water intake EuROPEAN PAPER mILLS tHE AmERICAS PAPER mILLS Mm 110 3 m3/tonne 55 Mm 110 3 m3/tonne 55 100 50 100 50 90 45 90 45 80 40 80 40 70 35 70 35 60 30 60 30 50 25 50 25 40 20 40 20 30 15 30 15 20 10 20 10 10 5 10 5 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Water intake absolute (Mm3) Water intake speciﬁc (m3/tonne) Water intake absolute (Mm3) Water intake speciﬁc (m3/tonne) Water released Water released EuROPEAN PAPER mILLS tHE AmERICAS PAPER mILLS Mm 110 3 m3/tonne 55 Mm 110 3 m3/tonne 55 100 50 100 50 90 45 90 45 COOLING 80 40 80 40 COOLING COOLING COOLING 35 COOLING 70 70 35 60 30 60 30 50 25 50 25 40 20 40 20 PROCESS PROCESS PROCESS PROCESS PROCESS 30 15 30 15 20 10 20 10 10 5 10 5 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Water released absolute (Mm3) Water released speciﬁc (m3/tonne) Water released absolute (Mm3) Water released speciﬁc (m3/tonne) Process water discharges Process water discharges EuROPEAN PAPER mILLS: COD, BOD, tSS tHE AmERICAS PAPER mILLS: COD, BOD, tSS ktonnes kg/tonne ktonnes kg/tonne 18 18 18 18 15 15 15 15 12 12 12 12 9 9 9 9 6 6 6 6 3 3 3 3 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 COD BOD TSS COD BOD TSS Absolute (ktonnes) Speciﬁc (kg/tonne) Absolute (ktonnes) Speciﬁc (kg/tonne) 46 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 This decrease is the result of the addition plant not functioning correctly. This regional natural park and connected to of the Forney paper mill (SK Orange resulted in a temporary overall increase of the Arcachon Bay. County) in the US to our system at the organic discharge per tonne of product Following the spillage the authorities end of 2012. Due to an almost closedfor Piteå by approximately 50% compared requested an assessment of the impact loop water system, the water intake of to 2012. At the Navarra mill in Spain the of the spillage on the Lacanau and Forney is approximately 2 m3 per tonne impact of including the cooling water, connected rivers, groundwater and on of product produced. which contains suspended solids, into the living organisms. The impact assessment calculation of the global organic Following investments of over €31 million was conducted by Cellulose du Pin in discharge of the mill led to an increase of in water treatment facilities since 2005, cooperation with the office of the approximately one third of the organic the quality of water discharged by our Regional Natural Park and various discharge in 2013 compared to 2012. global paper and board mill system has scientific associations for the protection Other paper and board mills operated improved on a relative basis by 25%. of nature. Results were shared with local their water treatment facilities according Compared to 2012, the performance in interest groups such as the oyster to expected levels. 2013 further improved by 0.4%. We use farmers in the Arcachon Bay, local the COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) The two other indicators measuring the authorities and associations focussed on content as a measure for water quality. organic content of water discharged are protecting the environment. Initial BOD (Biological Oxygen Demand) and conclusions point to very limited levels of For 28 of our paper and board mills, the TSS (Total Suspended Solids). These pollution as a consequence of the black water that is discharged to the surface indicators typically show a performance liquor spillage in the Lacanau river thanks water systems such as rivers, lakes and/ trend highly correlated to the COD to our mill staff’s fast and effective or sea has been treated in water indicator and are therefore not discussed response. Indicators have shown that the treatment facilities on-site. For the other in further detail. The so-called fish population has been restored and eight mills, water is being discharged to eutrophication indicators (nitrogen and that sensitive species are still present in community water treatment plants phosphorus) remained stable in 2013 the river. The aquatic vegetation has also where it is treated before being compared to 2012. returned to its normal appearance discharged to public water bodies. including the re-emergence of rare and There were no significant spills reported The indicators related to the quality of sensitive plant types. in 2013. water discharges (BOD, COD, TSS) On the back of this, the participating displayed in charts and commentary on Water data parties signed a three year agreement trends are related to these mills that Water related data for all our operations that will commit Cellulose du Pin to discharge treated process water directly (including details for individual mills in supporting studies designed to improve to the surface water systems. Other Europe and the Americas) are shown in the knowledge of flora and fauna present indicators (water intake, water released) the tables on pages 78-85. For the mills in the natural zone surrounding the paper are related to all 36 mills. where the water treatment is mill. These scientific studies will be Although on an overall basis, subcontracted to an external third party, performed by local wildlife associations. performance in 2013 was only slightly we measure and report COD, BOD and The initial results of the studies on the better compared to 2012, our Bernal TSS levels in the water discharged by flora and fauna in an area of mill in Argentina showed a significant these mills before it is discharged to approximately 700 hectares surrounding improvement due to the full benefit in these external treatment parties. the mill has already highlighted important 2013 of the new process water To provide a correct overview of the information. This includes the treatment plant commissioned in Group performance for all water identification of species across many mid-2012. Also the Cerro Gordo mill indicators, BOD discharged is estimated different categories such as mammals, in Mexico improved its performance in some mills (Nervión and Navarra in reptiles, amphibians, birds and fish. The in 2013, successfully conducting a Spain and SSK in the UK) by using COD study so far shows a diversity that is of programme in 2013 to increase the rate discharge in combination with the ratio scientific interest, with some rare animals of recycling of the process water and also COD/BOD obtained from surveys (European otter, European hedgehog, to adjust the chemical treatment at the performed during 2013 in those mills. common genette, red squirrel, aquatic process water treatment plant, thereby vole) and also species unknown to be achieving a 34% decrease in its COD Cellulose du Pin living in the area before (European water discharge compared to 2012. Our mill in In 2012, our Cellulose du Pin kraftliner mill shrew). These initial results will be Facture in France returned to normal located in Biganos in France, faced the completed by the results of the discharge levels compared to 2012 when collapse of one of its black liquor storage continuing studies during the next two an incident with a black liquor boiler led to tanks resulting in the release of effluent years. A positive effect of these studies exceptionally high discharge levels. onto the grounds of the facility. Although is that Cellulose du Pin now is viewed as Our mill in Piteå in Sweden experienced immediate action was undertaken to a contributor to scientific research on technical issues at the aerobic reactor contain the spillage a limited quantity of wildlife in the area, and a local partner during the first quarter of 2013 and in 100m3 of black liquor effluent spilled into supporting sustainability, research to August 2013 a total mill power shutdown the nearby Lacanau river harbouring wildlife and environmental protection. subsequently led to water treatment some very rare species of fish, part of a smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 47 Environment (continued) Johny van Buren and Gregory Dick (r.) at Smurfit Kappa Zülpich in Germany. Smart dosing system saves Cow manure improves Efficient (re-)use of water water and chemicals in performance of wastewater in Colombia Zülpich treatment plant in Mexico Two of the Smurfit Kappa converting together with an equipment The Mexican city of Monterrey has limited sites in Colombia, one in bogotá and manufacturing company, Smurfit Kappa water availability and as a result water one in Medellin, achieved a significant has developed in its paper mill in Zülpich costs are high. Two years ago the reduction in their water intake. in Germany a smart dosing system – management of Smurfit Kappa’s paper in bogotá, treated water was formerly FlowJec – with which paper can be mill in monterrey initiated a programme used for the preparation of gum. produced in a highly environmentally to optimise its water management. However, due to changes in the compatible manner. production process the treated water can the programme improved the The key feature of FlowJec is that it performance of the wastewater now be used for other purposes. A new ensures a homogeneous dosing of treatment plant, but the water discharge set up of the treated water circulation chemicals in the process flow. This is parameters were difficult to comply with. system now allows the water to be used realised by introducing retention agents The microbiological population of the for washing the printing plates from the to both paper plies. The result is twofold:. activated sludge was mostly composed printing machines and the washing fewer chemicals are needed and less of filamentous bacteria that hindered sections on the corrugator, which are the fresh water is needed to dissolve the good flocculation and caused solids to most water intensive units of the plant. chemicals. Depending on the paper overflow. Waste water is treated with various grade produced, main raw materials like chemicals in the treatment plant and is To successfully solve the overflow then returned as clean water to the energy, fibres and water account for more problem, an extract of cow manure was system. Efficiently re-using the treated than 70% of the manufacturing effort. used to override the filamentous water in this way saves 60 m3 of water The way in which chemicals are added in bacteria. This eased environmental monthly. the approach flow system or wire section pressures and facilitated better reuse of not only influences their effectiveness, water throughout the plant. The BOD In Medellin, which due to its tropical but also has a crucial impact on the discharge was reduced by 93% between rainforest climate has high precipitation efficiency of the raw material utilisation. 2011 and 2013, while TSS discharge was levels, the local Smurfit Kappa plant uses The improved stock consistency in the reduced by 86%.The mill also reduced its rainwater in an efficient way by investing headbox results in better ash distribution fresh water intake from the municipal grid in a rain water recovery system. The new and formation, which in turn enhances from 30% to 5% of its water needs by collection tank and piping network runnability. This shows that FlowJec making better use of treated water and distribute the rain water to the glue saves resources, enhances quality well water. preparation unit and washing sections of and implements a more sustainable the machines. The intake from the city’s work flow. water system has been reduced by as much as 16% facilitating a sizeable environmental improvement. Medellin is a densely populated area, with more than 3.5 million people, which puts a burden on the water resources of the district. Smart water management by industrial users like Smurfit Kappa contributes to the improvement of local living conditions and the environment. 48 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 Social Under the second sustainability heading confident that further improvements in We made progress on our journey to a – People – our initial focus is on our our safety performance are attainable. safer and healthier work environment employees. Our own employees are the The commitments within our revised during 2013, when a 16% reduction in the key to our success and they are at the Group Health and Safety policies are lost time accident frequency rate and a heart of our business. We operate in consistent with those of the 11% reduction in the injury severity rate highly competitive markets and we internationally recognised OHSAS18001 of our own employees was achieved, cannot succeed without a highly skilled, occupational health and safety system compared to 2012 (see page 50). Our well trained and committed employee specification. operational teams, together with our base. To operate in a productive way, health and safety experts, continue to Elements of the approach we adopt to it is a pre-requisite that our employees identify opportunities for further ensure sustained commitment and can work safely. By developing and improvement. We recognise the achieve injury reduction targets include: empowering our people, we aim to importance of strong leadership, create a work environment in which  Making health and safety a continual employee involvement, and safe working, top performance and consideration in our management representation in the development and personal growth of our employees go recognition and reward programme. maintenance of a positive safety culture. hand-in-hand.  Having health and safety as a primary To that extent, we are building an To reach these objectives we aim to be agenda topic in all relevant interconnected and collaborative health socially conscious and proactive on social management and employee and safety “expert community “that issues by making a commitment to meetings. supports our operations management continuous improvement in the areas teams as they take steps, both locally  Promoting continual improvement of health and safety and a focus on the and regionally, to address common and through our annual excellence in well-being and development of our unique challenges. This expert network health and safety awards employees. Safeguarding human and leverages the rich knowledge of our programme. other elementary rights that govern employees in areas such as human labour relations with our employees also  Sharing incident information across resources, production, industrial design, form a key element of our approach to our operations. and process control. This network social responsibility. positions us to deliver innovative  Performing internal benchmarking of solutions based on proven principles. Our relationships with the local health and safety performance on a communities in which we operate is monthly basis using a suite of Below we provide some examples of another key priority for us as we are often performance metrics. important health and safety programme seen as an important partner in the local developments that received special focus  Promoting the development and society and economy. Our objective in during 2013 and early 2014: implementation of technical and this regard e is to contribute positively to engineering improvements through  In 2013, to support our drive for local economic and social development our innovation in safety awards continual improvement, we by providing jobs and responding to the programmes. appointed a Group Director of Health communities’ particular social needs. and Safety whose priority has been  Providing regular health and safety 1. Health and Safety the development of processes that training and briefings to employees. ensure the consistent and global Smurfit Kappa has made the health and  Conducting cross audits in health adoption of proven health and safety safety of its workforce an overriding and safety involving our panel of practices and their verification consideration. We have adopted a trained internal health and safety through a comprehensive audit structured and systematic approach to coordinators. process. the management of health and safety considerations in the workplace. We are smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 49 Social (continued) Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate* Lost Time Accident Severity Rate* FuLL YEAR 2012 vs 2013 FuLL YEAR 2012 vs 2013 1.0 25 2012 2012 2013 2013 22.3 0.8 0.85 20 0.76 0.65 18.0 0.55 16.6 16.4 0.6 0.64 15 15.4 0.61 0.57 13.8 0.47 11.2 0.4 10 9.6 0.2 5 0.0 0 Corrugated Paper The Americas Group Corrugated Paper The Americas Group * for definition see page 97  in early 2014, we established a Safety presence of the appropriate opinion survey exercise across our Incident Bulletin process to share key protective measures relating to our entire Group operations during 2014. lessons learned from incidents operations.  We have revised our health and across our operations. Bulletins are  Segregation of pedestrian and lift safety incident and injury reporting posted both electronically and on truck traffic is a core risk mitigation standard this year. The standard information boards within our plants measure in warehouse and logistics defines the monthly mandatory allowing employees to learn from areas. For this reason, we continued health and safety monthly reporting safety events at other plants. This in 2013 to implement restrictions on requirements that apply across all tool also helps to ensure safety pedestrians in material stores and Smurfit Kappa operations. The key incidents receive appropriate warehouses, when lift trucks are changes within the revised standard management attention and allows operating. Progressive technical and focus on: plants to discuss the applicability of engineering risk control solutions lessons from other plants.  Providing a list of clear definition were implemented to ensure the of additional reporting categories  A common, one page Group Health safety of those who enter such areas. to facilitate more consistent and Safety Policy statement is being In addition, new forklifts are being recording of injuries and incidents adopted across all our operations. fitted with speed limiters and other involving contracted staff agency The statement clearly articulates and risk reduction devices, some involving workers and subcontracted reinforces our commitment to health the use of radio frequency labour workers. and safety. To support the policy identification devices (RFID) statement, a set of Good Health and technology. Throughout our  Providing improved guidance on Safety Practice requirements have operations advancements in injury classification based on been developed which will be effective physical separation externally recognised injury adopted across all divisions. measures between lift trucks and reporting guidelines; this focuses Compliance with these requirements pedestrians continue to receive on distinguishing between First will be verified through our audit special consideration. Aid Case (FAC) and Medical tools. Treatment Case (MTC), thereby  Since 2010, we have been performing increasing consistency of injury  We currently measure and will Safety Opinion Surveys biennially. classification across all Smurfit continue to monitor lagging indicator This survey process is designed to Kappa operations. metrics such as accident frequency obtain opinions and perceptions and severity rates. To drive from our employees on a range of  Providing improved clarity when performance improvements, we are health and safety aspects within their reporting accidents sustained by increasing our focus on monitoring a work environment. The outputs of a Smurfit Kappa employee while suite of leading indicators. the 2012 survey highlighted working at one plant yet improvement opportunities which we reporting to another organisation  During 2013, we established a responded to during 2013. Examples (e.g. employee on secondment). project team to build a of such opportunities included comprehensive health and safety  Emphasising more clearly the promoting near miss reporting and verification and audit process tailored precise method of calculating the sharing of lessons from incidents specifically to our operations and to the number of days relating to a that have occurred at other be applied across our global lost time accident thereby operations. In 2013, we introduced operations. This project is leading to ensuring precise recording of our Safety Incident Bulletin process. the development of a common severity rates. near miss reporting is now an health and safety audit tool allowing established practice at every plant. us to audit our operations using We will perform our next safety common criteria to verify the 50 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 Days Lost Due to Accidents* Number of Accidents* FuLL YEAR 2012 vs 2013 FuLL YEAR 2012 vs 2013 12,000 500 2012 2012 2013 2013 10,000 10,395 440 10,162 400 405 8,000 300 6,000 5,728 5,633 200 219 4,000 195 2,937 145 143 2,668 100 2,000 1,999 1,593 76 67 0 0 Corrugated Paper The Americas Group Corrugated Paper The Americas Group * for definition see page 97 the safety of every member of the the Colombia forestry team have An address by the Group’s Chief Group’s workforce is an overriding introduced a number of safety Operating Officer, highlighting the consideration. We devote considerable programme improvements. These importance of protecting the health and time and effort to promoting an include the introduction of a video based safety of employees was screened in all awareness of health and safety so that interactive tool to explain safety operations and all senior executives were the Group’s employees and procedures, the communication of in attendance at one of our operations on subcontracted workers are aware of, and forestry related safety alerts to targeted the Safety Day. During the campaign, adhere to, the appropriate protective contractors and the deployment of a many events were organised with procedures. It is with great regret, suite of ten life-saving rules. The employees. The positive feedback from therefore, that we report two fatalities life-saving rules relate to critical practices our employees following Safety Day 2013 during 2013. A contractor sustained fatal for each forestry process where has indicated that it continues to be a injuries while performing a tree felling non-compliance could lead to severe resounding success drawing on the task on behalf of our Colombian forestry injury. The rules are communicated to the active participation of our management operations and an employee sustained workforce through recorded briefings and the interaction with our employees, fatal injuries while performing roof and the posting of highly visible posters and in many cases with their families. maintenance at the Group’s Chilean at the forestry work front. Clear and fair Health and Safety Day will be organised operations. consequences apply if the rules are annually in all our plants in europe and the broken. Americas. Plans are already in place to The Group responded promptly to these promote more health and safety events fatal incidents and steps were taken to Smurfit Kappa experienced two during 2014. further strengthen both our forestry and significant fires in 2013. The first “work at height “programmes. In October occurred in Cerro Gordo in Mexico in In addition to the various Group-wide 2013, all plants underwent a specially March and the second occurred in and Regional initiatives outlined above, designed plant safety evaluation focused Birmingham in the UK in April. In both individual plants continued to operate on establishing the presence of critical cases the fires occurred accidentally in their own health and safety initiatives roof level safety risk mitigation features. the recovered paper area of the local during 2013 including such as health This recognised that many of our plants Smurfit Kappa paper mills, resulting in the check-ups for employees and their have equipment for which maintenance total loss of 16,000 tonnes of recovered family members, first-aid training for or checking tasks need to be performed paper. Fortunately, both fires were employees’ families and safety risk on the roofs of their buildings. A brought swiftly under control with assessments of employees’ houses. programme has been initiated to equip minimal environmental impact, there In addition, we continue to encourage our roofs with safety and access control were no injuries to any of our employees employees to become more conscious devices to further enhance the or anyone else dealing with the fires and of the importance of their personal protection of those performing no fines were incurred. health and safety in a wider context and maintenance and checking tasks. Plants Annual Health and Safety Day to develop awareness of risks not only requiring regular access are being fitted during working hours and in commuting with specific protective measures. In April 2013, we continued to promote to and from the workplace but also in Access to roofs is restricted where awareness and foster cooperation within their homes and non-work related social/ protective measures are not fitted. the workforce through the highly sporting activities. successful Safety Day. Events were held in all our plants in europe and in this regard, we have supported a the Americas. number of initiatives across Europe and the Americas focussing on increasing awareness and fostering appropriate behaviour with regard to safety. SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 51 Social (continued) Families and employees at the First aid Day Manuel López from Smurfit Kappa Cerro Left to right Wolfgang Lübke, Peter Kramp, at Smurfit Kappa Bernal in Argentina. Gordo Mill, Victoria Franco from Smurfit Maria Franco Mateos, André Bosse, Marcus Kappa Monterrey Guadalupe Corrugated Krebs, Egon Speckmann, Torsten and Roberto Albert from Smurfit Kappa Ostermann and Jos van Cruchten from the Mexico in Mexico. Recycled Paper Europe cluster. Argentinean families receive Safety is not simply a Rpe Health and Safety resuscitation and First programme, it’s a culture! Standard Handbook Responder training Smurfit Kappa Mexico developed its own, pays off To raise awareness of home accidents by now, very successful safety culture The Smurfit Kappa paper mills cluster and to teach families how to respond to seminars, founded by combining their operating as Recycled Paper Europe personal injuries and fire hazards, the internal expertise and external best (RPE) has, after extensive research, Smurfit Kappa Argentina team organised practice sources. successfully introduced new health and a First Aid Day with the help of local fire A team was established to coordinate the safety standards in close co-operation brigades and the Red Cross organisation. efforts, set goals and develop materials. with an external engineering office. Smurfit Kappa’s First Aid Day took place The next phase consisted of running The RPE H&S competence team began in the Bernal and Coronel Suarez plants. tests, training the course instructors and to develop the H&S standards in 2010 to Families of employees were invited to implementing the interactive two day reduce potential risks at the workplace. participate in workshops and to tour the course at all the Mexican sites. By the end These standardised procedures have plants. Special individual attention was of 2013, a total of 80 courses had been now been published in the Rpe H&S given to the specific department where delivered to over 1,700 employees, led by handbook for all employees. From the the family member of the participants some 70 trained facilitators. beginning the H&S team strove to works. The course features seven modules develop practical guidelines, not an which address historical performance, abstract and lengthy publication, for The participation of the experienced Red personal experiences, safety concepts, the six paper mills located throughout Cross and the local fire brigade members risk assessment, mistakes, safety culture, Germany, the Netherlands and the ensured good levels of participation from commitment, protective measures and Czech Republic. families who got engaged in a resuscitation workshop or a Home First incident investigation. These seminars the results have proven that the team Aid course focused on responding to a are contributing to improved accident has succeeded in their mission to make fire scenario in the home. The workshops prevention through greater hazard the paper mills a safer place to work. The received positive feedback from the awareness within the workforce and number of accidents within this cluster of families, who enjoyed the day and even higher commitment to maintaining a safe Smurfit Kappa paper mills has fallen 37% earned formal certificates. The children workplace. The bottom line is that safety between 2009 and 2013. In the same especially liked the games with funny is not simply a programme, it’s a culture. period Days Lost due to accidents are clowns and the crafts with paper and These Smurfit Kappa safety culture down by 61%, the frequency of accidents corrugated boxes, but what the kids liked seminars are promoting an has decreased by 40% and the severity of most of all is no surprise: the fire-fighters’ interdependent safety culture by actively accidents has reduced by 63%. These truck demo! encouraging employees to “take care of improvements clearly demonstrate that each other”. H&S is an integral aspect of the corporate culture at Smurfit Kappa. 52 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 2. SOCIAL CItIZENSHIP behaviour, whether it originates from within our business (and is directed Guiding principles internally or externally) or its source is We are committed to managing an individual (or organisation) with relationships with fellow employees, whom (or with which) we have a business partners and host communities business relationship. No issues in a socially responsible manner. under either heading were identified in 2013. We comply with the principles expressed in the United Nations Declaration of Human  We compensate fairly and review Rights and the Fundamental Principles wage and salary levels at regular and Rights at Work developed by the intervals. Where appropriate we use international labour Organisation in all of expert methodologies and input from Paul Fockaert beside one of the safety the countries in which we have a presence. the current jobholder, taking the zones of the folder-gluer at Smurfit Kappa function under review into account. Interbox in Belgium. In keeping with this Declaration and these We ensure that pay rates in each Principles: country in which we operate match or  We prohibit discrimination on the exceed the minimum standard set by grounds of race, colour, gender, sexual its government or legislature. orientation, age, religion, national Belgium: Health and safety origin, disability or other legally  We celebrate the wide variety of skills, improvements that really abilities, backgrounds, experiences protected status in the countries in and perspectives represented by stick which we conduct business. Apart every employee in our Group. We After 38 years of service, the folder-gluer from one incident in which immediate respect employee contributions. We and appropriate measures were taken, machine at the Smurfit Kappa solid board strive to operate as a meritocracy, no issues of discrimination in any of plant in the belgian town of Hoogstraten, and promote on the basis of these categories were reported in needed an overhaul to upgrade its safety suitability, reward fairly, encourage 2013. standards. With smart high-technology personal and professional improvements the folder-gluer is ready  We support freedom of association. development and promote effective for the future again both production and Our employees have the right to communication at every level of the safety-wise. become (and remain) a member business. of a trade union, have their Health and safety is a key value at Smurfit In the context of the above, we select and representatives negotiate and Kappa. A folder-gluer machine has many promote people, solely on the basis of bargain on their behalf and assist moving parts that need to be adjusted by suitability for the position in question. them in grievance and disciplinary the operator regularly. That requires the matters. operators to take strict precautionary Compensation and Benefits measures to maintain safe working The Collective Agreements currently The Group does not discriminate conditions while operating the applying in some 90% of the Group’s between men and women in terms of equipment. sites are the result of either local and/ salary, benefits or any other or national negotiations in the consideration. The Group applies the in a team effort, belgian engineers countries concerned in both Europe policy of ‘same job, same pay’. There is evaluated the best way not only to revise and the Americas. therefore no formal system at Group level the machine, but also to check working to measure the precise ratio for conditions ensuring the highest possible We are not aware of either the association or bargaining rights of any remuneration by gender. safety standards, while the equipment is individual or group(s) of employees The Group’s compensation philosophy is operated at the highest efficiency rate. being denied to them during the to reward employees based on current The changes included installing large course of 2013. best practices in the relevant market. safety screens, an in-feed robot, special The Group compares its compensation  We prohibit child labour. We will not safety zones, automatic strapping, safety practices to compensation survey data employ, in any capacity, anyone who cameras, alarm condition sounders and that is compiled and published by major has not either reached the mandated protective fencing. The quality of folding consulting firms. While the basic salary of school leaving age or the minimum is now checked using laser technology an individual manager may be different age set for employment in any and out of specification packaging is country in which we operate. No from that of a colleague in an identical or rejected by an automatic kicker. In issues under this heading were similar role, the difference will generally be combination with the automatic quality identified in 2013. a reflection of the difference in control system the machine produces responsibility, size of the job, experience, perfect gluing and folding and, most  We treat employees humanely. We do performance, country of residence, etc. importantly, complies with proven not approve of or tolerate forced and not as a result of nationality or any machine safety standards. labour or physical abuse. We do not other such reason. tolerate any other form of abusive SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 53 Social (continued) Total employees by age Total employees by length of service Management by Gender <20 yrs 30+ yrs 60+ yrs <5 yrs Female 16% 1% 10% 4% 21-30 yrs 26% 16% 51-60 yrs 21-30 yrs 22% 18% 31-40 yrs 41-50 yrs 26% 11-20 yrs 31% 24% 5-10 yrs 22% Male 84% In common with many large businesses, Netherlands, United Kingdom, Colombia, and administration, almost 40% are Smurfit Kappa provides a range of Spain, Italy and Sweden), with the occupied by women. employee benefits. Some, such as remaining 18% distributed between the Smurfit Kappa’s policy is to strive for an maternity and paternity leave, are other 22 countries were we have a increasing level of participation of women provided under the legislation of production and/or a sales and marketing in management roles in the company. In specific countries. presence. This distribution generally is in that context we have been reviewing the line with Smurfit Kappa’s distribution of Other employee benefits, such as areas and roles where the retention level activities. Since the acquisition of Orange Pension Plans and Life Insurance, and further advancement of women has County in December 2012, Mexico has form an integral part of the employee’s the greatest potential for success. become our number one country in remuneration package provided by the Concrete results are to actively promote terms of headcount. Group in various countries. female participation in management During 2013, some 17 nationalities were training programmes such as the Employee Demographics and represented at the most senior levels in Advanced Management Development Turnover the organisation. Although we do not programme and to pay extra attention to At the end of 2013, the Group had some have a policy of selecting local residents female managers and high potentials 41,000 employees. This figure includes and it is our policy to select the best when reviewing our succession plans. both our own employees as well as person available for any position, in In relation to return to work and retention contracted labour. practice, by far the greater proportion of rates after parental leave we do not keep senior operational positions are held by As can be seen in the graphs above, central records. In 2013, we analysed the local managers (same nationality as the some 43% of our employees are 40 years situation in three countries and the country where the operation is located). of age or under, with almost a third of the statistics for the year are shown for In general, the composition of the total between the age of 41 and 50 years. illustrative purposes in the table below. Group’s workforce typically reflects local As shown above, more than 50% of our ethnic diversity, thereby enhancing the At the end of 2013, employee turnover in employees have been with us for 11 years bond with local communities. the organisation had decreased from or more. More than 10% have been with 4.6% in the previous year to 4.3% . In 2013, 17% of all Smurfit Kappa Smurfit Kappa for over 30 years. Retirements and the pursuit of other employees were female (1% more than in careers or interests were the main Just under 70% of our workforce is 2012) and 83% were male – see graph on reasons for the departure of more than involved in production and manufacturing page 55. Of all management functions, half of the employees in 2013, while activities categorised as direct labour, 16% are performed by women versus rationalisation and redundancies with the balance of the employees 84% by men. Of the indirect positions in accounted for 15% of the departures in engaged in management activities areas such as sales and marketing, 2013. There were 1,955 new entrants to administrative or clerical activities such finance, human resources, procurement, the Group during 2013, of which 85% as sales and marketing, finance, human were in Europe and 15% in the Americas. resources and procurement, all of those categorised as indirect labour activities. Approximately 5% of our employees are Country Italy Poland Sweden engaged under a temporary contract. 16 6 11 No. on parental leave Of our total workforce, almost 82% were (of which 5 men) (of which 1 man) (of which 7 men) employed in ten countries (Mexico, Return to work after 10 4 11 parental leave Germany, France, Venezuela, Retention rate 63% 67% 100% 54 Total employees by Gender Top 10 Countries Headcount 2013 Female 17% 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 Male 83% Mexico Germany France Venezuela UK Netherlands Colombia Spain Italy Sweden Talent Attraction and Employee employer of choice in a discipline where In 2013, we saw the second running of the Training and Development we needed to boost our resources. We General and Mill Manager Programme received 140 entries and seven finalists (GMMP) for newly appointed Operational Success within the Group can only be were invited to present their designs. The Managers. For the first time participants delivered through our people. We are fully three winners were then invited to spend from the Americas also took part. The 19 committed to ensuring that employees at an internship with Smurfit Kappa. participants that took part in the two week all levels and in all locations are fully programme represented 13 different aligned, empowered, inspired and trained In Argentina an annual event is run for all nationalities. The organisation currently to deliver outstanding results and to newcomers to our company. The undertakes an annual Performance and achieve personal growth and attendees spend a full day learning about Development Review of 90% of its advancement where possible. the full operational scope of Smurfit Kappa managers. Typically, these are conducted and hear presentations from the To fulfil these commitments a wide range on a one-to-one basis involving the Argentina senior executives. It also of training and development activities take individual concerned and his/her provides them with the opportunity to place at local and central level. immediate manager. Performance reviews meet colleagues and share their initial are also conducted with non-managerial For example, at local levels over the past experiences of the Group. employees, currently applying to some twelve months we have delivered over 150 Graduate recruitment and development 50% of this category of personnel. training interventions in the area of safety programmes continue to grow as a means and over 50 programmes covering sales. The Group’s centrally run English of attracting new talent into Smurfit Language Training continues to go from Overall in 2013 each employee spent Kappa. For example, we have been running strength to strength with around 100 twenty hours on average in training. a graduate recruitment scheme in people participating in 2013 in the six Germany since 2002 and of the 40 Within the Paper Division the Recovered programmes offered. This training is run employees to join us through the Paper Operation ran a programme for all in conjunction with an internationally programme, 35 are still employed by company car and truck drivers in Germany, recognised Language School. Plans are in Smurfit Kappa and have since gone on to Benelux and Slovakia to learn more about place to supplement this in the coming grow their careers in the areas of sales, driver safety and the various new year with an enhanced e-platform to allow finance and operations. technologies found within the vehicles. more remote learning opportunities and Training took part on a test track in groups At central level the Group continues to to actually assess all senior managers with of twelve over a full day and the plan is to place a significant emphasis on the regard to their proficiency levels of English. refresh these skills every three years. Advanced Management Development The Group continued to develop its (AMD) Programme. The programme is In the UK the Corrugated Division ran a relationship with two of Europe’s leading aimed at high potential, mobile employees series of programmes in the area of Executive Education Business Schools by from across the Group who have typically Supervisory Training. The core topics enrolling participants in various open been with Smurfit Kappa for between included report writing, team working, programmes offered by the London three and eight years. This has been team development and communication Business School and by INSEAD. In the running for over twelve years, with over skills. Americas, we continue sending 300 participants having passed through In Mexico, we ran a design competition professionals to obtain Masters degrees the programme. In 2013 we carried out a with a number of local universities. Final at Purdue University in the USA, a detailed analysis of the success of the year students were eligible to enter and programme that has been in place programme by surveying all past this enabled them to develop a practical since 1992. participants. Well over half of the application from their Graphic Design and participants are still with the Group and Structural Design studies as well as have gone onto achieving significant promoting our name as a potential promotion and advancement. smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 55 Social (continued) management Gender 2013 top 10 countries Number 200 Male Female 150 100 50 0 UK France Mexico Germany Spain Italy Netherlands Venezuela Sweden Colombia ENGAGEmENt WItH StAkEHOLDERS ENGAGEmENt WItH StAkEHOLDERS ENGAGEmENt WItH StAkEHOLDERS Bill Fox, Group Head of Jennie Kaarle, European Amy Byrne, Financial Internal leadership and talent Technical Account Manager, auditor, ireland Development Sweden the amD programme was a very valuable The AMD programme began back in the amD programme is a great experience exceeding my expectations. 2000 and in more than 300 participants opportunity to meet senior management It provided exposure to parts of the have passed through since its start. The and colleagues from different countries business outside of my normal role and idea is to take high potential employees creating networks. I have also learned a the opportunity to develop contacts from around the Group and expose them lot about my strengths and weaknesses. across countries and cultures. The to the full activities of the Group, provide i feel that i have broadened in my programme was challenging in a good them with some leadership training and professional role, helping me to connect way giving me the opportunity to move have them take part in a real and very ‘live’ all the dots in the company together. In outside my comfort zone and learn about project during the programme. It has my role, which involves meeting other aspects of the business. The given many of our past participants an customers, having this overview and programme was very beneficial to my excellent springboard within the Group insight in our business will definitely make professional life. I was exposed to and we see many now in senior roles. To me a better representative of the different information and gained a ensure the progamme remains effective company. Although I think additional greater knowledge of the overall Group. for us we continue to develop it year focus on individual management skills How would I describe the programme: after year seeking feedback from the would make future programmes even It is cross-divisional, countries and participants. Our Talent and better, it is great that people from the functions, allowing all participants Development strategy is to help our Americas region are also participating; exposure to new aspects of the business. people to fulfill their own potential and it makes the programme definitely more Would it not be great to have a platform/ AMD is a key element in that strategy. complete having a mix of participants forum where all employees can interact from all countries where the Group is and share knowledge across countries active. and divisions? 56 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 top 10 employee Gender top 10 Countries Number 5,000 Male Female 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 Mexico Germany France Venezuela UK Netherlands Colombia Spain Italy Sweden ENGAGEmENt WItH StAkEHOLDERS Mauricio Astudillo, Operations engineer pm4, Cali, Colombia the amD programme is a very interesting, Young paper makers move up complete, innovative and challenging the ranks in Austria training personal development tool that has fully met my expectations. The the paper mill in Haid bei ansfelden, austria, has a programme triggers participants to be rich history. Smurfit Kappa Nettingsdorfer has been active, dedicated, focused and to express in operation since 1851. The people that produce their own opinion to fellow participants in the annual 440,000 tonnes of paper are well trained discussions. I was happy to contribute the and make sure that a new generation of paper best of my personal experience and makers moves up the ranks on a regular basis. knowledge gained over the years working To give young people a chance to get acquainted with Smurfit Kappa. Although I personally with the paper mill, it has introduced apprenticeship also would have liked to go in depth in some training for teenagers starting at the age of 15. The areas of personal interest, amD has programme takes three to four years and prepares provided me with new strengths and tools for a career as a paper technician, electrical engineer that for sure will help me to perform my job or machine technology employee. Every year four to even better. It gave me a wider and clearer six young people start in this programme. perspective and understanding of the Group. Clear positives of AMD are its focus, The so-called dual system offers social security high level and challenging environment that and gives teenagers a chance to gain experience in is created. a real work environment. Keeping in mind that the participants are young, the programme also incorporates leisure activities. The students learn, earn a living and receive a certificate. Talented participants can continue their education with a Master Craftsman Exam, which grants access to courses on a college or university level. SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 57 Social (continued) Retired employees countries in Europe where we have production capacity, changes in operations, Our retirees have a special relationship with operations. the acquisition, disposal or closure of Smurfit Kappa. We are grateful for their businesses, collective dismissals a The Agreement, renewed in January 2012, contribution to our growth and success consultation process with the European governs the functioning, rights and duties over many years. Today there are Works Council must take place prior to any of the EWC, and will remain in place for four approximately 13,000 pensioners from decision being made. This is addition to years i.e. until the end of 2015. Smurfit Kappa and there are a variety of local and country actions and different associations in different countries During 2013 and as per our Agreement, consultations. that manage a host of social activities. Such we had two regular EWC forums and three This set of actions, at the appropriate level events greatly help to maintain the bonds Select Committee meetings. (European, country, local), ensures that the the pensioners enjoyed as working The EWC consists of a maximum of 30 needs and requirements of our employees colleagues. members, representing all employees. are taken into account in each case where Whilst most of the activities are managed The procedure for the nomination and an operation is discontinued, without by the pensioner associations themselves, selection/election of its members is in compromising the Group’s ability to take there is also on-going Group support at accordance with national regulations and the appropriate action(s) to protect its local level. practice in each of the countries involved. commercial interests. Although the EWC is not a negotiating The periods of notice, measured in Internal communication forum, it does complement existing local terms of the time between the initial and national structures where information We value regular, timely and efficient communications to the employees dissemination and consultation occurs. communication with our employees and concerned and the introduction of the their representatives, conducted in an open Typically, the topics covered at such changes, range from six weeks to 24 weeks. and constructive manner, to exchange meetings include: views on all matters affecting our business. Acquisition practices  The Group’s financial status. Topics include health and safety, working A key aspect of due diligence in any  Prospective developments. conditions, terms and conditions of acquisition process involving Smurfit  Relocation, production curtailments or employment, the performance of the Kappa is an examination of the target business closures in any country where business, the business outlook, investment organisation’s human resource policies and there are transnational implications. decisions, and acquisitions and disposals. practices, both in terms of their compliance  Environmental protection. We are committed to providing our with local, national and international laws  Employment opportunities. employees with regular updates on the and in their day-to-day interpretation and  Health and safety. overall performance of Smurfit Kappa and application in the organisation. When queries arise from our employees the individual business units, and on any In the event of any potentially serious issue and/or their representatives or meetings issue that may potentially have an impact arising as a result, such as child labour, the are requested, our policy is to respond in a on them. In doing so, we make use of acquisition process will be reviewed as to timely manner. appropriate media which include the appropriateness of continuing with it. departmental and function meetings, site When a decision is taken to introduce general briefings and management/ There was one acquisition during the change, employee consultation takes place employee representative meetings at local, course of 2013 and no such issues arose. promptly. During the course of such national and regional levels. The internet discussions, the impact of the proposed Group Awards and Smurfit Kappa’s internal intranet are changes, together with the implementation also used extensively. plans, are discussed with employees and Through our Smurfit Kappa Awards events their representatives. in both Europe and the Americas, we Most of our operations have internal stimulate the ambition of our people and communications via newsletters, In those cases where a local operation our business units to always do better. The announcements and local intranet discontinues its operations, any negative various award competitions serve several messages: these media promote a economic effects on its host community purposes. The core objective is to constant flow of news and employee are mitigated by actions that are agreed encourage, recognise and reward interchange. with local and, if applicable, country Works entrepreneurship, innovation and superior Councils. The outcome, reflecting local performance, whether it is in the area of Works Councils and/or national custom and practice or operations, innovation, safety or Smurfit Kappa recognises the right of legislation, will result in one or more of sustainability. The awards are visible to the employees to freely associate and all the following: severance pay, career organisation’s entire workforce and this Smurfit Kappa employees are free to join counselling, job search workshops, helps in sharing the objectives of the trades unions. In many countries, Smurfit financial advice and early retirement organisation, creating an aspirational Kappa conducts formal employee where appropriate (see an example climate and enforcing its priorities. consultation processes with the local of this in the UK on page 59). Works Councils. In Europe, we have internal competitions Where the change has transnational for Overall Plant of the Year, Health and By far the largest representative group in implications, and / or decisions that will Safety Awards, Innovation Awards and Smurfit Kappa in Europe is the European significantly impact on the interests of its Sustainability Awards, each with their own Works Council (EWC), which represents employees on two or more EU member objectives and purposes. about 80% of our employees from the 21 States – for example, the relocation of 58 ENGAGEmENt WItH StAkEHOLDERS Courses that change the lives of employees and enrich the community When Smurfit Kappa’s Townsend Hook mill, located in the British town of Snodland, had to close two old paper machines to construct a new bigger machine on site, Smurfit Kappa took it upon itself to initiate a special training and development programme for the forty papermakers involved. A programme with a lasting impression on the participants and the local community. sue Ricketts External Trainer External trainer Sue Ricketts feels privileged that she was asked by Bob Huelin, Director of Training and Development at Townsend Hook College of Papermaking, to be part of this special programme: “This staff development programme is unique in many ways and testifies to Smurfit Kappa’s commitment to its personnel and the surrounding community. The mill will be offline for 18 months and during this time the crew remains employed, receives training and works on community projects. I have shared the journey of this group. For some, being back in the classroom was very hard, but the self-discovery of experiential learning resulted in self-confident, resilient individuals who are ready to take on the challenges of the new plant and perform a new role in their community. Smurfit Kappa has made it possible to enrich their personal lives.” “The group learns how to operate the new machine, but also receives extensive training aimed at personal development in general. The multiple courses even include maths, English, and foreign languages such as German. Furthermore, the college of papermaking stimulated many community activities such as re-decorating a special needs school, resurfacing a play area in a local primary school, erecting storage sheds for sport equipment in a local infant school, carrying out maintenance work at a local community cricket club and organising a fund raising day for the elderly with dementia. The programme really makes a difference for many people both inside and outside Smurfit Kappa”, external trainer Sue Ricketts concludes. ENGAGEmENt WItH StAkEHOLDERS immediate help after flooding disaster in la plata In April 2013, a major flood took place in the city of La Plata, close to the Smurfit Kappa plant of Bernal in Argentina. The devastating flood affected more than 190,000 people and left 70,000 people temporarily homeless. Smurfit Kappa responded immediately. Employees donated money to buy food, water, hygiene items and clothes. More than 1,000 local families received donations from the funds which were raised at short notice. In kind donations included pasta, rice, milk, water, soledad Peralta clothes, cardboard boxes and work T-shirts. Director of Banco The humanitarian efforts were coordinated by the Banco Provincia Foundation. Director Provincia Foundation Soledad Peralta stated: “The link with companies who want to work together with the community is of major importance to us. Smurfit Kappa helped immediately when the flood occurred and thanks to their collaboration we were able to aid many people who had lost everything. We are very grateful.” The tragic result of the powerful flood was that 78 people lost their lives and 2,200 people needed to be evacuated. The buildings and infrastructure in the city suffered enormous damages. “Families lost everything, the water devastated their houses, it was very emotional. The HR department immediately asked us to help the city”, says Smurfit Kappa treasury analyst Emiliano Bregant. Luis Guinder, customer service manager, comments: “Smurfit Kappa gave us the opportunity to help our neighbours when they needed help the most. The actions and fundraising showed the unconditional support of our company and employees to our community.” SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 59 Social (continued) For 2013, our kraftliner mill in plant in Colombia and the Naucalpan nettingsdorfer in austria was awarded Folding Carton plant in Mexico recognising Plant of the Year for the Paper and Board improvements in injury prevention activities for record production and achieved by increased employee operational performance and our engagement following the introduction corrugated packaging operation in Gdansk of behavioural-based safety programmes. in Poland received an award for its and more information on the innovation and consistent operational and safety Sustainability Awards can be found on performance. pages 66-67. Our kraftliner mill in Piteå in Sweden was awarded Overall Plant of the Year for its 3. OuR INVOLVEmENt IN tHE best operational performance since the COmmuNItY inception of Smurfit Kappa and its new Smurfit Kappa invests significantly in ways of working. Maximilian Fischer from Smurfit Kappa the communities near our facilities, Zülpich in Germany welcomes visitors at in Health and Safety, the awards for recognising it is a responsibility and an the training fair. Excellence in Safety were awarded to our opportunity to contribute positively to the SSK paper mill in the UK and to our economic and social development of the corrugated packaging operation in communities of our host regions. Schneverdingen in Germany for their Community involvement not only builds exemplary safety leadership in the trust in Smurfit Kappa’s way of doing training fair delivers more application of risk mitigation solutions business, it also serves as link between qualified applicants and continual reinforcement of their Smurfit Kappa and issues close to us such Education has become even more workplace safety culture. The Awards for as the value of forests and training and important during recent years due to Excellence in Safety Improvement were education of (young) people. As a major demographic changes and a looming awarded to our solid board mill in employer in many countries, we therefore shortage of skilled workers. The Hoogkerk in the Netherlands and our aim to play an active role in the management of Smurfit Kappa in Zülpich corrugated packaging operation in communities in which we have the privilege to operate. in Germany, identified the problem several Alicante in Spain for their commitment to years ago and initiated a regional training leverage experience from past incidents While our biggest contribution to our fair. for further improvements in protective communities is in the jobs we create measures. Our corrugated packaging through our local investments, we are the idea was supported by the operation in Barnstaple in the UK received also committed to responding to the municipality and secondary schools in the the Award for Excellence in Sustained communities’ social needs. We strive to area. They offered to make their school Safety for operating more than 5,000 be an integral part of the communities in facilities available for the event. As the days without a single lost time accident. which we are located, by supporting plan became more elaborate other In the Americas the same internal activities and community support participants such as a training centre, competitions exist. Our paper mill in programmes focusing on areas such employment agencies and other relevant Valencia in Venezuela was named Overall as self-help initiatives, education and organisations joined the initiative. Plant of the Year in the Americas for its health programme. We do this in two fundamental ways, through making nowadays more than 600 pupils learn the huge positive operational transformation ins and outs of more than 50 different in 2013, including recording zero financial contributions and/or by volunteering with local employee professions and can meet accidents in 2013, resolving outstanding engagement and participation being an representatives of the companies. Less environmental issues and employees important consideration in our decision well-known jobs with interesting career participating in local community activities. to assist. perspectives are brought into the in argentina, the paper mill in Coronel limelight like that of paper technologist. Suarez, in Colombia, the barbosa paper In the course of our business mill, in Mexico, the Cerro Gordo paper mill, The companies find new, well qualified transactions, we also take into account in Venezuela, the Caracas packaging plant trainees and the students learn the concerns of the wider community, and in the uSa, the Forney paper mill were interesting facts about professions that including international, national, and local all named Plant of the Year in their they had not previously known. As a result interests. Each plant General Manager is respective countries. expected to represent the company as of the fair Smurfit Kappa received more part of the local community and play a than 60 applications for five in Health and Safety, the awards for positive part in its development. apprenticeship vacancies. Excellence in Safety were awarded to the Atlas packaging plant in Mexico and to the It falls to each plant General Manager Cagua packaging plant in Venezuela to maintain an active dialogue with the recognising their exemplary injury-free communities living in close proximity performance and the introduction of to his/her facility, respond in the first programmes involving the family instance to any complaints or issues of members of the workforce. The Awards concern and initiate appropriate remedial for Excellence in Safety Improvement action where necessary and possible. were awarded to the Barbosa packaging 60 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 With the help of Smurfit Kappa, through its Smurfit Kappa in Venezuela and its large The largest corrugated packaging local foundation, the strawberry growers volunteer team have joined efforts to companies in the Czech Republic jointly have united themselves in an organisation educate future generations. cooperate with the Secondary School of called FRESOTA. Applied Arts by initiating a new curriculum. a helping hand for Smurfit Kappa trains New converting machine Colombian strawberry Venezuelan Youth in values operator curriculum in the growers Smurfit Kappa in Venezuela and its large Czech Republic Colombian strawberry growers from the volunteer team have joined efforts to The largest corrugated packaging Sotará-Cauca region experienced high educate future generations to help them companies in the Czech Republic jointly production costs, post-harvest losses face ‘the Challenge of Growth’. Together cooperate with the Secondary School of and low family income. With the help of with the Don Bosco Educational Unit and Applied Arts by initiating a new curriculum Smurfit Kappa, through its local with the support of the NGO Jóvenes to train converting machine operators. foundation, the growers have united Emprendedores, ethical values were Smurfit Kappa and its colleagues are in themselves, by creating the association successfully promoted to families. need of well-educated employees and called FRESOTA and thereby improving Good morals and sound ethics form the they have stepped up to the plate to their business and living conditions. basis of any society or nation. This effort stimulate a new generation to earn a is just one of the Social Responsibility degree in the paper packaging industry. The Sotará-Cauca region is ideal for agricultural purposes. But besides good projects initiated by Smurfit Kappa in The packaging companies all recognise weather and fertile soil, local farmers also Venezuela to help local communities. In that qualified employees are the most need skills and knowledge to be 2013 the aim of most of these activities important asset for any company. In the successful. By supporting farmers to run was focused on providing tools for years to come the industry needs more FRESOTA more effectively, Smurfit Kappa training and education, highlighting the well-trained people than the number helps to battle poverty and stimulate the ‘Growing Challenge’. currently available on the Czech job local economy. The educational programme was taught market. The companies also assist the during five weeks of workshops to school in promoting the new course. now that the strawberry growers are united, they were able to replace the approximately 300 people, specifically Job security is an important driver for intermediaries that used to control the students in their fourth year of high many young people who are just starting industry with their own commercial school, and their parents or guardians. their career. Our people from Smurfit committee. Both payment policies and Students attended an initial activity, Kappa Žimrovice to be actively involved in cost structure of the co-op changed. As followed by meetings and workshops the new curriculum by educating a result the growers now realise a profit covering various topics like motivation, teachers, assisting in the course and have even opened a community entrepreneurial attitude and values in programme and student handbooks, and grocery store. The profit is largely daily life. During the closing activity, with also facilitating practical activities for invested in sustainable initiatives such as students and their families, participants students at the production plants. sanitation improvements in the area and officially confirmed their commitment to donations to the local library. FRESOTA follow the example of the given values. has improved the quality of life for the whole community. This initiative was recognised by the Fundación Interamericana and RedEAméricana. FRESOTA was awarded with the Transformadores prize in 2013. This Fundación honors community development initiatives. SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 61 Social (continued) Every year, Smurfit Kappa organises soccer The environmental education at Smurfit Smurfit Kappa’s Group office in Dublin tournaments in the summer and during Kappa Poland is part of the school organised a four-day charity walk in Christmas holidays in Denmark. programme. September 2013 along the Wicklow Way. Smurfit Kappa scores with Factory trip teaches Ireland Smurfit Kappa School Cup youngsters eco-awareness charity walk in aid of Irish Summer or winter, outdoor or indoor, five Environmental education is a serious Cancer Society or sixteen years of age, the Smurfit Kappa topic, but when it comes to teaching Smurfit Kappa’s Group office in Dublin School Cup has proven to be a successful eco-awareness to children, the people organised a four-day charity walk in event uniting the local Danish community from Smurfit Kappa Poland found out September 2013 with all proceeds raised of Kolding for more than 20 years. that a fun approach is much more going towards the Irish Cancer Society. effective. Every year Smurfit Kappa organises A group of 16 walkers completed the soccer tournaments in the summer and In Poland many children go on a school entire 132 km of the Wicklow Way which during Christmas holidays. Last year a trip to the Smurfit Kappa Konin factory, is a scenic way-marked trail that traverses total of 265 teams participated to be inspired and play ecological games the Wicklow Mountains, starting in representing more than 2,000 school with each other. At the factory the Clonegal, Carlow in the south and children from grade 0 to grade 10. The children follow a “box” through its various finishing in Marlay Park, Dublin in the outdoor event is organised together with stages of production and participate in north. On the third day, another couple of Kolding Boldklub and the winter time cardboard “testing”. The education at colleagues joined them and on the final indoor tournament is a joint effort with Smurfit Kappa is part of the school day, a large group of some 30 colleagues Kolding KFUM (YMCA) soccer club. programme and gives youngsters an and family members accompanied them insight into the world of recycling, forest to the finish line where they were the tournament has grown into a protection and smart usage of valuable welcomed by their immediate families prestigious local sports event and eager resources such as water. and remaining colleagues from the Group winners in each age group are very proud of their Smurfit Kappa School Cup and Smurfit Kappa Poland started the head office to celebrate the completion the specially designed Smurfit Kappa activities to assist teachers at of a successful event. T-shirts. The kids love the attention of neighbouring nurseries and schools The joint effort raised over €108,000 for the 6,000 spectators and the coverage within the framework of their the Irish Cancer Society which is the they get in the local newspapers. Not only environmental protection programmes. leading voluntary funder of cancer do the kids enjoy the exposure, Smurfit The aim is to teach children respect for research in Ireland. The Society also Kappa in Denmark does so too. Because nature, to encourage them to participate offers free, confidential advice, support of the tournaments young people in environmental matters, to develop and information on any question about appreciate the company and seek to their own sense of responsibility, to raise any cancer. pursue a career at Smurfit Kappa. awareness for the need to react quickly to ecological problems, and to teach them how to live an ecological lifestyle themselves. 62 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 International Smurfit Kappa Having been based in a number of The Foundation has its own website: Foundation different locations throughout www.smurfitkappafoundation.com, Amsterdam, in March 2013 the providing information on the type of The Foundation was established in 2011, Joris Kring centre moved to new projects the Foundation is focusing on when the Board of Smurfit Kappa agreed accommodation in the city, where all and how to apply for funding. to establish an initial €3 million fund. Over classes and facilities of the day-care the subsequent three years, €500,000 centre have been brought together could be invested annually to finance under one roof. However, because of projects that came within the objectives limited resources, there was no money of the Foundation. The remainder of the available for developing the existing funds have now been invested and the neglected garden. Thanks to the support interest will continue to be available to of the Foundation and local businesses in fund worthwhile projects. Further funding the area, the centre has been able to of the Foundation is under consideration. transform the old area into a modern, The Foundation supports projects in the much needed recreational garden for countries where we operate, with the the children. initial focus on projects involving young Another recent project that has received disadvantaged children in the areas of funding from the Foundation was the health and nutrition, basic care, and early creation of a modern multimedia education. Currently, the Foundation interactive art programme in a childcare supports a number of such projects in centre in Germany. Germany, the Netherlands, UK, Colombia and Ireland. The Lebenshilfe is a care centre in Bürvenich, near the town of Zülpich in The new initiatives assisted by the Germany. The centre has a wide range of Foundation in 2013 were as follows: facilities, including a small children’s home The Joris Kring children’s centre in the which caters for young people with Netherlands is one of the latest projects behavioural disorders. Recently, a special to be co-funded by the Foundation. The Media Empowerment Programme was centre offers specialised day care to implemented that provides the children children and youngsters with intellectual with a platform to participate artistically or multiple disabilities. In a homely and creatively in a cultural environment environment, the centre focuses in small with the help of new digital media in the groups on the qualities and talents of area of photography, video and social each child. Each group consists of six to networks. The main aim of the project is eight children, and there is a daily to identify the intrinsic talent and skills of programme of joint and individual the autistic children in order to develop a activities, while a daily meeting between tailor-made therapy which can be the child and their mentor is at the core financed by health insurance later. This of their care. enables them to forget their “disability” tag and benefits their intellectual development. smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 63 forward -thinking Anne Louise Nielsen (l.) and Claus Duus from Smurfit Kappa Denmark, Kolding Collaboration is about sharing a vision and working to achieve it, both with forwardthinking customers and each other. this belief reflects the way we work with our customers and each other across disciplines, divisions and countries. We recognise the real value of the different experiences, expertise, cultures and ideas that are found in Smurfit kappa. We recognise that when we work together to open up opportunities for our customers we make anything possible. innovation in Design and Sustainability awards Innovation and sustainability are key to to assess the impact of hundreds of their Smurfit Kappa’s business success and products in a store within seconds. This also one of our strategic priorities. Our tool offers great flexibility throughout innovation events in europe and the categories and retail formats. Ultimately, Americas held in 2013 provide platforms the 3D Store Visualiser will support to showcase our expertise and ingenuity customers in reducing the time-toin the area of innovation and sustainability market of their products. The tool was to customers and investors; creating also shown at the event in Mexico City. opportunities to meet Smurfit Kappa the highlight of both events was the representatives and witness how future announcement of the winners of the trends in packaging are interacting with European and the Americas internal innovation and sustainability agendas. Innovation and Sustainability Awards. In 2013, we hosted 250 customers and the designers of the most innovative investors at two events in the packaging solutions and the inventors of Netherlands and Mexico where attendees the most creative sustainability solutions were able to see the latest innovations in from both Europe and the Americas were packaging design and sustainability as judged at the respective events by an well as new concepts in the area of external jury made up of customers and augmented reality and e-commerce. sustainability experts. Over one hundred innovative packaging designs were showcased at the events, which featured the display of more than a hundred smart sustainability solutions in the wider context of the progress Smurfit Kappa has made in its journey towards a sustainable future. The European event was used to launch Smurfit Kappa’s new 3D Store Visualiser that allows customers 66 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 67 Sustainability in Our business For Smurfit Kappa, sustainability is central providing progressive, innovative and to our efforts to create economic value sustainable paper-based packaging while preserving the environment for solutions is our core business. Packaging future generations. The direct and allows the global population to have indirect economic impact our business access to essential products such as has on all our stakeholders is how we food, clothes, or medicines. We help measure our contribution to economic millions of consumers to minimise waste development. Our principal strategy to by securing the durability of products create economic value is by developing they purchase. We do this in a sustainable long-term customer relationships way by providing them with packaging through differentiated packaging solutions that use renewable raw solutions that enhance their prospects materials and are fully recyclable. of success in their end markets. These Our innovation activities contribute to relationships provide us with the resource efficiency, which in turn leads opportunity to generate sustainable to a smaller environmental footprint. revenue, sufficient profitability and the Consumers’ demand for environmentally return on capital through the business friendly products drive the search for cycle we believe is necessary to allow us sustainable innovations. to advance our drive for sustainability and which will allow us to provide our various 1. OuR BuSINESS stakeholders with the contributions they Smurfit Kappa is one of the world’s reasonably expect. largest integrated manufacturers of paper-based packaging products, with Our packaging solutions support operations in Europe and the Americas. customers in advancing their own We manufacture, distribute and sell business. Progressive dividends and share containerboard, a wide variety of price growth reward investors for their corrugated packaging and other financial support. Fair pay, other benefits, paper-based packaging products and and personal development recognise materials such as solid board, graphic our employees for their contributions. board, bag-in box, sack paper, and payments for delivered goods and machine glazed paper. services contribute to suppliers’ product and business development. In 2013, the Group’s total revenue was almost €8 billion, generating an operating Smurfit Kappa contributes to the profit of €643 million and earnings per economic development of the many share of €1.145 (pre-exceptional). Total communities and regions where we employee wages and other benefits operate as a significant employer, through amounted to €1,940 billion and €4.6 direct financial support and volunteering billion was paid to suppliers. For the year activities in community activities. Our tax 2013, an interim dividend of 10.25 euro payments, both locally and to country cents and a final dividend of 30.75 euro governments, further contribute to cents per share was declared and our tax economic, social and environmental to local and national governments development in the countries in which amounted to €122 million. we operate. 68 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 ENGAGEmENt WItH StAkEHOLDERS Important sustainable sourcing partner for Unilever Sustainable sourcing and waste reduction are important targets in Unilever’s Sustainable Living Plan. “The programme sets the roadmap for doubling the size of our business, while reducing our overall impact on the environment”, says Todd Williams, Procurement Director, Customer Packaging, of Unilever in an interview centred around the role of sustainability in the relationship between Unilever and todd Williams Smurfit Kappa. Procurement Director, Customer Packaging, the importance of sustainability Unilever. Todd Williams continues: “Procurement has a crucial role to play in sustainable sourcing, as we aim to manage the volatility of supply and improve the quality of raw materials for our products in the long-term. Sustainable sourcing not only helps us manage a key business risk, it also presents an opportunity for growth, allowing our brands to stand out in the marketplace. Packaging plays an important role throughout value chain. Smurfit Kappa is an important partner to us for the sustainable sourcing of wood fibre, recycled or certified, and for product innovation that leads to less waste and emissions.” key aspects in sustainability “The elimination of deforestation is essential, so initially we are focusing on the sustainable sourcing of the fibre. In addition, we are looking to improving the efficiency of fibre use to reduce product weights and improve our CO2 emissions. As an industry leader, Smurfit Kappa has the knowledge and expertise to eliminate of deforestation, develop next generation innovative solutions to optimise fibre usage/CO2 emissions, and develop credible measurement and KPIs to drive a sustainable future.” 2013 financial Performance Overview 2. CREAtING VALuE WItH supports consistent product innovation CuStOmERS and the provision of tangible added value 2013 2012 for our 64,000 customers worldwide. €m €m Smurfit Kappa’s packaging solutions Revenue 7,957 7,335 enable customers to optimise their With approximately 60% of our business models' outcome. We are customers in the FMCG segment earnings before honoured to be the partner of choice comprising food, beverage and exceptional items and share-based payment in our field of expertise for many household consumables, packaging expense (‘EBITDA’) 1,107 1,016 responsible and reputable customers solutions range from high quality retail who are committed to sustainability. We ready packaging and merchandising ebitDa margin 13.9% 13.8% seek to differentiate ourselves by offering displays to transport and protective Operating profit 643 630 superior insights, service, quality, delivery, packaging. For retail ready packaging, Profit before income tax 294 319 and customer relationships. We are approximately 75% of buying decisions Free cash flow 365 282 clearly established as a committed by end consumers are made at the point partner to many of our key customers of purchase and, therefore, high quality net debt 2,621 2,792 working in their industries and within their impactful packaging has an important net debt to ebitDa 2.4x 2.7x operations to define and meet (and role to play in this regard. With 750 Basic earnings per share where possible exceed) their increasingly designers worldwide, an array of design, (cent) 82.2 106.9 complex packaging needs. Our logistical tools and experience provides commitment to sustainability will us with the opportunity to make a Pre-exceptional earnings per share (cent) 114.5 104.1 strengthen existing partnerships and difference for our customers. help to form more collaborations, Return on Capital enabling customers to meet their own employed 13.1% 12.0% targets and commitments in sustainability. Our company culture SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 69 Sustainability in Our Business (continued) Increasingly, customers require For many customers we carry out packaging to be sustainable, fit for evaluations with the help of our purpose, as well as cost effective. We web-based suite of design software, work with our customers to make their collectively called Innotools (Pack Expert, supply chains more sustainable. For Paper-to-Box, Innobook, etc), seeking to example, to completely protect optimise the direct and indirect impact packaged products throughout the of our packaging on sustainability supply chain, we deliver “right-weighted” through the entire supply chain of our packaging. Taking both primary and customers. For example, by changing secondary packaging requirements into the pallet pattern or case count, the account, our transit packaging often quantity of products loaded on a pallet allows the primary packaging to be can be decreased, reducing the number optimised leading to an overall lower of road trips hence reducing the CO2 sustainability impact of our customers' emissions from transportation. supply chain. Our creative design teams explore what is possible in the most Customer engagement innovation saves open-minded way, while our approach Our customers form an important material, time and the and tools help us to design packaging stakeholder group and they are that is both “right-weighted” and which instrumental in shaping our sustainability environment in the uSa also help market our customers’ agenda. Through the many interactions At Smurfit Kappa Forney Coated products. As part of this, these tools also we have with our customers, we ensure Products, in Texas, USA, things can give our customers' the ability to that we are aware of specific always be improved, even when it appraise certain sustainability aspects of developments regarding our customers comes to cookies. our products in relation to their own as well as of developments in the Cookie suppliers used to make use of a products, such as the carbon footprint industries of our customers. In 2013 we poly-laminated freezer sheet to produce initiated, as an additional form of of our packaging, weight and pre/ cookies and ship them to the stores engagement, round table discussions post-consumer waste content. This where the actual baking takes place. The with customers specifically around the allows them to determine which designs cookies would then be transferred to a topic of sustainability. In 2013 we held contribute most to meeting their own baking sheet manually. This process took one such event where we discussed sustainability goals. time and additional material, as the global trends in sustainability as well as Our packaging can make the delivery of specific sustainability challenges and freezer sheet is not recyclable and our customers’ product to consumers opportunities in the industry of each of cannot be used for baking. more sustainable by addressing two the participating customers. Input from Forney Coated Products developed a main aspects of innovative packaging the participating customers confirmed sheet that goes through the entire design and customers’ supply chain the sustainability areas we are currently process. The Freeze & Bake sheet is working on as the most important. Input optimisation. specifically designed to allow the cookie from these type of interactions with Firstly, we guarantee our customers that customers will help us to keep our pucks to be produced, frozen, packed in our packaging solutions are sustainably sustainability agenda up-to-date and in layers for shipment. Once they arrive at produced, from materials from line with the important stakeholder the store the sheets are taken directly sustainable origin, utilising the collective group formed by our customers. from the box and placed on a baking design skills of our global team of plate. The sheet also has excellent designers. grease resistance and the cookies release flawlessly after baking. This Secondly, we focus on how our process reduced labour, material and packaging can minimise the total improved efficiency at the bakery by environmental impact per unit of 50%. An estimated 250 tonnes of sheets product delivered to the consumer. have been produced in 2013. The Freeze According to a study done by INCPEN, & Bake product is a good example of how the energy component and hence the innovation leads not only to better CO2 impact of packaging products is customer solutions but also to more less than 5% in a typical customer’s sustainable products. supply chain. The packaging-related positive indirect impact (less damage/ loss of the packed product, optimised logistics, less waste, disposal, etc.) is much more significant for the sustainability of a customer’s supply chain. 70 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 the heat is on at Smurfit Mono-material packaging Thinking out of the box to Kappa Siemco leads to multiple solutions lubricate the supply chain THIRIET Ice Cream asked Smurfit Kappa In Italy the Fabbri company is famous for For many years Haubenberger, a in France to come up with a versatile and its candy black cherry syrup which is well-known Austrian bakery, made use of sustainable high temperature-resistant shipped all over the world in its very plastic trays for its products as a solution packaging solution for its Baked Alaska famous blue and white vases. To protect during times of peak demand. However, meringue pie. This was a complex these fragile items during their global during these periods the plastic trays are challenge to replace the existing journey Fabbri used four different hard to come by, costly and they require aluminium tray with a sustainable paper-based packaging solutions with additional cleaning. The people from alternative. four different polystyrene inserts (seven Haubenberger and Smurfit Kappa parts each) to pack four different vases. Interwell worked closely together and The new THIRIET Ice Cream packaging came up with a unique ‘green’ packaging would have food contact, could not use These packs were complicated to solution. Haubenberger now enjoys the polystyrene for health and safety assemble and involved different kinds of benefits of more flexibility in peak reasons, and aluminium was out of the material to dispose off. Fabbri’s seasons with short lead times, no question because of metal detection Sustainability Policy demanded a cleaning, less storage space, and a during the production process. To top mono-material solution that would reduction in transport movements with things off, the pie is treated with a reduce packaging costs and also reduce the non-erected corrugated trays. The blowtorch to colour it just before the carbon footprint. Working together, result? A significant cost reduction using freezing, heated in the oven by the the teams from the Smurfit Kappa the greener corrugated packaging consumer and briefly set on fire with locations in Massa Lombarda and solution. alcohol just before eating. Fustelpack developed a corrugated mono-material packaging solution that Smurfit Kappa France came up with a suited the Fabbri company well. The smart combination of three white Krafts teams created one single packaging making the use of polystyrene and solution suitable for the four different aluminium obsolete. The combination of vases complemented by four different Greaseproof White Kraft on the outside, inserts to protect the vases. This way 100% Virgin White Kraft fluting and 120,000 pieces of polystyrene were Complex PET White Kraft on the inside, replaced by corrugated packaging resulted in a sustainable corrugated material. A drastic volume reduction and board packaging that outperformed the improvement in logistics, which blend in existing aluminium tray and made perfectly with the customer’s sustainability the big winner. Sustainability Policy “Programma Goccia Verde”. SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 71 Sustainability in Our Business (continued) ENGAGEmENt WItH StAkEHOLDERS Focus on Sustainability and CSR not just a “box ticking” exercise Strong management teams, earnings growth, dividends and therefore, value creation have traditionally been the key areas of focus for potential investors when analysing a company. However, sustainability and Socially Responsible Investing (SRI) is increasingly become an important facet of the investment process. For years consumer appetite david o’Brien for corporate social responsibility has been growing strongly and more recently it Equity Analyst in Goodbody appears that the investment community is catching up. Indeed, the EUROSIF European Capital Markets specialising in SRI study from 2012 indicates that since 2005 Sustainability themed investments in the Paper & Packaging sector. Europe have grown from €6.9bn to over €48bn. Given its renewable and recyclable nature, corrugated packaging is one of the most sustainable packaging solutions available to consumers. Smurfit Kappa is an industry leader on the sustainability front, with 100% certified ethical chain of custody in its European operations. In addition, it has made significant steps to reducing its carbon footprint. Consumers are the key driver of the sustainability agenda. As a result, Smurfit Kappa’s customers are coming under increased scrutiny with regard to delivering a truly sustainable product offering which includes raw material sourcing, manufacturing processes and ethical employment standards. In fulfilling customers’ demand for sustainable packaging solutions, Smurfit Kappa is not only meeting its own CSR targets but helping its customers achieve their sustainability targets. We believe this is a key point as the market begins to recognise that Sustainability is not just a “box ticking” exercise but a competitive advantage which can provide a real avenue of growth and ultimately this will help drive shareholder returns over the long-term. Customer satisfaction continuous basis that these are in line When using design innovation as a The satisfaction of our customers is of with all generally accepted ethical and means of developing sustainable utmost importance to us. Besides aiming cultural standards such as avoiding packaging, we focus with our customers to provide our customers with optimal privacy intrusion or dual standards, not on the following aspects: packaging solutions, we also want to influencing vulnerable audiences such as children or portraying gender roles in a  Design packaging solutions that are ensure that they are satisfied with our both efficient and user-friendly. proactive approach and services. In a disrespectful way. As part of our Code of number of our mills, we have a ‘first time Business Conduct, we voluntarily adhere  Optimise the supply chain, including right’ monitoring system in place to the OECD Guidelines for Multinational palletisation, transportation, measuring the percentage of production Enterprises which explicitly mentions warehousing and distribution. delivered to the customer’s complete consumer interests. Smurfit Kappa has no recorded incidents of non-compliance  Develop fit for purpose “rightsatisfaction. with regulations or voluntary codes weighted” packaging based on In our converting operations, major concerning marketing communications. experience and empirical modelling. customers routinely perform quality checks on our delivered products and Innovation in sustainable  Reduce complexity in the packaging also perform regular audits on our packaging solutions portfolio thereby achieving higher operational processes and services, and productivity, less material usage and Innovation is of strategic importance in other quality-related performance less waste. securing and retaining our customers’ indicators. To ensure customer business. Innovative design serves to  Deliver tangible sustainability satisfaction, each customer is served by differentiate us in the marketplace. To parameters for customers, enabling dedicated teams of designers, sales and foster innovation, we share best practice benchmarking and contributing to service people and this important among the plants and divisions in Smurfit customers’ sustainability agenda. consideration is frequently discussed with every customer. Kappa using our web-based tools such as Innobook. We hold Innovation Award Our marketing communications are competitions to assess the effectiveness essentially business-to-business by and originality of our joint developments nature. In this regard we ensure on a with customers. 72 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 3. ENHANCING SHAREHOLDER increase in the final dividend since Improvement opportunities for these VALUE reinstatement to 30.75 euro cent and suppliers are in areas such as hygiene and over €800 million debt reduction since environmental management systems. Sustainability is increasingly being 2007. The 2013 closing price on the Irish The supplier audits also include recognised by the investment Stock Exchange for Smurfit Kappa’s questions on social governance covering community as complementary to share was €17.89 resulting in a Group GRI, Sedex, UNGC, CDP etc. We aim to long-term value creation for its market capitalisation of approximately increase the number of suppliers of key shareholders, and to this end Smurfit €4.1 billion, up 98% year-on-year. raw materials and goods who commit to Kappa is well positioned to continue to the ten principles of the UNGC and who deliver value through its established 4. WORKING WITH GLOBAL AND are registered to Sedex. 40 of our sustainability programme. Sustainability LOCAL SUPPLIERS European suppliers, mostly strategic, is a key element within our business Maintaining transparent and long-term are currently members of Sedex. model and remains an important part of our strategy. relationships with suppliers is essential to ensuring high quality and financial stability Contribution to local economies In recent years a growing number of for both parties. Sourcing represents the We favour procuring our products and investment funds with explicit mandates single largest cost item for Smurfit services from local suppliers where for Socially Responsible Investing (“SRI”) Kappa. In 2013, we purchased products possible. The procurement of a number have taken sustainability indicators into and services such as raw materials, of major items of expenditure, such as account. Additionally, a growing number energy, transportation, maintenance and recovered paper, paper, energy, of mainstream investors are also now repairs, and investment goods to the chemicals, starch, and inks is coordinated considering these performance value of €4.6 billion. centrally to achieve economies of scale. indicators. The EUROSIF European study Notwithstanding, a significant part of the 2012 reported that all responsible As part of our customers and their actual supplier deliveries for these investment strategies surveyed have customers’ supply chain, guaranteeing categories could be considered as local outgrown the market since 2009. The that supplied goods meet environmental, deliveries as many of the goods and Carbon Disclosure Project (“CDP”) claims social, and technical standards requires a services are provided to us from that leading companies in CDP’s robust sustainable sourcing policy. suppliers’ production locations in the sustainability rankings show a better Our Sustainable Sourcing programme same geographical area as our share performance than other includes a risk assessment of suppliers operations. Due to their nature, the companies. Organisations such as the and consists of the following seven areas: remaining goods and services are Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) are quality, hygiene & safety, order sourced locally by our operations. In total introducing new reporting systems to processing, manufacturing, continuous approximately 70% of our suppliers’ reflect the increasing need not just for improvement, service & technical deliveries can be classified as local. These environmental data, but for the less support, environment & business interactions between our operations and tangible social and governance indicators sustainability. Our risk mapping shows local operations of suppliers provide as well. Institutional investors add that practically all our strategic or support for local economies. environmental and social parameters to important suppliers of key materials and their risk analyses, while a number of goods are in the low-risk area of the risk 5. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY sustainability funds have a strategy to map. Smurfit Kappa has over 200 AND PRODUCT SAFETY only invest in companies that are seen as strategic and important suppliers of key Smurfit Kappa has always demonstrated leaders from an environmental, social and raw materials and goods in Europe and a strong commitment to product safety. economic perspective. the Americas. Since we started in 2010 to We will comply with all legislation on Smurfit Kappa has an extensive investor audit our suppliers, 98% of our strategic health and safety aspects of our relations programme involving suppliers, and a significant number of our products. We also have agreed to roadshows, investor days, one-on-one important suppliers, have been audited. voluntary codes of conduct that, among meetings, teleconferences, and Following an audit we work with each others, are based on the OECD participation in industry-related investor supplier on continuous improvement Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. conferences. The Group has a clear opportunities identified in their audit. By In 2013, there were no recorded incidents objective to enhance shareholder value the end of 2013, 54 additional European of non-compliance with regulations or through a detailed strategic capital suppliers delivering both key and non-key voluntary codes in the area of product allocation plan focusing on a progressive goods and materials have also been safety and product responsibility. dividend policy, debt reduction and audited. Approximately 90% of these sustainable earnings growth through suppliers scored satisfactorily, the At all stages in our production process, judicious capital investments and remaining 10% will be compliant once we assess product safety. As many of our accretive acquisitions. Significant they complete successfully their defined products are used as transport progress has been made on each of continuous improvement opportunities packaging, product safety mainly ensures these bases in recent years with a 105% in specific areas of attention. that our products are safe and easy to use for those handling and using them. smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 73 Sustainability in Our Business (continued) Michel Simonini from AkzoNobel beside the A significant part of our packaging is recent years. As required by the Eka Netic installation at Smurfit Kappa Ania intended for the agri-food industry. For european regulation that applies to in Italy. this sector, product safety aspects packaging intended for food contact, mainly involve ensuring that food can the implementation of Good be safely packed in our products, Manufacturing Practises (GMP) in Supplier initiatives whether there is direct or indirect paper mills and converting operations AkzoNobel’s injection contact between the packaging and producing packaging for food the food. All our products are applications is mandatory. GMP, which technology improves therefore assessed for health and fulfils the requirements of eu chemical efficiency safety considerations. regulation, has been implemented AkzoNobel is one of Smurfit Kappa’s since 2007 at all our European paper major suppliers of chemicals for paper Our Product Safety Department was and board mills. Since September and board manufacturing. Sustainability set up to manage such issues, in 2012, all our european paper and is embedded in the company culture, particular with regard to packaging in board mills are third party certified values and goals as is demonstrated direct contact with food. Our according to the European standard by AkzoNobel’s listing as a leader in laboratory tests the purity of our on the management of hygiene in the the DJSI. products (papers, boards, corrugated production of packaging for foodstuffs and solid board packaging). It conducts A recent innovation is Eka Netic. This is a (EN 15593). Ania in Italy is different and research and implements high performance dosing technique for is certified according to the development projects in the area of chemicals used in the production of International Good Manufacturing food contact. We regularly submit our paper and board. It was developed and Practice for Corrugated and Solid products to the set of analyses tested at our mengibar paper mill in Board Packaging standard (FEFCO/ recommended by various European Spain. The injection technology improves ESBO GMP Standard). More and national legislation applying to our chemical efficiency, reduces fresh water information on management systems products. The department tests our consumption and cuts the cost of energy. certification of our mills can be found products to ensure compliance with This is done by making use of kinetic on page 86. European recommendations such as energy to improve the mixing of additives those related to toy safety and In response to customer needs, some at the stock flow of the paper and board packaging and packaging waste. This 55% of our converting plants now have machines. department is third party accredited processes in place and are certified by In 2013, Eka Netic was installed at our according to the ISO 17025 standard. one of the following recognised paper mill in Ania, Italy, which led to a hygiene codes or standards: ISO The knowledge developed here has reduction in fresh water intake of 22000, en 15593, british Retail been transferred throughout all our 40,000 m3 per year and energy savings of Consortium (BRC), American Institute production operations in both Europe 1.1 million Kwh. Due to better mixing, it of Baking (AIB) or International Good and the Americas. We follow the was possible to reduce the use of the Manufacturing Practice for Corrugated evolution of regulations in all countries retention chemicals also by 5%. Eka Netic and Solid Board Packaging (FEFCO/ and are active at European and the will be implemented at more Smurfit ESBO GMP Standard). In 2013 one Americas region, and national industry Kappa locations in the future. additional converting operation in Italy association level with regard to achieved certification against the product safety issues. FEFCO/ESBO standard. It is our aim to european regulations that apply to certify all our converting plants for packaging intended for food contact which this is relevant. have been revised and reinforced over 74 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 Nicolas Pombo from Smurfit Kappa Mark Rushton (r.) presented the Global PPI Colombia Forestry received the first prize. Award in the categories ‘Bio Strategy of the Year’ and ‘Mill Manager of the Year’ to Jo Cox from Smurfit Kappa Roermond in the Netherlands. As a result of our overview structure, mineral oils can be attributed to dedicated to recognising achievements we are able to monitor our progress in packaging, methods should be in the pulp and paper sector. Smurfit performance with regard to both safety developed that would effectively prevent Kappa Roermond won the award in the and hygiene for food and this in turn mineral oils from migrating from the ‘Bio strategy of the Year’ category for its allows us to respond to any market packaging into the packaged food. sustainable use of waste streams. The concerns. Our Product Safety mill’s Managing Director won the ‘Mill In this context, Smurfit Kappa has department keeps a close watch for any Manager of the Year’ Award (see picture developed an innovative new solution food safety alert issued by the European above). Through an effective which stops migration of mineral oils Commission or national authorities. The sustainability strategy, Roermond has from packaging into food products. The specific purity analyses that we conduct found valuable solutions for almost all recently announced Catcher Board MB12 on the various paper grades that we of its reject streams. 99.5% of its raw uses Powder Activated Carbon in the produce, allied to our in-depth knowledge materials are converted into useful paper or board to prevent the diffusion of of food contact issues, enable us to and valuable applications. This high oils into food products. This innovative respond to these alerts and, if necessary, percentage is reached by converting method creates a blocking mechanism to adjust our processes in the shortest its main residual stream into a 50% across the whole surface area of the possible timeframe. bio-based pellet that is called Rofire® packaging, including at the “cut edges” of and that is supplied as fuel to the In the course of 2010 some research the board unlike other so called “barrier limestone industry. By using Rofire®, indicated that traces of undesirable solutions”. Smurfit Kappa’s new offering the limestone industry is able to replace mineral oil could enter packaged food responds fully to prospective legislation 13,000 tonnnes of coal and is avoiding possibly resulting from mineral oil present that a country like Germany expects to the emission of 20,000 tonnes of CO2 in the recycled raw material for paper introduce, that would prohibit annually. making and/or the inks used for printing measurable migration of mineral oil the packaging. At the end of 2011, the aromatic hydrocarbons into food. Colombia Award for Smurfit Kappa Confederation of European Paper The Catcher Board MB12 is the most forestry Industries (CEPI), together with some innovative offering on the market. It Smurfit Kappa´s forestry programme in other trade associations, published a is made using natural ingredients, Colombia was awarded the first prize in a voluntary commitment calling on paper introduced as White Lined Chipboard major contest organised by the World and board producers and converters to and Solid board, and adheres to Smurfit Wide Fund for Nature and El Espectador phase out the use of mineral oils in paper Kappa’s industry-leading sustainability newspaper for intiatives to improve the additives and printed inks. standards. This new product will be conservation of forest ecosystems. available to customers in the second Smurfit Kappa Cartón de Colombia was In June 2012, The European Food Safety quarter of 2014. recognised for the best environmental Authority (EFSA) identified food packaging as one of the many sources of practices related to water, reforestation, 6. RECOGNITIONS and resource management. mineral oil in food and suggested setting The Netherlands Two Global PPI up a monitoring programme to identify Awards for Roermond paper mill sources of mineral oil at various stages of food production. EFSA also suggested The PPI (Pulp & Paper International) that in cases where exposure to these awards are the only global awards smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 75 relentless We never stop until we have delivered on our promise and achieved the best possible solution for our customers, our community and our business. this relentless desire for excellence is driven by a passion for paper and packaging and by a pride in our company’s heritage and vision. Input/Output for 2013 All European Operations INPUT OUTPUT Wood and fibre Production Wood (1) 5,072 ktonnes ar Papers (all grades) 4,714 ktonnes Market virgin pulp 106 ktonnes ar Corrugated Packaging * 4,558 ktonnes Other pulp 35 ktonnes ar Board and laminated Boards * 858 ktonnes Recovered Paper 4,251 ktonnes ar Converted Board * 292 ktonnes Paper or Board purchased 1,643 ktonnes ar Sacks ktonne Plastic films, other plastic item (BIB) 19 ktonnes Other packaging 19 ktonnes Starch (all types) 256 ktonnes ar Inorganic raw materials 246 ktonnes ar Direct emissions to air Other organic raw materials 212 ktonnes ar CO2 fossil 1,728 ktonnes CO2 biogenic 3,191 ktonnes Dust from fuels 0.4 ktonne SOx from processes 0.6 ktonne NOx from processes 3.6 ktonnes Energy Energy output Energy from fossil fuels 29,025 TJ Electricity to third party 318 GWh Energy from purchased biofuels 5,206 TJ Thermal energy to third party 248 TJ Electricity from grid 1,800 GWh Biomass sold 2,073 TJ Wastes Hazardous wastes 6.7 ktonnes Non-hazardous wastes sent to landfill 252 ktonnes Non-hazardous wastes recovered 313 ktonnes Other non-hazardous wastes 28 ktonnes Water Discharges to water Water intake(2) 91 Mm3 Water released 84 Mm3 COD 24 ktonnes BOD 8.6 ktonnes Total Suspended Solids 5.0 ktonnes N 0.5 ktonne P 0.07 ktonne ktonnes ar: kilotonnes as received (1): wood & sawmill chips as delivered to the mill * partly produced with Smurfit Kappa paper or board (2): water intake includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation The table reports total energy consumption of the site, taking into account the fuels used to produce electricity and/or thermal energy sold externally. This results in different figures for these parameters compared to those on pages 80 to 85. The latter pages show the energy consumption for the production of the paper or board manufactured. 78 smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 Input/Output for 2013 All American Operations INPUT OUTPUT Wood and fibre Production Wood (1) 957 ktonnes ar Papers (all grades) 1,220 ktonnes Market virgin pulp 0.3 ktonnes ar Corrugated Packaging * 1,112 ktonnes Other pulp 3.4 ktonnes ar Board and laminated Boards * 168 ktonnes Recovered Paper 1,200 ktonnes ar Converted Board * 55 ktonnes Paper or Board purchased 348 ktonnes ar Sacks * 52 ktonnes Plastic films, other plastic item (BIB) 1.9 ktonne Other packaging 1.9 ktonne Starch (all types) 35 ktonnes ar Inorganic raw materials 92 ktonnes ar Direct emissions to air Other organic raw materials 56 ktonnes ar CO2 fossil 995 ktonnes CO2 biogenic 555 ktonnes Dust from fuels 0.1 ktonne SOx from processes 1.8 ktonne NOx from processes 0.8 ktonne Energy Energy output Energy from fossil fuels 15,589 TJ Electricity to third party 1.5 GWh Energy from purchased biofuels 747 TJ Thermal energy to third party TJ Electricity from grid 726 GWh Biomass sold TJ Wastes Hazardous wastes 2.8 ktonnes Non-hazardous wastes sent to landfill 260 ktonnes Non-hazardous wastes recovered 51 ktonnes Other non-hazardous wastes 2.3 ktonnes Water Discharges to water Water intake(2) 34 Mm3 Water released 32 Mm3 COD 14 ktonnes BOD 3.7 ktonnes Total Suspended Solids 4.5 ktonnes N 0.4 ktonne P 0.01 ktonne ktonnes ar: kilotonnes as received (1): wood as delivered to the mill * partly produced with Smurfit Kappa paper or board (2): water intake includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation The table reports total energy consumption of the site, taking into account the fuels used to produce electricity and/or thermal energy sold externally. This results in different figures for these parameters compared to those on pages 80 to 85. The latter pages show the energy consumption for the production of the paper or board manufactured. smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 79 European Mills 2013 Environmental Data Cellulose du Pin, Hoya, Germany Mengibar, Spain Nettingsdorfer, Morava, Czech Navarra, Spain Piteå, Sweden CD Haupt, Viersen, Zülpich, Austria France Republic Germany Germany Germany bkl, tl tl, mg bkl, wtkl, bkl, tl, fl fl, tl, sb, fl, tl, fl fl, tl fl, tl, paper wtkl, wttl wttl cart wttl wttl PRODUCTION ktonnes 439 107 484 682 60 311 406 73 478 205 ENERGY Electricity Co-generated GWh 158 64 358 (1) 333 68 86 174 108 Self-generated GWh Hydro power GWh 0.2 2.4 0.2 Grid supply GWh 136 74 33 267 18 29 81 23 21 (2) Total Electricity GWh 295 138 391 600 21 97 167 23 195 108 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ 3,541 2,262 9,236 9,951 11 48 69 274 47 Fossil fuels TJ 1,186 232 571 193 311 1,566 2,177 338 3,182 1,485 Total fuels TJ 4,727 2,494 9,807 10,144 (3) 322 1,614 2,246 338 3,455 1,533 WATER WITHDRAWAL Surface Mm3 12 5.2 8.4 36 0.4 0.4 1.9 1.6 Ground Mm3 1.0 0.8 2.2 0.3 0.4 Grid Mm 3 0.1 0.01 0.02 0.1 0.2 0.01 0.1 Total water(4) Mm3 13 5.3 9.6 36 0.4 1.2 2.3 0.3 2.3 1.7 DISCHARGES To air CO2 fossil direct ktonnes 68 16 33 17 17 88 122 19 255 84 CO2 fossil indirect ktonnes 26 18 2.6 7.9 11 13 37 10 10 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 367 242 1,000 1,117 0.9 3.7 6.1 23 6.3 Dust tonnes 72 16 39 265 0.1 0.4 0.2 NOx as NO2 tonnes 242 143 652 819 8.6 50 74 6.1 274 97 SOx as NO2 tonnes 41 93 44 60 3.3 0.2 4.0 0.3 106 4.6 To water Process water Mm3 5.2 4.9 9.2 13.8 0.3 0.4 1.7 0.2 1.2 Cooling water Mm3 7.1 22.1 0.4 0.04 1.2 COD tonnes 7,183 436 4,433 3,318 40 92 283 N/A 283 BOD tonnes 4,375 71 1,205 678 2.3 3.8 16 N/A 15 Total Suspended Solids tonnes 678 189 657 840 7.2 2.7 45 N/A 139 Total N tonnes 41 10 90 86 5.3 0.3 19 N/A 32 Total P tonnes 3.4 0.8 14 18 0.3 0.2 1.4 N/A 1.8 Solid wastes Total non-hazardous wastes tonnes 24,634 25,370 48,580 41,363 8,239 13,924 32,826 7,212 25,428 33,966 Landfill tonnes 3,624 186 22,483 1,844 3,533 4.2 11,801 33,841 Recovery tonnes 19,406 25,184 26,097 39,519 4,707 13,924 32,705 7,212 1,859 125 Other tonnes 1,604 118 11,768 Hazardous wastes tonnes 532 144 658 144 9.4 24 43 5.2 52 36 bkl: brown kraftliner mg: machine glazed wtkl: white top kraftliner cart: carton board sb: solid board wttl: white top testliner fl: recycled fluting tl: testliner Water discharges : In grey and italic mills that do not discharge their process water to surface 80 Alfa D'Avignon, Roermond, SSK, Townsend Hook, Oude Pekela, Hoogkerk, Coevorden, Nieuweschans, Rethel, France Nervíon, Spain Baden Karton, Saillat, France Herzberger, France Ania, Italy The Netherlands United Kingdom United Kingdom Germany Germany The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands The Netherlands Total Mills tl tl fl, tl fl, tl tl, fl tl, fl fl, tl cart sb sb sb sb sb sack paper 73 57 249 208 591 208 103 131 252 56 71 90 95 144 5,573 39 (1) 33 116 63 37 (1) 61 78 6.5 0.2 27 115 1,926 1.8 1.5 0.9 7.0 30 23 79 40 37 9.0 (2) 9.3 10 13 24 (2) 73 1,028 30 23 120 73 153 63 46 62 89 16 13 24 27 189 2,961 28 201 31 180 46 2,770 28,695 368 288 1,293 1,134 2,892 1,313 1,019 1,108 1,587 307 309 288 575 97 23,818 368 316 1,494 1,165 3,073 1,359 1,019 1,108 1,587 307 309 288 575 2,867 52,513 0.7 1.9 1.4 2.1 0.6 1.4 3.6 0.03 0.3 0.3 0.3 2.6 81 0.5 0.9 0.2 0.2 0.2 6.7 0.01 0.2 0.1 0.01 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.05 0.1 0.01 0.8 0.7 0.5 1.9 1.4 2.2 1.1 0.9 1.4 3.6 0.3 0.3 0.6 0.4 2.9 90 21 16 73 64 164 74 57 62 89 17 17 16 32 6.3 1,428 2.3 1.8 6.3 16 15 0.9 4.1 4.3 4.3 5.4 10 17 223 1.7 2.1 25 2.3 13 4.8 2.6 0.6 329 3,147 0.3 0.3 3.2 1.0 38 436 20 21 67 86 142 128 178 24 73 16 5.8 8.2 41 278 3,455 19 6.9 1.8 1.4 24 2.8 40 0.5 10 0.04 0.04 0.1 12 68 542 0.6 0.4 1.6 1.2 1.6 0.7 0.6 1.2 1.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.3 2.0 49.2 0.04 2.1 0.3 33.4 65 28 782 120 289 2,531 65 133 170 27 27 1,037 45 1,055 22,440 11 3.3 182 10 11 694 5.7 8.2 11 1.0 0.9 560 1.3 251 8,117 8.4 5.6 403 22 26 1,407 19 8.6 21 4.0 3.0 28 6.0 118 4,637 2.8 2.8 93 16 23 56 3.8 0.6 1.4 1.2 1.7 4.9 1.4 4.4 498 2.0 0.3 12 1.6 2.6 14 0.3 0.1 0.5 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.5 74 4,130 4,967 30,063 21,869 38,227 31,575 19,275 9,680 18,591 4,101 2,006 5,682 5,473 84,386 541,569 4,129 1,127 25,890 4,297 30,542 13,534 89 83,181 240,106 0.5 3,840 4,173 17,572 38,102 1,033 5,702 791 18,502 4,101 2,006 5,682 5,473 1,204 278,920 0.2 124 40 8,889 22,543 1.4 2.8 24 42 13 36 176 99 10 12 9.1 15 23 15 2,127 (1): CHP partly or totally oustourced N/A: not available (2): electricity exported by CHP (3): part of heat exported outside the Group (4): Total water includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation Individual cell entries have been rounded. The figures in the total column may not tally due to rounding differences. smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 81 European Operations 2013 PAPER & INTEGRATED OTHER OTHER Total BOARD CORRUGATED PACKAGING OPERATIONS Operations MILLS OPERATIONS OPERATIONS PRODUCTION ktonnes 5,573 4,299 570 2,211 ENERGY Electricity Co-generated GWh 1,926 15 1,941 Self-generated GWh Hydro power GWh 7.0 7.0 Grid supply GWh 1,028 492 82 3.3 1,606 Total electricity GWh 2,961 507 82 3.3 3,554 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ 28,695 126 28,821 Fossil fuels TJ 23,818 4,188 204 89 28,299 Total fuels TJ 52,513 4,314 204 89 57,119 WATER WITHDRAWAL Surface Mm3 81 0.03 81 Ground Mm3 6.7 0.4 0.01 7.1 Grid Mm3 0.8 1.3 0.1 2.2 Total water (1) Mm 3 90 1.7 0.1 91 DISCHARGES To air CO2 fossil direct ktonnes 1,428 240 12 6.6 1,687 CO2 fossil indirect ktonnes 223 160 30 1.4 415 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 3,147 14 3,161 Dust tonnes 436 4.5 0.03 0.01 441 NOx as NO2 tonnes 3,455 92 3.7 4.4 3,554 SOx as SO2 tonnes 542 48 1.2 4.1 596 To water Process water Mm3 49 0.6 0.1 50 Cooling water Mm3 33 0.1 34 COD (2) tonnes 22,440 1,572 N/A N/A 24,012 BOD (2) tonnes 8,117 470 N/A N/A 8,587 Total Suspended Solids (2) tonnes 4,637 369 N/A N/A 5,006 Total N (2) tonnes 498 18 N/A N/A 515 Total P (2) tonnes 74 0.7 N/A N/A 74 Solid wastes Total non-hazardous wastes tonnes 541,569 32,944 7,142 11,525 593,179 Landfill tonnes 240,106 9,139 1,130 1,288 251,662 Recovery tonnes 278,920 18,277 5,676 10,238 313,111 Other tonnes 22,543 5,528 336 28,406 Hazardous wastes tonnes 2,127 3,530 1,014 2.4 6,674 (1): Total water includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation N/A: not available (2): sum of available data (for mills details are reported in the individual tables) Individual cell entries have been rounded. The figures in the total column may not tally due to rounding differences. 82 The Americas Mills 2013 Environmental Data Cali, Colombia Barranquilla, Cerro Gordo, Forney, USA Los Reyes, Monterrey, San Felipe, Total Mills Bernal, Coronel Barbosa, Caracas, Valencia, Suarez, Argentina Argentina Colombia Colombia Mexico Mexico Mexico Venezuela Venezuela Venezuela fl, tl fl, tl P&W, tl, fl fl,tl fl, cart, tl, cart, fl fl, tl tl, cart, cart tl, sc fl, fl, tl Sack tl wttl fl, bkl paper, cart, virgin pulp, tl, bkl, sc fl, wttl, wtkl PRODUCTION ktonnes 72 48 256 62 75 74 298 39 15 45 100 304 1,388 ENERGY Electricity Co-generated GWh 199 27 22 115 46 409 Self-generated GWh 3.6 29 33 Hydro power GWh Grid supply GWh 34 19 130 12 39 49 169 21 5.1 2.4 2.2 93 574 Total electricity GWh 34 19 329 38 39 49 169 21 8.8 54 117 139 1,016 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ 4,206 686 746 5,637 Fossil fuels TJ 457 227 5,109 611 394 524 1,248 203 194 1,244 3,101 979 14,289 Total fuels TJ 457 227 9,315 611 394 524 1,248 203 194 1,244 3,787 1,724 19,926 WATER WITHDRAWAL Surface Mm3 0.7 21 1.1 0.6 0.5 24.2 Ground Mm3 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.3 1.6 0.1 1.1 4.2 8.1 Grid Mm3 0.01 0.02 0.2 0.1 0.6 0.9 Total water (1) Mm3 0.9 0.3 21 1.1 0.6 0.4 1.6 0.1 0.8 1.2 4.2 0.6 33 DISCHARGES To air CO2 fossil direct ktonnes 26 13 388 34 30 29 70 11 12 70 177 55 916 CO2 fossil indirect ktonnes 12 6.8 23 2.0 6.9 22 77 9.4 1.4 0.9 0.6 49 211 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 1.0 401 75 79 555 Dust tonnes 0.3 88 1.2 0.8 1.0 2.1 22 4.6 120 NOx as NO2 tonnes 21 14 267 13 18 30 58 5.8 20 69 210 58 783 SOx as SO2 tonnes 5.7 0.3 1,666 0.4 86 0.1 0.7 0.05 1.3 14 5.7 22 1,803 To water Process water Mm3 0.5 0.3 23 0.9 0.3 0.2 0.5 0.1 0.8 0.8 3.4 0.02 31 Cooling water Mm3 0.2 0.2 COD tonnes 53 60 6,527 1,851 1,732 36 114 33 1,186 225 1,644 369 13,831 BOD tonnes 6.9 9.4 1,033 976 697 2.4 8.1 4.4 462 34 197 196 3,627 Total Suspended Solids tonnes 13 17 2,384 851 206 3.5 14 5.9 697 57 230 13 4,492 Total N tonnes 4.0 3.7 291 13 4.6 1.1 2.5 1.0 14 4.7 30 1.7 371.0 Total P tonnes 0.3 0.2 4.2 0.02 0.3 0.4 1.8 0.1 0.8 0.3 2.4 0.3 11 Solid wastes Total non-hazardous wastes tonnes 6,825 3,132 127,290 2,191 6,718 1,649 44,388 6,061 832 10,977 41,075 30,145 281,282 Landfill tonnes 6,759 3,124 125,100 2,157 5,121 1,556 19,258 5,743 784 10,669 39,711 30,034 250,016 Recovery tonnes 66 8.1 1,475 33 1,588 93 25,130 318 48 279 127 91 29,257 Other tonnes 716 8.1 29 1,237 19 2,008 Hazardous wastes tonnes 44 10 163 16 6.9 5.2 25 6.4 8.8 14 883 1,183 bkl: brown kraftliner tl: testliner wtkl: white top kraftliner fl: recycled fluting cart: carton board wttl: white top testliner P&W: printing and writing grade sc fl: semi-chemical fluting virgin pulp: virgin pulp sold externally (1): Total water includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation Water discharges : In grey and italic mills that do not discharge their process water to surface Individual cell entries have been rounded. The figures in the total column may not tally due to rounding differences. smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 83 The Americas Operations 2013 PAPER & BOARD OTHER Total Mills MILLS OPERATIONS PRODUCTION ktonnes 1,388 2,928 ENERGY Electricity Co-generated GWh 409 409 Self-generated GWh 33 0.3 33 Hydro power GWh Grid supply GWh 574 150 724 Total electricity GWh 1,016 150 1,167 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ 5,637 1.1 5,638 Fossil fuels TJ 14,289 1,281 15,570 Total fuels TJ 19,926 1,282 21,208 WATER WITHDRAWAL Surface Mm3 24 0.05 24 Ground Mm3 8.1 0.2 8.3 Grid Mm3 0.9 0.4 1.3 Total water (1) Mm 3 33.2 0.7 34 DISCHARGES To air CO2 fossil direct ktonnes 916 79 994 CO2 fossil indirect ktonnes 211 58 269 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 555 0.1 555 Dust tonnes 120 0.2 120 NOx as NO2 tonnes 783 29 812 SOx as SO2 tonnes 1,803 12 1,815 To water Process water Mm3 31 0.1 31 Cooling water Mm3 0.2 0.01 0.2 COD tonnes 13,831 322 14,153 BOD tonnes 3,627 34 3,661 Total Suspended Solids tonnes 4,492 22 4,514 Total N tonnes 371 1.7 373 Total P tonnes 11 0.3 11 Solid wastes Total non-hazardous wastes tonnes 281,282 32,249 313,531 Landfill tonnes 250,016 10,369 260,385 Recovery tonnes 29,258 21,608 50,866 Other tonnes 2,008 272 2,280 Hazardous wastes tonnes 1,183 1,667 2,850 (1): Total water includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation Individual cell entries have been rounded. The figures in the total column may not tally due to rounding differences. 84 Total Group Operations All operations 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 ENERGY Electricity Co-generated (1) GWh 2,350 2,405 2,401 2,250 2,169 Self-generated GWh 33 Hydro power GWh 7.0 5.5 5.5 8.3 11 Grid supply GWh 2,330 2,081 2,049 2,321 2,446 Total electricity GWh 4,720 4,491 4,456 4,580 4,626 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ 34,459 31,936 33,102 32,769 29,391 Fossil fuels TJ 43,869 44,723 46,202 46,631 47,134 Total fuels TJ 78,328 76,659 79,304 79,400 76,525 WATER WITHDRAWAL Surface Mm3 106 104 103 109 121 Ground Mm3 15 16 15 15 16 Grid Mm 3 3.5 3.1 3.0 3.2 3.8 Total water(2) Mm3 125 126 122 127 141 DISCHARGES To air CO2 fossil direct ktonnes 2,681 2,775 2,860 2,861 2,917 CO2 fossil indirect ktonnes 683 584 572 661 661 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 3,716 3,622 3,606 3,517 3,100 Dust tonnes 561 665 699 772 1,004 NOx as NO2 tonnes 4,367 4,688 4,767 5,595 6,566 SOx as SO2 tonnes 2,411 3,334 3,893 3,691 3,832 To water Process water Mm3 81 79 78 82 96 Cooling water Mm3 34 34 32 33 32 COD (3) tonnes 38,165 35,665 36,278 35,024 38,961 BOD (3) tonnes 12,248 11,473 11,638 11,404 13,052 Total Suspended Solids (3) tonnes 9,520 7,752 8,504 8,033 8,384 Total N (3) tonnes 888 711 643 653 420 Total P (3) tonnes 86 91 97 109 86 Solid wastes Total non-hazardous wastes tonnes 906,710 919,084 906,389 888,775 918,692 Landfill tonnes 512,047 565,345 525,854 453,240 453,498 Recovery tonnes 363,976 322,712 329,880 377,493 337,529 Other tonnes 30,686 31,026 50,655 58,043 127,666 Hazardous wastes tonnes 9,523 12,813 10,717 12,448 10,289 (1): For years 2009, 2010, 2011 & 2012 electricity co-generated and self-generated (2): Total water includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation (3): Sum of available data (for mills details are reported in the individual tables) smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 85 Management Systems Certification Forestry Forest Wood Sourcing Chain of The Americas Management Europe Custody CO Colombia Forest FSC ES Central Forestal PEFC & FSC VE Venezuela Forest FSC CW* FR Comptoir Du Pin Aquitaine PEFC & FSC Mar 2014 External Paper Sourcing Chain of Europe Custody European Paper Sourcing (EPS) PEFC & FSC European Mills Quality Environmental Health and Hygiene Chain of Management Management Safety Management for Custody System System System Foodstuffs packaging Virgin mills ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS EN 15593 18001 AT Nettingsdorfer • • • PEFC & FSC ES Navarra • • • PEFC & FSC Nervíon • • • PEFC & FSC FR Cellulose du Pin • • • • PEFC & FSC SE Piteå • • • PEFC & FSC Recycled mills CZ Morava • • • • PEFC & FSC DE Baden Karton • • • • PEFC & FSC CD Haupt • • • • PEFC & FSC Herzberger • • • • PEFC & FSC Hoya • • • • PEFC & FSC Viersen • • • • PEFC & FSC Zülpich • • • • PEFC & FSC ES Mengibar • • • PEFC & FSC FR Alfa d´Avignon • • • PEFC & FSC Rethel • • • PEFC & FSC Saillat • • • • PEFC & FSC IT Ania • • other standard PEFC & FSC NL SBM Coevorden • • • • PEFC & FSC SBM Hoogkerk • • • • PEFC & FSC SBM Nieuweschans • • • • PEFC & FSC SBM Oude Pekela • • • • PEFC & FSC Roermond • • • • PEFC & FSC UK SSK • • • • PEFC & FSC Townsend Hook • • • • PEFC & FSC The Americas Mills Quality Environmental Health and Chain of Management Management Safety Custody System System System Virgin mills ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 CO Cali • FSC VE San Felipe Recycled mills AR Bernal • FSC Feb 2014 Coronel Suarez • FSC Feb 2014 CO Barbosa • FSC Barranquilla • FSC MX Cerro Gordo • • FSC Los Reyes • • FSC Monterrey • • FSC VE Caracas Valencia • US Forney PEFC & FSC & SFI *Certified Wood 86 About the Report The information in this report covers all When quantified performance or targets For the most part, data is based on the international activities of the Smurfit are mentioned in this report, they are measured or metered quantities, or on Kappa Group for the calendar year 2013 related to production levels. Other best estimates based on industry and also includes some information for information is reported in absolute knowledge and established calculation early 2014 when mentioned specifically. figures, unless otherwise stated. factors. CO2 emission calculations have been based on established fuel The report describes Smurfit Kappa’s Reporting guidelines, data consumption and specific CO2 emission vision and activities on sustainability in collection factors. Definitions and calculations for the environmental, economic and social Among the various references used for the performance indicators can be found areas. the development and identification of in the glossary on pages 96 to 98. At the end of 2013, our operations baseline data included in this report are We are making on-going efforts to included 352 facilities in 32 countries in the G3.1 Sustainability Reporting further standardise the data gathering Europe and the Americas. This includes a Guidelines issued by the Global Reporting system in Smurfit Kappa to improve data small number of joint ventures and Initiative (GRI), an independent institution quality and consistency in the use of minority holdings, none of which is whose mission is to provide a trusted and Group definitions and scope material. Information from all those credible framework for sustainability requirements of our key indicators. operations is included in this report reporting. Smurfit Kappa applied the GRI except for CRP (see below). For this at an A+ level. We requested an external assurance company data are only included when provider, KPMG, to provide limited Every effort has been made to provide specifically mentioned in the relevant assurance on the data and the text of the data that is as accurate as possible. Data section of the report. report. The assurance report of KPMG relating to environmental matters are can be found on page 95. Acquisitions and Divestitures gathered through a Group-wide IT-based 2013 reporting system implemented in all operations of Smurfit Kappa. In October 2013, Smurfit Kappa acquired CRP. This UK-based company specialises This tool is integrated into the Group’s in litho-laminated packaging, 3D point of intranet, enabling sites to report their sale, HD preprint, food contact, and environmental data online according to heavy duty packaging. CRP employs the GRI guidelines. As the information is approximately 220 people and is now stored centrally, this allows for easier and operating under the name of Smurfit faster processing. Kappa CRP. For 2013, data of this We make continuous effort to introduce company are not included in this report. new functionality to allow the individual There was one divestiture, Mittpac in operations to compare their Sweden in December 2013; performance with the previous reporting environmental data on Mittpac are periods, to extract data for further and included in the report. Apart from the individual processing of their own data, acquisitions mentioned, no significant and to alert operations where significant changes in the scope, boundary and deviation occurs. measurement methods were applied to the report compared to previous years. In 2013, we initiated a programme to support the mills in developing their own Topics, issues and targets internal tools to ensure a robust and fully Smurfit Kappa fully recognises that traceable reporting of their sustainable development embraces environmental data in strict compliance social and business subjects as well as with the Group reporting protocol. Our environmental topics. These subjects intention is to extend this activity to all and topics have been selected on the paper and board mills in the next two basis of input from the various years. Our intention is to develop stakeholder groups. Smurfit Kappa protocols not only for energy data, but collected data from all its manufacturing also for the reporting of all environmental operations that were operational at the indicators, contributing to our objective end of 2013 with the exception of the to ensure continuous consistency of CRP as mentioned above. reported data across our global operational system. smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 87 GRI Table The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a These guidelines provide an internationally (AR), our website: www.smurfitkappa.com large worldwide network of experts whose recognised framework for voluntary and the Carbon Disclosure Project mission is to provide global standards for reporting on an organisation’s economic, website. sustainability reporting. environmental and social performance. We declare that our 2013 reporting applies The GRI network has developed a The index below has been prepared using to a GRI “A+” application level. An “A” Sustainability Reporting Framework, the the current GRI Sustainability Reporting application level requires reporting on a core of which is the Sustainability Guidelines (version G3.1) and it provides a specified range of criteria, on the Reporting Guidelines. The Guidelines list of the GRI indicators reported by management approach to disclosures for consist of principles for defining report Smurfit Kappa for 2013. All core Indicators each indicator category and a response on content and ensuring the quality of have been addressed and are included in each core G3.1 indicator. We have sought reported information as well as standard the table. The index refers to information assurance from an external party which disclosures comprising performance in our 2013 Sustainable Development expands the application level to “A+”. indicators and other disclosure items. Report (SDR), our 2013 Annual Report GRI-G3.1 DESCRIPTION Level of SOURCE/COMMENT PAGE(S) reporting Profile 1.1 CEO Statement on relevance of sustainability to the Full SDR 5-7 organisation and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Full SDR 20-22 Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation Full SDR Cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Full AR 3-5 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation Full Website 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Full SDR Inside back cover 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates Full AR 3-5 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Full AR 128-130 2.7 Markets served Full Website 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation Full AR 2-5 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period in size, Full AR 125-126 structure and ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Full Website Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) for Full SDR 87 information provided 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Full SDR 5 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Full SDR 5 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Full SDR Inside back contents cover 3.5 Process for defining report content Full SDR 87 3.6 Boundary of the report Full SDR 87 AR 3-5 3.7 Any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the Full SDR 87 report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. Full SDR 87 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Full SDR 38, 87 calculations 3.10 Explanation of effect of re-statements of information Full SDR 87 provided previously 3.11 Significant changes in scope, boundary, or measurement Full SDR 87 methods 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures Full SDR 88-92 in the report 3.13 Policy and current practice on seeking external assurance Full SDR 87 for the report Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation Full AR 38-42 88 GRI-G3.1 DESCRIPTION Level of SOURCE/COMMENT PAGE(S) reporting 4.2 Indicate if Chair of the Board is also an executive officer Full AR 39 4.3 The Board members that are independent and/or nonFull AR 38-39 executive members 4.4 Ways for shareholders and employees to provide Full SDR 58 recommendations or direction to the Board AR 41 4.5 Link between compensation of Board and management Full AR 49-50 with SDR performance 4.6 Processes in place for the Board to ensure conflicts of Full Website interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise Full AR 39 of the Board 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, Full SDR 10-11 codes of conduct, and principles AR 13, 38-42 Website 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing identification and Full AR 40 management of performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s own SDR Full SDR 10 performance AR 40 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Full AR 42 approach or principle is addressed by the organisation 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social Full SDR 10-11 charters & principles 4.13 Memberships in associations Full SDR 12-13 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation Full SDR 13 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Full SDR 5-6, 12, 14 whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Full SDR 12-14, 70 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder Full SDR 12-14 engagement Economic Indicators Disclosure on management approach Full SDR 5, 12-14 AR 13, 32-33, 74-82 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Full AR 84-86 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Full CDP 2013 Investor Section 5 for the organisation’s activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan Full AR 79-81, 104obligations 107 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Full AR 68, 79 government EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locallyFull SDR 13, 73 based suppliers at significant locations of operation EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Full SDR 53-54 management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. EC8 Development and infrastructure provided primarily for Full SDR 60-63 public benefit Other than local community involvement, no engagement by Smurfit Kappa Environmental Indicators Disclosure on management approach Full SDR 5, 17-18, 87 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Full SDR 78-79 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Full SDR 33 materials EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Full SDR 38-39, 78-85 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Full SDR 38-39, 78-85 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Full SDR 37-42 improvements EN6 Energy-efficient or renewable energy products and Full SDR 37-42 services smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 89 GRI Table GRI-G3.1 DESCRIPTION Level of SOURCE/COMMENT PAGE(S) reporting EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Full SDR 45, 78-85 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and Full SDR 45-47, 78-85 reused EN11 Location and size of land by protected areas and areas of Full SDR 36-37 high biodiversity value Website EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products Full SDR 36-37 and services on biodiversity EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Full SDR 38, 78-85 weight EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Full SDR 43, 78-85 weight EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Full SDR 37-42 reductions achieved EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Full We do not add any ozone-depleting substances (ODS), that have been regulated following the Montreal Protocol, to our products during our manufacturing processes. Consequently, our products do not emit any ODS during their life cycle. EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and Full SDR 78-85 weight EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Full SDR 45-47, 78-85 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Full SDR 78-85 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Full SDR 47 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products Full SDR 17, 32-48 and services, and extent of impact mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Full SDR 33-35 materials that are reclaimed by category EN28 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for Full SDR 11 non-compliance with environmental law EN29 Significant environmental impact from transport Full SDR 42-43 Labour Practice Indicators Disclosure on management approach Full SDR 14, 49-60 LA1 Total workforce by employment type and region Full SDR 54-56 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age Full SDR 54 group, gender, and region LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees Full SDR 53-54 AR 86 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Full SDR 53 bargaining agreements AR 86 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant Full SDR 58 operational changes LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and Full SDR 50-51 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention and Full SDR 55 risk-control programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families or community members regarding serious diseases LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Full SDR 55 employee category LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning Full SDR 55-57 LA12 Employees receiving performance and career Full SDR 55 development reviews LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Full AR 38-39 employees per category according to gender, age group, SDR 54-57 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee Full SDR 53 category Same job, same pay LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by Partial SDR 54 gender (partial reporting) Detailed information not currently available 90 GRI-G3.1 DESCRIPTION Level of SOURCE/COMMENT PAGE(S) reporting Human Rights Indicators Disclosure on management approach Full SDR 14, 53 HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment Full SDR 58 agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that Full No formal assessments in place. Our Code of Business have undergone screening on human rights and actions Conduct provides the principles to operate for all our taken operations globally. Our Code of Business Conduct is based on international conventions and codes such as The UN Declaration of Fundamental Human Rights and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at work (core conventions). Approximately 15% of our production volume originates from countries considered high or extreme risk (according to the Maplecroft Human Rights Risk Index 2014). Also for countries with high or extreme risk, our Code of Business Conduct is basis for doing business. Therefore, we consider the risk that our operations in those and other countries violate human rights as low. HR3 Total hours training on policies and procedures Not reported We have no such training programmes. concerning human rights Employees are made aware of relevant policies through awareness programmes regarding Code of Business Conduct. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions Full SDR 53 taken Website HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in Partial SDR 73 which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights HR6 Operations with significant risk for incidents of child Full SDR 53 labour, and measures taken to eliminate HR7 Operations with significant risk of forced or compulsory Full SDR 53 labour, and measures to eliminate HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Not reported Not applicable organisation’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations HR9 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous Full see comment under HR2 people and actions taken HR10 Percentage and number of operations subject to human Full see comment under HR2 rights reviews HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights addressed Full No such grievances were reported to Group and there were and resolved no such reports to local operations either. Social Disclosure on management approach Full SDR 14, 60 SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local Partial SDR 60-63 community engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed Partial SDR 10-11 for risks related to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s antiFull SDR 6, 10-11 corruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Full SDR 10-11 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Full SDR 10-11 development and lobbying SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to Full SDR 11 political parties, politicians and related institutions by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Full SDR 11 behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Full SDR 10-11 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 91 GRI Table GRI-G3.1 DESCRIPTION Level of SOURCE/COMMENT PAGE(S) reporting SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative Partial SDR 26 impact on local communities In general, we recognise that our operations are of economic significance for the local communities in which they are located. It is our policy to be actively involved socially in our host communities. Environmentally, our paper and board mills may pose a risk of effluent leakages which, if they occur, may temporarily affect local water streams with increased COD/BOD or TSS levels. Our operations do not pose a significant risk of emissions to air of substances that may affect human health. Our operations do not pose a risk to their host communities regarding the use of natural resources with the possible exception of those areas where water is scarce. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures in operations with Full In general, by complying with local and significant potential or actual negative impact on local international laws, there is no need for communities further prevention and/or mitigation measures with regard to potential environmental risks that could possibly impact host communities. For the handling of the negative environmental impact of the black liquor spillage in Facture see page 47. SDR 58 Product Responsibility Indicators Disclosure on management approach Full SDR 14, 73 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Full SDR 73-75 products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Full SDR 73 voluntary codes on Health and Safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes PR3 Type of product and service information required by Full SDR 73-75 procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Full SDR 73 regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Full SDR 72 results of surveys that measure customer satisfaction PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and Full SDR 72 voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Full SDR 72 regulations and voluntary codes on marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of outcomes PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Full No substantiated complaints identified breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance Full No fines and/or substantiated claims for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and with laws or regulations concerning the provision and use of use of products and services products and services were identified 92 business in the Community ireland External Commentary – Smurfit kappa Group this is the seventh annual sustainable operations was recovered. In an We welcome the focus on innovation in the development report published by Smurfit ambitious move, in-depth assessment 2013 Report including the European and Kappa Group (SKG). has been conducted of the different Americas internal Innovation & Sustainability types of waste generated by the mills Awards (for the most innovative packaging We know from previous reports that and packaging operations, at all stages and most creative sustainability solutions, sustainability and social responsibility are of the manufacturing and production judged by customers and sustainability core values of the company, and are processes, to determine the best way experts). Very exciting is the Smurfit Kappa embedded both in operations and reporting to both prevent and recover that waste. innovation (Catcher Board MB 12) to stop structures. 5. 44% of all fuel used to generate energy the migration of mineral oils from packaging The examples of how SKG reacted when in 2013 was biomass based. 80% of all into food products. operations ceased while a new machine in fuel used to generate electricity and We are delighted to see that our Townsend Hook was being constructed, steam is produced through a CHP recommendation last year to include more and the response in bernal argentina system. case studies has been taken on board. following a major flood in la plata, illustrate 6. Health & Safety continuous to receive Examples illustrating how the specific well a company with a big picture view, one priority attention. We noted that a requirements of diverse customer needs deeply committed to its values and Group Director of Health & Safety has have been met are excellent, and include principles and prepared to do what is been appointed to ensure consistent how Smurfit Kappa has been able to remove necessary to bring about as positive an and global adoption of health & safety plastics, polystyrene and aluminium from impact as possible, for its key stakeholders. practices and their verification. In 2013, waste streams, replacing them with Smurfit Kappa Group’s differentiating factor improvements included the sustainably sourced, renewable and is being able to provide its customer base segregation of pedestrian and lift truck recyclable paper based alternatives. not only with completely traceable, traffic in warehouse and logistics areas impressive too is the addition of an sustainable packaging solutions, but in and the revision of the group health & endorsement from Unilever, as a case study being able to optimise customer’s own safety incident and injury reporting of a satisfied key customer being supported supply chains in doing so. Their 2013 report standard. by their supplier, Smurfit Kappa, to attain goes to some length to explain why 7. 98% of strategic suppliers have now their own challenging sustainability goals. sustainability is a key business driver for been audited and SKG is now working SKG, presenting challenges and business with suppliers on a sustainability As in previous years, independent assurance opportunities, in a competitive market. continuous improvement plan, on areas is provided by KPMG on how Smurfit Kappa identified during the audit. A goal has has applied the Global Reporting Initiative’s We were interested to read that: been set to increase the number of G3.1 Guidelines. 1. At the end of 2013, 91% of all Group suppliers of raw materials to commit to converting operations are Chain of the UN Global Compact and register Recommendations Custody certified under FSC or PEFC with Sedex. This is a very comprehensive sustainability and almost 90% of packaging produced report, where commitment to continuous in Europe are Chain of Custody certified The context and detail provided in the 2013 improvement, via challenging targets, is (operations in the Americas are Report convey the complexity of evident throughout. Quality, efficiency and expected to follow in 2014). 92% of operations, the variety of challenges being sustainability are centre stage to all Smurfit Kappa paper mills are certified faced and how Smurfit Kappa Group is operations. to ISO 14001. utilising its 80 years’ experience, expertise and scale to address energy & water However, the report is long and somewhat 2. The target to reduce relative fossil CO2 repetitive in places. We very much efficiency, biodiversity and climate change in emissions by 20% by 2020 (on a 2005 recommend that the company considers tandem with improving operational baseline) was achieved six years ahead utilising the corporate website and other conditions of machines, productivity, quality of schedule in 2013. Smurfit Kappa is channels to convey the main elements of and waste. now estimating CO2 emissions for the the report, e.g. the impact of Smurfit Kappa transport of customer products from Furthermore, we very much commend the at a glance; innovative packaging design for the European corrugated operations to leadership role taken by Smurfit Kappa customers; objectives and targets for the customer points of delivery. Group in 2013 in particular areas such as: coming year etc. 3. Smurfit Kappa returns over 90% of 1. Collecting 10,000 square meters of water used to the systems from which it We also suggest utilising the format of tarmac from the Colombian was extracted. Since 2008, the water short videos to convey to stakeholders the Government’s public roads that was intake of the paper and board mill company’s commitment to sustainability, being sent to landfill, for use in the system has decreased by 13% per its key impacts and its leadership role in the maintenance of forest and public roads tonne of product. Valuable biogas is packaging industry. in rural communities. now retrieved from waste water sludge 2. Investing in research to conserve and one of the largest Smurfit Kappa natural forests located on company paper mills, Zulpich in Germany, is lands to ensure the sustainability of operating a 100% closed loop process forest diversity and contribute to the water system. protection of water sources, flora and tina roche 4. In 2013, eight of the 24 paper mills in fauna. Chief Executive Europe sent no waste to landfill. 40% of business in the non-hazardous waste generated by Community ireland SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 93 UN Global Compact Smurfit Kappa became a supporter of the corporate responsibility activities and indicators relating to human rights, labour United Nations Global Compact performance in an annual and anti-corruption principles are (“UNGC”), a worldwide corporate Communication on Progress (COP), presented in the Social Development citizenship initiative, in 2010. using the annual Sustainable section while environmental Development Report as the platform for performance indicators are reported in As a network of more than 12,000 this communication. the Environment section. A complete GRI corporate participants and other index can be found on pages 88 to 92 of stakeholders from over 145 countries, it the Sustainable Development Report the Report. is the largest voluntary corporate provides a number of examples of responsibility initiative in the world. on-going activities, as well as relevant key the following table shows how our Supporters of the UNGC promote ten performance indicators that illustrate performance in relation to each UN core principles in the areas of human Smurfit Kappa’s support for the ten Global Compact principle can be rights, labour, environment, and Global Compact principles in its everyday reported using a number of GRI anti-corruption. These principles are business. Measurements of performance performance indicators. This is based on listed in the table below. related to the Global Compact principles guidance documents published by the are given using indicators provided by the UN Global Compact. As a part of this commitment, Smurfit Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), wherever Kappa reports on the Company’s feasible. In particular, GRI performance unGC principles Gri indicators Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and HR1-11, la5, LA7-8, 13-15, pR8 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HR1-11 labour 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective la4-5 bargaining; 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; HR7 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour; and HR6 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. EC7, LA2, 13-15, HR4 environment 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; eC2, en18, 26 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and en1-29, pR3-4 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. en2, 5-6, 10, EN18, 26-27 Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SO2-4 94 SmuRFIt kAPPA | SuStainable DeVelOpment RepORt 2013 Independent Assurance Report To the readers of the Sustainable Development Report 2013 of Smurfit Kappa Group plc. Introduction Reporting criteria and assurance  Interviews with relevant staff at We were engaged by the Board of standard corporate level responsible for the Directors of Smurfit Kappa Group plc sustainability strategy, policies, Smurfit Kappa applies the Sustainability (further: ‘Smurfit Kappa’) to provide communication and management, Reporting Guidelines of the Global assurance on the Sustainable as well as other relevant staff at Reporting Initiative (G3.1) as described Development Report 2013 (further: corporate level responsible for in the section About the Report. It is ‘the Report’). The Executive Directors of providing the information for the important to view the performance data Smurfit Kappa are responsible for the Report; in the context of these criteria. preparation of the Report, including the  Visits to production sites in Hoya We conducted our engagement in identification of material issues. Our (Germany), Navarra (Spain), Saillat accordance with the International responsibility is to issue an assurance (France), Žebrák (Czech Republic), Standard on Assurance Engagements report based on the engagement Bernal and Coronel Suárez (ISAE 3000): Assurance Engagements outlined below. (Argentina) to review the source data other than Audits or Reviews of Historical and the design and implementation Scope Financial Information, issued by the of controls at local level; International Auditing and Assurance Our assurance engagement was Standards Board. This standard requires,  Evaluating internal and external designed to provide limited assurance on amongst others, that the assurance documentation, based on sampling, whether the Report is presented fairly, in team possesses the specific knowledge, to determine whether the all material respects, in accordance with skills and professional competencies information in the Report is the G3.1 Guidelines of the Global needed to provide assurance on supported by sufficient evidence; Reporting Initiative. sustainability information and that they  An analytical review of the data and We do not provide any assurance on the comply with the requirements of the trend explanations submitted by all achievability of the objectives, targets Code of Ethics for Professional production sites for consolidation at and expectations of Smurfit Kappa. Accountants of the International corporate level. Federation of Accountants to ensure Procedures performed to obtain a their independence. During the assurance process we limited level of assurance are aimed at discussed the necessary changes in the determining the plausibility of Work undertaken Report and reviewed the final version of information and are less extensive than Our procedures included the following: the Report to ensure that it reflects our those for a reasonable level of assurance. findings.  A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant Conclusion sustainability issues for Smurfit Based on the procedures performed, as Kappa in the reporting period; described above, nothing has come to  Evaluating the design and our attention to indicate that the Report implementation of the systems is not fairly presented, in all material and processes for the collection, respects, in accordance with the G3.1 processing and control of the Guidelines of the Global Reporting information in the Report, including Initiative. the consolidation of the data for the Amstelveen, 23 June 2014 Report; KPMG Sustainability, part of KPMG Advisory N.V. W. J. Bartels, Partner smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 95 Glossary BOD Biochemical Oxygen Demand (one element of the COD, unit: mg O2/litre) refers to the level of oxygen uptake by micro-organisms in a sample of water measured over a period of five days. Biofuels Fuels coming from biomass (wood rejects, bark, black liquor produced during the production of virgin pulps, pitch oil, biomass part of mixed wastes and biogas produced during the anaerobic treatment of water). Black liquor Residue from pulping that contains organic compounds (like lignin). This residue is burnt in paper mills to produce energy and to recover the chemicals. CEN Comité Européen de Normalisation. The European Committee for Standardisation is major provider of European standards and technical specifications. CEPI CEPI, the Confederation of European Paper Industries. It is a not-for-profit organisation representing the European pulp and paper industry. Certified wood Certification is given to companies and landowners to verify that their forestry practices are consistent product with requirements laid down in these standards. Only certified wood product might carry a label. The label on wood products guarantees that consumers can trust the sources. Actual certification is carried out by independent certification organisations that are accredited by FSC or PEFC or SFI to carry out audits. CHP Combined Heat and Power: a combination of a boiler and a gas and/or steam turbine that simultaneously produces electricity and thermal energy (steam) by burning fuels. This system is considered to be the most efficient technology in industries using both steam and electricity. When mills sell part of their produced steam to an external party or have net electricity export (selling more to an external party than purchasing), the consumption of fuel and emissions reported for this mill is adjusted to report only that part used to produce paper. This adjustment is based on a reference heat boiler with an efficiency of 90%, which is also used by CEPI and the European Commission for EU ETS benchmark calculations. CHP (outsourced) A CHP installation, belonging to an external party, located at or near a Smurfit Kappa site for delivering electricity and steam to the Smurfit Kappa production facility. All fuels and electricity used for the production of paper as well as emissions related to that are included in the figures for the Smurfit Kappa production facility. COD Chemical Oxygen Demand is the most commonly used test to measure the amount of organic compounds in water (unit: mg O2/litre). The result indicates the level of all organic compounds that can be oxidised by a strong oxidising agent. CoC Chain of Custody Certification applying to wood/fibre material and products. Chain of Custody is an information trail about the path taken by products from the forest or, in the case of recycled materials, from the reclamation site to the consumer including each stage of processing, transformation, manufacturing, and distribution where progress to the next stage of the supply chain involves a change of ownership. Co-generated Electricity generated by a CHP system belonging to our organisation or from an outsourced CHP system. Electricity Self-generated Electricity generated by a an electricity generator without production of steam. Electricity Containerboard Papers and boards mainly used in the manufacture of corrugated board. They are made from virgin or recovered fibres. Included are kraftliner, testliner, semi-chemical fluting and recycled fluting. Corrugated board Structured board made by a corrugator usually formed by gluing one wave formed liner (called fluting) in the middle to two flat-facing sheets of containerboard (kraftliner or testliner) outside. CO2 biogenic Carbon dioxide emitted when burning biofuels. This CO2 is considered to be carbon neutral as it is removed from the atmosphere and stored in biomass within a short period of time. CO2 fossil Carbon dioxide emitted when burning fossil fuels for the production of paper. The calculation is made according to international guidelines from the carbon content of each fuel (WR/WBSCD GHG protocol). CO2 indirect Fossil carbon dioxide generated, externally to the site, to produce the electricity purchased from the grid by the company. Source: International Energy Agency Data Services for year 2010. “CO2 emissions from fuel combustion 2013 Edition”. Carbon dioxide A metric measure used to compare the emissions from various greenhouse gases based upon their equivalent CO2-eq climate change potential (CCP). The CO2-eq carbon dioxide equivalent for other emissions is derived by multiplying the amount of the emission by the associated CCP factor. 96 Dust Particles coming from the combustion of fuels. Dust emissions are measured mainly by the mills. Where dust is not measured (converting plants), emissions are calculated from fuel consumption using the emission factors listed in the Ecoinvent database version 2.1. ELCD European Reference Life Cycle Database. The ELCD has been developed within the “European Platform on Life Cycle Assessment” by the Commission’s Joint Research Centre, Institute for Environment and Sustainability (JRC-IES). Environmental A set of processes and practices that enable an organisation to reduce its environmental impact and Management System increase its operating efficiency. Emissions Trading A scheme calculated to allocate greenhouse gas allowances for a list of specific activities. Scheme Fluting The wavy formed middle layer in corrugated board. Fossil fuels Fuels originating from natural resources (gas, oil, coal, peat and lignite). FSC The Forestry Stewardship Council is an independent, non-governmental, organisation established to promote the responsible management of the world’s forests through independent third party certification. GJ Gigajoule, a unit of energy that generally applies to fuel. 1 gigajoule (GJ) = one billion joules = 109 joules. Grid supply Electricity purchased from a national distribution network. GWh Unit of energy, generally applies to electricity – 1 GWh (GigaWatt hour) = 1 Million KWh (KiloWatt hour). Inorganic raw Raw material used for manufacturing our products that are not organic such as: fillers, sodium hydroxide, materials sodium sulphate and calcium oxide. ISO 9001 Scheme certified by independent third party that ensures that the operation certified applies internationally recognised standards and procedures of quality management. ISO 14001 Scheme certified by independent third party that ensures that the operation certified applies internationally recognised standards and procedures of environmental management. ISO 17025 This international standard lists the requirements to allow the accreditation by authorised third party of a testing laboratory and to verify its proficiency. ISO 22000 This standard specifies requirements for a food safety management system where an organisation in the food chain needs to demonstrate its ability to control food safety hazards in order to ensure that food is safe at the time of human consumption. Kraftliner Paper made mainly from virgin wood fibres. ktonne One ktonne = 1,000 tonnes, where one tonne (metric tonne) = 1,000 kilograms. Lost Time Accident Refers to a work-related injury incident sustained by a Smurfit Kappa employee while performing their work duties that results in their absence from their scheduled work after the day of the incident. Lost Time Accident Refers to the number of Lost Time Accidents per 100,000 hours worked. [LTA Frequency Rate = Number Frequency Rate of LTA x 100,000 /Total Number of Hours Worked] Lost Time Accident Refers to the total number of Days Lost per 100,000 hours worked. [LTA Severity Rate = Number of Days Severity Rate Lost x 100,000 / Total Number of Hours Worked] N (Nitrogen) Total Nitrogen is the sum of organic nitrogen, ammonia, NH3 and ammonium, NH4+ discharged with the process water. NOx Mix of nitrogen oxides (NO and NO2) calculated as NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) coming from combustion of fuels. They can contribute to the acidification of soil and water. NOx emissions are measured mainly by the mills. Where NOx is not measured (converting plants), emissions are calculated from fuel consumption using the emission factors listed in the Ecoinvent database version 2.1. Non-Controversial Virgin wood or wood fibre which has been verified as having a low probability of including wood from any of origin the following categories, in line with FSC and PEFC schemes: a) Illegally harvested wood; b) Wood harvested in violation of traditional and civil rights; c) Wood harvested in forests in which high conservation values are threatened by management activities; d) Wood harvested in forests being converted from natural and semi natural forest to plantations or non-forest use; e) Wood from forests in which genetically modified tress are planted smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 97 Glossary (continued) Number of Days Lost Refers to the number of Days Lost arising from any Lost Time Accident. When counting the number of Days Lost due to an accident, the day of the accident is not counted as a lost day. Other organic raw Raw materials used for manufacturing our products that are organic excluding fibres, starch or plastic raw materials materials which are reported individually. This category includes oil, lubricant and organic additives such as colorant or dyes. PEFC Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification. PEFC is an independent, non-governmental organisation which promotes sustainably managed forests through independent third party certification. P (Phosphorous) Total phosphorous is the sum of phosphorous compounds discharged with the process water. PJ Petajoule, a unit of energy. 1 petajoule = 1,000 terajoules = 1015 joules Process water Quantity of water containing organic compounds released to the environment (river, sea) after internal water treatment or released to an external treatment plant (municipal water treatment). In all cases, levels of pollutants released are reported as outputs of the company even in the case of operations that send process water to external treatment. Purchased pulp Pulp produced by third party companies and purchased by our mills to produce paper or board (the pulps are mainly bleached). Recovered paper Recovered paper refers to used paper and board separately collected and classified for the purpose of recycling for use as raw material in the manufacture of new paper and paperboard. Sludge A solid waste that is produced during water treatment from biological activity (mainly aerobic stage). SFI SFI Inc (Sustainable Forest Initiative) is an independent, non-profit organization dedicated to promoting sustainable forest management. Companies are certified chain of custody according to the SFI standard through independent third party certification. Solid Wastes Wastes are classified as non-hazardous wastes or hazardous wastes and are reported separately. Wood wastes and corrugated board shavings are excluded. All amounts of wastes are reported in mass as disposed. Total non-hazardous Sum of all solid non-hazardous wastes that are going to landfill or are recovered or comprise other wastes. wastes Each category of non-hazardous wastes is defined and reported. Non-hazardous wastes Part of the non-hazardous wastes that are disposed of in either internal or external landfill in accordance Landfill with national legislation. Non-hazardous wastes Part of non-hazardous wastes that are reused or recycled or composted or used in agriculture or Recovery incinerated with energy recovery. The incineration facility is classified as a recovery operation is the efficiency of the plant complies with the definition laid down In Annex II of the Directive 2008/98/EC on waste. Non-hazardous wastes Part of non-hazardous wastes that does not belong to the two previous categories. This includes wastes Other incinerated without energy recovery or wastes for which the final disposal is uncertain. Hazardous wastes Residues of oils and other hazardous wastes (building wastes containing asbestos, ink residues, etc.). SOx Mix of sulphur oxides calculated as SO2 coming from combustion of fuels. Sulphur dioxide contributes to the acidification of soil and water. SOx emissions are measured mainly by the mills. Where SOx is not measured (converting plants), emissions are calculated from fuel consumption using the emission factors listed in the Ecoinvent database version 2.1. Testliner Paper manufactured from recycled fibres. TJ Terajoule, a unit of energy that generally applies to fuel. 1 terajoule = 1,000 gigajoules = 1012 joules. Total Suspended Total Suspended Solids refers to the level of small solid particles released with process water. Solids Virgin fibre Pulp obtained through a chemical process used to remove lignin from wood. As a result, the fibre can be used to produce paper. The lignin residue and other organic compounds are subsequently collected and used in the formation of black liquor. 98 Notes smurfit kappa | sustainable development report 2013 99 Group Operations The Americas Operations Virgin Mills  2 Recycled Paper and Board Mills  10 Corrugated  33 Cartons 3 Paper Sacks 5 Recovered Fibre  33 Other  4 Sales Volumes (million tonnes) Containerboard 1.1 Other Paper & Board 0.3 Corrugated 1.0 Virgin Mills Recycled Mills Corrugated Cartons Paper Sacks Bag-in-box Recovered Fibre Forestry 100 Design by www.fabrik.ie Europe Operations Virgin Mills  5 Recycled Containerboard Mills  13 Other Recycled Paper and Board Mills 8 Corrugated 158 Cartons and Solidboard Packaging  9 Recovered Fibre  16 Other  49 Sales Sales Volumes (million tonnes) Kraftliner  1.6 Recycled Containerboard  2.9 Other Paper & Board  1.1 Corrugated  4.2 Solidboard Packaging  0.3 Virgin Mills Recycled Mills Corrugated Cartons and Solidboard Packaging Bag-in-box Recovered Fibre Smurfit Kappa Group plc Beech Hill Clonskeagh Dublin 4 Ireland Tel: +353 (0)1 202 7000 Fax: +353 (0)1 269 4481 Email: sustainability@smurfitkappa.com Web: www.smurfitkappa.com
