TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012/2013 Key Figures Telekom Austria Group Economy (in EUR mn) 2012 Change in % 2011 Revenues 4,329.7 -2.8 4,454.6 EBITDA comparable¹ 1,455.4 -4.7 1,527.3 EBITDA including effects from restructuring and impairment tests 1,420.8 36.0 1,044.7 Operating income 456.8 n.m. -7.6 Net result 103.8 n.m. -252.8 Equity 836.1 -5.3 883.1 Market capitalisation as of 31 Dec. 2012 (in EUR bn) 2.5 -37.9 4.1 ¹ Defined as EBITDA, excluding effects from restructuring and impairment tests. Products: Providing Responsible Products 2012 Customer contacts in customer service (in ’000) 45,569 Employees in Customer Service (in FTE) 3,650 E-billing share (in %) 29 Collected old mobile phones (in pcs) 73,877 Environment: Living Green1 2012 Total CO₂ emissions (Scope 1 + 2 in tonnes) 218,296 CO₂ intensity (in tonnes per FTE) 13 Total energy consumption (in MWh) 693,284 Energy efficiency index (in Mwh/ terabyte) 2.1 Share of renewable energy (in %) 56 Paper consumption (in tonnes) 1,890 Recycling quota (in %) 55 ¹ For further KPIs as well as definitions and explanations please refer to p. 68. Employees: Empowering People 2012 Employees (in FTE) 16,446 Percentage of female employees (in %) 38 Percentage of female executives (in %)¹ 32 Percentage of local managers (in %)¹ 98 Expenses for professional training and further education per FTE (in EUR) 604 Internally hired positions 666 Result of group-wide engagement index (% share of satisfied employees) 79 ¹ In headcount Society: Creating equal opportunities 2012 Group-wide participants in training on media literacy (number of visitors) 24,292 thereof A1 (A1 Internet for all) 18,592 thereof Si.mobil 5,700 Local educational projects over 30 Telekom Austria Group geographical presence A1 Austria Revenues: 2,787.1 EUR mn Employees: 9,077 CO₂ (Scope 1 + 2): 76,441 tonnes Mobiltel Bulgaria Revenues: 469.1 EUR mn BLR Employees: 2,937 CO₂ (Scope 1 + 2): 51,186 tonnes Vipnet Croatia Revenues: 420.4 EUR mn Employees: 1,104 CO₂ (Scope 1 + 2): 19,812 tonnes AUT velcom LIE Belarus Umsatz: 301.2 EUR mn SLO CRO Employees: 1,680 CO₂ (Scope 1 + 2): 27,906 tonnes SRB SRB Si.mobil BUL Vip operator Slovenia Republic of Macedonia MKD Revenues: 199.6 EUR mn Revenues: 60.3 EUR mn Employees: 366 Employees: 205 CO₂ (Scope 1 + 2): 9,501 tonnes CO₂ (Scope 1 + 2): 8,175 tonnes Vip mobile mobilkom liechtenstein Republic of Serbia Liechtenstein Revenues: 160.4 EUR mn Revenues: 6.8 EUR mn Employees: 898 Employees: 15 CO₂ (Scope 1 + 2): 25,274 tonnes Figures as of 31.12.2013 Scope 1 includes direct emissions from combustion of fossil fuels for heating, electricity production and mobility without consideration of cooling agents. Scope 2 measures indirect emissions from electric energy and district heating. Four Strategic Corporate Sustainability Areas of Activity In the course of 2012 the Telekom Austria Group identified in an extensive and multi-stage materiality analysis focal points that are key to the sustainability activities of the company from an internal and external perspective. The prioritised focal points derived from the materiality matrix were grouped into four areas of activity: Products: Providing Environment: Living Green Responsible Products Manage Resources in an Efficient Develop Products in a Futureand Sustainable Way Oriented and Responsible Way Employees: Society: Creating Empowering People Equal Opportunities Systematically Promote Employees’ Creating Equal Opportunities in Skills and Utilising Them the Digital Society The present sustainability report follows in its structure these areas of activity, which are symbolised via the icons. Further details on the materiality analysis, please refer to page 16. A comparison to prior periods is not possible as Group wide data are reported for the first time. 2013. The world is changing – Faster by the day. Globalisation, climate change, raw Material shortages and social inequality pose ever greater challenges for the human race. Now and in the future, innovative technologies can play a crucial role in balancing economic, environmental and social aspects. The Telekom Austria Group aims to be actively involved in this. With a sustainable strategy and clear objectives. The telekom austria group management board is deliberating on sustainable corporate management. Our innovative technologies and products give people more and more opportunities to communicate Exactly: doing business and interact. But we also need requires both environmental and to maximise their potential to social awareness. With our infrapreserve resources and structure we make an important conthe climate. tribution to key areas of society such as education, health or energy. We want to create more opportunities for everyone and simultaneously to deal as We need efficiently as possible with the a sustainability natural resources on our strategy which planet. recognizes exactly that. When developing this strategy, we aim to focus on what matters to our interest Groups. That means involving everyone we work for and everyone we work with. Active Discussions are held with the various interest groups. We can and For me data security want to improve is one the most important energy efficiency. points. Media literacy skills Customers want should be supported. innovative products at fair, transparent prices. Absolutely right! We now have lots of Involving the interest representative data and groups has taken this opinions. discussion to a completely new Level. Now let‘s evaluate the results and draw up specific Targets. Some time later: the final evaluations are in. Perfect! Let‘s go to the management board. i d i n g The analysis of the Proonsible v RePsrpoducts materiality survey is now ready. 4 areas of activity with 22 firm targets have been defined for our sustainability strategy. Living Green e r i ng m p o w e E eopl P Creating OppoErqtuual nities Meanwhile, back at the sustainables‘ Headquarters. Quick! Come here all of you! the Sustainables find out that the Telekom Austria Group has developed a new sustainability Strategy. Look, Another company that‘s taking the right path. Commitment like These that deserves our targets and support. actions areas are the perfect 20% increase in energy match for our efficiency by 2015. That‘s what I call skills. a clear statement. 100.000 People in media literacy training sessions. I‘ll use my powers to support that. With their expertise and our Powers we can achieve a lot. I‘m right with them: Women in 35% of maThat‘s the way to do nagement posts. and it! They‘re committed targeted initiatives to to data security, system promote diversity. stability and innovative solutions for education, administration and health. Let‘s just do it. Let‘s meet the Telekom Austria Group! They agree straight away. the sustainables and the Telekom Austria Group are now following the same path. My indestructible shield for secure networks and My infinite sustainable knowledge for Products! My keen Equal Opportunisense of diversity My foresight ties in society. and employee for environmental development. and climate protection. Working for a susTogether ta world!inable PREFACE By THE MANAGEMENT BOARD Dear Reader, Why have we chosen to present the latest developpage 32). You can find out how we efficiently develop ments in our corporate sustainability in the style of a and apply the diverse skills of our employees in the graphic novel? Quite simply, with the fictional heroes section on “Empowering People” (from page 40). And and heroines on the cover and in the illustrations of the area “Creating Equal Opportunities” presents the our current sustainability report we want to arouse many different initiatives we use to make an active your interest in the entirely new areas we are focuscontribution to creating equal opportunities in the ing on for our sustainability strategy. And to do so digital world (from page 48). we have quite literally given them a face and a name. With these four areas of activity, the Telekom Austria To begin with, let us assure you that no, the Telekom Group’s sustainability strategy takes on a new focus Austria Group does not consider itself a “sustainability and momentum. Targets and key indicators have been superhero”. In this report, “Securion”, “Environman”, set for all four areas and are linked to an extensive “Diversitas” and “Sapientia” are symbolic figures repmeasures programme (from page 54). These include a resenting the areas of activity that were identified in proportion of women of 35% in the Group – including a materiality analysis as particularly relevant to the in management posts – and 100,000 participants in sustainable development of the Group. To address our media literacy training by 2016. these sustainability aspects head on, in 2012 we imIn addition, we are plemented a programme called “RE.THINK” in which aiming we critically re-examined our previous initiatives, reorganised them and gave them a clear focus on our core business. Extensive surveys and evaluations, also involving internal and external interest groups for the first time, were used as a sound and valid basis for the materiality matrix developed for this purpose (see page 16). The multi-stage analysis resulted in the four areas of activity that are represented by “our” four “Sustainables” in the creative concept of this sustainability report. Without a doubt, high-performance, reliable communication networks form the technological basis of our business. We therefore invest correspondingly high amounts each year to expand and develop these networks. And the measures we take to ensure information and data security are equally diverse. Together with innovative application possibilities and their positive effect on the environment and society, these aspects are described in the area of activity “Providing Responsible Products” (from page 22). In the area of “Living Green”, we develop targeted steps and programmes for continuously reducing the Telekom Austria Group’s ecological footprint (from HANS TSCHUDEN CFO, vICE CHAIRMAN OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 THE MANAGEMENT BOARD for a 20% increase in energy efficiency for the entire Telekom Austria Group became a participant in the Telekom Austria Group by 2015. The evaluation will UN Global Compact in 2012. In participating, we have be based on the environmental key figures for 2012, explicitly undertaken to comply with global princiwhich were gathered on a group-wide level for the first ples in the areas of human rights, labour standards, time. Furthermore specific parts of the sustainability environmental protection and fighting corruption. report have been reviewed by an external auditor with a limited assurance statement (see page 74). After all, even though the “Sustainables” invented for this report tell our “sustainability story” with unterschriften Our very serious commitment – notwithstanding something of a twinkle in their eyes, it certainly can’t the graphic novel style of the creative concept – to do any harm to look to great role models and high helping create a world worth living in, even beyond targets when you are – as the subtitle puts it – working our own area of influence, is also demonstrated by together for a sustainable world. the fact that the GRI 1.1, 4.11-4.13 gÜNTHER OTTENDORFER CHIEF TECHNOLOGy OFFICER HANNES AMETSREITER CHAIRMAN OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD PAgE 11 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 THE CONTENT AT A GLANCE 01 the sustainables 10 Preface by the management board 14 strategy and Corporate sustainability 20 in focus: Compliance products Employees Providing Empowering People Responsible Products 42 a strong, Performance-focused team 24 digitisation Creates growth 42 Personnel structure 24 intelligent network expansion 42 human resources strategy 25 ensuring Communication 43 in-depth further education and in emergencies Professional training 25 safety is the top Priority 43 fostering diversity 27 electromagnetic fields (emf) and 44 equal opportunities for Women mobile Communication 44 health and modern Working 27 Products and solutions Conditions with added value 45 active dialogue with employees 27 Products for environmental 46 Performance management and Climate Protection and Commitment 28 using fewer resources together 46 award-Winning employer 28 recycling of mobile Phones 29 focus on Customer satisfaction Society 29 transparent Customer Contracts & expense Control Creating Equal 31 in focus: sustainability Opportunities in the supply Chain 50 digital information and knowledge society Environment 50 a1 internet for all Living green 51 groupwide Promotion of media literacy 34 strategic environmental 51 discussion forums for management as a framework topics of the future 34 Certified management systems 51 Collaboration with social and 34 active Climate Protection educational institutions through Co ² reduction 52 special Products for special needs 35 energy-efficient infrastructures 52 local social Commitment 36 Power from Water, sun and Wind 37 Climate-friendly mobility 54 measures Programme 38 sparing use of resources 59 gri Content table 38 raising awareness 67 data appendix 74 assurance statement 76 report details 77 imprint 78 glossary PAgE 13 Strategy and Corporate Sustainability The Telekom Austria Group Overview of Telekom Austria Group Markets (All figures for 2012) As a leading communication provider, the Telekom Austria Group operates in eight countries across Segment Austria Central and Eastern Europe, serving approximately 23 Mobile communication customers¹ 5,379.6 million customers as of 31 December 2012. Its diverse Mobile communication market share in % 38.8 portfolio of products and services covers all aspects of Mobile communication penetration rate in % 164.2 modern information and communication technology Total fixed access lines¹ 2,282.3 from voice telephony, fixed line and mobile broadband Internet, multimedia services and IPTV to data Segment Bulgaria and IT applications, wholesale offers and electronic Mobile communication customers¹ 5,574.3 payment services. Mobile communication market share in % 46.9 Mobile communication penetration rate in % 159.9 As of 31 December 2012, the Telekom Austria Group Total fixed access lines¹ 156.4 had 16,446 employees. The Telekom Austria Group was affected by the challenging economic environment, Segment Croatia fierce competition and price pressure as well as farMobile communication customers¹ 1,921.0 reaching intervention by regulators, with revenues Mobile communication market share in % 38.3 falling by 2.8% to EUR 4,329.7 million and EBITDA Mobile communication penetration rate in % 116.8 down by 4.7% to EUR 1,455.4 million in the 2012 Total fixed access lines¹ 163.0 financial year. Segment Belarus Revenues and EBITDA Mobile communication customers¹ 4,800.4 comparable by segment in EUR mn/ in 2012 Mobile communication market share in % 43.5 4,329.7 Mobile communication penetration rate in % 116.6 Segment Additional Markets Slovenia Mobile communication customers¹ 662.6 2,787.1 902.9 Mobile communication market share in % 30.3 Austria Austria Mobile communication penetration rate in % 107.1 469.1 207.4 Republic of Serbia Bulgaria Bulgaria Mobile communication customers¹ 1,859.9 420.4 1,455.4 136.6 Croatia Croatia Mobile communication market share in % 17.6 Mobile communication penetration rate in % 147.2 301.2 124.4 Belarus Belarus Republic of Macedonia Mobile communication customers¹ 632.0 426.6 117.3 Additional Markets Additional Markets Mobile communication market share in % 27.3 -74.7 -33.1 Mobile communication penetration rate in % 113.1 Corporate & Other, Revenues EBITDA Corporate & Other, Eliminations comparable Eliminations Liechtenstein Mobile communication customers¹ 6.2 Starting with Austria, the Telekom Austria Group has Mobile communication market share in % 15.9 successfully positioned itself in selected markets in Mobile communication penetration rate in % 106.4 Central and Eastern Europe over the last 15 years. ¹ in ’000 In the 2012 financial year, 36.7% of revenues and 39.5% of EBITDA comparable were generated outside Austria. Selected key data on these markets can be found opposite and inside the cover of this report. A SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 Strategy and CORPORATE Sustainability detailed description of the operational and economic Corporate Strategy development of the Group companies is provided in The markets of the Telekom Austria Group are charthe context of capital market communication and acterised by fierce competition, regulatory impact published on the website www.telekomaustria.com and rapid technological change. To make the best under the menu item “Investor Relations”. possible use of the available added-value potential in GRI 1.2, 2.1-2.10 , EC1, EC8-9 the core business, the Telekom Austria Group pursues various strategic approaches that take into account Sustainable Investment the degree of maturity and the specific circumstances The Telekom Austria share has been listed on the of the individual markets. The four key pillars of the Vienna Stock Exchange since November 2000. As of corporate strategy are: 31 December 2012, it was one of the leading stocks on this exchange, with a weighting of 4.0% in the Convergence of Optimisation of the leading index ATX. fixed line and mobile core business communication Since 2001, the Telekom Austria share has been included in the FTSE4Good index series, which features only Corporate Strategy companies with a special commitment to corporate social responsibility (CSR). The Munich-based rating Identification agency oekom research last analysed the sustainabilOperational of strategic ity performance of the telecommunication industry in excellence opportunities 2012. In this analysis, the Telekom Austria Group was awarded oekom Prime Status and received an overall score of C+ (on a scale of Dto A+) for its social and When pursuing these strategic objectives, it is essenenvironmental commitment. In addition, the Telekom tial to maintain a conservative financial strategy in Austria share has been on the rating agency oekom which ensuring a stable investment grade rating of at research AG’s recommendation list for sustainable least BBB (stable outlook) is the top priority. A net debt/ investment products since 2002, and has had a positive EBITDA comparable ratio of approximately 2.0x is the rating from imug Sustainable Investment since 2001. medium-term target. For the full year 2013, the Telekom Austria Group expects revenues of approximately EUR Shareholder Structure by Country 4.1 billion. Capital expenditures, excluding investas of 31 December 2012 ments in licenses, product range and acquisitions, of 41.7% approximately EUR 650 700 million are also envisAustria (incl. ÖIAG and treasury shares) aged. Based on these forecasts, the management of the 2.7% Telekom Austria Group aims to distribute a dividend Rest of World of 5 Eurocents per share for the 2013 financial year. 4.7% Great Britain Corporate Sustainability Strategy 10.6% Re.think USA In addition to economic indicators and objectives, 15.2% environmental and social aspects have also played a Rest of Europe key role in the corporate management of the Telekom 25.1% Austria Group for several years now. Significant mileMexico stones were set here in 2012 and 2013. In the “RE. THINK” programme, a sustainability strategy with clear aims has been defined in 2012, and its implementation will be continuously monitored and measured. page 15 Page The objectives follow four central areas of activity also ensured close integration and compliance with that were identified as important to the sustainable the business and capital market strategy and considcorporate development of the Telekom Austria Group eration of opportunities and risks. with the involvement of all relevant interest groups. In a second step, external interest groups were inActive Involvement of Interest Groups corporated into the materiality analysis. Over 300 The corporate sustainability strategy and the areas customers, employees, interest group representatives, of activity with their main topics are the result of suppliers and NGOs assessed the relevance of various the materiality analysis, which was performed for social and environmental topics in an online survey. the first time in 2012. The topics were selected on the The requirements of international standards, rankbasis of an extensive analysis (described below) and ings and rating agencies as well as the sustainability prioritisation of social and environmental aspects activities of other telecommunication companies across the value-added chain and the core business. were also incorporated into the survey. Firstly, the social and environmental issues in the In a third step, the focus of the sustainability strategy individual stages of the value-added chain were deterwas identified by combining the internal and external mined and assessed in interviews with the managepriorities in a materiality matrix before being grouped ment of the Telekom Austria Group. These discussions in four areas of activity. GRI 1.2, 4.14–4.17 Materiality Analysis Telekom Austria Group Energy efficiency Data security and data protection Network structure and infrastructure high Customer satisfaction Recycling and waste removal Transparent customer contracts and expense control Renewable energies Sustainable procurement Equal development opportunities for employees Health and life balance Corporate governance/ Relevance to environment compliance and human rights Media protection for children and young people Mobility of our employees Media literacy skills for children and young people Products with added value for society Raising awareness of environmental issues Environmentally friendly products Mobile communication and health Media literacy skills for older people Social cooperation Corporate culture of respect Open discussion on the digital world Sponsorship of the arts, culture and sport low Business relevance high SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 STRATEGy AND CORPORATE SuSTAINABILITy The Four Strategic Corporate Living Green Sustainability Areas of Activity Manage Resources in an Efficient and As a responsible communication company, the Sustainable Way Telekom Austria Group works rigorously to open up With extensive and sustainable environmental practhe potential of new communication technologies tices and processes, the Telekom Austria Group confor as many people as possible, while taking care sistently pursues the aim of using fewer resources, to preserve resources and protect the environment. thus further reducing the environmental footprint Building on this fundamental sense of responsibility, of its business activities. The strategic focus is on the aspects relating to the core business of the Telekom energy-efficient technologies, renewable energies, Austria Group were given particular attention when climate-friendly mobility and preservadeveloping corporate sustainability strategy. tion of raw materials through optimised recycling and disposal processes. (Details Innovative information and communication technoloon page 32). gies and the associated products and services make valuable contributions to environmental and climate Empowering People protection. They enable equal access to information Systematically promote Employees Skills and knowledge, democratic participation and also to and utilising Them modern education and health systems. Empowering employees is a top priority at the Telekom Austria Group. In-depth further education and profesHowever, the increase in digitisation and the huge sional training, health promotion, a healthy workrise in data volumes also have a negative side such life balance for employees, diversity in as higher energy requirements for data transmisthe company and a corporate culture of sion, electrical waste and a “digital gap” between respect are the key factors here. (Details generations as well as between town and country. on page 40). These interrelationships are reflected in the areas of activity of the Telekom Austria Group’s corporate Creating Equal Opportunities sustainability strategy, which are set out below. Creating Equal Opportunities in the Digital Society Providing Responsible Products The Telekom Austria Group firmly believes that everyDevelop products in a Future-Oriented one is entitled to participate equally in the knowledge and Responsible Way society, now and in the future. Local initiatives foster Modern communication technologies and continuthe skills that are increasingly necessary for active ous, demand-oriented infrastructure expansion and responsible participation in order create social and environmental added value, for to ensure equal access to information, instance by enabling mobile working or improved education and knowledge in a digital medical care. Backup and protection of data, proworld. (Details on page 48). vision of a failsafe network infrastructure and investment in innovative technologies that Measurable targets and key indicators have been set for deliver added value for customers form all four areas of activity in order to trace and improve the core elements of this area of activity. sustainable corporate development in a structured (Details on page 22). manner. PAgE 17 Group-Wide Key Environmental Active Risk Management The business activities of the Telekom Austria Group Figures naturally involve a number of risks, which are set out In the context of the TAGreen project, key in detail in the Management Report and the Notes to environmental figures were defined and the Consolidated Financial Statements in the 2012 gathered for the operating companies in Annual Report. Austria as well as Bulgaria, Croatia, Belarus, > gb2012.telekomaustria.com Slovenia, the Republic of Serbia and the GRI 1.2, 4.11 Republic of Macedonia for the first time. The key environmental figures are the basis for the Memberships (Selection) evaluations of the set targets and are defined for the estimation of the CO₂-emissions Telekom Austria Group according to the definition of the Green House – UN Global Compact Gas Protocol. (details from page 67). – respACT – ETNO Group-Wide Sustainability A1 Management – UN Global Compact In 2010, the Telekom Austria Group set up a Group– klima:aktiv wide, integrated corporate sustainability management – Austrian Mobile Power system that has been enhanced in stages ever since. – Electric Mobility Model Region Vienna The sustainability agenda is under the jurisdiction – Code of Conduct on Data Centres Energy Efficiency of the CEO of the Telekom Austria Group Hannes Ametsreiter, supported by CFO Hans Tschuden and Mobiltel CTO Günther Ottendorfer. – CSR Academy – Bulgarian Red Cross In the Group Sustainability Board, made up of rep– Bulgarian Charities Aid Foundation resentatives of top management, the main topics – Bulgarian Donor Forum and the development of the corporate sustainability strategy are discussed and adopted at least three times Vipnet a year. This broad positioning ensures that corporate – UN Global Compact sustainability strategy, Group strategy and brand strategy are aligned with each other. The members of the Si.mobil Sustainability Board also assume responsibility for – UN Global Compact sustainability aspects in their respective field, and – EMS Forum promote international exchange within the Telekom – Founder of the independent “Si.voda” fund Austria Group . Vip mobile The department Corporate Sustainability, which – UN Global Compact reports directly to CEO Hannes Ametsreiter as part – Green Network of the Group Corporate Communication and Sustain– Co-founder of the Serbian Business Leaders Forum ability unit, controls and coordinates implementation GRI 4.12-4.13 of corporate sustainability strategy with the respective officers in the subsidiaries. This cross-border Ambitious Targets in Sustainability approach ensures compliance with the overriding Management group targets. At the same time, this organisational Specific projects in various sustainability dimensions structure creates the necessary flexibility for taking were defined in the 2011/12 sustainability report. The regional differences into account. table below summarises these aims (Said) as well as GRI 2.1-2.10, 4.1-4.10 the implemented measures (Done) and defines further SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 Strategy and CORPORATE Sustainability targets for the future (Planned). A detailed overall programme of measures in all areas of activity can be found in this report, starting on page 54. Selected Awards in the Reporting Period – Carbon Disclosure Project Award for Out– Digital Communication Award and Best of standing Achievement in Climate Protection Social Media Award 2012 for Online (Telekom Austria Group) platform ”A1 Support Community” (A1) – Global Telecoms Business Innovation – Responsible Business Award 2012 for Work Award 2013 for the SIM Box Detection Life Balance-Program (Mobiltel) Service for Fraud Prevention (Telekom – First Place Croatian Employer Certificate Austria Group 2012 for Human Resources Strategy and – Bronze ”Fleggy” at the European Change Processes (Vipnet) Communications Awards 2012 for the new – Best selfcare portal 2012 for online platform code of conduct (Telekom Austria Group) Moj Si.mobil (Si.mobil) – Klima:aktiv Award by the Climate Protection Initiative of the Life Ministry for the use of Further Awards can be found in the respective wind power in air conditioning. (A1) chapters of this report. GRI 2.1-2.10 Said in 2011 Done in 2012/2013 Planned for 2013/2014 – Accession of the Telekom Austria – Participation in the UN Global – Improvement of reporting systems Group to the UN Global Compact Compact – Expand the audit by means of an – Further development of key figures – Expansion of the reporting scope independent auditor to measure the Group‘s and collection of key environmental – Further development of a supply sustainability performance figures (TAGreen) chain strategy – Certification of the Telekom Austria – Development of a new sustainability – Completion of the certification of Group Compliance Management strategy with extensive stakeholder the Group-wide compliance System involvement (materiality analysis) management system – Embed a culture of integrity within – Training of over 16,000 employees – Further roll-out of sustainability the Telekom Austria Group on compliance management to trainings establish a culture of integrity – Certification of this sustainability report by an independent auditor page 19 PAge COMPLIANCE Compliance Management Code of Conduct All activities of the Telekom Austria Group are natuUpdated in 2012, the Telekom Austria Group’s code rally rooted in integrity. The Group has responded to of conduct is entitled “Integrity is the Basis of Our past misconduct by fundamentally expanding and Business – honest.fair.transparent.” It was published improving its compliance management system. In in all languages of the subsidiaries, and its launch 2011, the Management Board and Supervisory Board was accompanied by an internal communication of the Telekom Austria Group commissioned an invescampaign that won the 2012 European Change Comtigation team to fully examine the related allegations. munication Award. A report on the findings was presented at the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2012, and measures were The Management Board of the Telekom Austria Group taken to prevent future misconduct. sets out the objectives of the code of conduct in the foreword: “Our shared aim must be to safeguard the Since November 2011, there has been a Group Complilong-term commercial success and reputation of the ance Officer who reports directly to the Management Telekom Austria Group by making integrity the natural Board and is assisted by the experts in the Group foundation of all our activities and decisions. It is Compliance department and local compliance managdown to us!” ers in the subsidiaries of the Telekom Austria Group. Existing instruments such as the Code of Conduct and In several sections, the code of conduct describes Group guidelines have been updated and expanded, fundamental conduct requirements as well as speand new instruments such as a “tell.me” platform for cific requirements in terms of integrity with regard anonymous tip-offs have been set up. to business relationships, handling information and preventing conflicts of interest. Other subjects govA Group-wide training programme ensures the effecerned by the code of conduct include the acceptance tiveness of these instruments. In 2012, 1,535 employees of invitations to social events and gifts. It explicitly took part in compliance training sessions, and 15,018 prohibits advertisements in the media of political employees completed the Telekom Austria Group’s parties as well as monetary donations or donations compliance e-learning programme. The compliance in kind to political parties or organisations closely helpdesk “ask.me” is available to receive employees’ associated with political parties. questions. Around 380 questions were asked and answered via “ask.me” in 2012. The code also provides clear regulations regarding the allocation of consultancy and lobbying mandates. Building on these existing instruments and guideNoncompliance with the conduct requirements results lines, further measures for continuous improvement in various disciplinary measures depending on the of the compliance management system are defined on level of misconduct. The maximum penalty is disthe basis of the annual compliance risk assessment in missal. The code of conduct is available on the Telekom all subsidiaries of the Telekom Austria Group. MeasAustria Group website at telekomaustria.com under ures in 2012 included intensification of the integrity the menu item compliance. checks of business partners. The issue of integrity GRI 4.11–4.13, EC6, SO5, PR6 also features even more prominently than before in the professional training programme for managers. In addition, preparations have been made for certification of the compliance management system in accordance with an internationally recognised standard (IDW PS 980) in 2013. GRI 4.1-4.10, HR3, 8-10, PR6, SO2–5, 7, 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 IN FOCUS Group Guidelines The provisions of the code of conduct have been set out in more detail in Group guidelines. In April and July 2012, several guidelines on the following subjects were adopted or updated by the Management Board and communicated internally: – sponsorship, donations and advertising – gifts and invitations – management consultancy and lobbying – anti-trust law – anti-corruption and conflicts of interest – capital market compliance GRI PR6 ”tell.me” Platform for Whistleblowing To give employees and external parties the opportunity to provide information on misconduct anonymously, the Telekom Austria Group set up a new informants’ platform in 2012. To preserve anonymity and protect informants, tip-offs are issued via an external information system that is operated by a specialist partner company. Each notification is forwarded to the Compliance and Internal Audit units, which perform a joint analysis and plausibility check. In the event of justified allegations, the Internal Audit department thoroughly investigates the matter. Access to the “tell.me” platform is open to all interested parties via the Telekom Austria Group website telekomaustria.com under the menu item compliance. The contact details of the Telekom Austria Group’s compliance officers can also be found there. GRI HR11 Further Information Detailed information on ensuring corporate management in compliance with the law and regulations is provided in the Corporate Governance Report in the 2012 Annual Report (online at: ar2012.telekomaustria. com). The “Group Management Report” and “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” chapters also contain in-depth information on the internal control system and risk management. PAgE 21 HE COMES FROM THE PLANET SECURA, WHERE THE TECHNOLOgY IS DECADES AHEAD OF THAT ON EARTH. USINg THE CORE ELEMENT PROTECTUM, HE HAS MADE HIMSELF A HIgH-TECH SHIELD THAT CAN PROVIDE SAFETY FOR ANY LIVINg BEINg IN THE UNIVERSE. THIS MAKES HIM THE IDEAL PARTNER FOR THIS AREA. PRODUCTS PROVIDING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS in the eight markets of the telekom austria group, its highly efficient and dense infrastructure network provides the backbone for the digital knowledge society of the 21st century. ongoing investments in new transmission technologies and applications, the highest data protection and fault tolerance standards, and products and solutions that create added value for customers, society and environment are the key pillars of this area. Complete customer focus as well as secure, user-friendly and reliable services help to build up long-term customer relationships and ensure the profitability of the group. the following challenges and opportunities determine the strategy for this area and result in concrete targets that the telekom austria group has set itself for 2015. Targets for 2015: ensuring group-wide coverage of at least 99% with 2g and at least 90% with 3g (except velcom, si.mobil und vip mobile) increase in customer satisfaction implementation and enhancement of cost-control applications for customers increase in the group-wide e-billing rate to 50% increase in the number of old mobile phones collected Promotion of climate-friendly products and solutions development of innovative solutions with added value for society (health, education, etc.) maintenance of the highest possible data protection and data security standards in the telekom austria group Continuation of iso 27001 certification annual data protection report for a1 (starting in 2014) PAgE 23 Digitisation Creates Growth Intelligent Network Expansion High-performance ICT infrastructure is now an esThe Telekom Austria Group needs secure, high-persential requirement and also a yardstick for a country’s formance transmission networks – a challenge that economic and social development. According to the matters to the company‘s 23 million customers and the World Economic Forum‘s annual Global Information company itself. A study by Cisco² estimates that the Technology Report, approximately 6 million new volume of mobile data traffic alone will increase 13-fold jobs have been created in the ICT sector in the past between 2012 and 2017. To ensure that it is equipped two years. A 10% rise in the digitisation rate reduces for these developments, the Telekom Austria Group is unemployment by more than 1% and increases perpursuing a demand-driven expansion strategy adapted capita GDP by 0.75%¹. In the Network Readiness Index to the general economic situation for the fixed line (NRI), which calculates the necessary framework network and for mobile communication. EUR 728.2 conditions for the ICT sector for over 140 countries, million was invested in this strategy in 2012. Austria again featured in the top 20 in 2013, ranking 19th. The quality of the ICT infrastructure, commercial In line with the regulatory framework, network expanuse of the Internet and the provision of digital content sion is focused on increasing network coverage and were rated particularly highly. implementing new technologies. In mobile commuGRI 1.2, EC1, 6, 8-9 nication, the Telekom Austria Group is pursuing the aim of providing coverage of 99% of the population net value-added Telekom Austria Group 2012 with the 2G network and 90% for the 3G network in in ’000 EUR 1,929,103 its markets. The Telekom Austria Group has already achieved this network coverage in most of its markets. The exceptions are Si.mobil and Vip mobile, which 332,501 824,209 currently have network coverage of 98% for the 2G Payments to investors Payments to network, and velcom and Vip mobile in the 3G network. (creditors and shareholders) employees 44,170 728,223 Forward-looking network investment in LTE and Payments to Investments public bodies HSPA+ has already been made in Austria and on the international markets of the Telekom Austria Group. For Calculated on the basis of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 example, Vipnet in Croatia laid essential foundations Guidelines for Indicator EC1. for upgrading the mobile communication network to GRI EC1 LTE technology by purchasing frequencies in the 800 MHz band in 2012. In Slovenia, Si.mobil introduced LTE Captial expenditures 2012 in EUR mn in major urban areas in 2012, thus reinforcing its role 728.4 as a quality leader with the biggest and most powerful mobile communication network in the country. In the Republic of Serbia, Vip mobile continued its expansion 78.8 448.2 of HSPA+. By 31 December 2012, it had already achieved Segment Croatia Segment Austria coverage of more than 72%. (Further details can be 43.7 68.8 found in the 2012 annual report) Segment Belarus Segment Bulgaria 88.8 In the fixed line network, the Telekom Austria Group‘s Segment Additional Markets³ main priority is demand-driven infrastructure expan³ thereof Slovenia 18.6 sion. A combination of fibre-optic cables and copperthereof Republic of Serbia 57.0 thereof Republic of Macedonia 13.0 based technologies alongside testing of innovative thereof Liechtenstein 0.2 new developments is the best way to achieve this. In GRI IO1 Austria, A1 is currently constructing a fibre network, ¹ Source: http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_GITR_Report_ which meets the requirements of both mobile comHighlights_2013.pdf munication and the fixed line network. The related ² Source: http://www.cisco.com/web/solutions/sp/vni/vni_ mobile_forecast_highlight/index.html coverage in the fixed line network, known as nextSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 PROvIDING RESPONSIBLE PRODuCTS generation access (NGA), is to be increased from 56% DATA pROTECTIOn, DATA SECuRITy & coverage in 2012 to 60% coverage by 2016. Parallel to InFORMATIOn SECuRITy this, new technologies are being used to upgrade the existing infrastructure. For instance, vectoring allows – Data protection is the legal framework for the transmission capacity of the existing fixed line protecting the privacy of people whose copper wires to be increased significantly and costdata is being processed. effectively by filtering out interference. In 2012, A1 – Data security involves technical measures became the first company in the world to apply this to protect confidential data. technology successfully in a pilot area in the town of Korneuburg. In Bulgaria and Croatia, expansion of – Information security relates to managefibre-optic technology in particular is being pursued. ment of the security measures taken to ensure the confidentiality, availability GRI 1.2, EC8-9, IO1, 2, PA1, 4 and integrity of data processing. Ensuring Communication in Emergencies Information and Data Security In emergency situations, mobile phones can be lifeProtecting sensitive data and systems and countering savers. A1‘s mobile communication network handled potential threats are top priorities for the Telekom approximately 2.5 million emergency calls in 2012. Austria Group. The Information Security Policy and Network availability even in remote locations and the supplementary Information Security Standards in the mountains is particularly relevant here. In apply throughout the Group and are supplemented by all countries, the Telekom Austria Group cooperates local guidelines on a country-specific basis. At Group closely with the fire and rescue services and the Red level, implementation and application of the Group Cross. Phone calls to official emergency numbers are guidelines are regularly examined and monitored by free in all countries. the specialist unit Information Security & Emergency. All operating subsidiaries of the Telekom Austria To restore technical communication channels as Group have appointed information security managers. quickly as possible, including in the event of natural At A1, Martin Walter, Group Compliance Officer, took disasters or power cuts, effective measures have been on the additional responsibility of heading the newly taken at all Telekom Austria Group subsidiaries. The established Data Privacy unit on 1 July 2013, and was technical precautions include providing emergency appointed A1‘s data protection officer. Maintaining power generators and satellite phones and setting up the highest possible data protection and security crisis rooms. In several countries, professional crisis standards in all countries and publishing an annual management teams have also been set up and train data protection report of A1 starting in 2014 have on a regular basis. In addition, for example, A1‘s crisis been formulated as binding targets of the corporate management team is in direct contact with the crisis sustainability strategy. management of the government and the warning centres of the individual countries. To ensure effective information security, the Telekom GRI 1.2, PA3, 6 Austria Group has set up numerous measures. A1 and Vipnet subject their hosting service to an annual data Safety is the Top Priority protection audit in line with ISO 27001, and Mobiltel Participants in digital life should also have confidence in Bulgaria also successfully completed certification that they are protected against inappropriate use of in line with ISO 27001 in 2012. In addition to external their data. The data protection and information secuand internal audits, simulated hacker attacks are also rity measures that the Telekom Austria Group takes carried out Group-wide to identify any weak spots, are correspondingly extensive and diverse to justify and employees are continuously trained on data sethis confidence. curity issues. PAgE 25 Data protection Information on storage duration and the type of stored Data protection is a basic right. All people have a right data is available in the Telekom Austria Group’s custhat their personal data remains confidential if there tomer contracts and on its customer portals and webis a protectable interest. This particularly applies in sites. In addition, the Telekom Austria Group promotes terms of respect for private and family life. Processing the personal skills needed to use modern information of personal data is subject to clear rules. For example, and communication solutions properly and safely the data must be protected against inadvertent or un(“media literacy skills”) through numerous initialawful destruction and against loss, and access must tives and events. See page 58 of this report for details. not be possible for unauthorised persons. The different GRI 1.2, PR8, 9, TA5, PA7 categories of data are as follows in the table below. Data categories personal data Details of individuals or legal entities whose identity is or can be determined Sensitive data Data of individuals concerning their race and ethnic origin, political opinion, trade union affiliation, religious or philosophical beliefs, health or sex life Master data First name, surname, degree, address, subscriber number and other contact information for messages, contract type, credit rating Traffic data Data that are processed for the purpose of forwarding a message to a communication network or for invoicing this action, e.g. active/passive subscriber number, type of terminal, time and duration of connection, data volume location data Data that are processed in a communication network or by a communication service and indicate the geographical location of the telecommunication terminal equipment. Location data are also traffic data. Content data Content of transmitted messages and phone calls Retained data Traffic data, location data including master data and public Internet addresses used for Internet access, as well as e-mail protocols of public e-mail services. Retained data do not include the addresses of websites or consumed web content. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 PROvIDING RESPONSIBLE PRODuCTS Electromagnetic Fields (EMF) and Products and Solutions Mobile Communication with Added value As a leading telecommunication company in its In its corporate sustainability strategy, the Telekom markets, the Telekom Austria Group is constantly Austria Group pursues the aim of offering innovaexpanding its transmission networks. Involving and tive solutions that generate added value for society. educating the population with regard to mobile comConvergent products in Austria, Bulgaria and Croatia munication issues and health are top priorities. Inprovide customers with extensive, communication formation on threshold values, emissions of mobile solutions for everyday use. One sector that particularly communication systems and secure data transmission benefits from ICT solutions is the healthcare indusis communicated transparently in the context of onetry. Numerous services of the subsidiaries in Austria to-one discussions as well as in the form of informaand Slovenia help to provide greater convenience tion brochures, simulations and via the Internet. and safety in healthcare. These include the connection of medical equipment to the E-Card network, an A Group-wide EMF policy also ensures that all subinformation and communication system for secure sidiaries adhere to the guidelines on health and safety and fast data exchange between doctors (medical data with regard to electromagnetic fields. The Group EMF network), doctors’ and vaccination appointments by Board is responsible for strategic orientation and SMS as well as the E-Care terminal for IT-based bedside cross-border information exchange, while strategy care in hospitals. is implemented in the individual countries by local teams. In addition, future aspects of network expanICT products also increase efficiency in administrasion are handled and effective strategies for ensuring tion. Solutions such as electronic archives, contracts the safety of tomorrow‘s infrastructures are developed and signature systems from Si.mobil substantially on a transnational basis. reduce the bureaucratic workload. As well as innovative products for forward-looking industries, the Telekom Austria Group is also a driver of positive social ElECTROMAGnETIC COMpATIBIlITy development through special solutions for people More and more electronic devices are making with special needs. More details can be found in the everyday life easier. As a technology company, “Creating Equal Opportunities” section on page 49. the Telekom Austria Group also assumes GRI TA1, 2 responsibility for devices offered to customers – from mobile phones, smartphones and Products for Environmental data sticks to bedside terminals for hospital and Climate Protection beds. Where these devices are used, there The increased use of modern information and commumay be no interference with other electronic nication technologies also presents new opportunities equipment. for climate and environmental protection. As the To ensure that this is the case, the Telekom “SMARTer 2020” study by the Global e-Sustainability Austria Group rigidly adheres to the EuroInitiative (Gesi) from December 2012 shows, intelligent pean Union’s directives on electromagnetic use of ICT solutions in the mobility, energy, agriculture compatibility and the corresponding national and building management sectors could cut greenstandards. Only devices that comply with house gas emissions by 16.5% to 9.1 billion tonnes of these directives and standards can successCO² by 2020.³ This savings potential is equivalent to the fully pass internal quality assurance and the emissions of approximately 3 billion cars. The Telekom continuous reviews of the Telekom Austria Austria Group intends to make an active contribution Group’s product portfolio. to realising this potential with its extensive portfolio of products and services. For instance, software-based conference and collaboration solutions enable virtual GRI 1.2, EN11–12, SO1, 9, 10, PR1, 3, IO4-7, PA8, 9 meetings, for example, thus preventing travel-related CO² emissions. ³ Source: http://gesi.org/SMARTer2020 PAgE 27 The Telekom Austria Group‘s cloud services with their using Fewer Resources Together wide range of potential uses also allow a decrease in In addition to the aforementioned measures for susenergy consumption and therefore CO² emissions. By tainable network and product design, raising environrelocating programmes and files to central, external mental awareness among customers and employees servers with a design that offers higher performance is another key pillar of the Telekom Austria Group’s and greater energy savings, customers eliminate the corporate sustainability strategy. For example, paper need for their own IT infrastructure. In addition, the consumption is to be reduced further by increasing data are retrievable anytime, anywhere. the proportion of electronic customer invoices (ebills) from 29% in 2012 to 50% by 2015. To achieve this Machine-to-Machine (M2M) target, for example, A1 launched a special measure for As well as connecting people all over the world, comcustomers of its bob brand in spring 2013: for every munication solutions also enable communication switch from paper to online invoices, a Swiss pine was between machines. Potential applications range from donated as part of a reforestation campaign for endrink vending machines that trigger automatic orderdangered coniferous species in the Austrian national ing processes via a SIM card module to smart meters, forests – 1,000 of these rare trees were planted in the use of fleet management by forwarding agents and Krimmler Ache valley in the Salzburg national park usage-based billing of services. region of Hohe Tauern. The international subsidiaries of the Telekom Austria Group also run similar The foundation of Telekom Austria Group M2M GmbH campaigns. Internal information campaigns also in 2011 was geared towards intensive cultivation of this make employees aware of the importance of using forward-looking market for machine communication. paper sparingly. According to a projection by Forrester⁴, approximately GRI EN1-2, 26, 27, TA1, 2, PA11 50 billion devices will be connected by 2020. M2M will Recycling of Mobile phones 2012 play a particular role in the energy industry in future, for example. In Austria, energy network operators are 6,300 A1 legally obliged to fit smart meters in at least 70% of households by 2017 and at least 95% of households 959 Mobiltel by 2019⁵. This will allow the increasingly decentralised generation of energy to be better aligned with 3,746 Vipnet consumption. Recording of actual consumption and costs also leads to greater awareness of how to use 2,872 Si.mobile energy responsibly and sparingly. GRI TA1, 2, EN6, 26, PA11 60,000 Vip mobile¹ ¹ High share is due to a special incentive system. Recycling of Mobile Phones One increasingly discussed aspect is the limited service life of ICT products. Telekom Austria is dealing with this issue, and aims to make a positive contribution to preserving resources and reducing waste. Recycling of mobile phones is a key factor. Mobile phones contain valuable raw materials such as gold, silver, palladium, copper, aluminium, tin and coltan, but also hazardous substances. Although 40% of the materials used could be fed back into the raw material circuit, only 15% of old mobile phones are returned ⁴ Source: http://www.forrester.com/M2M+Connectivity+Help in Austria. With financial donations to not-for-profit s+Telcos+Offset+Declining+Traditional+Services/fulltext/-/ institutions and voucher systems, the Telekom Austria E-RES56893?docid=56893 ⁵ Source: http://www.iktstrategie.at/en/chapter-list/19333 Group runs several initiatives to increase the return SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 PROvIDING RESPONSIBLE PRODuCTS rate. For example, for every mobile phone handed in, initiated in 2012 in order to improve future sharing of A1 donates EUR 4 to the Austrian “Kinderhände” assoexperience and enable greater use of synergies across ciation, which teaches sign language to deaf children national borders. Regular training sessions, e-learning and their parents. Si.mobil in Slovenia donates EUR 1 courses, feedback discussions and coaching sessions per mobile phone to the environmental fund “Sklad ensure that employees can address customer concerns Si.voda”, which is dedicated to water protection (For in the best possible way. further initiatives please see p.54). GRI PR5, PA10 GRI EN26, 27, PA11 Transparent Customer Contracts Focus on Customer Satisfaction & Expense Control Customer satisfaction with products and services is In the interest of fairness and transparency, the the top priority for all Telekom Austria Group comTelekom Austria Group provides suitable applicapanies. Throughout the Group, 3,650 employees in tions for expense control. To this end, in recent years Customer Service provide information on tariffs and instruments such as apps, warning texts and service products and answer their customers’ concerns via blocks or restrictions to warn of insufficient funds hotlines and online portals. In Austria, A1 launched have been implemented and constantly enhanced at the customer service initiative “A1 Support Commuall Telekom Austria Group subsidiaries. nity” at the end of 2011. Via the specially created platform A1community.net, with the help of A1 moderaFor instance, A1 in Austria and si.mobil in Slovenia tors, customers can exchange information and help provides smartphone users with the free “Mein A1” each other with problems. In 2012, this A1 platform and “Si.info” app, with which current costs, minutes won the Digital Communication Award, the German and data volumes used and service support can be Prize for Online Communication and the Best of Social called up at all times. Media Award 2012. In Slovenia, Si.mobil’s portal Moj Simobil was named Best Self-care Portal in 2012 and Vodafone Consumer Services, which was launched the product “The Perfect Office”, which includes cloud in spring/summer 2013 by A1, Vipnet and Mobiltel services, won the Eurocloud Award for Best Case Study in cooperation with the British telecommunication Commercial Sector. company Vodafone, represents a new milestone in innovative customer services. This add-on package At regular intervals, all Telekom Austria Group suboffers customers a wide range of user-friendly and sidiaries conduct detailed customer surveys, thus flexible services that deliver increased privacy proensuring continuous, demand-driven enhancement tection and better interlinking between different of their products and services. A Group-wide customer end-user devices. In addition to special anti-virus satisfaction survey harmonisation programme was programmes, this package also includes tracking Key Data Customer Service Telekom Austria Group 2012 Employees (in FTE) Customer Contacts (in ‘000) Austria 2,390 26,545 Bulgaria 427 5,656 Croatia 223 3,147 Belarus 373 5,382 Slovenia 68 999 Serbia 144 1,817 Macedonia 22 2,023 PAgE 29 and blocking services for mobile phones. By contrast, In addition, time windows for use can be defined, “Vodafone Guardian” is a free app that makes smartand installation of new apps can be suppressed. (For phones child-safe – parents can specify contacts with further media literacy initiatives for children and whom their children can communicate by phone or young people please see page 54) SMS. Functions such as camera, Internet and BlueGRI PA10, PR3 tooth can be approved depending on the child‘s age. Said in 2011 Done in 2012/2013 Planned for 2013/2014 – Intelligent, needs-oriented – Capitel expenditures of EUR 728.2 – Demand oriented infrastructure expansion of network mn in 2012 roll-out in the Telekom Austria infrastructure Group – Initiated a Group-wide customer – Improve the quality of services satisfaction survey harmonisation – Publication of a Data Protection in all markets programme Report in 2014 (A1) – Expand portfolio of innovative and – Expanded online advice and trou– Awareness raising initiatives for convergent products bleshooting employees with focus on data protection – Maintain the highest standards – Implemented expense control of information security and data instruments for customers in all – Continuation of the ISO 20071 protection in all markets markets certification – Continue information campaigns – Appointed managers for data – Development of tools for cost on ”Mobile Communication protection and data security at all control and child protection Health and Safety” subsidiaries – Push Green ICT products and KPI – Appointed crisis management development for reporting teams in Austria and Bulgaria – Further roll-ou of recycling pro– ISO 27001 certification in Bulgaria grammes for mobile phones for the first time For further initiatives please see measures programme on page 54. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 SuSTAINABILITy IN FOCUS IN THE SuPPLy CHAIN Much of the social and environmental impact of busiTo embed social and environmental requirements ness activity originates from the supply chain. It is even more firmly in the purchasing process and raise not only important where materials for products and awareness, a training programme for the employees of services come from and under what conditions they the relevant departments and the Purchasing departare mined or manufactured; how they are packaged ment will be developed in 2013. and transported is another significant factor. AccordGRI 4.11-4.13, EN29, HR 1-2, 6-7, PR1, 3, PA11 ing to a study by GreenBiz.com that was conducted in cooperation with Trucost , these upstream processes COnFlICT MInERAlS account for a hefty 85% of all effects on the environment and society. One of the key issues in the supply chain of technology companies relates to the use of Clear Guidelines for Suppliers ”conflict minerals”. Mining and trading of For this reason, with regard to its suppliers, the minerals such as tin, tantalum, tungsten Telekom Austria Group pays increasingly attention and gold in Central Africa are the focus of international attention, as there is often a to compliance with environmental and social prinlink with armed conflicts in the Democratic ciples. For instance, a long-term project to promote Republic of Congo here. Under the US ”Doddsustainability in purchasing was launched in the 2012 Frank Act, Section 1502”, companies have financial year. This project included the formulation been required since 2010 to retrace and of codes of conduct that summarise requirements for disclose the use of these materials across responsible action by suppliers of Telekom Austria the entire supply chain. Group. Many of these aspects are already contained in the general purchasing conditions of the operating companies and in the Group framework agreements of the Telekom Austria Group. In addition, the Telekom Austria Group’s code of conduct provides guidance for suppliers in terms of conducting themselves fairly and with integrity in their dealings. Sustainability aspects are also a factor in many calls for tender. In addition to the energy efficiency of products, criteria such as ingredients, recyclability and environment-related certificates or labels are taken into consideration. In the Austrian subsidiary A1, a regular vendor rating in the context of supplier assessment forms the basis for collaboration and development. As well as commercial and technical aspects, various environmental and social criteria are also assessed in the case of suppliers that have a significant volume. With a view to optimising the assessment of the corporate risk, the Telekom Austria Group also reserves the right to audit potential and existing suppliers and their products. PAgE 31 IN HIS HANDS HE CARRIES ORBIS, A COPY OF THE EARTH. IT ALLOWS HIM TO SEE WHAT OUR WORLD WILL LOOK LIKE IN 100 YEARS TIME AND TO RECOgNISE WHAT IS gOOD AND BAD FOR THE ENVRONMENT. THIS MAKES HIM THE IDEAL PARTNER FOR THIS AREA. ENVIRONMENT LIVING GREEN one of the biggest challenges of climate and environmental protection is global warming. the telekom austria group’s network infrastructure is one reason why more and more traffic is moving from the roads to the data highway. and its infrastructure is a key factor in the establishment of intelligent power supply networks. the energy-efficient design of these transmission networks, increased use of renewable energy, climate-friendly mobility and the preservation of raw materials through optimised recycling and disposal processes are central components of our ecological responsibility. to reduce the environmental impact of its business operations continuously, the telekom austria group sets itself clear and measurable targets in this area. Targets for 2015: 20% increase in energy efficiency 10% increase in the recycling rate 10% reduction in paper consumption roll-out of renewable energy projects PAgE 33 Strategic Environmental were audited and compliance with the regulation was Management as a Framework confirmed in 2013. Measured in terms of headcount, For the Telekom Austria Group and its stakeholders¹, 57% of all business units of the Telekom Austria Group energy-efficient operation of transmission networks, were certified according to ISO 14001 as of 31 December use of renewable energies, optimisation of recycling 2012. The environmental management system of the and disposal processes and climate-friendly mobilRepublic of Serbia is awarded by Ökoprofit. ity are the key environmental points for the Telekom Environmental KpIs Austria Group. To enable efficient measurement and Telekom Austria Group 2012 control of environmental impacts at Group level as well, an agreed environmental policy was developed Energy and the collection of key environmental indicators Total energy consumption 693,284 MWh was harmonised in 2012 as part of the TAGreen project Renewable energies as a proportion 56% (see page 18). This means environmental key ratios for of power consumption 2012 are available for the first time not only for Austria, Energy efficiency index 2.1 but also for the operating companies in Bulgaria, measured in MWh per terabyte Croatia, Belarus, Slovenia, the Republic of Serbia and Climate-relevant emissions the Republic of Macedonia. The indicators listed in CO� emissions¹ 218,296 t the table on this side have been set for performance Direct CO� emissions (Scope 1) 28,649 t measurement, and are used as initial values for the targets for 2015. Indirect CO� emissions (Scope 2) 189,647 t CO� per FTE 13 t Certifi ed Management Systems Waste volume The general principles and environmental aspects Absolute waste volume 7,140 t on which the Telekom Austria Group’s environmenRecycling rate 55% tal activities are based are governed by a uniform environmental policy (see telekomaustria.com). It Collection and recycling 73,877 units of old mobile phones forms the basis of the environmental programme, which sets the specific targets, measures and responConsumption of resources sibilities in the individual business units (extract: Total consumption of paper 1,890 t see the measures programme on page 54). Effective Proportion of electronic 29% environmental management systems ensure that all customer invoices environmental aspects are monitored, the planned Water consumption 292,154 m³ measures are systematically implemented and po¹ Includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions tential for improvements is highlighted. In Austria, Comment: Detailed information on the definition and delimitation of the respective key figures can be found A1’s environmental management system has already in the data section starting on p.67 been certified since 2004 in line with the international environmental management standard ISO 14001. A1 Active Climate Protection also became one of the first companies in Austria to Through CO2 Reduction have its energy management system certified in line One of the biggest global challenges of the next few with ISO 50001 in 2009. In addition, the requirements decades is undoubtedly reducing the greenhouse of the EMAS regulation were audited and compliance effect and the associated global warming. The Telekom with the regulation was confirmed in 2013. This EU Austria Group is aware that operating growth must eco audit is a EU environmental management and not involve a further increase in CO² emissions. The audit scheme aimed at measuring and improving use of innovative measures is intended to reduce the environmental performance. Si.mobil in Slovenia is Group‘s own environmental footprint. The measures also certified in accordance with ISO 14001 since 2009. programme is particularly geared towards curbing the In addition the requirements of the EMAS regulation energy requirement for operation of the communication networks. ¹ Comparable results from the materiality matrix in the Strategy chapter. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 The tables and charts on this side show the GroupAir pollutants Vehicle Fleet Telekom Austria Group LIvING GREEN wide emissions of Telekom Austria Group in 2012. 2012 in g/km The figures make clear that the greenhouse gas CO² Nitrogen oxide (NO x) 0.690 accounts for most emissions, and the Scope 2 emisSulphur dioxide (SO₂) 0.195 sions mostly relate to purchased energy and energy used in-house. Particulate matter (PM10) 0.069 CO₂ Emissions of the Telekom Austria Group 2012 GRI EN 16-17, 19-20 Scope 2 Scope 1 in t 28,649 189,647 in t Energy-Efficient Infrastructures The information and communication sector is one 20,269 56,172 of Europe’s major markets of the future. The increase A1 A1 in digitisation is a factor in replacing CO²-intensive 3,738 47,447 products and services, and thus plays a key role in the Mobiltel Mobiltel development of a low-carbon economy. However, the 1,171 18,640 huge rise in data volumes transported via the network Vipnet Vipnet infrastructure and the expansion of new technologies 1,694 26,213 also lead to an increase in network energy consumpvelcom velcom tion. To offset this trend, the Telekom Austria Group 112 9,390 relies on a large number of measures ranging from Si.mobil Si.mobil new cooling concepts, the use of innovative, energy1,240 24,035 efficient technologies and demand-oriented activaVip mobile Vip mobile tion and deactivation to the use of GSM resources at 425 7,750 mobile base stations. These initiatives and projects Vip operator Vip operator enabled the Telekom Austria Group to counter the Scope 1 contains direct emissions from the burning of fossil trend and achieve a slight reduction in power confuels for heating, electricity production and mobility, excluding cooling agents. Scope 2 measures indirect emissions from power sumption of 1% in Austria in 2012. As part of the new consumption and district heating. key figures system, the Telekom Austria Group reports GRI EN16-17, 19-20, EC2 its power consumption in relation to the transported data volume for the Group (except Liechtenstein) for EnVIROnMEnTAl RISKS 2012 for the first time; it stands at 2.1 MWh pro terabyte. This energy efficiency index is to be improved Climate change may present risks to the by 20% by 2015. Telekom Austria Group’s network infrastrucGRI EN5-7, 18, 26, TA1, 2 ture (e.g. rising average temperatures or high volumes of precipitation up to and including Managing Energy Requirements floods, mudslides, etc.). The Telekom Austria in the Telekom Austria Group Group is actively committed to climate protection and constantly monitors related develAs well as having to be constantly available, computer opments so that it can initiate measures to and data centres also need a great amount of cooling, protect its infrastructure equipment if needed. which makes them extremely energy-intensive. StrucFor further details, see the Risk Report on tural measures at A1 such as cold aisle containment p.60ff of the Annual Report 2012. systems not only enhance operational safety, but also reduce energy consumption for cooling. HotGRI EC2 spot suction extraction is another innovative cooling system. Here, the waste heat directly above the device is sucked away while outside air is fed in for cooling purposes. A1 has significantly reduced the energy consumption of mobile base stations by using hybrid ventilation, which won an award in 2012 in the context of the Austrian “klima:aktiv” programme. A windPAgE 35 powered ventilator system is used to ventilate and Key Figures on power Consumption by the Telekom Austria Group in 2012 air the radio room. An electric motor is activated only when necessary. This method of hybrid ventilation Total energy consumption in MWh 693,284 reduces energy consumption by approximately 75% Of which power consumption¹ in MWh 564,839 in comparison to other conventional cooling systems. Of which heating energy² in MWh 18,793 Of which district heating in MWh 35,247 In Croatia, Vipnet uses cooling systems with special Of which fuel³ in MWh 74,405 power-saving mechanisms and transformer staEnergy efficiency index in MWh/terabyte 2.1 tions with energy-efficient transformers in its data centres. In 2012, Vipnet equipped ten data centres in Renewable energies as a proportion 56 of power consumption in % office buildings with these energy-optimised cooling systems. In Belarus, velcom has focused on heat re¹ Purchase and in-house production ² Oil and gas covery from its data centre. When building its data ³ Diesel, petrol, natural gas centre, velcom opted for maximum energy efficiency, GRI EN34, and can cover a third of its heating requirements through heat extraction. of electricity per year since 2010. Photovoltaics are also being tested as an alternative energy source in Sustainable lifecycle management is another method mobile communication and in telephone booths. In of countering the rise in energy consumption due to addition, a new photovoltaic farm was built in summer increasing data volumes. Use of the latest available 2013 right next to the Aflenz earth station, enabling an technology means that more data can be transported annual CO² reduction of up to 50 tonnes with a total using less energy. The subsidiaries of the Telekom output of 113 kilowatt-peak. For 2014 a second stage Austria Group are constantly converting their transof extension to 195 KWp is planned, which will reach mission networks to new technologies and continua CO² reduction of approximately 90 tonnes. ously modernising all relevant infrastructure equipment. In addition, the GSM resources at mobile base The Croatian subsidiary Vipnet has won several awards – stations are used efficiently across all TAG countries, including the “Global Telecom Business Innovation for instance through gradual adaptation in periods Award 2012” and the “World Communication Award” – with less traffic. This enables an energy saving of for a hybrid energy supply system for mobile base around 10% per activated location. stations. The company uses almost completely selfsufficient energy provision at three remote mobile The table on this side shows the energy consumption of base stations that are hard to supply. For the first time, the Telekom Austria Group in 2012. Power consumption hydrogen fuel cells are being used there alongside from self-generated and purchased energy accounts solar and wind energy. Altogether more than 50 mobile for the bulk of this. stations at least partially use wind and solar power at GRI EN5, 6, 7, 26 Vipnet. Vipnet’s headquarters has been equipped with a photovoltaic plant that generated more than 37,300 Power from Water, Sun and Wind KWh of renewable energy in 2012. Si.mobil in SloveIn addition to energy efficiency, increased use of nia is also operating its first test stations with solar renewable energies also provides effective startenergy. In the Republic of Macedonia, Vip operator ing points in the fight against climate change. The has installed solar-powered mobile phone charging Telekom Austria Group has set the target to push the stations in public a place in cooperation with the naroll-out of renewable energy projects. Besides the tional energy agency to sensitise the public regarding growing shift from electricity to renewable energies, the economical use of energy. with which A1 covered just under 81% of its total power GRI EN18 consumption in 2012, in-house green power projects will be pushed in the future. For instance, a photovoltaic plant operated by A1 at the Arsenal technology centre in Vienna has been generating around 30 MWh SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 Climate-Friendly Mobility card. The new electric charging stations, to be built LIvING GREEN Mobility means change as well as movement. We are from summer 2013, are equipped with a photovolatic increasingly using digital methods: official business, panel and also generate renewable energy. In addition, teleworking and numerous daily activities can now A1 supports several initiatives to increase the spread be conducted easily and conveniently online with of electric mobility: as part of the Empora2 project, modern ICT solutions. In keeping with the motto A1 is involved in research on data roaming between “data traffic instead of road traffic”, the services of the different electric charging station operators. A1 has Telekom Austria Group are helping to reduce traffic been a member of Austrian Mobile Power, Austria‘s volumes. In its own fleet, the Telekom Austria Group biggest platform for electric mobility, since 2010 and is stepping up its use of alternative drive systems, proaids in the development of the communication inviding its employees with climate-friendly transport frastructure. As a partner of the Electric Mobility alternatives for journeys around town and promoting Model Region Vienna, A1 supports the construction the enhancement of electric mobility, especially in of charging points and the conversion of company Austria. vehicle fleets to electric vehicles. GRI EN6, 18, 26 Ecology in the Fleet and logistics Ongoing maintenance of network infrastructures and Climate-Friendly Meetings on-site support of customers requires a high degree of At the Telekom Austria Group, business trips are remobility. A pool of just under 5,000 vehicles is available placed by virtual meetings whenever this is possible to enable Telekom Austria Group employees to carry and worthwhile. From Zagreb to Belgrade and Sofia to out the work involved. Increased use of hybrid and Minsk, employees have a total of 38 videoconferencelectric cars and natural gas-powered vehicles enabled ing rooms with state-of-the-art technical equipment a reduction in fossil fuel consumption in 2012 despite available to them for virtual communication. With a rise in mileage. In Austria, A1 has also developed an more than 19,000 video conferences, the success of innovative logistics concept that reduces the journeys virtual business trips at the Telekom Austria Group of the approximately 1,400 service technicians to the is undisputed. Bearing in mind that for each of the nearest equipment warehouse to no more than 10 km. 7,700 virtual meetings planned in advance, at least This enables savings of around 1 million kilometres one business trip was saved, the number of journeys or 200 tonnes of CO² emissions per year. saved has more than doubled year-on-year. This not GRI EN18, 29 only has a positive effect on the environment, but also on the life balance of TAG employees. Electric Mobility Since 2010, A1 has been supporting the spread of eElectric bikes and Segways are also available to emmobility in Austria by converting telephone booths ployees in Austria for journeys around town. In Bulinto electric charging stations. Electric vehicles can be garia, Croatia, Belarus, Slovenia and the Republic of recharged easily at the 30 charging stations throughout Macedonia, employees can use bicycles free of charge. Austria. They are currently free to use and are operTo promote personal bicycle use, Velcom in Belarus is ated via SMS or an RFID-based, contactless charging also planning to build bike storage areas at all company Key Figures on the Telekom Austria Group Vehicle Fleet 2012 Change in % 2011 Number of vehicles 4,994 -0 5,017 Petrol consumption in litres 366,821 -18 445,455 Diesel consumption in litres 7,040,635 -1 7,126,588 Consumption of alternative fuels 114,347 6 104,310 (liquid gas, compressed natural gas) in litres Mileage in ‘000 km 102,293 2 100,380 PAgE 37 locations over the next few years. By contrast, the forare preset for double-sided printing in black and white. mation of car pools is supported in Austria and Croatia. Internal campaigns to raise employee awareness of In Slovenia, Si.mobil also promotes the use of public sparing use of resources were organised in Bulgaria, transport in Slovenia by providing employees with the Slovenia and the Republic of Macedonia in 2012. For City Card and encourages employees to use alternative further details on environmental aspects such as means of mobility during the mobility week. water consumption please see page 67. GRI TA1, 2, EN18 GRI EN26, 27 Sparing use of Resources Raising Awareness Using the finite resources of nature sparingly is a Employee motivation is not only crucial to commercial central component of effective environmental protecsuccess, but also crucial to corporate environmention. Here, the Telekom Austria Group also sets clear tal protection. In the context of internal campaigns, targets: paper consumption is to be reduced by 10% by Telekom Austria Group employees are informed on, 2015, and the recycling rate for all company waste is inspired about and involved in selected key issues. to be increased by 10% (currently 55%). The measures For instance, all Telekom Austria Group companies range from targeted waste prevention and separation took part in the Earth Hour: at the Arsenal Tower in and information campaigns to raising awareness Vienna and in the windows of the A1 shops throughamong employees and customers to increased conout Austria, the lights went out for an hour in the sideration in purchasing policy. evening of 23 March. Vipnet appealed to its employees’ GRI EN1-2 environmental conscience and Si.mobil and Mobiltel reminded all employees to take part in Earth Hour, in Making Good use of Waste Materials which 135 countries participated. Mobiltel distributed The Telekom Austria Group constantly upgrades its over 10.000 eco-packages of flower seeds to its custelecommunication technologies to increase efficiency tomers and employees to raise awareness. As part of and performance. At the end of their lifecycle, devices the local “RE.misli” programme, Si.mobil called on are removed, systematically separated into elements its employees to manage without their cars during such as printed circuit boards, copper or iron/sheet national “Mobility Week”. In the Republic of Serbia, a metal and recycled appropriately in order to close long-term programme called “Ecomotivation” is being the raw material circuit. Individual Telekom Austria run to raise employee as well as customer awareness Group subsidiaries also offer customers free takeof CO² reduction, waste disposal and recycling. In back and specialist disposal of old personal mobile 2012, the programme focused on recycling of used phones as well as batteries and chargers. See page mobile phones and supported green projects, such as 23 ff for further details. the “Green fest”, a festival for environmental topics. GRI EN26, 27 COOpERATIOnS Avoiding unnecessary use To the Telekom Austria Group, besides appropriate – ETNO (Telekom Austria Group) disposal and recycling, preserving resources par– klima:aktiv (A1) ticularly means preventing waste wherever possible. – Austrian Mobile Power (A1) For example, in Austria, A1 has reduced its product – Code of Conduct on Data Centers Energy packaging for mobile phones by means of a modular Efficiency (A1) – National Ecological Forum 2012 (velcom) packaging system that saves 64 tonnes of cardboard packaging per year. This equates to a loading capacity of approximately ten lorries and has a positive impact on the transportation volume, which has been reduced by 40%. Vipnet in Croatia uses follow-me printers, which print only if employees register on the printer by means of a code. In addition, as is also the case at Vip mobile in the Republic of Serbia, printing systems SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 LIvING GREEN AWARDS Carbon Disclosure Project Award for Outstanding Achievement in Climate Protection (Telekom Austria Group) – Klima:aktiv award from the Austrian Life Ministry’s climate protection initiative for the use of wind energy in hybrid ventilation systems (2012, A1, Austria) – Named the ”greenest company” in the Bulgarian telecommunication industry in 2013 by B2B Magazine (Mobiltel, Bulgaria) – Presented with the Green Business Award 2013 for the Mtel eco grant project by the Bulgarian Environment Ministry (Mobiltel, Bulgaria) Said in 2011 Done in 2012/2013 planned for 2013/2014 – Standardise and extend the – Successful implementation of – Continuously improve coverage of key figures to uniform reporting of environmental data collection measure the Group’s environmental key figures and performance environmental performance (TAGreen) – Stronger integration environ– Improve energy efficiency – Implementation of numerous mental criteria such as energy measures to increase energy efficiency of – Expand the recycling programmes efficiency, particularly in terms of devices in the supply chain in the Additional Markets segment network operation, server rooms – Build up a new waste system in – Improve and expand the and mobile base stations Austria, Belarus, Bulgaria and the environmental management – EMAS certification in Austria and Republic of Macedonia systems Slovenia for the first time, 57% of – Promote photovoltaic projects – Pilot projects to increase the use all business units of TAG certified of alternative energy sources in line with ISO 14001 – Internal campaign on consumption of ressources – Solar and hybrid operation of mobile base stations as well as wind and photovoltaic farms in some countries – Numerous campaigns and initiatives to raise awareness such as the annual Earth Hour Further initiatives can be found in the measures programm on page 54. PAgE 39 SHE COMES FROM THE LAND OF HARMONY, MYSTERIOUS TO HUMANS. UNDER THE PROTECTION OF HER LARgE WINgS, DIVERSITY CAN DEVELOP ITS POTENTIAL WITHOUT RESTRICTION. AND THANKS TO THESE WINgS, SHE TRAVELS AROUND THE WORLD WITHIN SECONDS, ALWAYS SEARCHINg FOR WHAT IS NEW AND INNOVATIVE. THIS MAKES HER THE IDEAL PARTNER FOR THIS AREA. EMPLOYEES EMPOWERING PEOPLE skilled, committed employees who think and act with business savvy are a key success factor for the company. for this reason, the telekom austria group’s personnel strategy is based on identifying and fostering talent at an early stage, continuous further education and professional training and a balanced management, performance and feedback culture. equal treatment of all employees and in particular equal treatment of men and women are at the heart of all the company’s activities, as is a healthy life balance. the objectives of this area promote fair and attractive hiring conditions as well as active diversity within the group. Targets for 2015: maintenance of the high engagement index level Promotion of internal career opportunities 35% women in the telekom austria group and in management positions increase in international dialogue PAgE 41 A Strong, Performance-focused Team In this context, Group Human Resources acts as a 16,446 employees in eight countries, employee costs of strategic player within the company and as a partner EUR 833.6 million, EUR 604 per employee for further for the subsidiaries and specialist units. With state-ofeducation and professional training – these are just a the-art processes and a network of human resources few of the Telekom Austria Group’s personnel figures experts, the company is fit for current and future for 2012. Behind these figures is a wide range of culchallenges. tural diversities and traditions, which need to be fostered equally as the focus on performance and The Telekom Austria Group’s human resources stratcommitment. egy contains the following strategic targets, to be met by 2015: Personnel Structure At the end of 2012, the Telekom Austria Group had – Support the business plan through Group-wide and 16,446 employees, 4.5% less than one year previously. local human resources measures In 2012 666 vacant posts were filled by internal ap– Promote talent and performance management to pointments. The average age stands at approximately create a high-performance culture 39 years. Here it must be kept in mind that the Telekom – Establish a leadership framework for implementing Austria Group subsidiaries in the Republic of Serbia Group values and fostering employee commitment and the Republic of Macedonia did not commence – Ensure an efficient organisation taking local factors operations until 2007. In Austria, just under 53% of into account all employees have civil servant status. GRI EC7, LA2, 4 The human resources strategy is being implemented at the individual subsidiaries, whereby their key focal Human Resources Strategy points are maintained. It is approved by the Group The dynamic market environment, in which Telekom Chief Human Resources Officer, whose responsibilities Austria Group sustains its position, is characterised include implementation of Group-wide processes and by fast technological change and intense competiinstruments as well as organisation of talent managetive pressure. Safeguarding competitiveness and ment, orientation of performance management, the earning power requires an increase in efficiency and employee surveys and the Telekom Austria Group restructuring measures that must be reconciled with Business School, an in-house training and educational continuous employee development. The Telekom institution. The officers in the respective business Austria Group meets these challenges with a clear, units and countries are responsible for implementforward-looking human resources strategy derived ing the measures as well as carrying out their own from the corporate strategy. projects in line with local requirements. GRI LA1 personnel Structure Percentage Percentage Average Part-Time of Female Percentage of Local Age of Employees Employees of Female Management 2012 FTE (PE) Employees (HC) (HC in %) Executives (in %) A1 (Austria) 9,077 43 618 25 17 98 Mobiltel (Bulgaria) 2,937 33 36 50 48 99 Vipnet (Croatia) 1,104 37 8 39 39 98 velcom (Belarus) 1,680 36 30 67 42 99 Si.mobil (Slovenia) 366 36 13 48 38 98 Vip mobile (Serbia) 898 32 0 54 38 94 Vip operator (Macedonia) 205 33 0 55 38 94 Telekom Austria Group1 16,446 39 705 38 32 98 ¹ Total Telekom Austria Group includes mobilkom liechtenstein. GRI EC7, LA13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 EMPOWERING PEOPLE Age Structure Employees 2012 ist skills and management skills as well as establishin Headcount 6,031 ing leadership standards in all countries. Leadership standards result in a joint understanding of leadership 5,344 quality and ensure professional leadership within the company. In addition, managers in Austria can sign up to the “New Manager” programme, which gives them the necessary expertise for their management tasks and responsibilities in less than a year. At Vip operator in the Republic of Macedonia, the Leadership Academy was continued and a manager development programme was prepared in 2012. The “Talent Man3,080 agement” programme launched in Croatia in 2012 is also aimed at fostering new managers and expert 2,403 careers. In Bulgaria a second leadership programme was introduced in cooperation with Blanchard International Bulgaria and eCornell, USA. Si.mobil in Slovenia develops its employees via the si.academy. University and technical college graduates in Austria can enrol on a 12-month graduates’ programme, while the in-house A1 trainee programme is available to 42 high school graduates. 16-19 20-29 30 39 40 49 above 50 years years years years years To ensure an adequate supply of specialists and GRI EC7, LA13 managers in future, the Telekom Austria Group is particularly committed to training apprentices. The In-Depth Further Education programme starts with six months of basic training and Professional Training at the A1 apprentice centre in Vienna. This is followed The Telekom Austria Group actively encourages its by practical modules in the respective corporate units employees’ career development, investing EUR 9.9 and attendance at vocational school. In the year under million (EUR 604 per employee) in this area in the review, a total of 227 apprentices (16% women) received 2012 financial year. training: 176 (7% women) in technical courses and 51 (49% women) in commercial courses. 62 apprentices Opened in autumn 2010, the Telekom Austria Group completed their training at A1 in 2012. 70 apprentices Business School is the central in-house training and (47 women) were employed at Mobiltel in Bulgaria educational institution. By the end of 2012, it had in 2012. developed and organised more than 110 training proGRI EC7, LA10, 11 grammes for approximately 1,850 employees. These range from the “Group Young Potential Programme”, Fostering Diversity focusing on topics such as ICT innovations, company The corporate culture of the Telekom Austria Group values, corporate sustainability and diversity manageregards the diversity of its employees and the cultural ment, to “functional academies” (marketing, techdifferences of its markets as great assets that provide nology, finance) for top experts, and “Group Talent valuable opportunities for successful corporate develManagement”. opment. This is reflected by the corporate values and code of conduct, which are geared towards equality In addition to this central development facility, the of all employees regardless of age, gender, religion or Telekom Austria Group subsidiaries also prepare their sexual orientation. own professional training programmes for their employees. These are focused on fostering talent, specialPAgE 43 Through its “x.change” programme, which offers The Telekom Austria Group runs various childcare working abroad for several weeks, the Telekom Austria initiatives to help its employees. In Austria, A1 and Group fosters international sharing of experience and trained educators from the Vienna University Chilmutual understanding. 115 employees took part in dren’s Office provide free childcare on school-free days 2012. In addition, employees of Telekom Austria Group and in the holidays in the form of the “Flying Nannies”. have the opportunity to apply for a job abroad via the internal job market. To encourage top management to In Slovenia, Si.mobil organises free childcare in all share their experience, the annual “Telekom Austria school holidays which is one of the measures of the Group Summit” was created. At this event, around Family-Friendly Enterprise certification. Mobiltel in 200 managers from all the subsidiaries discuss trends Bulgaria has set up its own on-site childcare and the and developments. “Club Mama”. However, at the Telekom Austria Group, diversity also Vip mobile in the Republic of Serbia and Vipnet in means integrating people with special needs into the Croatia offer full-time on-site childcare for their emworking environment. As of 31 December 2012, there ployees. were 352 employees in the Telekom Austria Group GRI LA13 with special needs. 24 disability liaison officers deal with their special requirements and ensure that they Health and Modern have appropriate workplaces. Working Conditions GRI EC7 As a responsible employer, the Telekom Austria Group promotes the health of its employees through medical Equal Opportunities for Women check-ups, health seminars and ongoing measures to At the Telekom Austria Group, female employees improve health and safety and workplace ergonomare treated equally to their male colleagues in every ics. For example, a “health day” with health checks, respect. The proportion of women at the Telekom sports activities and an online course in occupational Austria Group was 38% as of 31 December 2012. In health and safety was organised at Mobiltel in Bulgaria managerial posts, the equivalent figure is 32%, with in order to motivate employees to lead a healthier significant differences at regional level. This is why we lifestyle. have committed ourselves to raising the proportion of women as a whole and the proportion of women The A1 health initiative “Fit on the Job” also focuses in management posts in all our companies to 35%. on preventive healthcare. As well as health days and Development and expansion of women’s networks as working groups, it also focuses on free medical checkpart of the New Manager programme at A1, mentorups, various fitness activities and sports groups, semiing programmes and flexible working schemes are nars for non-smokers and a range of vaccinations. A measures to achieve this target. works doctor and health practitioner are available to employees in an advisory capacity at A1. In addition, the Telekom Austria Group supports the career development of women and encourages interAt Vip mobile in the Republic of Serbia, employees and est in technical careers among girls. By participating relatives use free healthcare at a health centre on the once again in “Daughter’s Day”, attended by approxipremises of Vip mobile as part of the “Dr. Vip” health mately 90 girls between the ages of 11 and 16 in 2012, A1 programme. Si.mobil in Slovenia provides all of its highlights career opportunities for girls in technical employees with health checks and a range of sports professions. With the “Girls4Business” programme, activities. Vip operator in the Republic of Macedonia A1 supports the career development of female apallows its employees to participate in team sports once prentices. In the Republic of Serbia, the annual “Girls a week, and Vipnet has its own on-site fitness centre. in the ICT Day” is particularly aimed at raising girls’ enthusiasm for careers in the ICT industry. Coaching, burnout prevention and anti-stress programmes are also available to employees at A1, Vipnet, Velcom, Vip operator and Si.mobil. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 EMPOWERING PEOPLE Flexible working schemes and the opportunity for Active Dialogue with Employees teleworking are intended to help employees to work Various communication channels such as Intranet, from everywhere and to find the right balance between newsletters, staff magazines and social media keep work and their private life. All the companies in the all Telekom Austria Group employees informed of the Telekom Austria Group offer flexible working schemes latest company developments and industry trends, for their employees. Here are some examples: Mobiltel and help to maintain identification with the company. in Bulgaria has initiated a life-balance programme Once a year, all companies in the Telekom Austria comprising various types of support for women and Group hold an internal roadshow of the Telekom families, such as an in-house nursery school and joint Austria Group Management Board in order to present family activities. Vipnet in Croatia offers teleworking corporate strategy and current plans and promote for women during pregnancy and after maternity exchange within the Group. leave. GRI LA7, 8, IO3 Occupational health and Safety Days Lost to 2012 Accidents Fatal Accidents Accidents A1 (Austria) 116 0 641 Mobiltel (Bulgaria) 5 0 107 Vipnet (Croatia) 10 0 0 velcom (Belarus) 0 0 0 Si.mobil (Slovenia) 2 0 83 Vip mobile (Serbia) 5 0 258 Vip operator (Macedonia) 0 0 0 Telekom Austria Group 138 0 1,089 2011 A1 (Austria) 113 0 1,099 Mobiltel (Bulgaria) 3 0 475 Vipnet (Croatia) 9 0 371 velcom (Belarus) 0 0 0 Si.mobil (Slovenia) 3 0 24 Vip mobile (Serbia) 4 0 94 Vip operator (Macedonia) 0 0 0 Telekom Austria Group 132 0 2,063 PAgE 45 In the 2012 financial year, the Telekom Austria Group should be geared towards corporate values. Regular conducted the first company-wide employee survey, feedback discussions support target attainment and entitled “TAGisfaction”. In the context of an online are focused on enhancing the individual development survey in all national languages, employees rated of employees. and commented on their satisfaction with their job, their identification with the company, the strategy The commitment of Telekom Austria Group employees and career development on the basis of a 5-point scale. is also illustrated by the following examples: projects such as “Vip role model” initiated by Vip mobile in The survey was open to all Telekom Austria Group the Republic of Serbia in 2012, which invites employstaff a well as to leasing personell actively and properly ees to nominate colleagues for an award, who show employed and with a Telekom Austria Group e-mail outstanding performance and special commitment. account as of the end of April 2012. Evaluation was Another special mention goes to the “Be a partner” carried out in collaboration with the market research project, launched in 2010 by Mobiltel in Bulgaria institute CEB Valtera, thus ensuring independence to promote commitment in customer support. The and neutrality. project received an award in 2012 from the Bulgarian Association for People Management. For further iniIn 2012, a total of 19,156 employees were invited to take tiatives please see measures programme on page 54. part. A response rate of approximately 57% enabled valuable findings, which have been incorporated in In addition, in November 2012, employees in Bulgaria future leadership requirements, HR work and emreceived special praise from the Bulgarian Forum of ployee communication. The engagement index of Donors for their voluntary social commitment in the 79% – much higher than the sector trend – showed context of a teambuilding initiative. Vip mobile in that employees have an extremely close affinity to the Republic of Serbia set up a project to strengthen the company. its corporate culture in 2012. Some of the measures included the establishment of efficient collaboraIt was apparent that there are two areas for improvetion structures and a joint understanding in terms ment at the Telekom Austria Group: strategy commuof corporate values. In the Telekom Austria Group, nication and leadership. Measures for improvement employees also have the opportunity to get involved have been implemented, starting in the 2nd half of 2012. in the community through corporate volunteering. They include optimisation of strategy communication Further information can be found in the Living Green and a company-wide rollout of leadership standards. and Creating Equal Opportunities chapter on page 32 A new survey for the 2013 financial year was launched and on page 48 respectively. in the summer 2013. GRI LA5, 11, 12 GRI LA5 Award-Winning Employer Performance Management The Telekom Austria Group companies also won and Commitment several awards for their committed human resources The Telekom Austria Group actively promotes the management in 2012. Vip operator was named best performance orientation and commitment of its ememployer in the Republic of Macedonia by employees ployees. Annual target agreements, regular feedback for the third successive year in 2012 (category: 100 and professional assessment of target attainment to 500 employees). Si.mobil in Slovenia received an are the focal points here, as well as establishment award for the best human resources management of a culture of trust and integrity and fostering of project of the year in 2012. Its “Innovativeness” project individual responsibility. successfully implemented creative thinking and innovative ideas in the corporate culture. In 2012, Vipnet Performance management models have been escame in third in the best employer competition and tablished in all Group companies. These promote a joint first with Microsoft in the Croatian Employer a results-focused approach by setting clear targets Certificate for high standards in human resources and also take into account individual conduct, which processes and strategies. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 EMPOWERING PEOPLE Vip mobile was awarded as one of the best employers in the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Mobiltel’s achievements in 2012 included first place for its work-life balance programme in the Bulgarian Business Leaders Forum’s annual “Responsible Business Awards” and the prize for the best internal event (presentation of the Mtel brand to employees) and the best internal campaign for changing the corporate culture at the 2013 Grapevine Awards. Said in 2011 Done in 2012/2013 planned for 2013/2014 – Increase the proportion of female – Childcare facilities, participation in – Establishment of a Leadership executives in all Telekom Austria Daughters‘ Day Framework to support the leaderGroup companies to 35% by 2015 ship culture in the Group – Continued to expand training – Increase the percentage of female options – Drive talent management and employees at A1 to 35% by 2016 internal career paths – Conducted the first-ever – Conduct an annual group-wide Group-wide employee survey – Continue groupwide employee employee satisfaction survey survey ”TAGisfaction” – Promoted voluntary social starting in 2012 engagement – Promote new ways of working in – Promote career opportunities the Group – Continued and stepped up health within the Telekom Austria Group promotion programmes – Targeted measures to support young managers throghout the Telekom Austria Group Further initiatives can be found in the measures programme on page 54ff. PAgE 47 WHERE SHE COMES FROM, WISDOM IS AN INEXHAUSTIBLE RESOURCE THAT IS AVAILABLE TO EVERYONE. HER MISSION IS TO MAKE KNOWLEDgE EQUALLY AVAILABLE TO EVERYONE, INCLUDINg IN OTHER UNIVERSES. THIS MAKES HER THE IDEAL PARTNER FOR THIS AREA. SOCIETY CREATING EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES in our knowledge society, the exchange of information and opportunities for education and democratic participation are increasingly linked to the use of new media. however, opportunities to access the internet and other digital information and communication channels are not spread equally and are heavily dependent on social and financial factors. the telekom austria group firmly believes that the digital world should be open to everyone and is therefore committed to reducing the ”digital gap”. even so, the use of new media also involves risks and dangers in terms of protection of privacy, credibility of content and the intentions of some users. this area includes targeted initiatives to promote access to digital media as well as the media literacy skills of people of all ages and at different stages of their lives. Targets for 2015: 100,000 people participating in training to promote media literacy skills (by 2016) Promotion of cooperations with focus on media literacy in the telekom austria group implementation of social cooperations according to local needs PAgE 49 Digital Information and A1 Internet for All knowledge Society In autumn 2011, in conjunction with numerous partThe fast and almost boundless possibilities of distribners, the Telekom Austria Group launched “A1 Internet uting and sharing content on the Internet presents for All” in Austria to help those who were previously huge opportunities, but also poses risks. Those who excluded to enter the digital world. Since then, interbenefit most from the potential of new media are ested parties in all age groups, from children to senior those who are skilled in using the wealth of informacitizens, can take part in free workshops on how to tion and possibilities. The essential conditions for use the Internet properly and safely at the “A1 Internet this are access to and skilled use of the Internet. In for All” campus in Vienna, Klagenfurt or Salzburg 2006, just half the population of the EU member states and at partner institutions – for example Caritas, the had Internet access. By 2012, the figure had reached Austrian Federation of the Blind and Partially Sighted three quarters.¹ Conversely, this means that one in or the Ute Bock refugee accommodation centres. In four people is still unable to participate in the digital addition, the training team travels all over Austria to world due to various socioeconomic, demographic reach people from Lake Constance to Lake Neusiedl. or regional factors. Worldwide, there are more than More than 1,300 Internet training sessions were held 5 billion people.² and attended by approximately 19,000 people in 2012. The feedback is positive: 98% of all participants would There is a wide range of associated consequences, recommend the training sessions. Since 2012, more from the missing access to digital information to than 200 A1 employees – from apprentices to members reduced opportunities in the labour market. According of the Management Board – have been for the first time to recent estimates by the European Commission, at personally committed to the initiative by contributleast basic IT and Internet skills will be required for ing ideas and applying their professional experience approximately 90% of all jobs in Europe from 2015. to the training sessions. This commitment is paying Despite this development, current research results off: the Competence Centre for Nonprofit Organisasuggest that European children show serious deficientions (NPOs) at the Vienna University of Economics cies in their digital skills. For example, 38% of 9 to and Business, which performs ongoing evaluation 12-year-old Internet users in Europe say that they have of the initiative, confirms that “A1 Internet for All” a personal profile on an Internet portal. However, only is making a key contribution to closing the “digital 56% of those in this age group know how to change gap” in Austria. their own data protection settings.³ GRI PA5 „A1 Internet for All”Recommendation Rate By setting up and expanding communication infraVisitors in % structure, the Telekom Austria Group is creating the 18,592 98 98 necessary technical access capabilities for extensive knowledge and education in Austria and seven other countries in Central and Eastern Europe. But its commitment and sense of responsibility go beyond this: wide-ranging initiatives are helping people to enter the digital world and improve their ability to use new technologies. 4,583 ¹ Source: http://europa.eu/rapid/press-release_STAT-12-185_ 2011 2012 2011 2012 de.htm ² Source: internet.org ³ Source: http://eskills-week.ec.europa.eu SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 CREATING EQuAL OPPORTuNITIES Groupwide Promotion international audience and develop ideas and visions of Media Literacy together. Under the title “Me, Myself and I – How does The international subsidiaries of the Telekom Austria the Internet shape our thinking?”, the influence of the Group are also playing a key role in overcoming this Internet on the thinking and actions of society was gap in their markets. For example, Si.mobil in Slovenia discussed in 2012. The 2012 “future.talk” was certified supports the “Simbioz@” project, in which volunteers as a “green event” in accordance with the guidelines taught more than 5,700 participants throughout Sloof the Austrian eco-label for the first time. venia about safe Internet use in 2012. In a dedicated Si.mobil class, a number of employees shared their The discussion series “twenty.twenty – exploring the knowledge with the participants. At the initiative of future”, which the Austrian Telekom Austria Group Vip mobile, free workshops on Internet security have subsidiary A1 organises in conjunction with “The been held for schoolchildren and their parents at the Gap” magazine, deals with key future issues. Various Children’s Cultural Centre in the Serbian capital Belscenarios for living and working with new technolograde since September 2011. In 2012, velcom focused gies have been the subject of discussion by experts, on providing training sessions to improve media littechnology-loving users and interested parties at eracy skills among the older generation in Belarus. several events since autumn 2010. Knowledge-based In addition to these training and information events, cooperation in the working world, interaction between A1 uses the “A1 Internet Guide” to promote safe use of man and machine and the principle of sharing in the the Internet and mobile phones, thus improving the network society were just a few of the topics discussed media literacy skills of children and young people. in 2012. Both A1 and the Bulgarian company Mobiltel cooperate with the local non-governmental organisations Collaboration with Social and of saferinternet, an EU-wide initiative to promote Educational Institutions safe media use among children and young people. To promote media literacy skills, the Telekom Austria (more information on security can be found on page Group also supports numerous social and educational 25ff and 29ff ). institutions, mostly in the context of multiyear partnerships in order to ensure a lasting effect. Various topics relating to local requirements are addressed SElECTED COOpERATIOn On SAFE InTERnET uSE here. – Saferinternet (A1, Mobiltel) For 11 years, A1 in Austria has been a partner of the – Vienna University Children’s Office (A1) Vienna Children’s University, which opens its doors – Seniorkom.at (A1) every summer. The aim of this partnership is to get – Safe.si (Si.mobil) children aged 7 to 12 interested in knowledge and – Zavod Y initiator of the project Simbioza education through play, awakening and encourag(Si.mobil) ing their curiosity about science. In addition, in the – Faculty of Criminal Justice and Security context of “A1 Internet for All”, A1 offers educational (Si.mobil) events at the “Psychosozialen Tagungszentrum Re– Children’s Cultural Centre Belgrade genbogenhaus” day-care centre in Vienna as well as (Vip mobile) at the Austrian Federation of the Blind and Partially GRI PA2, 5, 7 Sighted (BSVÖ), the Piramidops association, a point of contact specifically for migrants, and the Workers’ Discussion Forums for Samaritan Federation (Arbeiter-Samariter-Bund) in Topics of the Future Vienna. In total “A1 Internet for all” cooperates with Social aspects of the dynamic development of modern 30 partner institutions. information and communication technologies are explained by the Telekom Austria Group in highIn Bulgaria, Mobiltel has been working with several calibre event series. In “future.talk”, prominent figures universities for many years now. For example, the from business and science engage in dialogue with an initiatives “It’s your exercise” and “Master Classes” PAgE 51 with workshops for technical students were launched Advise Seniors” campaign, in which specially trained in 2012. In trainee programmes and “career forums”, senior citizens advise older people on buying a mobile Mobiltel helped students with their career developphone or choosing a suitable tariff in A1 shops. This ment at 13 events. Vip mobile has been running the campaign was run throughout Austria in 14 A1 shops project “Be a Vip student”, which supports future for the first time in 2012. experts and managers in the telecommunication industry in the Republic of Serbia, since 2007. More than In Slovenia, Si.mobil also offers a reduced-rate 800 students from 20 faculties all over the Republic “SENIOR tariff ” and a special package for kids called of Serbia have applied for grants in the past five years. SIMPL KIDZ that includes a brochure as well as tools Vip mobile has already given awards to 96 students, 14 for the safe use and cost control. Approximately 1,300 of whom have received a job at Vip mobile. hearing-impaired people use a special tariff offered by Vipnet in Croatia. In Bulgaria, Mobiltel offers people velcom in Belarus has introduced the ideas comwith special needs 100 free SMS and 20 minutes of free petition “Got an idea? Go ahead!”. This competition mobile calls throughout Bulgaria as well as a special rewards innovative, creative and unusual educational, tariff for fixed line telephony, unlimited calls to one arts and sports projects set up by young people. Vip number of their choice and 100 free minutes of calls to operator in the Republic of Macedonia cooperates the Bulgarian fixed line network. Mobiltel offers deaf with several schools and universities, and organised customers a choice of 2,000 free minutes for domestic the school competition “What is Internet for me?” in video calls or free SMS as well as low-priced 3G devices. 2012. The competition was geared towards pupils up GRI PA2, 5 to the age of 18, who had to describe Internet use in a creative way. Non-cash prizes were awarded for the Local Social Commitment best entries. In addition to Group-wide promotion of media litGRI PA2 eracy skills and educational projects, all operating subsidiaries of the Telekom Austria Group carry out Special Products for Special Needs social projects and programmes. These meet the local The subsidiaries of the Telekom Austria Group also needs and involve the local communities. take special needs into account when aligning their product portfolios. For instance, A1 offers deaf people For instance, in Austria, A1 supports the non-profit the special tariff “Read Me Unlimited”, which provides organisations “Licht ins Dunkel” and “Kinderhände”, a special concession for text messages one of the which support children and their families with special most important mobile communication methods needs or children in learning the sign language. In for deaf people. As part of an extensive cooperation, Bulgaria, Mobiltel responded to the high proportion of the Austrian Blind Union (ÖBSV) and A1 provide a socially deprived children by launching the initiative directory enquiry hotline service at local call rates for “Foster a child. Create a future!”, providing financial blind and severely visually impaired people. Socially support for around 100 families in cooperation with disadvantaged people can make calls to all networks social institutions. Mobiltel also supports socially at reduced rates with the “A1 B.FREE Social” prepaid disadvantaged people in the context of another five tariff. In addition, the Austrian Ministry of Transport, projects with the donations hotline “1788”. These Innovation and Technology gives this group of people include support for a children’s village family, the an allowance of EUR 10 net per month, which has “You are not alone” project, activities for disabled also been applicable to the “bob” discount brand as children, donations for guide dogs and the “Let Us well as the regular tariffs since the end of 2011. With Believe” fund for children with cerebral palsy. selected hardware, mobile phones with user-friendly menus, larger displays and keys, improved legibility Vipnet also continued its support for mine-clearing and more powerful speakers, A1 makes it easier for in Croatia in 2012. In 2012, around 500,000 Kuna (appeople with minor visual and hearing impairments proximately 66,000 Euro) was provided for mine clearto make phone calls, use e-mail and surf on the Inance of 80,000 m² in the tourist area of Velebit and ternet. In December 2012, A1 reprised its “Seniors Paklenica. In total, an area of around 1.5 million m² SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 CREATING EQuAL OPPORTuNITIES has been cleared of mines thanks to Vipnet’s support AWARDS over the past twelve years. – TRIGOS 2013 (nomination) and eAward In Belarus, the subsidiary velcom provides support Vienna 2012 for ”A1 Internet for All” (A1) for hearing-impaired people in the form of hearing – PR State Prize 2012 (nomination in the ”PR aids, special smart phones and tablets. Special Discipline” category) for ”A1 Internet for All” (A1) In Slovenia, youth unemployment, which stood at 20.7% as of 31 December 2012, is a real social challenge. – Winner of the award for best practices in The “Party with a Cause” event held by Si.mobil was CSR (”Social Contribution” category) for the attended by more than 20,000 young partygoers, who ”Sensor Room” project (Vip operator) were given the opportunity to decide who received – Winner at the annual awards of the the donations raised. They chose the “Sluzba me-ne Bulgarian Business Leaders’ Forum (BBLF) isce” project (in English: “Jobs don’t grow on trees”), (”Investor in Community” category) for a club to help young people who are looking for a job. the ”Foster a Child. Create a Future” project Si.mobil also supports various projects and events for (Mobiltel) young people with its “ORTO” sponsorships, and forms partnerships with social institutions. With its long-term “New Year Donation”-programme Vip mobile collected with its customers 2 million Serbian Dinar for the humanitarian organisation ASTRA, which fights against human trafficking. In March 2013, Vip operator set up the first specially equipped room for autistic children at a school in the Republic of Macedonia. GRI SO1 Said in 2011 Done in 2012/2013 planned for 2013/2014 – Continue initiatives to promote – Extend ”A1 Internet for All” in – Expand the training programme on equality of opportunity to participate Austria, launch similar initiatives competent media litteracy skills use in the modern information and in Belarus, Slovenia and the in all markets knowledge -based society Republic of Serbia – Develop school materials on safe – Expand media literacy projects in – Implement social projects taking Internet use additional Telekom Austria Group local needs into account – Continuation of local initiatives markets – Continue discussion forums on in all countries – Promote international exchange dealing with future issues regarding media literacy skills and (twenty.twenty, future.talk) educational projects within the Group – Continued training programmes to promote the safe use of the internet Further initiatives can be found in the measures programm on page 54. PAgE 53 measures programme The following measures programme shows the current status of the targets and selected projects that have been established in order to meet the targets in the respective areas of action. The basis of measurement for target achievement is always 2012, meaning that no status can be determined for 2012 for some of the targets. GRI EC7, EN1-2, 6, 7, 18, 26-27, LA8, PR5, TA1, PA5, 7, 11 Products Providing Responsible Products Target Status Excerpt of Measures Ensuring Group-wide coverage Being maintained; Telekom Austria Group: Total capital expenditure of of at least 99% with 2G¹ and at 2012: coverage EUR 728.2 million in 2012 with a focus on expanding the least 90% with 3G ² achieved fixed and mobile network infrastructure A1: First company in the world to successfully use vectoring technology in a pilot area in the town of Korneuburg, expansion of LTE with coverage of 27.5% as of year-end 2012 Mobiltel: Further expansion of HSPA+ Vipnet: Purchase of frequencies in the 800 MHz band for upgrading the mobile communication network to LTE technology velcom: Further expansion of HSPA+ Si.mobil: Introduction of LTE in major urban areas ensures largest and most powerful mobile communication network in the country Vip mobile: Further expansion of HSPA+ Vip operator: Introduction of HSPA+ in 2012 Maintaining the highest possible Being maintained; Telekom Austria Group: Revision of the ”Information Security data protection and data security 2012: standards Policy” and ”Information Security Standards” for the Group, standards in all countries upheld establishment and expansion of crisis teams, initiatives for ensuring network availability even in a crisis A1: External and internal audits (2012) and establishment of an e-learning tool on data protection for employees (2013), establishment of Computer Emergency Response Teams Mobiltel: Integration of the high security standards in fixed line products such as telephony, Internet, TV services and cloud services Vipnet: Mandatory online security training for all employees (completion at end of 2013) Publication of an annual data In planning stage A1: Preparation of the data protection report for planned protection report for A1 publication in 2014 (as of 2014) Continuation of ISO 27001 Being maintained; A1: ISO 27001 certification (in place since 2005) certification 2012: existing Mobiltel: First-time ISO 27001 certification in 2012 certification continued, one new certification obtained SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 measures programme Development of innovative Being maintained A1, Mobiltel: Solutions for modern healthcare systems solutions in the healthcare, expanded: medical data network (DaMe), e-care terminal for education and administration IT-based bedside care in hospitals (A1), doctors’ and sectors vaccination appointments by text message (Mobiltel) Si.mobil: Solutions for more efficient administration developed: electronic archiving, contract and signature systems Promotion of climate-friendly Being maintained Telekom Austria Group: Provision of Green ICT solutions and products and solutions information campaigns promoting the use of climate-friendly products; implementation of ”Unlock M2M” for tailored customer solutions, focus on smart metering solutions A1, Mobiltel: Expansion of cloud services in order to reduce the required server capacities and energy consumption among customers A1: Further conversion of telephone booths to electric charging stations, including photovoltaics Vipnet, Vip operator: Solar-powered charging stations for mobile phones Vip operator: Tips and tricks for customer energy consumption, stickers on electronic devices Increase in the Group-wide Currently being Telekom Austria Group: Incentives for customers to switch to e-billing rate to 50% by 2015 implemented; e-billing, e.g. bob goes green reforestation campaign for each 2012: e-billing rate of 29% electronic bill (A1), free text message with billing information (Mobiltel, Vipnet, Vip mobil) Increase in number of Currently being Telekom Austria Group: Various measures for promoting old mobile phones collected implemented; mobile phone recycling, e.g. communication campaign and 2012: 73,877 units donation to kinderhände charity (A1), in-store collection points (Vipnet, Si.mobil), ”Sklad Si.voda” environmental fund (Si.mobil) and voucher system (Vip mobile) Increase in Being maintained; Telekom Austria Group: Group-wide programme for customer satisfaction 2012: harmoniharmonising customer satisfaction surveys initiated sation project initiated A1: Launch of ”A1 Support Community” platform for peer-to-peer support between customers in 2012, ”Meet the Customer” project for increased customer focus currently being implemented Implementation and Being maintained; A1, Mobiltel, Vipnet: Implementation of Vodafone Consumer enhancement of cost2012: tools Services for cost control and increased security for children control tools enhanced in every country and young people (spring/summer 2013) Cost-control tools implemented in all countries (e.g. A1 Go! (A1), SIMPL_KIDZ (Si.mobil), High Usage Service (Vip mobile), SMS Info (Vip operator)) ¹ Except Slovenia and Republic of Serbia ² Except Belarus and Republic of Serbia page 55 Environment Living Green Target Status Excerpt of Measures 20% improvement in energy Currently being Telekom Austria Group: Implementation of energy-efficient efficiency (by 2015) implemented; cooling systems, e.g. hot spot suction extraction and hybrid 2012: 2.1 MWh/ terabyte energy ventilation (A1), energy-saving transformer stations and efficiency indicator energy-efficient conversion of office buildings (Vipnet), heat recovery systems at data centres (velcom); Lifecycle management for networks and infrastructure equipment and use of state-of-the-art technologies, implementation of intelligent GSM resource management for periods with less traffic Roll-out of renewable energy Currently being A1, Vipnet: Construction of a 113 KWh photovoltaic farm in projects (by 2015) implemented Aflenz in 2013 (A1) and on the roof of the office buildings in Zagreb (37,300 KWh, Vipnet) Vipnet, Si.mobil: Installation of solar-powered and hybrid mobile base stations Vip operator: Installation of solar-powered mobile phone charging station in public area in Republic of Macedonia Further measures Currently being Telekom Austria Group: Increased use of hybrid and electric for CO₂ reduction implemented cars and natural gas-powered vehicles at all locations, increased use of the Group-wide telepresence and videoconferencing systems, awareness measures on the topic of energy efficiency such as participation in the WWF Earth Hour, access for all employees to the CO₂ monitor for calculating individual carbon footprints (A1), information campaigns as part of local environmental programmes such as ”Re.misli” (Si.mobil) or ”Ecomotivation” (Vip mobile) A1: Development of an innovative logistics concept for reducing the number of kilometres driven, conversion of telephone booths to electric charging stations and promotion of electric mobility projects such as Austrian Mobile Power (Empora2) A1, Vipnet, Si.mobil: Provision of electric bikes, Segways, free bicycles and support for the formation of car pools or free tickets for public transport (Si.mobil) 10% improvement in Currently being Telekom Austria Group: Locally adjusted awareness the recycling rate (by 2015) implemented; measures and sensitivity campaigns for employees as part 2012: 55% recycling rate of local environmental programmes such as ”Re.misli” (Si.mobil) or ”Ecomotivation” (Vip mobile) Vip mobile: Conversion of end-user device packaging to recycled cardboard 10% reduction in internal Currently being Telekom Austria Group: Local awareness campaigns for paper consumption implemented; reducing consumption by employees, customer campaigns to (by 2015) 2012: 115 kg paper/FTE accelerate the changeover to online billing A1: Modular packaging system to reduce the use of cardboard A1, Vipnet, Vip mobile: Introduction of systems for minimising printing such as follow-me printers, conversion to double-sided printing in black and white SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 measures programme Employees Empowering People Target Status Excerpt of Measures 35% women in the Group and in Currently being A1, Mobiltel: Various childcare options such as free ”flying management positions (by 2015) implemented; nannies” (A1), on-site nursery school, ”Club Mama” 2012: 32% women in management (Mobiltel, Vipnet) positions, 38% A1, Vip mobile: Enhancement of attractiveness of the ICT women in the industry for women and girls through the development of Group a plan for the promotion of women in 2013 (A1), organisation of the ”Daughter’s day” day and ”Girls4Business” programme (A1) and organisation of a ”Girls in the ICT day” (Vip mobile) Push internal appointments Currently being Telekom Austria Group: Group-wide business school, (by 2015) implemented; intercultural further education programme for top talents 2012: 666 internally hired and numerous local initiatives: ”New Manager” programme positions (A1), ”Talent Management” programme (Vipnet), ”Leadership Academy” (Vip operator) A1: ”1A career at A1” talent programme for the best university graduates, trainee programme for school-leavers, apprentice training programme Mobiltel: ”CEO Masterclass” workshops for employees on selected topics with the Management Board, ”M-Powered Heroes” vote of employees with a role model function Maintenance of a high Currently being Telekom Austria Group: First Group-wide employee survey engagement index (by 2015) implemented; (”TAGisfaction”) in 2012, annual Group-wide roadshow by the 2012: 79% Management Board to communicate the corporate strategy Telekom Austria Group: Flexible working time models and opportunities for teleworking in all countries, work/life balance programmes (A1, Mobiltel) A1: Corporate volunteering programme to include employees in initiatives such as ”A1 Internet for All” A1, Mobiltel: Implementation of various healthcare programmes such as ”Fit on the job” with fitness activities, seminars for non-smokers and vaccinations (A1), Dr. Vip for employees and their dependants (Mobiltel) Si.mobil, Vip mobile: Promotion of employee creativity and innovation through the ”Innovativeness” project for generating innovative ideas (Si.mobil) or various games forming part of the ”innovation games boards” (Vip mobile) Vip mobile: ”Integrity Roadmap” 3D animation on the Code of Conduct and ”Vip role model” for recognising outstanding commitment by colleagues Increase in international Currently being Telekom Austria Group: ”X.change” programme to promote exchange (by 2015) implemented; international exchange 2012: 115 participants „x.change“ page 57 Society Creating Equal Opportunities Target Status Excerpt of Measures 100,000 people participating Currently being A1: Continuation of the ”A1 Internet for All” initiative – new in trainings to promote media implemented; permanent location in Klagenfurt (2012) and in Salzburg lieteracy skills (by 2016) 2012: 24,292 participants (2013), expansion of cooperation and range of training, initiatives for safe Internet usage, cooperation with Saferinternet velcom: Special training for senior citizens Si.mobil: Simbioza initiative with Internet training for senior citizens Vip mobile: Free access to the internet and internet courses for children and their parents at the youth centre in Belgrade Promotion of cooperations with Currently being Telekom Austria Group: Initiatives and cooperation with focus on media literacy in the implemented; various educational institutions: A1 Internet for All (A1), Telekom Austria Group (by 2015) 2012: 5 of 8 countries Vienna University Children’s Office (A1), ”It’s your exercise” workshops for technical students at the University of Sofia (Mobiltel), cooperation with Višnjan Education Centres (Vipnet) and the Children’s Cultural Centre Belgrade (Vip mobile), ”What is Internet for me?” student competition (Vip operator) Implementation of social Achieved; Telekom Austria Group: Tariffs and offers for senior citizens cooperations in line with local 2012: Over (A1, si.mobil) and people with special needs, e.g. tariffs for the needs (by 2015) 30 projects hearing-impaired (A1, Vipnet, velcom), ”B.FREE Social” prepaid tariff with social subsidy (A1) A1: Special mobile phones for senior citizens and ”Seniors Advise Seniors” campaign in stores, support of ”Licht ins Dunkle”, kinderhände Mobiltel, velcom, Vip operator: Support for people with special needs: ”Foster a Child. Create a Future” for children from disadvantaged families and support of the initiative ”Eyes on four paws” for the education of seeing-eye dogs (Mobiltel), donation of hearing aids (velcom), fitting out of a special room for autistic children at a school (Vip operator) Mobiltel, Si.mobil, Vip mobile: Support for humanitarian organisations: Dedicated short number for customers to make donations by text message (Mobiltel), donations of furniture as part of renovation and support for the Si.voda fund for drinking water wells and waste water treatment plants (Si.mobil), donation of income from text messages sent at New Year (Vip mobile) Vipnet: Continuation of mine clearance programme in 2012 velcom: Idea competition for young people ”Got an idea? Go ahead!”, competition for development of mobile apps which was won by an ecological app ”Green map of Belarus” Si.mobil: ”Party with a cause” event to support projects combating youth unemployment (2012) Si.mobil, Vip operator: Initiatives to promote environmental awareness among children and young people: Environmental courses for schoolchildren at SOS Children’s Village (Si.mobil), Trash Fashion catwalk show with clothing for young people made of recycled materials (Vip operator) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 GRI CONTENT TABLE GRI CONTENT TABLE AR = Annual Report2012 Fully reported Partially reported Not reported according to GRI G3.1 and Telecommunications n.r. = Not relevant Sector Supplement Pilotversion 1.0 Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most 10f, AR senior decision maker 22ff 1.2 Key risks and opportunities 14f, 16, 18, 24f, 26f, AR 20ff, 68ff Organisation Profile 2.1–2.10 Comprehensive description of the 14f, 18f, The entry of América Móvil as a shareholder organisation: Name, products, markets, AR 14ff, of Telekom Austria AG in early 2012 led to headquarters, shareholder structure, key 80ff, 96, a significant change in the shareholder figures about the company, main changes 138ff structure. On 3 January 2013, Telekom Ausduring the reporting period, awards, etc. tria AG completed the acquisition of 100% of ”YESSS!” and the intellectual property rights of Orange Austria (see AR p.137) Reporting Parameters 3.1–3.11 Reporting period, reporting cycle, contact Cover, Data comparisons with the previous year details, scope of report and boundaries, data 76f are not possible due to the extended measurement techniques, bases of calculareporting limits and new methods of calcutions, significant changes lation. 2012 serves as the base year for the calculation of the targets. 3.12–3.13 GRI content table, external assurance of report 59f, 74f The Telekom Austria Group respect the by third party precauctionary principle in its actions. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1–4.10 Governance Structures, Committees, 18, 20f, In addition to the basic salary, the board Supervisory Board, Works Council and related AR 26, 40ff, members receive a variable, performanceguidelines 45 based component that depends on the achievement of pre-defined objectives and is limited to a maximum of 150% of base compensation (see AR p.45f.) In addition, all legal requirements are fulfilled. 4.11–4.13 Commitments to external initiatives 11f, 18, 20, 31 4.14–4.17 List of stakeholder groups, basis for iden16 Key stakeholders have been identified on tification and selection of stakeholders, the basis of an analysis as well as through approaches for the involvement of stakeholddiscussions with interest groups. The ers, key topics and concerns that have been stakeholder feedback was incorporated raised through stakeholder engagement into the prioritisation of strategic focus areas and builds the basis for the development of further sustainability measures. Additional platforms for stakeholder communication: A1 ”future.talk” and ”twenty. twenty exploring the future” event series, employee magazine. page 59 Economic Performance Indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and 14, 24 distributed EC2 Financial implications due to climate change 35 A monetary depiction of the risks identified in the context of climate change is not possible. EC3 Scope of the defined benefit plan AR 74, 116 Personnel expenses, including social benefits and taxes in 2012: EUR 833.6 million. For long-term employee benefits and information on anniversary payments, severance payments and pensions, see the AR p.116ff. EC4 Financial assistance received from the AR 38, 92, In 2012, government grants amounted to government 109 EUR 3.8 million. Grants related to income are recognised in the income statement as other operating income. EC6 Business policy, practices and percentage of 20f, 24, The Code of Conduct of the Telekom Austria locally-based suppliers 54ff Group establishes fair and trustworthy relationships with suppliers. Thanks to transparent allocation and documentation as well as strict approval processes, equal treatment of all suppliers in accordance with the legal requirements is ensured. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion 42ff Vacant positions at the Telekom Austria of senior management hired from the local Group are filled with regard to the requirecommunity ments of the specific job and the qualifications of the applicants. EC8-9 Development/impact of infrastructure 14, 24f, For competition reasons, no details can be investments and services provided primarily AR 28ff published. for public interest and description of significant indirect economic impacts Environmental Performance Indicators EN1–2 Materials used by weight or volume, 28, 38, percentage of materials used that are 54ff, 68f recycled input materials EN3–4 Direct and indirect energy consumption 36, 68f Energy is not being exported. The amount of by primary energy source primary fuels for the production of secondary energy is not published EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and 35, 36 2012 serves as the base year for calculating. efficiency improvements Therefore, savings cannot yet be determined. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient 27f, 35f, products and services 37, 54ff EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy 35f, 54ff See EN5 consumption and reductions achieved EN8 Total water consumption 69 Water is not considered to be a relevant indicator, therefore a further breakdown is not made. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 GRI CONTENT TABLE AR = Annual Report2012 Fully reported Partially reported Not reported n.r. = Not relevant EN11-12 Land in or adjacent to protected areas 26f In compliance with the limits, electromagnetic waves have no effect on humans and the environment. Biodiversity is not affected by operating a mobile base station. A list of protected areas is not disclosed in this report. EN16-17 Total direct/indirect and other greenhouse 34, 70 gas emissions. Emissions of ozonedepleting EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas 35ff, 54ff See 3.1-3.11 emissions EN19-20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances, 35, 68f Emissions from Ozone-depleting subNO x , SO x etc. and air emissions stances and other substances not related to the vehicle fleet were not collected during the year. EN21 Total water discharge n.r. Not relevant. Any waste water similar to household waste water is discharged into the public sewer system. EN22 Total waste by type and disposal method 68f EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills n.r. Not relevant since the Telekom Austria Group is not a manufacturing company. During the reporting period, no spills were reported. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental im27, 28, 35, pacts of products and services, and extent 36, 37, 38, of impact mitigation 54ff EN27 Percentage of products sold and their 28, 38, All packaging sold on the Austrian market is packaging materials that are reclaimed by 54ff subject to the ARA license system and can category thus be incorporated into the nation-wide collection system. More details are not disclosed in the report. EN28 Fines or non-monetary sanctions for nonIn the course of ordinary business, several compliance with environmental laws and lawsuits and other claims are pending regulations against the Telekom Austria Group. No information can be given on pending procedures. For more information, please refer to the Annual Report. EN29 Environmental impacts of transporting 31, 37 products, goods and materials Social Indicators Labour Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, 42, 72f, Further breakdowns are not disclosed in employment contract, region, gender the report LA2 Number of new hires and employee turnover 42, 72f, Based on the headcount, 1,255 employees were hired in 2012. Including retirements, 773 employees left the company. 666 open positions were subsequently recruited internally. Further breakdowns are not disclosed in the report page 61 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collec42 In Austria, 100% of all employees are covtive bargaining agreements ered by collective bargaining agreements. In the international subsidiaries national requirements are met. LA5 Minimum notice period regarding operation45f, 46 The statutory deadlines are met. al changes including whether it is specified in collective bargaining agreements LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost 44f, 71 Due to data protection further information days, absenteeism and number of workis not disclosed in this report. related fatalities by region and gender LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention 44f, 54ff The regular business activity of the Teland risk control programs in place to assist ekom Austria Group is not related to cause workforce members, their families or comany serious disease. munity members regarding serious diseases LA10 Average hours of further education and 43f The duration of trainings was not recorded professional training per year per employee, in the reporting period. by gender LA11 Programmes for skills management and 43f, 46 lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular 46 At least once a year, each employee is asperformance and career development sessed in terms of his/her performance. reviews, by gender As part of these discussions, development opportunities are also evaluated. LA13 Composition of governance bodies, break42f, 44, Further breakdowns are not disclosed in down of employees per employee category 72f the report. LA14 Rate of basic salary of women to men by The salaries of the Telekom Austria Group employee category, by significant locations are determined by qualifications and of operation requirements of the particular position and do not differ on the basis of gender. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after In 2012, approximately 220 employees parental leave, by gender. were on parental leave, about 60 employees returned to work from parental leave. A beakdown to gender was not evaluated. Human Rights HR1–2 Percentage of investment agreements that 31 All suppliers and contractors have to include clauses incorporating human rights comply with the procurement guidelines concerns as well as suppliers and business which also include human rights aspects. partners that have undergone human rights screening HR3 Total hours of employee training on aspects 20 In 2012 1,535 employees attended classof human rights/percentage of employees room training sessions and some 15,018 trained employees completed the e-learning programme on compliance issues. HR4 Incidents of discrimination and corrective During the reporting period no such inciactions taken dents were reported. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 GRI CONTENT TABLE AR = Annual Report2012 Fully reported Partially reported Not reported n.r. = Not relevant HR5 Incidents in which the right to exercise freeDuring the reporting period no such incidom of association and collective bargaining dents were reported. may be violated and actions taken to support these rights HR6-7 Operations and significant suppliers identi31 As part of its supplier assessment, the fied as having significant risks for incidents Telekom Austria Group has identified of child labour, forced or compulsory labour/ selected groups of suppliers that show counter measures that have been taken particular environmental or social risk potential. The Telekom Austria Group also reserves the right to audit potential and existing suppliers, including their products. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained 20 in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations 20 During the reporting period no such inciinvolving rights of indigenous people and dents were reported. actions taken. HR10 Percentage and total number of operations 20 The Code of Conduct of the Telekom Austria that have been subject to human rights Group is valid group-wide. Compliance reviews and/or impact assessments is monitored regularly within the whole Telekom Austria Group. HR11 Number of grievances related to human 21 During the reporting period no such grievrights filed, addressed and resolved through ances were reported formal grievance mechanism Society SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented 27f, 52f local community engagement, impact assessments and development programmes SO2–4 Percentage of business units analysed for 20f, Total top management took part in trainrisks related to corruption and employees AR 26ff ings on compliance.The Telekom Austria trained in the organisation’s anti-corruption Group punishes unlawful misconduct and policies/actions taken in response to inciviolations of internal guidelines consistentdents of corruption ly and without regard to rank and position of the persons involved. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in 20f, The Telekom Austria Group supports public policy development and lobbying AR 26ff the development of the communication activities infrastructure in its markets as well as the digital gap. SO7 Number of legal actions for anti-competitive 20f In the course of ordinary business, several behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly praclawsuits and other claims are pending tices including sanctions imposed by public against the Telekom Austria Group. authorities No information can be given on pending procedures. For more information, please refer to the Annual Report. SO8 Fines/non-monetary sanctions for noncom20f, AR For further Information on provisions, pliance with laws and regulations 68ff, 110 please refer to AR Note 22 (p.110) page 63 SO9 Operations with significant potential or 27f n.r. Not relevant because Telekom Austria actual negative impacts on local Group is not a manufacturing company. communities The Telekom Austria Group performs regular measurements to comply with the limits for electromagnetic fields of the European Union and with national standards. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures 27f n.r. See SO9 implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Product Responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety 27f, 31 A corresponding and complete illustraimpacts of products and services are astion will be developed in the foreseeable sessed for improvements/percentage future of products and services subject to such procedures PR3 Type of legally required product/service 27f, 29f, The Telekom Austria Group is not subject to information and percentage of products/ 31 such legal requirements. services subject to such requirements PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction/ 29, 54ff survey results PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards 20f The companies of the Telekom Austria and voluntary codes related to marketing Group are committed to fair competition communications, including advertising, and follow the competition provisions of promotion and sponsorship the states in which they operate. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints 26f Complaints regarding breaches of cusregarding breaches of customer privacy and tomer privacy and loss of customer data loss of customer data are handled and resolved in a defined process. PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and 27, In the course of ordinary business, several regulations concerning the provision and AR 110, lawsuits and other claims are pending use of products and services 136 against the Telekom Austria Group. No information can be given on pending procedures. For more information, please refer to the Annual Report. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 GRI CONTENT TABLE AR = Annual Report2012 Fully reported Partially reported Not reported n.r. = Not relevant Sector Supplement Internal Operations IO1 Capital investment in telecommunication 24f, network infrastructure broken down AR 58ff by country/region IO2 Net costs for service providers under the 24f, The Austrian government as well as the reUniversal Service Obligation when extending AR 28ff, spective national authorities regulate and service to geographic locations and 50ff oversee specific activities of the Telekom low-income groups which are not profitable Austria Group. IO3 Practices to ensure health and safety of 44f field personnel IO4-5 Compliance with ICNIRP standards on 27f All companies of the Telekom Austria Group exposure to radio frequency emissions from comply with the ICNIRP standard. mobile phones, wireless devices and base If exceeded, measures are taken stations immediately. IO6 Policies/practices on compliance with the 27f Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) of mobile phones and wireless devices IO7 Policies/practices on locations of masts and 27f All devices sold by the Telekom Austria transmission sites including stakeholder Group comply with SAR standards. consultation, site sharing and initiatives to reduce visual impacts IO8 Number and percentage of stand-alone Stand-alone sites: 70%, sites, shared sites, and sites on existing shared sites: 30% structures. Technology Applications TA1 Provide examples of the resource effi27f, 28, ciency of telecommunications products and 35, 37f, services 54ff TA2 Provide examples of telecommunication 27f, 28, products, services and applications that 35, 37f have the potential to replace physical objects and disclose any estimates of the rebound effect (indirect consequences) of customer TA5 Description of practices relating to 25f intellectual property rights and open source technologies page 65 Providing Access PA1 Policies/practices to enable the 24f, development of telecommunications AR 28ff infrastructure and access to telecommunications products and services in remote and low population density areas PA2 Policies/practices to overcome barriers 51, 52 to access and use of telecommunications products/services including language, culture, illiteracy, lack of education, income, disabilities and age PA3 Policies/practices to ensure availability and 25 Figures on downtimes are not published reliability of telecommunications products/ for reasons of competition. services (downtimes) PA4 Quantify the level of availability of 24f telecommunications products/services in the area where the organisation operates PA5 Number and types of telecommunication 50f, 52, The Telekom Austria Group is obliged to products and services provided to and 54ff provide voice telephone services with used by low and no income sectors of the reduced tariffs for low-income households population and other authorised customers for which it receives compensation from the Republic of Austria on a contractual basis. PA6 Programmes to provide and maintain 25 telecommunications products and services in emergency situations and for disaster relief PA7 Policies/practices to manage human rights 25f, 51, issues relating to access and use of telecom54ff munications products and services PA8 Policies/practices for the external 27f communication of EMF-related issues PA9 Total amount invested in research 27f The Telekom Austria Group works together programmes and activities concerning with local industry associations and interelectromagnetic fields est groups in order to advance research in the field of EMF. PA10 Initiatives to ensure clarity of contract terms 29 and conditions, charges and tariff models PA11 Initiatives to inform customers about 27ff, 31, product features that promote responsible, 54ff efficient and environmentally-friendly use SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 Data Appendix Providing sustainable products Customer Service Customer Contacts Employees 2012 (in ‘000) (in FTE) A1 26,545 2,390 Mobiltel 5,656 427 Vipnet 3,147 223 velcom 5,382 373 Si.mobil 999 68 Vip mobile 1,817 144 Vip operator 2,023 22 Telekom Austria Group¹ 45,569 3,650 2011 A1 29,703 2,528 Mobiltel 6,394 467 Vipnet 3,368 243 velcom 6,496 382 Si.mobil 1,274 62 Vip mobile 1,893 145 Vip operator 2,425 17 Telekom Austria Group¹ 51,553 3,846 ¹ Total Telekom Austria Group includes mobilkom liechtenstein. Collection and Recycling of Old Mobile Phones 2012 (in pc.) Collected old mobile phones A1 6,300 Mobiltel 959 Vipnet 3,746 velcom n.a. Si.mobil 2,872 Vip mobile 60,000 Vip operator n.a. Telekom Austria Group 73,877 page 67 Living green Air Pollutants of the vehicle fleet ¹ 2012 (in g/km) NOx SO ₂ PM₁₀ Telekom Austria Group 0.690 0.195 0.069 ¹ The air pollutants were aligned to the published data of ecoinvent for the first time in 2012. They include the emissions of the vehicle fleet. GRI EN19-20 Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption 2012 (in MWh) Electricity consumption¹ Heating energy consumption² A1 308,549 17,597 Mobiltel 84,938 95 Vipnet 42,279 69 velcom 70,118 977 Si.mobil 22,370 0 Vip mobile 28,013 22 Vip operator 8,572 34 Telekom Austria Group 564,839 18,793 ¹ Purchased and in-house production ² Includes oil and gas ³ Includes diesel, petrol and natural gas GRI EN3-4 Paper Consumption 2012 (in kg) Printing & copy paper Other¹ Total A1 145,780 809,034 954,814 Mobiltel 69,525 324,238 393,763 Vipnet 16,318 147,700 164,018 velcom 31,220 23,500 54,720 Si.mobil 3,625 103,472 107,097 Vip mobile 30,437 120,302 150,739 Vip operator 20,000 45,047 65,047 Telekom Austria Group 316,905 1,573,293 1,890,198 ¹ Other includes mainly paper for customer invoices and paper for packaging. GRI EN1-2 Waste 2012 (in kg) Non-hazardous waste Other recyclable Paper Metal waste Telekom Austria Group 1,501,594 1,379,145 352,214 Quantities were defined according to invoices of waste management companies or if this was not possible according to volumina of waste containers as well as intervals of waste disposal. GRI EN22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 Water Consumption Data Appendix 2012 (in m³ ) Total Telekom Austria Group 292,154 GRI EN8 District heating energy consumption Fuel consumption³ Total energy consumption 32,097 56,032 414,276 228 5,640 90,901 4 3,962 46,313 1,965 4,992 78,052 220 390 22,978 733 2,886 31,654 0 504 9,110 35,247 74,405 693,284 Table may include rounding differences. 1 joule =2.77777778 ×10 -¹⁰ MWh Relative Indicators Share of renewable Recycling quota3 CO₂ intensity Paper consumption energy¹ (in %) (in %) (per FTE) (in kg/FTE) A1 81 60 8 105 Mobiltel 15 9 19 145 Vipnet 45 61 17 145 velcom 20 23 16 32 Si.mobil 33 90 24 275 Vip mobile 29 21 29 170 Vip operator 27 72 26 208 Telekom Austria Group 56 55 13 115 Energy Efficiency Index² Share of e-billing Water consumption (in MWh per terabyte) (in %) (per FTE , in m³ ) Telekom Austria Group 2.1 29 18 ¹ Derived from electricity consumption, values ​​of A1 were calculated, remaining as measured by the standard national grid factor. ² Energy Efficiency Index is defined as total electrical energy consumption, divided by total transported data volume of fixed and mobile telecommunication networks. ³ For recycling provided fractions (non-hazardous waste, Electronic waste and batteries) in relation to total waste. GRI EN1-2 Hazardous waste Residual waste Total Elektronic Other hazardous waste Batteries waste 645,973 26,129 430,861 2,804,463 7,140,379 page 69 Direct and Indirect Greenhouse gas Emissions Direct Indirect Total 2012 (in t) (Scope 1) (Scope 2) (Scope 1+2) A1 20,269 56,172 76,441 Mobiltel 3,738 47,447 51,186 Vipnet 1,171 18,640 19,812 velcom 1,694 26,213 27,906 Si.mobil 112 9,390 9,501 Vip mobile 1,240 24,035 25,274 Vip operator 425 7,750 8,175 Telekom Austria Group 28,649 189,647 218,296 2011¹ A1 18,500 66,100 84,600 Scope 1 includes direct emissions from combustion of fossil fuels for heating, electricity production and mobility without consideration of cooling agents. Scope 2 measures indirect emissions form electric energy and district heating. ¹ Figures for 2011 cannot be compared due to a different calculation method, Figures verified by TÜV Süd. GRI EN16-17 Other indirect Greenhouse gas Emissions Methodology Upstream 2012 (in t) (Scope 3) In its calculation method for direct, indicrect A1 25,063 and other indirect emissions, the Telekom Austria Group follows the internationally reMobiltel 18,223 cognised definition of the Greenhouse Gas Vipnet 6,772 Protocol of the WRI/WBCSD (World Resourvelcom 9,229 ces Institute and World Business Council for Si.mobil 1,601 Sustainable Development), in which all greenVip mobile 8,033 house gases are included in the calculation, i.e. Vip operator 2,915 not just those covered by the Kyoto Protocol. The calculation methods is based on the pubTelekom Austria Group 71,836 lished data by ecoinvent (AR4 100-year (IPCC Scope 3 takes into account the costs associated with the upstream emissions from heating energy, electricity and fuels 2007 – 4th Assessment Report)). Figures given (fleet) and business travel (taxi, plane, train). as CO₂ equivalents. GRI EN16-17 Vehicle Fleet of the Telekom Austria Group Consumption Number of Consumption Consumption of alternative Mileage 2012 vehicles of petrol (in l) of diesel (in l) fuels (in l) (in ‘000 km) Telekom Austria Group 4,994 366,821 7,040,635 114,347 102,293 2011 Telekom Austria Group 5,017 445,455 7,126,588 104,310 100,380 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 Data Appendix CREATING EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Trainings 2012 Media literacy A1 18,592 Mobiltel n.a. Vipnet n.a. velcom n.a. Si.mobil 5,700 Vip mobile n.a. Vip operator n.a. Telekom Austria Group 24,292 A1 Internet For All Supporting Supporting Recommendation employees in employees since 2012 Number of courses Participants rate (in %) reporting period1 beginning A1 1,395 18,592 98 207 403 ¹ Emloyees supporting for the first time Empowering People Occupational Health and Safety Days lost to 2012 (in workdays) Accidents Fatal accidents accidents A1 116 0 641 Mobiltel 5 0 107 Vipnet 10 0 0 velcom 0 0 0 Si.mobil 2 0 83 Vip mobile 5 0 258 Vip operator 0 0 0 Telekom Austria Group 138 0 1,089 2011 A1 113 0 1,099 Mobiltel 3 0 475 Vipnet 9 0 371 velcom 0 0 0 Si.mobil 3 0 24 Vip mobile 4 0 94 Vip operator 0 0 0 Telekom Austria Group 132 0 2,063 GRI LA7 page 71 Personnel Structure Average age of Part-time 2012 FTE (PE) employees employees (HC) A1 (Austria) 9,077 43 618 Mobiltel (Bulgaria) 2,937 33 36 Vipnet (Croatia) 1,104 37 8 velcom (Belarus) 1,680 36 30 Si.mobil (Slovenia) 366 36 13 Vip mobile (Serbia) 898 32 0 Vip operator (Macedonia) 205 33 0 Telekom Austria Group 16,446 39 705 2011 A1 (Austria) 9,292 42 593 Mobiltel (Bulgaria) 3,380 33 44 Vipnet (Croatia) 1,144 36 12 velcom (Belarus) 1,784 36 27 Si.mobil (Slovenia) 348 35 16 Vip mobile (Serbia) 889 31 0 Vip operator (Macedonia) 203 30 1 Telekom Austria Group 17,217 39 693 Total Telekom Austria Group includes mobilkom liechtenstein. Age Structure ¹ 2012 (in HC) 16–19 20–29 A1 (Austria) 33 646 Mobiltel (Bulgaria) 1 1,104 Vipnet (Croatia) 0 94 velcom (Belarus) 8 773 Si.mobil (Slovenia) 0 69 Vip mobile (Serbia) 0 346 Vip operator (Macedonia) 0 48 Telekom Austria Group 42 3,080 2011 A1 (Austria) 34 626 Mobiltel (Bulgaria) 5 857 Vipnet (Croatia) 0 120 velcom (Belarus) 0 788 Si.mobil (Slovenia) 0 68 Vip mobile (Serbia) 0 421 Vip operator (Macedonia) 0 43 Telekom Austria Group 39 2,923 ¹ Apprentices not included. Total Telekom Austria Group includes mobilkom liechtenstein. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 Share Share Share Data Appendix of female of female of local employees (in %) executives (in %) management (in %) 25 17 98 50 48 99 39 39 98 67 42 99 48 38 98 54 38 94 55 38 94 38 32 98 25 17 98 57 56 99 40 40 98 68 39 99 46 35 98 54 44 94 50 43 94 38 32 98 GRI LA1-2, 13 30–39 40–49 above 50 2,192 4,301 2,145 1,388 369 95 603 348 59 941 169 76 219 84 17 546 58 11 142 15 0 6,031 5,344 2,403 2,482 4,507 1,888 1,230 293 104 674 348 59 971 168 116 214 72 15 469 51 8 145 14 0 6,185 5,453 2,190 GRI LA1-2 page 73 Assurance Statement¹ We were requested to perform a limited assurance Subject Matters engagement on Specific Topics of the Sustainability – Review of the procedures, systems and structures Report 2012/2013 (hereafter “the Report”) of Telekom for complying with the GRI principles for Defining Austria Group (hereafter “TAG”). the Report Content. – Review of the procedures, systems and structures The Report and the underlying procedures, systems for collecting, gathering, aggregating and validating and structures including subject matters and criteria of the following in the Report disclosed topics: are the responsibility of the Management of Telekom – Environmental Performance Indicators (only Austria AG. Our responsibility is to make an assessthe contribution of A1, the operative subsidiary ment based on our review. of TAG in Austria): Direct energy consumption by primary energy source (EN3), Indirect energy We conducted our review in accordance with the Interconsumption by primary source (EN4), Total direct national Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 3000, “Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or (EN16), Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Reviews of Historical Financial Information” and the emissions by weight (EN17) and Total weight of “Fachgutachten des Fachsenats für Unternehmensrewaste by type and disposal method (EN22) cht und Revision über die Durchführung von sonstigen – Disclosed indicators regarding the social initiative Prüfungen (KFS/PG 13)” in order to obtain limited as“A1 Internet für Alle” surance on the subject matters. In a limited assurance – Disclosed indicators regarding the employee atengagement the evidence-gathering procedures are titude survey “TAGisfaction” more limited than in a reasonable assurance engage– Review, whether the Report is in accordance with ment, and therefore less assurance can be obtained. the application level self-declared by TAG. Criteria For this engagement the “Allgemeinen EinkaufsbedBased on an assessment of materiality and risk we ingungen für Beratungsleistungen und Services der have evaluated the obtained information and supTelekom Austria Group – Stand 2/2012” were agreed. porting documents with respect to the conformity of Subsidiary the “General Conditions of Contract for the subject matters with the Sustainability Reporting the Public Accounting Professions”, as issued by the Guidelines (Version 3.1) issued by the Global Reporting Chamber of Public Accountants and Tax Advisors in Initiative’s (GRI). Austria on March 8, 2000, revised on February 21, 2011 (“AAB 2011”), are binding. In cases of gross negligence Proceedings the maximum liability is limited to EUR 2,000,000 Our work included analytical procedures as well as and in cases of ordinary negligence the maximum interviews with employees from the headquarters in liability is limited to EUR 5,000. This amount constiVienna notified by the board of directors of Telekom tutes a total maximum liability cap which may only Austria AG. be utilized up to this maximum amount even if there is more than one claimant or more than one claim Limitation of reliability of the review has been asserted. Our engagement is limited to the above mentioned Subject Matters. We did not review any other content in the Report. We have not tested comparative data from previous years. The scope of our review was limited to samples. Our work was performed on a sample basis as deemed necessary in the particular case, but did not include any substantial testing. Therefore, the assurance that we obtained is limited. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 Assurance statement Conclusion Based on our work described above nothing has come Vienna, September 24, 2013 to our attention that causes us to believe that the – procedures, systems and structures for complyDeloitte Audit, Wirtschaftsprüfungs GmbH ing with the GRI principles for Defining the Report Content Mag. Gerhard Marterbauer – procedures, systems and structures for collecting, Engagement Partner gathering, aggregating and validating of the: – contribution of A1 (the operative subsidiary of TAG p.p.a. Dipl.-Ing. Hannes Senft in Austria) to the Environmental Performance Engagement Partner Indicators: Direct energy consumption by primary energy source (EN3), Indirect energy consumption ¹ The German text of the signed Statement, which refers to the German Version of the Report, is the only binding one. The by primary source (EN4), Total direct and indirect English translation is not binding and shall not be used for the interpretation of the English Version of the Report. greenhouse gas emissions by weight (EN16), Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (EN17) and Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (EN22) – disclosed indicators regarding the social initiative “A1 Internet für Alle” – disclosed indicators regarding the employee survey “TAGisfaction” were not appropriate. Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Report of TAG does not meet the GRI A+ application level. page 75 Report Details This sustainability report covers the Group-wide acThe report consists of three large sections. An intivities and key figures of the Telekom Austria Group troductory chapter explains the newly devised susaccording to the boundaries of the Annual Report 2012 tainability strategy in connection with the Telekom (page 138). Financial key figures as well as figures Austria Group‘s core business and the key social and related to number of employees relate to the Group environmental trends. The main section of the report segment reporting segments defined in line with IAS 8, is dedicated to the four major areas of activity and while environmental as well as social key figures were deals with the strategic targets, implemented meascollected for the operating companies of the respective ures and current challenges. In the third part of the countries. The Telekom Austria Group assumes that report, the quantitative data and key figures are renon-operating companies, where no data have been capped in the form of a data section. The GRI content collected, are not significant in their contribution to table provides information on the individual indicathe environmental data due to their function (f.eg. tors and the related degree of compliance. holding function). In case that due to organisational reasons data have been collected for the non-operating The sustainability report chiefly focuses on envicompanies together with those for operating comparonmental and social aspects of the Telekom Austria nies, these data have not been excluded. Group‘s activities. For further information on economic governance, the organisation profile and corporate The reporting period for the quantitative key figures is governance please refer to the Telekom Austria Group’s the 2012 calendar year. For selected projects, qualita2012 annual report (telekomaustria.com). Data collective information on the individual topics was included tion for the sustainability report are based on the use beyond 2012 up to the second quarter of 2013 and noted of internal reporting processes as well as standardised separately in the report. questionnaires in the individual Telekom Austria Group operating companies. This data is assessed There are major changes compared with last year’s centrally and subjected to plausibility checks. The report, particularly with regard to environmental Telekom Austria Group’s Corporate Sustainability key figures. In the context of the TAGreen project, department evaluates the questionnaires annually environmental key indicators were harmonised for with regard to current developments, requirements the first time in 2012 and collected on a Group-wide and objectives. basis for seven of the eight operating companies (mobilkom liechtenstein was not included due to the small For 2012, selected topics in this sustainability report impact compared with the other operating companies). were externally validated by an independent auditor Consequently, as a result of mod-ified and improved for the first time. The precise scope and the results of calculation methods, there are no comparisons with the independent audit can be found in the certificate the previous year. shown on page 74. The content of the report is geared towards the core Definitions and calculation methods on individual elements of the sustainability strategy and was deterindicators and key figures set out in the report are mined on the basis of a stakeholder survey (for further explained in detail by means of footnotes either in details, please refer to page 14). The report meets the the respective chapter itself or in the data section requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI starting on page 67. Guideline G3.1 (application level A+) for sustainability GRI 3.1-3.11 reports including the Telecommunications Sector Supplement Pilot Version 1.0 of July 2003, and complies with the annual United Nations Global Compact Progress Report. It is published once a year. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 Imprint contact Imprint Ownership and publisher: Corporate Sustainability Telekom Austria AG Telekom Austria Group: Group Corporate Communication & Petra Gallaun Sustainability: petra.gallaun@telekomaustria.com Peter Schiefer Project team: This Sustainability Report was printed on paper Maximilian Rabl, Irene Jakobi, Gudrun Zimmerl (Hallo Fat Matt) from sustainable forest content-related consulting: management. PwC Austria, Mensalia creative concept, design and production: The printing was carried out in accordance with seso media group gmbh the Low Pollution Printing Products Directive of the printed by: Austrian Eco-Label at PAUL GERIN GmbH & PAUL GERIN GmbH & Co KG Co KG (UW 756). Telekom Austria Group TELEKOM AUSTRIA AG Lassallestrasse 9 1020 Vienna, Austria Tel. +43 50 664 0 www.telekomaustria.com Operating Companies of the Telekom Austria Group A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA AG si.mobil d.d. Lassallestrasse 9 Šmartinska cesta 134 b 1020 Vienna, Austria 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia Tel. +43 50 664 0 Tel. +386 40 443000 www.a1.net www.simobil.si MOBILTEL EAD vip mobile d.o.o. 1 Kukush Street Omladinskih brigada 21 1309 Sofia, Bulgaria 11070 Novi Beograd, Serbia Tel. +359 88 85000 31 Tel. +381 60 1234 www.mtel.bg www.vipmobile.rs Vipnet d.o.o. Vip operator dooel Vrtni put 1 Vasil Adzilarski bb 10000 Zagreb, Croatia 1000 Skopje, Macedonia Tel. +385 1 4691 091 Tel. +389 2311000 77 www.vipnet.hr www.vip.mk VELCOM MObilkom liechtenstein ag 36-2, Internatsionalnaya Äulestrasse 20 220030 Minsk, Belarus 9490 Vaduz, Liechtenstein Tel. +375 17 2178494 Tel. +423 7970077 www.velcom.by www.mobilkom.li page 77 GlossarY Enclosed you can find further information and explaEnergy Efficiency Index nations on terms used in this report, which could not Indicator for measuring a specific energy consumpbe explained exactly in the text fields. tion, measured by the Telekom Austria Group in megawatt hour per terabyte (1 terabyte = 1 trillion bytes). 3G network Third generation of mobile telecommunications techFull Time Equivalent (FTE) nology network, for example UMTS and EDGE. Full-time equivalent Compliance management GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Area of responsibility dealing with a company’s comGuidelines that were drawn up in a participatory pliance with statutory provisions and directives as process and which are used for the preparation and well as voluntary codes. evaluation of sustainability reports. Corporate governance HSPA+ (High Speed Packet Access Plus) The Austrian Corporate Governance Code sets out A further evolution of UMTS to achieve even higher guidelines for responsible company management data rates than those achieved hitherto with HSDPA and controlling. and HSUPA upgrades. Digital divide ICT Digital divide is economic and social inequality Information and communications technology between groups, broadly construed, in terms of access to, use of, or knowledge of information and communiInternational Labour Organisation (ILO) cation technologies. This difference in opportunities The International Labour Organisation is the only has an impact on access to education, knowledge tripartite United Nations (UN) agency that brings and work. governments, employers and workers of its member states together to promote humane working condiEBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, tions worldwide. Depreciation and Amortization) EBITDA is defined as net profit excluding financial International Organization results, income taxes and depreciation and amortisafor Standardization (ISO) tion charges. The International Organization for Standardization is an international standard-setting body composed EDGE (Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution) of representatives from various national standards Technology that delivers higher data transmission organizations. rates in GSM mobile communication networks by introducing an additional modulation. ITU (International Telecommunication Unit) A specialized agency of the United Nations, which Electromagnetic Fields (EMF) deals with the technical aspects of telecommunicaElectromagnetic fields (EMF) are a combination of tions at the international level. invisible electric and magnetic fields of force. They occur both naturally and due to human activity, inCarbon dioxide (CO₂) cluding in mobile communications. Carbon dioxide is a naturally occurring chemical compound composed of two oxygen atoms and one carbon EMAS (Eco Management and Audit Scheme) atom. It is one of the mayor causes of climate change. European environmental management system for organisations who want to improve their environConvergence mental performance. The merging of various services and content from fixed net and mobile communication. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 GlossarY Long Term Evolution (LTE) VDSL (Very High Speed Digital Subscriber Line) LTE represents the further advancement of existing Technology that permits significantly higher data mobile networks towards even faster data transfer and transmission rates over conventional telephone lines larger transmission capacities. LTE enables transfer than, for example, ADSL. rates of up to 150 Mbit/s. Code of Conduct M2M (Machine-to-Machine) The Code of Conduct of the Telekom Austria Group Connection services for automated data transfer is a Group-wide internal directive which prescribes between machines, devices, sensors or servers for how to deal fairly with customers, suppliers and emremote controlling and monitoring with or without ployees, protect confidential company and business human interaction. information, protect assets and deal with conflicts of interest. It also sets out rules for accepting gifts and Mobile penetration provisions on capital market compliance. Measures customers of a mobile communication provider as a proportion of total population. Whistleblowing Individual who brings to light abuses such as illegal Radio frequency identification (RFID) activities (e.g. corruption, insider trading and human Radio frequency identification is the wireless nonrights violations) or general risks that he/she discovers contact use of radio-frequency electromagnetic fields at his/her workplace or elsewhere. to transfer data, for the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects. Life Balance Life balance is a concept including proper prioritising Smartphone between work and private life. Mobile telephone with expanded functionality. In addition to calls and text messaging services, this usually includes additional services such as e-mail, Internet access, calendar, navigation, and the recording and playback of audiovisual content. Social Media Describes digital media and technologies which allow users to interact and create media content individually or as part of a community. UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecommunications System) Mobile communications standard that enables highperformance services on the basis of high data transmission rates, approximately 40 times faster than with a GSM handset. UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. page 79 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013 AND IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS … DON’T HESITATE … JUST E-MAIL US. SUSTAINABLES@TELEKOMAUSTRIA.COM PAgE 81 1-400-000-706 www.telekomaustria.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 / 2013
