United Nations Global Compact 2014 Communication on Progress Transforming Passion into Excellence This report covers the period between july 31st , 2013 to july 31st, 2014 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Dear Stakeholders, I am pleased to report that our overall Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and related United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) initiatives continue to make tangible progress. As one of the larger private sector employers on the planet, Teleperformance not only recognizes, but embraces the fact that we play a special role in the lives of our 149,000 people, the communities where we live and work and the world as a whole. Regarding CSR and UNGC management activities and policies, Teleperformance established six CSR sub-committees (SC’s), since our last report. This helps us mentor and develop future CSR leaders, further imbues the UNGC principles into our culture and creates greater efficiencies and oversight for all related CSR activities. These sub-committees address the environment, corporate philanthropy, legal issues related to policy making and management. Three of the SC’s are focused on UNGC activities including education, communication and training. We also plan to implement four new policies in 2014 including Occupational Health and Safety, Equal Opportunity, Supplier Conduct and Data Privacy. Regarding the environment, our Citizen of the Planet programs saw great success this past year. We won a second Frost and Sullivan Green Excellence Award for developing our fourth LEED facility in Bogota, Colombia (we also have a fifth LEED-certified facility in Beijing, China). We are humbled to be the only player in our industry to have won this award and, despite operating out of leased facilities, we were able to reduce our carbon Paulo César Salles Vasques CEO Transforming Passion into Excellence 2 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress footprint per employee by over 7%. Teleperformance people also conducted hundreds of Corporate Values local environmentally related campaigns across all world regions. Cosmos | Integrity From a philanthropic perspective, our Citizen of the World (COTW) program had another Absolute. Harmomious. Universal. record year. Our great Teleperformance people raised over $4 million (USD), in cash and in-kind donations to support charitable initiatives around the globe. Thanks to the generosity of our people, we achieved 400% our annual Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) charitable objective and we have raised over $14.5 million (USD) since COTW inception in 2006. Earth | Respect Deep. Nurturing. Abundant. In addition to monetary contributions, Teleperformance people volunteered approximately 41,147 hours to support worthwhile charitable causes in their local communities. While we are pleased with our progress, we are equally committed to doing more each Metal | Professionalism year for CSR–related actions and to support the UNGC. I encourage you to read the following Crafted. Solid. Reliable. report and please do not hesitate to contact us with questions, concerns or suggestions. Sincerely, Air | Innovation Inspiring. Renewing. Dynamic. Paulo César Salles Vasques Teleperformance Chief Executive Officer Fire | Commitment Steady. Strong. Radiant. Transforming Passion into Excellence 3 Index 1 Human Rights 2 Labor Standards 3 Environment 4 AntiCorruption Transforming Passion into Excellence 1 Human Rights 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Human Rights Principle Businesses should support Principle Make sure that they are not complicit 1 and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human 2 in human rights abuses. rights; and Teleperformance’s values, in particular, Integrity and Respect, fully embody our commitment to protecting universally proclaimed human rights. We respect and promote 6 human rights throughout our company, among our employees, clients, contractors and stakeholders and in the communities where we operate. Transforming Passion into Excellence 6 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Human Rights Human Rights @Teleperformance CSR CSR Code of Employee Data Supply Community Awards Governance New Hire Ethics Satisfaction Privacy Chain Involvement Training Survey Transforming Passion into Excellence 7 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Human Rights Paulo César Salles Vasques Chief Executive Officer Mark Pfeiffer EVP, Global Management Team and President of CSR Committee Olivier Rigaudy CSR Governance Ad Hoc Special CSR Advisor Chief Financial Officer Allison Jenny Gabriel Sonia Quy Annette Junoy Rodriguez Toscana Pereira Nguyen Engelsgaard Chief Legal Officer Social Responsibility Sustainability CSR Manager Investor Relations VP Share & Employee Senior Global Brazil Initiatives Advisor Coordinator Transforming Passion into Excellence 8 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Human Rights Established in January 2013 the Teleperformance CSR Committee is led by Mark Pfeiffer, Executive Vice President of the Global Management Team. It consists of permanent members and relies on a team of experts from different areas and entities in the Group to advise on various activities, such as drafting policy and replying to sustainability inquiries. The Committee meets regularly and submits a half year report to the Board of Directors. Compliance and audit support is provided through our Internal Audit Team. Since last year’s report (July 2013) the Teleperformance CSR Committee met seven times and developed two new policies: Teleperformance Code of Ethics and Teleperformance Environmental Policy. Four CSR Governance additional policies are programmed to be issued by the end of 2014: a Supplier Policy, an Teleperformance CSR Equal Opportunity Policy, a Data Privacy Policy and an Occupational Health and Safety Policy. CSR Committee Committee The CSR Committee does not limit its activity to producing policies, it also aims to maintain the highest level of awareness in the Group while monitoring implementation. For this reason, a CSR tracking tool has been developed. This tool tracks and measures the policy implementation level in each country. The data is then compared with how the company is perceived For CSR long version video by employees and clients in terms of how http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=etCd-4wXFZU Teleperformance acts as an employer and a partner in accordance with CSR policies. For CSR short version video http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Eevwjy8J65o CSR Report UNGC Report 2013 http://teleperformance.com/en-us/people-company/ http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=45pmnSeYvPQ social-responsibility Transforming Passion into Excellence 9 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Human Rights As part of its efforts to embrace and adhere to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact, and with a view towards improving organization of the Group’s CSR initiatives, the CSR Committee implemented six sub-committees, each chaired by a Committee member. Three of these are especially focused on UNGC. By implementing the sub-committees, UNGC Teleperformance intends to leverage expertise, promote training and compliance with the Internal Communication UNGC and develop a “deeper bench” of future Sustainability CSR leaders. External benchmarking To further enrich the exchange of ideas and CSR Governance Self-assessment to ensure broad, multicultural representation from throughout the Teleperformance Group, the CSR sub-committees include members from Teleperformance Brazil, the United States, Canada, Mexico, China, CSR sub-committees the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, the Philanthropy Legal Issues Philippines, Sweden and France. Out of the 16 current members, 9 are women (56%). Transforming Passion into Excellence 10 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Human Rights The mission of the sub-committees*: UNGC: Sustainability: Philanthropy: • Internal Communication: enhancing • Identifying and pursuing actions • Ensuring our philanthropic awareness around the four areas which allow us to operate in a more efforts are systematic of Human Rights, Labor Standards, environmentally friendly way and and participative for all Environment and Anti-Corruption continue to lead our industry in Teleperformance people and by finding tangible links to our sustainability initiatives. Our efforts entities; business, our processes and include, but are not limited to: our standards, as well as to the • Uniting in a worthy common communities where we operate. • Pursuing LEED Certifications; cause compatible with local • Conducting energy and waterneeds; • External benchmark: understanding how other companies implement reduction projects; • Maximizing giving levels and the ten principles of UNGC and • Leading mitigation programs (such as encouraging our colleagues, identifying best practices. planting trees, cleaning beaches, etc.); clients and other audiences to join our significant • Self-assessment: assessing the • Promoting environmental education humanitarian commitment; and maturity of our organization in both inside and outside the company in terms of adherence to the ten different associations and educational • Elevating the pride, loyalty and principles of UNGC, identifying gaps institutions; engagement of our people. and highlighting best practices. • Pursuing relevant environmental / CSR awards; • Raising awareness about environmental issues through internal and external communication channels. *The Legal Issues Sub-Committee will be set up by the end of 2014. Transforming Passion into Excellence 11 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Human Rights Teleperformance CSR New Hire orientation is designed to raise awareness around Corporate Social Responsibility and to involve the Group’s employees in CSR-related initiatives right from the start. It was launched in September 2013 and an updated version was released in May 2014. This training is mandatory for all new hires and is delivered face-to-face during the Onboarding phase (see page 26). The training focuses on: • Corporate Social Responsibility history and main milestones; • The importance of Corporate Social Responsibility for Teleperformance and how CSR New Hire we imbed CSR in our strategy (calendar of our CSR activities, policies issued, how our Training internal processes reinforce CSR, etc.) • Teleperformance’s CSR activities and how employees can get involved (Group’s global initiatives, such as Citizen of the World, Citizen of the Planet, UNGC and other local and global initiatives). CSR New Hire Training (Global) % of new hires who received the CSR New Hire Training since launch (Sept 2013) 77.4% Transforming Passion into Excellence 12 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Human Rights In September 2013, the CSR Committee launched the Teleperformance Code of Ethics. The code is based on 2 fundamental principles from the CSR Committee’s Mission Statement: • The CSR committee recognizes that it has Finnish, French, German, Greek, Indonesian, a very important responsibility to set very Italian, Japanese, Korean, Norwegian, Polish, high standards of compliance with ethical Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Slovak, principles, and; Spanish, Swedish and Turkish. • All companies in the Group must apply The implementation of the code is monitored all CSR principles in the way we operate bi-annually and evaluation of ethical to ensure honesty, fairness, equality, behavior will take place through our yearly sustainability, transparency and basic employee satisfaction survey and client human decency. satisfaction survey. Code of Ethics The objective of the policy is to define the rules, conduct, actions, behavior and relationship that we adopt towards our employees, officers, service providers, Code of Ethics (Global) vendors, clients, customers, community, media, public agencies and non-profit organizations and shareholders. The policy reflects Teleperformance’s core values and the respect for diversity. The Code of Ethics is available in Albanian, 72.4% % of employees trained Arabic, Brazilian Portuguese, Chinese 72.9% (Mandarin), Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, % acknowledgment Transforming Passion into Excellence 13 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Human Rights Every year since 2008, Teleperformance conducts an Employee Satisfaction Survey (E.Sat) in which all employees from across the Group are encouraged to participate. In its 6th Global Edition (2013), the E.Sat survey involved 42 countries in all world regions and 77,041 people. The goal is to give our people the The external benchmark is provided by Aon opportunity to express their satisfaction with Hewitt by consolidating the engagement results Teleperformance as an employer, enabling us from different companies of different sizes to improve work conditions and employee across 30+ countries (over 4 million employees well-being on a continuous basis via tailored surveyed in more than 50 verticals). action plans. The survey is managed by two external partners: GN Research and Aon Hewitt. In addition to more than 100 satisfaction items, Employee we focus our attention on two key indicators : Best Employer Certification Net Promoter Score (NPSTM*) and Engagement. In 2014, Teleperformance will join Aon Hewitt’s Best Satisfaction Survey Since 2011, the year Teleperformance joined the UNGC, the total NPSTM for the Group has Employer Certification Program. The aim is to be evaluated and compared to other leading Employers of Choice. The comparison will be based on four increased by 27 points overall. axes: ‘Engagement‘, ‘Leadership’, ‘Performance’ and In 2013, the Engagement score was higher ‘Employer Brand.’ than the external benchmark by 9 points. Results will be available in Q4 2014. Employee Satisfaction 2011 2012 2013 % Increase on NPSTM +11 pt +2 pt +14 pt % Increase on Engagement n/a -4 pt +6 pt *NPSTM is a trademark of Fred Reichheld, Satmetrix and Bain & Co Transforming Passion into Excellence 14 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Human Rights Information Security and Privacy are key factors for the success of our business; for this reason, Teleperformance has strict processes in place to protect our employee, client and customer data. Some of the privacy requirements Teleperformance complies with include: PCI DSS (Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard), ISO 27001, SOC1 and SOC2 (Service Organization Controls 1 and Service Organization Controls 2), FISMA (Federal Information Security Management Act), NIST SP800-53 (National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Data Privacy Publication 800-53), European Union Data Privacy Directive, EU Member State Privacy Laws, HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act), HITRUST (Health Information Trust Alliance), Client Specific Privacy Requirements and many others. The CSR Committee is developing a Data Privacy Policy that will be issued in Q4 2014. Transforming Passion into Excellence 15 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Human Rights In 2013, our EWAP Region (English World Asia Pacific) developed a Statement of Procurement Practices to ensure that the manner in which procurement is conducted within Teleperformance is transparent and understood by all key stakeholders. This statement sets a range of expectations These practices align us with our clients’ pertaining to how business will be conducted expectations in terms of social responsibility, with our suppliers. reflect our operating philosophies and core values and establish unwavering support of The procurement statement explicitly integrity in all procurement activities. Supply Chain indicates that Teleperformance requires its suppliers to embrace, support and comply The Teleperformance CSR Committee is with the UNGC 10 principles. Furthermore, it developing a global Supply Chain Policy includes a supplier qualification questionnaire based on EWAP’s Statement of Procurement evaluating business practices, including: labor, Practices. The policy will be released human rights, environment, anti-corruption, in Q4 2014. business continuity management, health and safety, ethics and business integrity. Transforming Passion into Excellence 16 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Human Rights 2013 Teleperformance Social Responsability $2,615,922 $4,080,845 in donated in in-kind items, such as clothing, in total cash and in-kind donations that went school supplies, and other needed items. towards feeding, clothing, and bringing joy to the needy. $1,464,923 41,147 in cash donations by the Employee donated volunteer hours. Telepeformance family. Community 39,620 1,671 Involvement computers donated to poor schools. underprivileged infants and children received toys during Holiday Seasons. Citizen of the World All values in U.S. Dollars / COTW 2013 ﬁscal year is November 1, 2012 – October 31, 2013. Initiative In 2013, Teleperformance, through Citizen More than 2,500 local charitable campaigns of the World (COTW), has raised more than were executed in 2013. A key partnership in $4 million in cash and in-kind donations the United States is with Feed The Children in and volunteered more than 41,000 hours all which employees contributed nearly $670,000 helping to feed, clothe, educate, and cheer in cash and donations and volunteered a up children and families over the world. great number of hours to distribute truckloads Furthermore, Teleperformance employees of food, essentials and other services to donated 1,600 liters of blood, helping to save thousands of children and families in 14 cities. nearly 10,500 lives.* *Each blood donor saves about 3 lives each time they donate blood. http://www.redcrossblood.org/learn-about-blood Transforming Passion into Excellence 17 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Human Rights Since the beginning of Citizen of the World in 2006, Teleperformance has maintained a global crisis fund, which was used this year for disaster relief in Russia, the U.S., Mexico, and the Philippines. In fact, when Typhoon Haiyan struck the Visayas Region in Central Philippines, Citizen of the World responded immediately. Teleperformance recognizes both the responsibility and the opportunity to help in such unfortunate events, and its people are ready to lend a hand whenever the need arises. A detailed 2013 Citizen of the World Report is available in video format, as well as pdf. COTW video and Social Responsibility Report http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S_2IvbDu7H4 Transforming Passion into Excellence 18 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Human Rights In 2013, Teleperformance raised more than $4 million in cash and in-kind donations, far exceeding its Clinton Global Initiative* annual commitment of $1 million. Over the last 7 years, under the Citizen of the World (COTW) initiative, Teleperformance Cash & In Kind (COTW) Collected yearly (000) employees have donated an equivalent of $14.5 million in cash and in-kind donations, including 177,451 employee donated volunteer 2011 Community hours, 9,403 computers and 309,066 toys resulting in countless improved lives.Since our membership in 2006, Teleperformance $1,930,000 has exceeded its Clinton Global Initiative Involvement commitment every year. 2012 Clinton Global Initiative $2,866,000 2013 $4,080,000 * Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) is a non-political global summit of selected government and business leaders to address the world’s biggest issues. More information regarding CGI can be found at www.ClintonGlobalInitiative.org. Transforming Passion into Excellence 19 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Human Rights 2013 EOA Corporate Social Responsibility Award Awards In May 2013, Teleperformance was honored capabilities and people, across geographies to with a major award for Europe, Middle improve lives and environmental conditions. East and Africa (EMEA) Corporate Social Despite the overall difficult economic climate, Responsibility by the European Outsourcing Teleperformance has integrated CSR into its Association (EOA). way of doing business.” The EOA is one of the largest and most respected industry associations in Europe, sharing and recognizing local, regional and worldwide best practices across CRM and BPO enterprises. Armand Angeli, EOA Board member and Co-Founder of the EOA France Chapter, said: “Beyond the company’s business performance, the EOA judges were impressed by the scope and scale of Teleperformance’s commitment to leverage its resources, Transforming Passion into Excellence 20 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Human Rights 2014 AT&T 2013 Supplier 2013 Community Project of the 2013 Social Responsibility Diversity Crystal Award Year Award Award On April 3, 2014, AT&T announced the winners Teleperformance Philippines CSR efforts were Teleperformance Portugal was distinguished of the AT&T 2013 Supplier Diversity Crystal recognized on April 18, 2013 by the Philippine by IFE International Faculty for Executives Award a select group of Prime Suppliers that Economic Zone Authority with the Outstanding with the award of Social Responsibility in attained and/or exceeded the established Community Project of the Year Award. Call / Contact Center, evaluating the solidarity AT&T Supplier diversity Utilization targets program developed throughout 2013. in 2013. Teleperformance was selected as a recipient of the award, which is exemplary of Teleperformance’s commitment to collaborating with clients, suppliers and local communities alongside AT&T. Notably, the award recognizes Teleperformance’s contribution to AT&T’s diversity spend target for its Prime Supplier program. Transforming Passion into Excellence 21 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Human Rights 2014 Gold Medal for Best 2014 Teleperformance Turkey Community Spirit – “Respect for Humans” Award At the recently concluded APAC finals of the The “Respect for Humans” Award is given every Contact Center World Awards, Teleperformance year by Kariyer.net, the largest job portal, India was awarded the Gold Medal for its to recognize the efforts of Human Resources Community Service Program. departments and to encourage them to reply to all applicants in a timely manner. This year’s award ceremony took place at the Human Resources Summit in Istanbul on 12th and 13th February 2014. The Teleperformance Turkey Human Resources Department received the “Respect for Humans” award for having the highest rate of timely responses to job applicants in 2013. Transforming Passion into Excellence 22 2 Labor Standards 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Labor Standards Principle Businesses should uphold the 3 freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle The elimination of all forms of forced 4 and compulsory labor; Principle The effective abolition of child labor; 5 and Principle The elimination of discrimination in 6 employment and occupation. As an employer, Teleperformance plays a crucial role in ensuring our employees’ acceptable work conditions, well-being and good quality of life. We base our labor practices on our 7 management principles: great work environment, fair compensation and promotion, two-way communication, objective processes, measurement and proactive corrections, satisfaction and social responsibility. Transforming Passion into Excellence 24 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Human Rights Labor Standards @Teleperformance Labor Selection & Equal Career Social Health & Premises Framework Integration Opportunities Management Dialog Safety Standard Awards Transforming Passion into Excellence 25 2014 United Nation Global Compact Labor Standards Great work environment. 1 Fair and transparent compensation and 2 promotion programs. 3 Ongoing, 2-way communication. Teleperformance: Our rules of people 4 Objective and documented operational and management processes. management 5 Measurement and pro-active corrections: staff satisfaction by individual, team and center. 6 Employee satisfaction with what they do translates into customer satisfaction. 7 Social responsibility. Transforming Passion into Excellence 26 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Labor Standards Teleperformance complies with all national and international laws in terms of labor. We do not engage nor support the use of child labor as defined in any national or international law and Under no circumstances, do we no person below the minimum use forced or compulsory labor. legal age for employment, for each respective country in which we work, is employed. Labor Framework Our employees’ work weeks consist Employees under 18 years of age of no more than 48 hours, with are not employed for any night at least one day off following 6 work. All our employees are consecutive days of working. We free to leave their employment pay all employees in accordance after reasonable notice and in with applicable wage laws and compliance with national laws. regulations, including those relating to minimum wages, overtime hours and legally mandated benefits. Transforming Passion into Excellence 27 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Labor Standards The nature of our activities (multichannel customer experience management) requires a very specific profile: therefore, Teleperformance places great importance to hiring and integrating the right talents. Best R&S The aim of BEST Recruitment & Selection, All applications are reviewed following clear launched in 2013, is to assist organizations criteria to avoid biases; in recruiting and hiring their employees. • Non-discriminatory rules are clearly followed; This is performed through the creation Selection & of a set of processes and tools which will ensure consistency in our approach and and • Candidates are the right fit for the company Integration application of recruitment processes across Teleperformance. Overall implementation is 46% across all the Group. We expect to reach full implementation In particular, BEST R&S Process is designed by Q3 2015. to ensure: Transforming Passion into Excellence 28 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Labor Standards Onboarding The objectives of the Onboarding process for new employees are: • Know and understand the organization and the business; • Learn the business, become operational, and feel confident; • Give the employee visibility to a potential career path. The benefits of the Onboarding process for new employees are: • Build confidence, sense of belonging; • Improve performance and pride; Current Implementation 71% • Create a feeling of security for his/her future at Teleperformance. The first onboarding package was created for our advisors, representing 80% of our workforce. The package, covering the first The 2nd Onboarding package, for new hires in 90 days of an advisor’s employment, was Business Development, was launched in June launched in December 2013. 2014. The Business Developer’s onboarding The current overall implementation is at 71%. path covers the first 180 days. We expect full We expect full implementation in Q1 2015. implementation by Q1 2015. Transforming Passion into Excellence 29 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Labor Standards As one of the larger employers in the world, Teleperformance is committed to equality and valuing diversity within our workforce. Our goal is to ensure that these commitments, reinforced by our values, are embedded in our day-to-day working practices with all of our customers, colleagues and partners. All of our management practices are based Teleperformance has a strong focus on on respect for personal dignity, integrity and operational processes and enterprise standards privacy of our clients, customers, shareholders, in order to ensure consistent, transparent employees, contractors, vendors, competitors and fair people management in recruitment, and entities, regardless of position or title training and coaching of our employees. employed. The Teleperformance Quality Assurance Process (BEST QA) provides a clear, structured Equal approach to implement and manage quality in all our companies, with the objective to Opportunities improve the satisfaction of our customers and our clients while at the same time developing our people fairly. Compliance 2011 2012 2013 BEST QA n/a +24 pt +8 pt Transforming Passion into Excellence 30 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Labor Standards BEST Recruitment & Selection is described under “Selection & Integration” page 28. The Teleperformance Operational Processes and Standards (TOPS) describes the general Operation Standards and Procedures that must be followed by all Teleperformance companies. TOPS involves the activities needed to effectively manage operations during the shifts, improving results and increasing employee satisfaction (E.Sat). For each advisor, it ensures consistent support and feedback from first line managers and it helps to highlight each advisor’s improvement points. Finally, in terms of gender distribution within the Group, by December 31, 2013 women represented 53.9% of all employees and 46% of management. Transforming Passion into Excellence 31 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Labor Standards Development of our employees is a strategic move for Teleperformance. Our approach is to assure employee recognition, leadership development and continuous education and development. Apart from all the training provided In 2012, the platform provided 86,750 hours of Teleperformance Institute provides all Group training. In 2013, 278,819 hours were provided. management staff with executive level An increase of more than 200%. education. Based on our global presence When it comes to face-to-face sessions, the including more than 60 cultures and languages, Career our development focus is based on e-learning. local companies provide a range of modules, from CSR New Hire training, to soft skills Management Our e-learning platform provides more than 400 courses plus a custom content capability from our in-house e-learning development team. The modules cover themes ranging from English language lessons, Microsoft Office®, leadership, values, skills acquirement to Corporate Social Responsibility. Transforming Passion into Excellence 32 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Labor Standards JUMP! is a development program created to identify and prepare high-potential employees to take on leadership positions in the company. The objective is to prepare employees to become leaders: from agents to supervisors, from supervisors to coordinators and, finally, from coordinators to managers. The JUMP! program is based on a training program that offers technical and behavior training, as well as personal development plans. The JUMP program is managed locally based on a training plan that combines behavioral and technical training, as well as a personal development plan. The aim is to help employees become leaders, by progressing from Contact Center Advisor, through supervisor and coordinator to manager. Transforming Passion into Excellence 33 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Labor Standards Coaching 2.0 Coaching 2.0 is a new worldwide program, launched in the beginning of 2014, aimed at developing the coaching culture of our organization. The target audience is all Managers at Teleperformance, and most specifically our more senior managers. Participants will attend a workshop and will be provided with a “toolkit” to develop their teams further through leading by example. In addition to the initial workshop, during the year there will be a series of newsletters, webinars and white papers to ensure all our managers remain invigorated and focused to apply these skills and make coaching a habit and not an event. Coaching –it’s not what we do, but how we do it. Transforming Passion into Excellence 34 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Labor Standards Social dialog takes place at different levels within the company and may exist in different forms depending on standards, practices and applicable regulations in the various countries. Teleperformance has set a number of initiatives that are monitored periodically, such as focus groups, chat with the CEO and a direct line to the CEO via email. Furthermore, regular meetings, which increases, leave and length of parental leave, usually take place on a monthly basis, are remuneration on public holidays and team organized between management and staff scheduling. representatives or trade union representatives, If there is no specific agreement, the where they exist (which is the case for employment law in the country in question approximately 50% of our sites). applies and is often supplemented by collective Given the practices and legislation specific to bargaining agreements signed with the staff representatives on an annual basis. Social Dialog each country, one third of our companies have their own collective bargaining agreements. Where applicable, this agreement provides for the number of working hours, salary Transforming Passion into Excellence 35 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Labor Standards Teleperformance Anti-Stress Program Because our business is stressful, category. More information may be found in our Teleperformance prioritizes work place 2013 For Fun Festival Report Video. ergonomics, leisure areas, flexible schedules as Teleperformance also promotes physical well as specific anti-stress programs with the and mental wellness and high quality of life objectives of promoting well-being, minimizing through play, fun, and camaraderie. Among the stress of our employees and cultivating the the most popular of our employee engagement feeling of belonging. initiatives is Teleperformance Sport Club. Health & Safety Five years ago, Teleperformance broke the mold of employee engagement by implementing an In 2013, the Group fielded 1,110 soccer teams (893 male and 217 female) and 215 mixed ambitious, dynamic competition among our volleyball teams, as well as a variety of other employees to share their passion for art, music team sports such as basketball, tennis, bowling, and dance. To compete, contestants had to badminton and softball. Compared to 2012, record themselves singing, dancing, playing, the number of teams created increased by or creating. approximately 164%. For more information, please refer to our 2013 Sport Club report Video. Since our For Fun Festival first started in 2009, over 20,000 employees have submitted more than 5,000 videos. In 2013, nearly 7,500 For Fun Festival Report 2013 employees across 35 countries submitted 1,715 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QLfx1RHpKKc video entries, a 58% increase compared to 2012. 2013 was also the year when Teleperformance Sport Club Report 2013 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nEJyfdkvmjE shared its talent with the world, holding the competition on Facebook, with over 44,500 votes being cast to elect the winner of each Transforming Passion into Excellence 36 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Labor Standards Teleperformance Physical Best WFM Security Controls The work of employed staff is organized in strict In April 2013, 8 specific security controls were compliance with work time legislation, which launched. Based on reported figures, here is an varies from country to country. overview of the compliance: The weekly working hours ranges from 35 in Sch France, 37.5 in Norway and 39 in Spain to a st ed • Employee Safety Fire Extinguishers and ca maximum of 48 in Egypt and the UK. Fore Key ng Exits (81% ) y & C Co uli Teleperformance has developed a BEST WFM rit n o • Facility Emergency Response Team (83%) Data o ation User Guide describing the general Workforce Verifi Integ unic ion mmrdinat • Facility Lockdown (76%) Management standards and procedures that cat i • Facility Evacuation (93%) must be followed by all countries. o • Facility Gun and Weapon Ban (98%) Teleperformance BEST WFM involves all the activities needed to respect the labor law • Crisis Communication (91%) requirements, as well as accommodating Ag ta p M a ne n t D a e nt • Facility Preparedness (77%) individual needs for preferred working hours, Re ag e m y r ti da ra o days and shifts. ng Int • Employee Necessities (82%) Like all our process standards, BEST WFM has While the above 8 controls are specific to been designed to provide a basis for COPC health and safety, Teleperformance manages 38 compliance. For this reason, the processes physical security controls which are audited as have been designed to be aligned with the part of our annual PCI DSS audits. requirements from the COPC-2000 CSP Standard Release 5.0. Teleperformance Health and Safety Policy Teleperformance CSR Committee will release a Group Health and Safety Policy in Q4, 2014. Transforming Passion into Excellence 37 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Labor Standards Since 2009, Teleperformance has deployed a Global Premises Standard to guarantee a healthy and pleasant work environment. The standard covers 12 topics (such as lighting, The standard is reviewed on a yearly basis acoustics, IT & Security, Safety, Hands– via internal & external benchmarks in on-Management/Proximity, Sustainable order to ensure that it is in line with market Development, Cleanliness and Wellbeing) evolutions, business needs and in compliance across 8 areas, such as operations, cafeterial, with building and layout safety standards training rooms, etc. specific to each country. The standard provides blueprints and Every year, each site is evaluated on an guidelines for recruitment & training, overall compliance level, according to workplace design, as well as common areas minimum requirements (Bronze), and more and leisure areas. desirable levels (Silver and Gold). Premises From 2012 to 2013, there has been improvement in group compliance, by Standard approximately 5%. Overall Group Compliance 2011 2012 2013 Bronze 79% 82% 86% Silver 74% 78% 82% Gold 68% 74% 78% Transforming Passion into Excellence 38 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Labor Standards Yearly, Teleperformance companies are required to self-assess all of their sites across 321 items, each linked to the 12 different topics and 8 areas mentioned above. Progress per TOPIC 2012 2013 Lighting +3 pt +3 pt Acoustics +3 pt +2 pt Well-being +3 pt +3 pt Handicap accommodations +5 pt +4 pt Sustainable development +9 pt +4 pt Security +6 pt +3 pt Safety +3 pt +2 pt Proximity & Hands-on-management +7 pt +2 pt Welcoming and professional +18 pt +2 pt atmosphere Cleanliness & order +3 pt +1 pt Transforming Passion into Excellence 39 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Labor Standards ABAJO CE TR RT D E LUGA DO ICA R IF FE B 14 15 ENE Great Place to Work® 2014 Teleperformance Since our last Communication on Progress Mexico Great Place to Work® (page 12), Teleperformance has now also Teleperformance Mexico Domestic is pleased to been awarded GPTW® in El Salvador, Mexico, announce the 2014 Great Place to Work© (GPTW) TLScontact China, Portugal and Brazil. Awards Great Place to Work® Institute began the search Certification. Teleperformance Mexico Domestic obtaining this recognition is reinforcing the high for the Best Companies to Work for® in 1981 emphasis on excellence and the commitment and sees its mission as supporting companies to have the best working conditions for all its to build Great Workplaces characterized by employees, all of this certified by one of the trust, pride and camaraderie. leading firms in this area. Transforming Passion into Excellence 40 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Labor Standards Las mejores 2014 Empresas para Trabajar 2014 Centroamérica 2013 Brasil 2014 -Teleperformance 2014 Great Place To 2013 Great Place To Work® Portugal is the Greatest Place Work® in Central America Brazil To Work with more than 1000 forTeleperformance Teleperformance, global leader in client employees El Salvador relationship management, is elected one of the 70 “Best Companies To Work For” in Brazil. Celebrating a history of 20 years in Portugal, Teleperformance, the global leader in The award was bestowed by the Great Place to Teleperformance was once again distinguished outsourced multichannel customer experience Work Institute (GPTW), in partnership with the by the Great Place to Work Institute in a management, announced today that its magazine Época, published byEditora Globo. ceremony, in Rio’s restaurant, in Oeiras. For operations in El Salvador were named among the 5th time in a row, Teleperformance the best workplace locations for 2014 Portugal was considered one of the greatest in Central America by the prestigious Great places to work – the first with more than one Place to Work® Institute. thousand employees. Transforming Passion into Excellence 41 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Labor Standards 2013 2013 Great Place To Work® 2013 HEWITT TI And Telecom Brazil A Teleperformance, líder global na gestão de Teleperformance, global leader in client relacionamento multicanal com o cliente, relationship management, which employs conquistou pelo quinto ano consecutivo a 18,000 people in Brazil, has been recognized premiação “As Melhores na Gestão de Pessoas”, as one of the “Best Companies to Work For” no Brasil. A premiação é realizada pela AON according to the Great Place to Work Institute Hewitt, uma conceituada consultoria de in partnership with the magazine Computer Recursos Humanos, em parceria com o jornal World. For the fourth consecutive year, the Valor Econômico. company excelled in IT and Telecom category for his performance in the industry. This year, Teleperformance won the 31 th place in the ranking of the awards. Transforming Passion into Excellence 42 3 Environment 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Environment Principle Businesses are asked to support Teleperformance is committed to minimizing negative 7 a precautionary approach to environmental impacts by acting in a sustainable manner environmental challenges; to ensure future generations have the ability to meet their own needs. Principle Undertake initiatives to 8 promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle Encourage the development and 9 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Transforming Passion into Excellence 44 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Environment Environment @Teleperformance Environmental Carbon Sustainable Use Awards & Policy Footprint of Resources Certifications Transforming Passion into Excellence 45 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Environment In December 2013, Teleperformance released its Environmental Policy, which defines the actions, behaviors and relationships that Teleperformance’s employees shall adopt to act in an environmentally responsible way, inside and outside of the workplace. Teleperformance is the largest network of The Environmental Policy is available in contact centers in the world; we recognize Albanian, Arabic, Brazilian Portuguese, Chinese that our operations result in emissions to air (Mandarin), Czech, Dutch, English, French, and water, and the generation of waste. We German, Greek, Italian, Japanese, Korean, commit to comply with relevant legislation and Polish, Romanian, Russian, Slovakian, Spanish regulations and other requirements to which and Turkish. our organization subscribes, while also seeking to continually improve our environmental Environmental systems to minimize the environmental impacts of our operations. Policy The ultimate objective of the Environmental Policy is to minimize our overall Carbon Environmental Policy (Global) Footprint on a worldwide basis, enhance the experience of working in our facilities, 64.8% educate our personnel to be better occupants on the planet and lead the industry in sustainable operations. % of employees trained 50.9% % acknowledgment Transforming Passion into Excellence 46 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Environment Citizen of the Planet (COTP) is a global corporate initiative aimed at ensuring Teleperformance operates in an environmentally friendly and responsible manner. We commit to helping our planet by improving Carbon Footprint attainment results vary by facilities to create “sustainable sites” (i.e., water, country and individual facility and are landlord paper and other waste reductions) and striving dependent in many cases. Our 2014 goal is to towards “paperless” environments, as well as reduce our average CF per employee between promoting recycling, and incentivizing energy 0.5% and 2.5%. and atmosphere improvements. Key focus areas More information on our Citizen of the Planet are to minimize our overall Carbon Footprint on Initiative may be found in Teleperformance 2013 a worldwide basis, enhance the experience of Corporate Social Responsibility Report as well as working in our facilities, educate our personnel in our 2013 Citizen of the Planet video report. Carbon Footprint to be better occupants on the planet, and lead the industry in sustainable operations. Citizen of the Planet Initiative Carbon Emissions 2011 2012 2013 Carbon Footprint per Employee (CFE) 0.84 0.84 0.78 kWhr/year per employee 138 141 132 Liter/year per employee 527 590 526 Citizen of the Planet Report 2013 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WDh0Uv-2xwg&list=PLC072F6F4C561ABAD Social Responsibility Report 2013 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Eevwjy8J65o&list=PLC072F6F4C561ABAD Transforming Passion into Excellence 47 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Environment In 2013, our total measured carbon emissions were 106,077 tons with a carbon footprint per employees (CFE) of 0.78 tons. A 7.14% decrease in our CFE (2013 Vs. 2012) 2013 Carbon Footprint in Metric Tons % of Total Carbon Footprint per source Electricity Paper Air Travel Carbon Footprint per 90,716 8,259 6,940 Employee 85% 8% 7% 0.78 tons Observations: Electricity is the total annual consumption in kWh an estimate of 6.73 tons of CO2 per each ton of of all Teleperformance call centers worldwide. paper consumed. Paper includes both “bond” paper and TLS Contact facilities are in the “emissions base toilet paper. lining phase” and not included in totals. TP Singapore only reported January’s consumption. Air Travel is based on the standard calculation using a web tool designed for this purpose. Argentina, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Spain and Sweden did not report water Indirect electricity consumption emissions are consumption. calculated with the “emission factor” for each country. With respect to paper, we are using Transforming Passion into Excellence 48 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Environment In order to meet our environmental and sustainable goals, Teleperformance performs a comprehensive set of initiatives involving management, employees, suppliers and clients. Our combined efforts are aimed at helping our planet by: • Upgrading facilities to “sustainable sites” by • Encouraging carpooling or public performing waste reduction activities via transportation and supporting the reduction global recycling policies; of business travel (air & local); • Making sure that new buildings are in • Promoting employee education and involvement line with the “Teleperformance Premises to extend efforts to their homes and Standard,” which incorporates principles from neighborhoods in addition to the workplace; LEED standard; • Associating with suppliers displaying the Sustainable Use • Improving the quality of the indoor most conscientious implementation of environment; environmental management systems. of Resources • Issuing guidelines to reduce the consumption of electricity, paper, water, gas and oil; Sustainable use of Resources 2011 2012 2013 Total water consumption* 764,216 865,799 855,757 (cubic meters) * Where traceable, as virtually all of Teleperformance’s facilities are leased. Transforming Passion into Excellence 49 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Environment As mentioned in last year’s Communication on Progress, Teleperformance is ISO 14001 certified in Germany and the UK as well as LEED certified in Colombia and TLS China. Frost & Sullivan Green Excellence award 2014 – Teleperformance Colombia Frost & Sullivan recognized Teleperformance Colombia with the 2014 Latin America Frost & Sullivan Award for Green Excellence. Teleperformance Colombia has clearly Awards and demonstrated its commitment to environmental conservation through the design, construction, Certifications and operation of four Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED)-certified contact center sites – CONNECTA A, B, C and F. Transforming Passion into Excellence 50 4 Anti-Corruption 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress 52 Anti-Corruption Principle Businesses should work against 10 corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Teleperformance condemns all forms of corrupt behavior involving employees, clients, contractors, vendors, business partners and stakeholders. We strive to ensure that our day-to-day business is performed in a legal, transparent and ethical way through education and training, as well as internal and external audits. Transforming Passion into Excellence 52 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption @Teleperformance Anti-Corruption Internal Clean Desk Anti-Fraud Policy Audit Policy Program Transforming Passion into Excellence 53 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Anti-Corruption Teleperformance has developed an Anti-Corruption Policy incorporating the definitions of corrupt behavior and what actions to take to avoid or eliminate the risk of corruption. As a responsible company, we have a zeroThe implementation of the policy is tolerance towards any corrupt and fraudulent monitored bi-annually and the evaluation of behavior. ethical behavior will take place through our yearly employee satisfaction survey and client The Anti-Corruption policy is available in satisfaction survey. Albanian, Arabic, Brazilian Portuguese, Chinese (Mandarin), Czech, Dutch, English, Since our last Communication on Progress, French, German, Greek, Indonesian, Italian, Teleperformance has not been involved in any Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, legal proceedings related to bribery or corruption. Slovak, Spanish and Turkish. Anti-Corruption Policy Anti-Corruption Policy (Global) 73.5% % of employees trained 76.2% % acknowledgment Transforming Passion into Excellence 54 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Anti-Corruption Teleperformance set up an internal control system aimed at ensuring: • compliance with laws and regulations, including, compliance with anti-corruption laws, and • proper functioning of the Group’s internal processes. The internal control system is monitored by the Group Executive Committee, supervised by Teleperformance SA’s Board of Directors, to ensure that the system is relevant and in harmony with the Group’s objectives. Internal Audit Transforming Passion into Excellence 55 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Anti-Corruption Every day, Teleperformance employees process personal customer data, such as credit card details, health care data, and other confidential information. To ensure maximum confidentiality is observed and eliminate any risk of information leakage, we have developed a clean desk and clear screen policy. 29% of Teleperformance companies have reached 100% implementation of the policy. Another 9% have achieved above 50% implementation. 100% compliance will be achieved by September 1st 2014. Clean-Desk Policy Transforming Passion into Excellence 56 2014 UNGC Communication on Progress Anti-Corruption The Fraud Risk Assessment is a specialized service provided by the Teleperformance Security Practice to proactively analyze, discover and document the methods by which fraud could occur within a program. There are two primary goals with this this assessment, including preventing fraud and identifying fraud early. The Fraud Risk Assessment produces a detailed report of the findings with the risks prioritized. The single most effective method to prevent fraud is the creation of awareness of the fraud controls and the high likelihood that these controls will identify individuals engaging in fraud. Therefore, the report provides one or more preventive controls and/or early detection Anti-Fraud controls for each identified risk. TPObserver is now offering a near real time program fraud alert that is triggered if an advisor accesses a client’s record without having the client on the phone. This solution records the advisor-customer record activity for evidence purposes. This tool has proven to be a strong fraud deterrent. Transforming Passion into Excellence 57 Transforming Passion into Excellence For more information: www.teleperformance.com Follow us: /teleperformanceglobal @teleperformance /teleperformance blog.teleperformance.com /company/teleperformance Teleperformance Group Inc. 21 rue Balzac 75008 Paris, France Teleperformance UNGC report July 2014. For additional information please go to www.teleperformance.com
