COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SEPTEMBER 2014 2 Communication on Progress Nefab SUPPORT STATEMENT CEO , DAVID MÖRK In October 2008, Nefab signed the United Nations Global Compact. The Global Compact is a global strategic business initiative on corporate responsibility initiated by the former UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan in 1999. Global Compact brings together businesses with UN Agencies, labour and civil society in the common objective of achieving a more sustainable and inclusive global economy. Being reflected in our core values and underlined in our code of conduct, we continuously strive to make the principles of Global Compact a natural part of our way of doing business. We realize that continuous improvements are necessary in order to promote and further integrate the ten principles of Global Compact within and outside Nefab. Nefab wants to secure a place in a sustainable future society. To achieve this, we work within our supply chain, our own operations as well as with our value proposition to achieve sustainable development and manage our stakeholders’ requirements and expectations. We focus on the key aspects of the company’s social and environmental impact, based on stakeholder dialogue and the strategic importance of each area for the company. There are many opportunities to join forces with engaged stakeholders. Customers are often interested to partner with us in order to create win-win situations. A common example of that is when we support customer objectives of CO2-reductions by analyzing current and proposing new packaging solutions. In our yearly employee survey, we can see that a vast majority or our employees believe that it is important to work for a company who takes sustainability seriously and that most of them think Nefab is working with sustainability in a good way. We believe that our continuous commitment to the Global Compact Initiative will be beneficial for Nefab and its stakeholders and at the same time help to improve the conditions in general for the global community. Consequently, I am pleased to confirm Nefab’s continuous support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this Communication on Progress (COP), we express our aim to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. Jönköping, September 2014 David Mörk CEO, Nefab AB Communication on Progress Nefab 3 SUSTAINABILITY BY OFFERING COMPLETE PACKAGING SOLUTIONS THAT REDUCE COST AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, NEFAB INTEGRATES SUSTAINABILITY IN THE VALUE PROPOSITION TO THE MARKET. WORKING WITH SUSTAINABILITY MEANS THAT WE CARE FOR THE WELFARE OF OUR EMPLOYEES AS WELL AS OTHER STAKEHOLDERS AND TRY TO BALANCE ECONOMIC WITH SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS OF OUR BUSINESS. A STRUCTURED APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY LEADS TO A FAVOURABLE BUSINESS CLIMATE THAT ATTRACTS SKILLS AND STRENGTHENS THE BRAND. IT ALSO FACILITATES BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT BY ATTRACTING CUSTOMERS HAVING THE SAME MIND-SET. THE SUSTAINABILITY WORK IS GOVERNED BY NEFAB’S VISION, CORE VALUES AND CODE OF CONDUCT AS WELL AS THE POLICIES ESTABLISHED IN RELATION TO LAWS AND REGULATIONS. NEFAB’S CORE VALUES Internal processes The corporate culture is based on our shared core values: Nefab continuously work with certification according to ISO “Simplicity”, “Respect” and “Empowerment”. Our continu14001. During 2013, focus has been on North America, where ous work to communicate the core values to all employees our site in Dallas was the first to obtain certification in Decontinued during 2013 and in the yearly employee survey, cember. Processes were started in four more sites during the 89 % answered that they thought our core values were year and certification audits thus will continue to take place communicated either “OK” or “Good”. throughout 2014. Internal trainings for our engineers have been carried out in order to strengthen their competence VISION AND STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABILITY in terms of using our tool “Green Calc”, which generates In 2011 strategies were established for Nefab sustainability complete life cycle analyses. To make environmental considwork, with measurable objectives for the next three years. erations in the early design phases of a packaging solution is The overall goal is to position Nefab as a leading “green” important in order to optimize the business process. company within industrial packaging. Nefab uses the term “green” to communicate its sustainability work from a broad Customer offering perspective. For this to be achievable, three basic strategies The demand for sustainable packaging solutions is increasing have been developed: and with the use of GreenCalc we have been able to offer substantial reductions of GWP (Global Warming Potential) to our • Nefab will ensure sustainability throughout the supply customers. Introducing new materials that are environmentally chain. friendly is an area where we continue to work. We still find it • Sustainability shall be more clearly instilled into Nefab’s quite challenging to implement them on a larger scale and own operations and internal processes. here secure supply is often a major concern. • Sustainability will be an integrated part of Nefab’s customer offering. Organization Nefab’s sustainability work is directed by its “Green Team”, During 2013, sustainability work has been focused on realizing a network with representatives from various parts of the action plans in the three areas mentioned above and some global organization, with responsibility to initiate new confurther progress can be reported. cepts and tools. Supply chain STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE In our process for supplier evaluations, we made about 50 Stakeholders to Nefab’s business are employees, customers, evaluations during 2013 with an approval rate of 80 %. One suppliers, owners, environment and society (e.g. authorities area of evaluation concerns how the supplier works with and various interest groups). The company engages in a conenvironment. tinuous dialogue with the stakeholders on multiple levels. 4 Communication on Progress Nefab Employees and customers ENVIRONMENT Every year, employees and customers are given the opporNefab’s greatest contribution to the environment is directly tunity to express their views and wishes in comprehensive linked to the business offering, in which the customer is presurveys. In the 2013 customer survey we asked our customsented not only with the most cost efficient packaging soluers what area of sustainability they thought Nefab should tion, but also its environmental impact. With the use of the focus on and the main focus area was human rights, closely “GreenCalc” tool, customers are offered life cycle analysis, followed by environment. The employee survey addresses showing how a (new) packaging solution can impact CO2 issues relating to health, leadership, job satisfaction, workemissions, comparing different solutions. ing conditions and sustainability. Response rates for 2013 were recorded at 21 % for the customer survey and 83 % for Nefab always strives to optimize the packaging to give the staff survey. maximum protection with minimal material consumption. In this way, resources can be saved in the packaging supply Suppliers chain, while also reducing losses due to damage and disThe dialogue with suppliers is on-going in daily contacts as carded products. Designing the packaging properly leads to well as in the work of supplier evaluations. Questions about more efficient loads in trucks and containers, which means code of conduct, including human rights, working condithat customers carry less air and can reduce C02 emissions. tions, quality, delivery precision and environment are asked, As far as possible, all packaging solutions from Nefab are following a standard process established in our global proalso designed with consideration to recycling. The customer curement guidelines. offering includes a range of smart returnable packaging and rental systems that increase utilization and reduce the Owners consumption of materials and energy. Owners question the business model and how it can be sustainable in its value creation. The organization is always Environmental policy prepared to answer specific questions. Nefab’s environmental policy is based on the principle that with our complete packaging solutions, we can avoid wastEconomic value creation ing resources both in the packaging itself and in terms of Sustainability work affects both revenues and costs and is part damages. The goal is that the packaging products should of Nefab’s long-term value creation, which is of vital imporhave low environmental impact throughout their life cycles. tance not only for the company but also for society as a whole. The minimum requirement in our own production is to comply with current laws and regulations and the aim is to Created and distributed economic value, SEK m Stakeholders 2013 surpass them. As per end of 2013, fourteen of Nefab’s faciliDirectly created economic value ties are certified in accordance with ISO 14001 with the aim Revenues Customers 2,929 of all production facilities becoming certified – a process Distributed economic value that will take a few years. Operating costs Suppliers 2,122 Personnel costs Employees 621 Key ratios 2013 2012 2011 Financial net Owners/Banks 196 Plywood consumption (m3) 134,234 90,444 104,181 Tax Society 23 Steel consumption (tons) 7,293 8,141 9,810 Investments Consumption of paint/coatings (tons) 49 55 45 Net investments Suppliers 48 Energy consumption (MWh) 33,131 39,942 44,081 Water consumption (m3) 51,029 53,456 80,932 Environment and society Direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases (tons) 1) 917 981 878 Authorities in the countries where Nefab operates are 1 Emissions from our own production, excluding inbound and outbound transportation. mainly concerned about safety, working conditions and health issues. The dialogue primarily takes place through Within the framework of ISO, local entities are involved in recommendations and inspections. As a member of Global various improvement projects, like energy efficiency and reCompact, Nefab also indirectly contributes to a comprehenduction of emissions from own vehicles. Concerning energy sive global stakeholder dialogue. consumption, the main parameter affecting the consumpCommunication on Progress Nefab 5 tion is temperature as especially cold winters require a lot Internal trainings – Web Academy & Pakademy of energy for heating of the premises, while the production Web Academy is Nefab’s intranet-based skills portal. As itself is not very energy consuming. part of Web Academy, employees are offered a variety of basic tutorials on the company’s packaging solutions and EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY sales processes, as well as courses dealing with the comNefab is a knowledge-based company and its marketpany’s social responsibility, environment and human rights. leading position is maintained by focusing on the individual employee’s development. Nefab will offer attractive Pakademy started in China in order to address the need to opportunities to ensure that employees choose to remain educate newly recruited engineers and salespeople. The while allowing valuable new skills to be recruited. Nefab is five week training program includes theory and practice characterized by a customer-oriented corporate culture regarding packaging materials, sales processes and testing where employees are encouraged to develop a proactive methods. Classes are organized on a needs basis and durapproach. Nefab’s values and code of conduct form the ing 2013, we did not run any class. basis for the corporate culture to reflect the Group’s global expertise and diversity. Key ratios 2013 2012 2011 Percentage of employees All employees are invited to participate in a yearly employee who have union agreements 24 % 22 % 19 % survey in which they respond to a number of questions Hours of training per employee 12.7 14.5 12.2 Percentage of employees who concerning health, job satisfaction, leadership, physical have regular development talks 42 % 32 % 29 % and psychological working conditions, etc. Based on the Board members for the 10 % female 8 % female 5 % female outcome, a so called “Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI)” is Group, gender breakdown 90 % male 92 % male 95 % male measured, which easily can be compared year by year. Presidents and other 20% female 17 % female 20% female Units that scored the lowest index are subject to improvesenior executives* 80 % male 83 % male 80% male ment measures. The employee survey is conducted by an Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies 8% 8% 7% external partner to ensure the methodology and integrity in * Management team members and similar. every aspect. EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION AGE DISTRIBUTION ALL EMPLOYEES INDEX (ESI) – ALL EMPLOYEES – BY FUNCTION 100% 75% 11% 26% 70% 28% 67% 67% 50% 27% 61% 25% 11% 36% 2013 2011 2012 2013 EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION INDEX (ESI) EMPLOYEES UP TO 29 YEARS OLD MANUFACTURING/ENGINEERING RESPONSE RATE EMPLOYEES 30–39 YEARS OLD ADMINISTRATION EMPLOYEES 40–54 YEARS OLD SALES, MARKETING & DISTRIBUTION EMPLOYEES 55 YEARS OR OLDER 6 Communication on Progress Nefab GENDER DISTRIBUTION AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES ALL EMPLOYEES – BY REGION – ALL EMPLOYEES 100% 3,200 21% 23% 24% 3,047 2,797 79% 75% 2,400 77% 76% 2,590 26% 34% 50% 1,600 25% 800 40% 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 MEN ASIA WOMEN EUROPE AMERICAS COMMITMENT AND ACTIONS The Nefab Code of Conduct (latest update in 2013) is an Nefab will continuously seek to implement the ten princiimportant document to fulfill this commitment, as it guides ples of the United Nations Global Compact. employee behavior to be in line with Global Compact principles. Comparison of UNGC principles and the Nefab Code of Conduct UNGC PRINCIPLES NEFAB CODE OF CONDUCT Human Rights Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of Nefab supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed internationally proclaimed Human Rights human rights and ensures that the company is not complicit in human rights abuses. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Labour standards 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Freedom of association effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. As local or relevant laws allows, all employees are free to form, join or not to join unions and have the right to collective bargaining when employed by Nefab. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced Forced and compulsory labour and compulsory labour. No form of forced or compulsory labour is tolerated by Nefab and all employees have the right to leave their employment as stated by contracts or local laws. 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Child labour Nefab shall not be complicit in any form of child labour or other forms of child exploitation. No one is employed below the completion of compulsory school or under the age of 15 and no one under the age of 18 is employed for hazardous work within Nefab. Communication on Progress Nefab 7 UNGC PRINCIPLES NEFAB CODE OF CONDUCT Labour Labour standards 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in Workplace respect of employment and occupation. Nefab shall provide a working environment that is healthy, safe and in accordance with international standards and local laws for all employees. Discrimination Diversity among Nefab employees is a positive attribute and no one regardless of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, nationality, parental status, marital status, pregnancy, religion, political opinion, ethnic background, social origin, social status, age, union membership or disability shall be discriminated. Harassments in the form of physical or psychological abuse are strongly prohibited within Nefab as are any kinds of intimidation or other threats. Environment Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Precautionary approach environmental challenges. Sustainable development is a key concept for Nefab and finite resources is avoided as often as possible. Nefab also has a precautionary approach towards environmental challenges whereby dangerous materials are avoided when suitable and more environmentally friendly alternatives are available. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Environmental responsibility environmental responsibility. Innovative developments in products and services that offer environmental and social benefits as well as greater environmental responsibility are promoted and supported by Nefab. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Nefab’s reputation of honesty, integrity and responsibility must be upheld including extortion and bribery. and any involvement in bribery, extortion or corruption is not tolerated by Nefab in any form. Nefab’s Anti-corruption Policy further outlines our responsibility in this area. Consumer interests When dealing with consumers, Nefab acts in accordance with fair business, marketing and advertising practices. Nefab also ensures that the goods or services it supplies meet all agreed and legal standards. For 2013, no violations of Nefab’s code of conduct were vey is handled by an external partner. The response rate for reported. 2013 was 83 %, which is considered to be very satisfying. Human rights From the Staff Survey a combined key ratio, ESI (Employee Using our e-learning system (Web Academy), Nefab develSatisfaction Index), is communicated as a generic output oped a basic course in “Human Rights”, which was launched from each survey. The idea of a combined key ratio is to in June 2010. At the end of 2013 we had in total 234 (of make it simple to communicate and simple to set targets in which 48 during the reporting period) students with a terms of improvements from one year to another. diploma in this course. For the entities reporting the lowest ESI, root causes are The course material contains the Universal Declaration on analyzed and actions designed in order to improve. Human Rights as well as the principles from Global Compact and more business oriented issues in terms of Human Environment Rights. Nefab’s business concept is to offer engineered complete packaging solutions that reduce total cost and environmenLabour tal impact. In line with this, Nefab has developed a tool to Nefab’s annual Staff Survey gives each employee the right quantify environmental impact from packaging solutions, to provide feedback on working conditions, managers’ the Nefab GreenCALC. behavior, physical and psycho-social working environment, stress and more. In addition, free text comments can be GreenCALC – features: submitted. All answers are anonymous and the entire sur• A Life Cycle Assessment method analyzing environ8 Communication on Progress Nefab mental impact from raw material, production, logistics, Anti-Corruption use phase and end of life. In September 2013 the Board of Directors approved Nefab’s • Analyzing multiple impact categories, such as Global new Code of Conduct with a Anti-corruption policy added. Warming Potential (GWP), water and energy consumption. Internal communications have been taking place and we • The impact calculations are based on the databases of started a process to prepare a small brochure (containing one of the World’s leading LCA software; SIMA Pro. the anti-corruption policy and other common polices) for GreenCALC has been developed hand in hand with the employees which will be distributed during 2014. French Environmental consultancy company EVEA. Performance By using GreenCALC Nefab can support customers in their Nefab reports according to performance according to guidegreen initiatives by: lines provided by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Below is • Quantifying environmental impact in packaging solution. a table, summarizing the performance indicators information Identify areas of improvements. that can be found in this COP. • Quantify improvements in reduction of Global Warming Potential. • Implementing engineered complete packaging solutions that are optimized in terms of total cost and environmental impact. GRI-TABLE Performance indicators Ref.page Reported Comments Economic effects EC1 Direct economic value, generated and distributed 4 Complete Environmental impact EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 4 Complete EN8 Total water consumption 4 Complete EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 4 Complete Working conditions and working terms LA1 Total number of employees, by employment type and region. 5-6 Complete LA2 Total number of employees and staff turnover by age group, gender and region 5-6 Partially LA4 Percentage of employees covered by union agreements 5 Complete LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 5 Partially LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance evaluation and career development. 5 Complete LA13 Composition of the Board and management and breakdown 5 Partially of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption practices. 5 Complete Your mission is our mission. We develop complete packaging solutions optimized to reduce total cost and environmental impact in your supply chain. With our global engineering and supply capabilities we serve you in every corner of the world. N E FA B .CO M
