SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 PEFC/02-31-120 PUBLISHER: Metsä Group Sustainability and Corporate Affairs sustainability@metsagroup.com This publication is also available online at: www.metsagroup.com/sustainability We value your feedback. Kindly send your feedback on Metsä Group’s sustainability report to: sustainability@metsagroup.com Cover: Carta Integra 210 g/m2 Inside: Galerie Art Silk 115 g/m2 kg CO2 / tonne product 294 200 The graph on the cover illustrates the decrease in Metsä Group’s fossil CO2 emissions per tonne of production. The emissions have declined by 32% since 2009, exceeding our reduction target of 30% between 2009 and 2020. They cover fossil CO2 emissions from the mills including those from purchased electricity and heat. 2009 2013 WE PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Metsä Group is a responsible forest industry group whose products’ main raw material is renewable and sustainably grown Northern wood. Metsä Group focuses on tissue and cooking papers, consumer packaging paperboards, pulp, wood products, and wood supply and forest services. Its high-quality products combine renewable raw materials, customer-orientation, sustainable development and innovation. Metsä Group’s sales totalled EUR 4.9 billion in 2013, and it employs approximately 11,000 people. The Group operates in some 30 countries. Metsäliitto Cooperative is the parent company of Metsä Group and is owned by approximately 123,000 Finnish forest owners. Sustainability is a driver for us in everything we do. It means that our products are recyclable and safe for both people and the environment, and that our main raw material is renewable wood that is sourced from sustainably managed Northern forests. We believe that economic growth and sustainability go hand in hand enabling better quality of life for everyone. 2 YEAR 2013 4 OPENING WORDS 6 OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS 9 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 12 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 15 SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA WE OFFER SUSTAINABLE CHOICES 16 PRODUCT AND SERVICE CASES Wood is an endlessly renewable resource. 20 SUSTAINABLE OFFERING We turn wood into safe and recyclable products that improve quality of life. WE BRING THE FOREST TO YOU 22 FOREST MANAGEMENT Our products come from sustainably 26 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT managed forests. Together with our partners, we secure a sustainable supply 27 LOGISTICS of raw materials for our units and a supply of renewable products for our customers. THE SMALLER THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, THE BETTER 28 ENERGY AND CLIMATE What matters is using energy, raw materials and other resources efficiently 32 WATER and maintaining low levels of emissions 34 MATERIAL EFFICIENCY and waste. 36 ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT WE CREATE WELL-BEING 38 SAFETY AT WORK We generate well-being at work, in local communities and in society at large, and 40 RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER commit to global sustainability principles. 42 WELL-BEING FOR LOCAL By behaving responsibly towards our COMMUNITIES employees and society, we can improve the quality of life of our stakeholders. 44 METSÄ GROUP BALANCE 46 SUSTAINABILITY DATA BY UNIT 50 GRI INDEX 53 SCOPE OF THE REPORT 55 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 56 METSÄ GROUP IN FIGURES A BETTER ENVIRONMENT FOR ALL IN 2013 Aiming for better results every day and everywhere is how we work and we are proud to share a few examples of our accomplishments from 2013. PREVENTING SOCIAL COOPERATION WITH In the Autumn, Metsä Tissue arranged a SAGA seminar to discuss the reduction EXCLUSION OF WWF FINLAND of food waste and its environmental and CHILDREN AND TEENS Metsä Group and WWF Finland have been financial impacts on industrial kitchens. SAGA Cooking Paper offers one solution cooperating actively since 2011 with an whereby food does not stick to oven dishes Metsä Tissue’s Serla brand is participating aim to promote sustainable forestry. In and trays, reduces food waste and eases in the charity campaign ‘Nuorten hyväksi’ 2012, Metsä Group and WWF Finland daily dishwashing. The seminar also (Let’s Help Young People) organised in conducted the prescribed burning of included expert views by WWF Finland, the Finland by the Tukikummit Foundation. retention tree groups forests in Metsä ELO Foundation, which promotes Finnish Through the Foundation, Serla granted Group's forests in Rovaniemi, Finland. The food culture, and Lahden Ateria, a EUR 100,000 to support underprivileged burned areas have been monitored closely municipal foodservice. children and teens living in Finland. The in 2013 and the points of interest include Metsä Group participated in the WWF funds will go in full towards improving their the spreading of fire-favoured species. Environmental Paper Company Index prospects and circumstances. The aim of Another project involves the preservation comparison in 2013 for the first time in all the campaign is to encourage people to of endangered natural habitats as part of product categories: pulp, board, graphic make donations that will be used to forestry in southern Finland. Guidelines paper and tissue paper. The index is a tool improve and promote the discussion on have been drawn up and the Group’s where companies report their the wellbeing of the young. employees are trained preserve the environmental footprint openly. The specific characteristics of herb-rich forests evaluation comprises the use of wood fibre and esker forests on sunlit slopes. sourced from sustainably managed forests, energy consumption and transparent operations. 2 YEAR 2013 SUPPORTING FOREST AN AWARD FOR MORE BIOENERGY CERTIFICATION SUSTAINABLE FOREST IN SWEDEN In November, Metsä Group together with MANAGEMENT Katrinefors Kraftvärme AB, a joint venture other world’s leading forest product owned by Metsä Tissue and the local The Committee for Natural Resources of companies released a leadership municipal energy company VänerEnergi Leningrad Region awarded Metsä Forest statement that commits to sustainable AB, will build a new biomass combined Podporozhe ‘Best Forest Leaseholder’ for forest management. Metsä Group is a heat and power plant in Mariestad, its contribution to sustainable use, member of the World Business Council for Sweden, in conjunction with the Metsä regeneration and the protection of forests Sustainable Development (WBCSD), and a Tissue mill. in Leningrad region, Russia. The company core member in WBCSD’s Forest Solutions The new bioenergy production will received a free batch of 10,000 pieces of Group where it also held a co-chair reduce Mariestad mill’s oil usage by 90% potted seedlings from a new forest nursery position. The Group seeks to ensure that and will decrease the mill’s CO2 emissions in Luga. the supply of independently verified by approximately 4,000 tonnes, i.e. by Metsä Group promotes sustainable sustainable wood and other forest 25%. In addition to producing electricity forest management and forest certification products continues to increase to meet the and heat to the mill, the plant will also in all wood supply regions. In Russia, Metsä growing demand also in the future. provide renewable energy for the Forest Podporozhye has been the fore­ Altogether, 26 companies – surrounding community. runner in promoting forest certification, responsible for nearly 40% of annual The construction started in April 2013 receiving the country's first certificate in global forest, paper and packaging sales – and the plant is expected to be operating 2010 and the first double certificate in have committed to the statement. by the end of 2014. The total investment 2011. will amount to EUR 30 million. THE FINNISH FOREST EMPLOYMENT As part of the campaign, the ninth graders were asked to design a job advertisement INDUSTRY COMMITS OPPORTUNITIES TO that would attract future employees to the TO RESPONSIBILITY YOUNG PEOPLE forestry industry. The top prize, EUR 10,000 for a class trip, was divided The Finnish forest industry demonstrates In addition to our traditional cooperation between seven classes. its work towards a more sustainable value with educational institutions, Metsä Group Metsä Group continued the nearly chain in the form of the commitments that participated in a campaign targeting 20-year-long traditional school were released in spring 2013. These vocational schools to promote a dialogue cooperation with the Finnish Forest commitments deal with issues related to to create a better working environment for Association along with other forestry society, natural resources and the the future industry employees. organisations. Metsä Group acted as a environment, while accentuating the role The Finnish Forest Industry Federation ‘forest mentor’ in the forest quiz of a forerunner in the bio-economy. For this started a national school campaign aimed ‘Metsävisa’ that was organised in 118 reason, responsibility lies at the core of to attract ninth graders to work and study schools across Finland. The quiz is an everything that the industry does. in the forest sector. More than 200 annual competition for eighth and ninth There are altogether 12 different employees from Metsä Group, Stora Enso, grade students with the goal of enhancing commitments by all the member UPM and the Finnish Forest Association their knowledge of forests and forestry. companies in the Finnish Forest Industry acted as ambassadors throughout Finland Metsä Forest’s specialists in all 14 districts Federation covering topics from to share their experiences from the forest organised lectures and forest visits for all transparent reporting to reducing the industry. Schools were also given product interested schools. environmental impact of the products. samples from the industry. YEAR 2013 3 Metsä Group’s Sustainability Report 2013 is the third of its kind to be published. It focuses on the further development of our target-setting, supply chain management and stakeholder engagement practices. LONG TRADITION IN SUSTAINABILITY At the beginning of 2014, Metsä Group’s parent company, Metsäliitto Cooperative, celebrated its 80th anniversary. The Cooperative was founded in 1934 to promote the export of Finnish wood and its mission has remained unchanged ever since: to support its members in forest management and to follow the principles of sustainable development. The founders of the Cooperative were the forerunners in promoting renewable and sustainably grown raw material – wood. Today, our skilled personnel refine this northern wood into safe and recyclable products and we do it sustainably. One of Metsä Group’s main assets is that we cover the whole value chain from forest operations to tissue, board, paper, pulp and wood products. Today, there is a clear need for sustainable choices – and we are proud to say that our products enable our customers make these choices. TARGETS MEASURE OUR PERFORMANCE OPENLY One of our main accomplishments was that we achieved our target to reduce fossil CO2 emissions in production by 30% per product tonne from the 2009 level. The total reduction so far of 32% has been made SUSTAINABLE possible by the completed bioenergy investments over the past few years. THROUGH As our progress towards the sustainability targets has been so encouraging, we decided to aim even higher. We tightened some of TANGIBLE ACTIONS the targets and we also wanted to show our commitment to resource efficiency by reducing our process water use. We are pleased to present part of our work towards achieving these targets on the following pages of this report. RESOURCE EFFICIENCY IS SIMPLY SMART Growing global scarcity and competition for resources have raised the importance of resource efficiency – the efficient use of materials, energy and water as well as the efficient re-use of waste and residuals. The forest industry can be used as a benchmark for since we utilise renewable wood raw material with high efficiency. Our bio-based products are an 4 OPENING WORDS alternative that help to save other fossil-based resources. For example, SUSTAINABILITY AT THE HEART OF THE SUPPLY CHAIN packaging made of our lightweight cartonboard minimises waste along Our commitment to sustainability covers the entire supply chain – we the supply chain while require that our suppliers act upon the same high ethical standards as buildings made of we do. In 2013, we further developed our risk assessment process to BIOECONOMY IS THE wooden elements are both identify potential risk suppliers regarding sustainability. We must FOUNDATION OF THE energy and cost-efficient. ensure that the Supplier Code of Conduct is followed thoroughly and FOREST INDUSTRY. WE Metsä Group has that there is no risk of corruption, child labour or human rights concentrated on abuses in our supply chain. USE RENEWABLE RAW improving energy and MATERIALS AND material efficiency already CLOSE STAKEHOLDER COOPERATION BIOFUELS TO PRODUCE for years. We also stress Along with other members of the Finnish Forest Industry Federation, SAFE AND RECYCLABLE the importance of using we participated in a dialogue with the industry’s key stakeholders from PRODUCTS WITH raw materials in end-uses governmental officials representing different parties to nonEFFICIENT PRODUCTION where they add the most governmental organisations. We gained a great deal of constructive value. We will continue to feedback and now want PROCESSES. develop our processes to to advance these developbecome even more SUSTAINABILITY ment ideas that aim to resource efficient and sustainable also in the future. Emphasis has also MEANS TANGIBLE safeguard the forests’ been put in further developing our reporting. biodiversity, among ACTIONS FOR BOTH others. INDUSTRY COMMITMENTS TO PROMOTE SUSTAINABILITY PEOPLE AND NATURE. In 2013, we also Sustainability is tightly integrated in all of our operations and strategy further developed our as well as in our mission, vision and values. To this end, Metsä Group processes for stakeholder engagement and gathering weak signals in has committed to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact that order to get a broader view of our operating environment and to assess highlight the respect for human and labour rights, environmental what effects the global sustainability megatrends will have on responsibility and anti-corruption. our company. In spring 2013, the Finnish forest industry companies In 2014, these themes will also be the basis of our stakeholder demonstrated their pledge towards a more sustainable value chain by discussions to gather insights into what the world will look like in 2030 releasing a set of sustainability commitments that accentuates its role as and beyond. We welcome you to join the discussion so that together we a forerunner in the bio-economy. can create an even more sustainable future for generations to come. At the same time, the leading international forest companies in the Forest Solutions Group of the World Business Council for Sustainable Sustainably yours Development (WBCSD) released a statement that commits them to sustainable forest management. With the commitment, the companies Riikka Joukio want to ensure that the supply of sustainable wood continues to SVP, Sustainability and Corporate Affairs increase to meet the growing demand also in the future. Metsä Group REVISED SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS FROM 2014 ONWARDS TARGET THEME READ MORE ON PAGES Wood To sustain the amount of certified wood above 80% p. 22–25 Supplier management To audit all risk-rated key material suppliers against sustainability criteria by 2015 p. 26 Energy and climate To reduce fossil CO2 emissions in production by 30% per product tonne by 2020 from the 2009 level p. 28–31 To improve energy efficiency by 10% by 2020 from the 2009 level p. 28–31 Resource efficiency To reduce process water use by 10% by 2020 from the 2010 level p. 32–33 Ethical business To train the whole personnel in the Code of Conduct p. 12–14 Safety Zero lost-time accidents, to decrease lost-time accident frequency rate by 10% annually p. 38–39 Well-being To retain the sickness absenteeism rate below 3% at all times p. 38–39 OPENING WORDS 5 COOPERATIVE BASED ON SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Metsä Group’s products are safe, sustainable and recyclable, and are made of renewable, sustainably grown wood. Our products are excellent alternatives in replacing fossil-based raw materials with renewable bio-based solutions. 6 OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS Metsäliitto Cooperative, the parent company renewable packaging solutions, hygiene prodof Metsä Group, is owned by some 123,000 ucts and wooden constructions, among others. Finnish forest owners. The Cooperative’s Our main operating countries have vast forest primary mission is to support its owner­ and water resources, and since we use them members in forest management and to follow responsibly, they will be available for generathe principles of sustainable development. tions to come. Additionally, the forest industry is a global benchmark for resource efficiency. We continue to invest significantly into METSÄ GROUP IS A making our processes more material efficient. COOPERATIVE OWNED BY With our knowhow and skilled personnel, SOME 123,000 FINNISH we turn wood – an endlessly renewable resource – into safe and recyclable products FOREST OWNERS. sustainably. One of Metsä Group’s main assets is that it covers the whole value chain from SOLID DEMAND FOR SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS forest operations to the wood industry and Global over-consumption has led to climate pulp production all the way to board and change, polarisation of water resources tissue manufacturing. globally and an unsustainable use of natural resources such as deforestation and water scarcity. Changes in consumption habits to WE COVER THE WHOLE favour renewable and sustainable products VALUE CHAIN FROM THE also endorse Metsä Group’s mission of proFOREST TO THE CUSTOMER. moting bioeconomy and sustainable bio-based products. Wood as a continuously renewable and recyclable raw material offers good growth opportunities for businesses focusing on Metsä Group’s mission and values guide us in our daily activities towards the target of improving profitability while at the same time bearing responsibility for both its stakeholders and nature. Our vision will be achieved by focusing on our selected core businesses. In their strategies, the business areas integrate sustainability with customer focus and innovations. METSÄ TISSUE produces tissue and cooking METSÄ WOOD produces wood products that papers, and leads the industry in developing are based on premium Northern raw matelow-impact processes and practices rial. High environmental standards and throughout the product life cycles. safety performance are integral elements of METSÄ BOARD focuses on ecological and Metsä Wood’s management system and are safe lightweight paperboards. A significant continuously improved. amount of energy consumed by Metsä Board METSÄ FOREST provides its owner-members is generated internally at integrated pulp and with comprehensive services for sustainable paper or paperboard mills. forest management in all stages of forest METSÄ FIBRE produces pulp using raw ownership. Metsä Forest ensures the growth materials and energy with high efficiency. and diversity of forests and steady wood Metsä Fibre is also a major producer of production. Some 80% of the wood Metsä bioenergy and its mills are leaders in environForest procures is sourced from certified mental performance. forests. OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS 7 WEAK SIGNALS TO GUIDE METSÄ GROUP’S MISSION, VISION AND VALUES FUTURE BUSINESS DECISIONS In 2013, we started to systematically gather weak signals related to global sustainability trends that have an effect on Metsä Group’s business. The signals will be used in directing METSÄ TISSUE the Group’s business operations in the long NESS STRATEGY BUSI run. In 2014, these themes will also be the basis of our stakeholder discussions to gather insights on what the world will look like in AINABILITY AGEN SUST DA ’S AN 2030. The weak signals are gathered around UP D RO TA these 12 global macro trends: G • Climate change METS ME S RD BOA TS ET • Energy Ä FI RG TSÄ Ä BUSINES B MISSION VALUES ATEGY S ST RE • Buildings • Transport To be a profitable and responsible profitability, ME SS STR RA E SIN competitive forest industry reliability, cooperation, • Waste TE group that uses wood grown renewal GY • Water BU by its owner-members. • Biodiversity • Integrating sustainability • Communication • Ethical business practices VISION • Security To be a focused and profitable Finnish forest • Equality industry company that operates in the international market, and that integrates customer orientation, sustainability and innovations in a unique way. SUSTAINABILITY RISKS RELATED M ET ES TO OUR OPERATIONS AN SÄ G CIPL L M E D C ROU IN E ST Demand for forest biomass is increasing, BUS IN TS OR P’S POLICIES, PR MOD RE T EGY ES Ä W POR A A NC E FO RA particularly for energy production. This may T E GOVER N Ä S O ST OD TS ST present challenges to today’s forest products as RA ME ESS TE SIN GY BU the availability of wood is under threat due to government subsidies being granted to direct energy uses of wood. This may disturb the competition on the raw material markets. STAKEHOLDER Due to the remote location of Finland and also in supplier operations. Since active co‑ DISCUSSIONS UNFOLD the structure of its economy, the need for operation with the insurance industry is an WHAT THE WORLD LOOKS energy and transportation is higher than the essential part of risk management, insurance average in Europe and may thus cause a risk of companies perform annual technical risk LIKE IN 2030. further restrictions in transport modes and surveys focusing on key property damage and emissions. business interruption risks. Additionally, demands for increased resource On the global scale, unevenly distributed Our risk assessment covers the whole efficiency and improving value added in scarce water sources and the availability of value chain in all five business areas from wood-based products are increasing. clean water are increasing the need for tighter securing the availability of wood to being Climate change is leading to global warmregulations. prepared for possible product liability cases. ing; consequently, it is putting pressure to Since a substantial number of our personOne of its most important tasks is to ensure increase regulations on available energy nel will retire in the coming years, a risk of undisturbed operations and continuous prosources, limit energy use and strive for a more replacing them and building up the required duction by preventive damage and loss conefficient use of resources. These also have a competencies is evident. We have long-term trol. The major hazard risks, such as fires, direct impact on the industry in the forms of plans in place in order to ensure the availabilmachine breakdowns and environmental increased taxation or related costs as well as ity of future employees in all our locations. damages, are covered by global policies tighter environmental permits. Furthermore, through insurance companies. the renewable wood raw material from susWIDE-RANGING RISK MANAGEMENT tainably managed forests should maintain its Metsä Group assesses risks on all levels – carbon neutral status. Group, business area and production unit – 8 OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Engaging with our stakeholders is essential in understanding the operational environment of the forest industry globally. But as the future is impossible to predict, Metsä Group encourages its stakeholders to share their views on future scenarios. In 2013, one of our goals was to develop our the ten principles of the UN Global Compact stakeholder engagement processes. Although initiative. These universally accepted WE ARE COMMITTED TO the megatrends shape the global business principles highlight the respect for human environment continuously, our business charTHE TEN PRINCIPLES OF and labour rights, environmental acteristics define what changes actually affect THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT. responsibility and anti-corruption, and are the us the most. In order to better understand basis of the Group’s Sustainability Principles. this, we want to engage with our stakeholders co-chair position. The Group aims to be recas they often either create these megatrends or ognised as the leading platform for the global DISCUSSIONS WITH IMPORTANT mirror them to our company. forest-based industry and its value chain FORESTRY STAKEHOLDERS In 2014, we will continue in the quest to partners. By bringing together suppliers, The Finnish Forest Industry Federation with understand these trends by interviewing our producers, buyers, customers as well as its member companies set a goal to develop own and external experts, and by evaluating innovation and technology partners, the the dialogue with their key stakeholders who the best channels for each stakeholder group Forest Solution Group can strategically colrepresent different parties from governmental to engage in constructive dialogue. laborate to expand sustainable forest-based officials and non-governmental organisations, solutions to meet future societal demands. among others. In general, the received WBCSD FOREST SOLUTIONS GROUP feedback was positive and the Federation Metsä Group is a member of the World BusiCOMMITTED TO THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT gained valuable development ideas as the ness Council for Sustainable Development We promote sustainable development in all stakeholders expressed their views for example (WBCSD) and a core member in WBCSD’s our business activities and operations. We on forests’ diversity and the industry’s social Forest Solutions Group where it also held a have demonstrated our aim by committing to responsibility. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 9 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT — OUR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PRINCIPLES READ MORE HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. p. 12–15 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. p. 12–15 LABOUR RIGHTS 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to p. 12–15, 42 collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. p. 12–15 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. p. 12–15 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. p. 12–15 ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. p. 12–15 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. p. 12–15 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. p. 12–15 ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. p. 12–15 10 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ACTIVE PARTICIPATION IN ADVOCACY BROAD RANGE OF CHANNELS TO ENGAGE WITH OUR MOST IMPORTANT STAKEHOLDER GROUPS Metsä Group actively participates in the THE STAKEHOLDER GROUP THE MAIN COMMUNICATION CHANNELS development of regulatory frameworks and Customers and end-users Personal contacts focuses on key policy files that affect the Customer experience surveys Group’s operational conditions and market Personnel Personnel Development Assessments (PDA) Organisational functionality surveys access, and which are strategic for its busiInternal training programmes nesses. Metsä Group’s overall aim is to Raw material and service suppliers Meetings and negotiations promote recyclable and safe bioeconomy Supplier assessments and audits products, sustainable forest management, and Equity and debt investors, analysts Annual General Meeting the use of renewable wood raw materials. Meetings and roadshows Capital Markets Day Quarterly and annual reporting Members of the Cooperative Diverse, targeted services Dedicated contact person OUR AIM IS TO GUARANTEE Satisfaction surveys Participation in Cooperation’s governance bodies THE GLOBAL Society, local communities and NGOs Cooperation projects COMPETITIVENESS OF Image and brand surveys Site visits, hearings, meetings and interviews THE EUROPEAN Legislators and decision makers, Participation in industry and trade associations' work FOREST INDUSTRY. industry and trade associations Replies to public consultations and hearings Personal meetings and site visits Academics Joint research programmes with universities and research institutes While our advocacy is mainly channelled through industry and trade associations at the Media Meetings, interviews, press events and site visits Brand survey national, European and international levels, we also take direct actions. We provide industry and trade associations as well as legislators and decision makers with information on trade barriers in the countries where we operMEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONS ate and the impacts of various legislative initiaMetsä Group and its business areas participate actively in numerous international, European and tives on our operational environment. We national industry and trade associations. We want to be a credible discussion partner. The forums we work closely with the industry associations to are involved in include: monitor, identify and analyse main policy • The World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and its sector-specific files. network Forest Solutions Group Climate change, energy and environmen• The UN Global Compact Nordic Network tal policies, product and food safety, industrial • The UN’s CEO Water Mandate and transport policies as well as resource • The forest certification associations: the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification efficiency, waste and innovation policies are (PEFC) and the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC® 1)) the most crucial themes in our advocacy. The • The Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI) • The European Confederation of Woodworking Industries (CEI-Bois) ultimate aim is to guarantee the global com• Nordic family forestry, the Nordic Forest Owners' Associations NSF petitiveness of the European forest industry to • The Finnish Forest Industry Federation (Metsäteollisuus ry) maintain and increase industrial production • The Confederation of Finnish Industries (Elinkeinoelämän Keskusliitto) in Europe. Maintaining the forest industry in • The Confederation of Finnish Construction Industries (Rakennusteollisuus ry) Europe is beneficial for the economy, the • Finland Chamber of Commerce (Keskuskauppakamari) climate and the environment. Metsä Group and its business areas follow Metsä Group and its business areas also take part in several national forest industry associations in high moral and integrity in advocacy activities the main operating countries, such as the Swedish Forest Industries Federation and the German Pulp as described in the Group’s Code of Conduct and Paper Association. There are also several sector-specific organisations, in which Metsä Group or and Sustainability Principles. Metsä Group is its business areas participate, such as the European organisation of the tissue producers (European also registered in the EU’s Transparency regisTissue Symposium, ETS) and the European Organisation of Packaging and the Environment (Europen). ter, operated by the European Parliament and 1) FSC Licence Code: FSC-C014476 the European Commission, and has signed the Transparency Register Code of Conduct. The register provides information on who is engaged in activities aiming at influencing the EU’s decision-making processes, what interests are being pursued and what level of resources are invested in these activities. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS IS BOTH ETHICAL AND PROFITABLE Metsä Group’s Code of Conduct ensures that common ethical principles are applied throughout the Group. The Group’s values form the basis of the Code of Conduct, which the employees are required to comply with strictly. Each employee attends Code of Conduct TARGET PROGRESS COMMENTS training upon starting work at Metsä Group. The training is managed by an eLearning tool To train the whole 84% of white-collar and We will further proceed with the target to for white-collar workers and the blue-collars personnel in the a vast majority of ensure that the Code of Conduct training Code of Conduct. blue-collar employees covers the whole personnel with an emphaare trained by their superiors at the mills. have been trained by sis on new employees. The Code of Conduct instructs employees the end of 2013. to report any misconduct to his/her superior or to the Group General Counsel. All reports will be investigated and any necessary actions taken. In 2013, two suspected cases of misconas a Supplier Code of Conduct. Metsä Group’s the sustainability and the advocacy targets, duct by individual employees were reported to sustainability management is guided by the and monitors the performance against them. the General Counsel and investigated, of Group’s Sustainability Principles. The Sustainability Steering Team (SST) is which one led to disciplinary actions. a network that steers the Group’s sustainabilMetsä Group is developing its compliance SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ity issues, identifies opportunities and risks as function actively and as a part of the developThe Group takes shared responsibility for well as approves the content of and the statement work, a new Group Compliance Officer managing sustainability on all operational ments in the sustainability report. The steering was appointed on 1 February 2013. Her task levels in order to ensure that it is integrated team also accepts the working programme of is to monitor that all operations are carried into all our business operations. the Sustainability and Corporate Affairs out in accordance with applicable laws and the The responsibility of the Cooperative’s function. The SST has a representative from Group’s internal policies. Board of Directors is to approve the guiding each business area in addition to relevant While the Code of Conduct is the founpolicies and outline the Group’s ambition corporate function representatives. dation of Metsä Group’s ethical business level in sustainability. The annual sustainabilThe Sustainability and Corporate Affairs practice, several other policies and related ity report is also presented to the Board. function promotes sustainable operations in instructions have been issued, which include The Executive Management Team Metsä Group throughout the value chain Environmental, Human Resources, Equal prepares the guiding policies, outlines both from forestry to production and final prodOpportunities and Purchasing policies as well ucts. The function is responsible for the 12 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE CASES IN 2013 the district court decision obtained legal In March 2011, Metsähallitus, a state entervalidity in April 2013. As a result, all internal OUR RESPONSIBILITY IS prise, filed a claim for damages at the District processes regarding money transfers were TO ENSURE THAT OUR Court of Helsinki. It demanded that Metsä­ revised to the extent that individual user rights OPERATIONS ARE liitto Cooperative and two other forest induswere reduced and no single employee is in SUSTAINABLE AND ALL OUR try companies jointly pay compensation for power to control money transfers. PRODUCTS ARE SAFE FOR alleged damages caused by prohibited co In April 2013, the Etelä-Karjala District operation with regard to prices in the raw Court deemed three Metsä Board employees BOTH PEOPLE AND THE wood market. The claim by Metsähallitus is to have committed an industrial safety offence ENVIRONMENT. pending and relates to the 3 December 2009 in a fatal accident in 2011, in which an decision by the Market Court, according to employee was trapped between board reels. which the above companies violated the Act The court ordered the three employees each to Group’s sustainability communications and on Competition Restrictions in the raw wood pay 30-day fines. reporting on the performance of our producmarket from 1997 to early 2004. In addition, Two other industrial safety accidents tion and products; coordinating and implesome municipalities, parishes and a group of resulted in minor injuries in 2011; in 2013, menting the Group’s advocacy according to Finnish individuals have instituted similar the local courts ordered the supervisors and the interests of the businesses; and conducting proceedings. Metsäliitto Cooperative considforemen to pay day fines. the Group’s stakeholder engagement work in ers the claims unfounded in their entirety. No other fines were paid or other montopics related to sustainability and in netIn November 2012, the Espoo District etary or non-monetary sanctions for nonworks such as the World Business Council for Court deemed a former employee of the compliance with laws or regulations were Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and Group’s internal bank, Metsä Group Financial imposed in 2013. cooperation with WWF Finland. Services, to have committed several frauds against the company. The employee was senPROFITABILITY IS THE BASIS OF tenced to imprisonment for three years. The ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY Read more about our stakeholder engagement employee filed a claim to the Court of Appeal; The Cooperative’s mission is to be a profitable on pages 9–11. however, the court dismissed the claim and and competitive forest industry company that GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 13 adds value to the wood grown by its members. We strive to improve the profitability of the Group, bear responsibility for the environment, and base our operations on ethical business practices while listening to our stakeholders. Metsä Group applies the principles of good corporate governance and transparent accounting. The Group communicates in accordance with the disclosure obligation prescribed for listed companies by the Securities Markets Act and the Finnish Corporate Governance Code. We acknowledge that our operations have economic impacts on all levels of the communities where we operate – local, national and global. Our contribution to the community’s well-being derives from direct and indirect employment and paying taxes, among others. Metsä Group measures its financial performance with key figures including sales, operating result and return on capital employed. Read more about our work in communities on pages 42–43. The Group’s key financial figures are published in Metsä Group’s Financial Statements 2013. OUR BUSINESS COMES FROM THE NATURE We continuously develop the productivity and efficiency of our production units with investments and development actions that improve profitability and result in targeted growth, while enhancing resource efficiency and environmental performance. Metsä Group follows tion units have a certified ISO 9001 quality Metsä Group monitors its employee its environmental impact, for example in the system, an ISO 14001 environmental system satisfaction by conducting annual organisaforms of greenhouse gas emissions, energy and and an ISO 50001 energy management systional functionality studies. We want to be an water consumption as well as waste generatem in place as well as a certified Chain-ofattractive employer with extensive career and tion. One of our most fundamental duties is Custody forest certification system that enadevelopment possibilities. The certified occuto guarantee that all our operations are susbles the reliable verification of the amount of pational and product safety system OHSAS tainable and all our products are safe for both certified wood in the products. 18001 is in place at most of the Group’s propeople and the environment. duction plants. Our environmental management is guided PEOPLE MAKE THE DIFFERENCE Metsä Group aims to be an open and by our Environmental Policy and compliance Metsä Group highly values its employees and equal work community where freedom of with the ISO 14001 standard for environmenconsiders them a key element in long-term association prevails globally. We value divertal management. The main principles of the profitability and business success. In addition sity, cultural differences and the fair treatment Group’s Environmental Policy are environto generating well-being at work, we actively of employees regardless of their ethnic origin, mental responsibility, energy and environmenwork in the local communities where we nationality, religion, political views, gender, tal efficiency, sustainable forestry, and requiroperate and in society at large. By behaving sexual orientation or age. Equal opportunities ing environmental responsibility from our responsibly towards our stakeholders, we can and work against discrimination are applied to suppliers. Almost all of the Group’s producalso improve their quality of life. all HR processes, for example in recruitment, Our daily work on social responsibility is career opportunities, training and remuneraguided by the Equal Opportunities and tions. Furthermore, it is the responsibility of Human Resource policies. Moreover, our each employee to report any acts of discrimiOUR EMPLOYEES ARE A KEY employee and Supplier Code of Conduct nation they have noticed in their workplace. ELEMENT IN LONG-TERM both stress the respect for human rights and a BUSINESS SUCCESS. safe working environment thus prohibiting the use of forced or child labour. 14 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT METSÄ GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA WE CREATE WELL-BEING We generate well-being at work, in local EMPLOYEE AND SOCIETAL RELATIONS communities and in society at large, and • Human rights commit to global sustainability principles. Of all • Ethical business practices things we endorse safety – of our employees as • Responsible employer well as our partners. By behaving responsibly • Well-being for local communities towards our employees and society, we can improve the quality of life of our stakeholders. WE BRING WE OFFER THE FOREST TO YOU SUSTAINABLE CHOICES Our products come from sustainably managed Wood is an endlessly renewable resource. We forests. For every tree that is harvested we turn wood into safe and recyclable products make sure that new ones get planted for the that improve quality of life. Our products are coming generations. Together with our sustainable alternatives to many nonpartners, we secure a sustainable supply of renewable products and raw materials. We raw materials for our units and a supply of know the environmental footprints of our renewable products for our customers. THE SMALLER THE products and want to discuss them with you RAW MATERIALS AND ENVIRONMENTAL transparently. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT • Sustainable forest management and IMPACT, THE BETTER SUSTAINABLE OFFERING • Sustainable products, services nature values All human activity leaves a mark on the planet. and innovations • Sustainable supply chain So does our production. What matters is using • Product safety • Partnership with suppliers and forest owners energy, raw materials and other resources efficiently and maintaining low levels of emissions and waste. We at Metsä Group have reached great results but we can always do more. RESOURCE EFFICIENCY AND ENVIRONMENTALLY EFFICIENT OPERATIONS • Energy and climate • Water • Material efficiency • Environmental risk management SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA 15 BRINGING QUALITY TO EVERYDAY LIFE Metsä Group’s products demonstrate how we in practice and in a sustainable way improve the well-being of everyone. LIGHTER AND WHITER property requirements better than before. FOLDING BOXBOARDS The already-low grammages of Avanta Prima and Simcote were reduced by an In the spring 2013, Metsä Board launched additional 2–3%. The products' technical the enhanced Avanta Prima, Simcote and properties, thickness and stiffness Carta Elega folding boxboards. For remained unchanged. Lightweight customers, this means lighter weights and cartonboards provide savings throughout even better optimised products. the value chain by decreasing the need for Metsä Board works systematically to raw materials, transported quantities and develop lightweight cartonboard products waste. Metsä Board's folding boxboards with excellent performance and printing are in total as much as 30% lighter than properties. The product improvements some competing cartonboards, thus implemented in the spring 2013 concerned providing customers with a considerable products being manufactured at Simpele yield benefit. and Kyro mills in Finland. Of these, Avanta Carta Elega's shade was developed to Prima is specially designed for the needs better meet customer needs. The white of the pharmaceutical industry and Carta shade was optimised for the cosmetics Elega for cosmetics and other demanding and pharmaceutical industries. Avanta end-uses. Simcote is used extensively in Prima's surface properties were developed food packaging, in particular. The to suit 2D data matrix coding, which is cartonboard machines at the mills were becoming increasingly common in renewed in 2013. pharmaceuticals packaging to prevent Metsä Board's folding boxboards now counterfeit medicines. The shade of the meet customers' needs and packaging product was also optimised to look whiter. 16 PRODUCT AND SERVICE CASES NEW OPPORTUNITIES the heavier kraftliners manufactured at Kemi mill in Finland. It opens up new endWITH KRAFTLINER use possibilities for Metsä Board. The kraftliner manufactured in Husum can be A new product was sought for Husum mill used in all of the three layers in corrugated in Sweden to improve the mill's profitability board, making it thin and lightweight, and and to support Metsä Board's core suitable for uses in which other, heavy business. The solution was found close by: cartonboard grades have previously been Husum had manufactured liner earlier and used. In addition to traditional end-uses, therefore the relevant expertise already corrugated board is ideal for packaging dry existed at the mill. In April 2013, the mill and greasy foods as well as cosmetics and began manufacturing lightweight, fullyhealthcare products thanks to its excellent bleached kraftliners. printing surface. Fresh forest fibre-based Kraftliner is used as a surface material kraftliner can be in direct contact with the for corrugated board packaging. It is widely foodstuff with no flavour, odour or anything used for packaging consumer durables, else harmful passed on to the food. such as electronics and toys, as well as Delivery volumes of Husum's groceries like processed foods and kraftliners have grown as planned. In 2014, vegetables. the production target is over 100,000 The new Modo Northern Light is a tonnes and growth is expected to continue grade in between folding boxboards and strong after this. SERLA HANDYSHEET. WONDERFUL EVERYDAY – ALSO IN THE FUTURE Serla brand is a promise of responsible products and behavior to its customers. Responsibility has been the starting point also in creating the new, practical Serla Household sheet that can be used easily with one hand wherever paper is needed: in the kitchen, garage or on a picnic. The wrapping protects the paper from splash and dirt, and is pulled easily out of the package one sheet after another. The innovative compact package is easy to use and it contains tissue paper equivalent of up to two-and-half regular kitchen rolls, which makes transport and warehousing more cost efficient and the environmental impact smaller. Serla acts responsibly throughout the product lifecycle and brings innovations to consumers’ versatile and changing needs. All Serla products have the Nordic ecolabel. PRODUCT AND SERVICE CASES 17 LARGE-SCALE WOODEN Metsä Wood’s delivery covered an installation of the glulam frame, Kerto-Ripa STRUCTURES roof elements, and exterior walls of an approximately 12,000 m2 extension to a Cost-effectiveness, schedules and terminal. Despite its size, the assembly environmental values matched the needs was completed in August 2013, precisely of DB Schenker when they selected a on schedule. wooden solutions supplier for their new Rapid construction, lightness and terminal in Vantaa, Finland. For this durability are some of the fundamental transport and logistics company, Metsä qualities of Metsä Wood's solutions. Large Wood's wooden structures’ extremely industrial buildings can be installed with small carbon footprint in comparison with prefabricated frames and elements, other materials on the market was an allowing the work on the interior to get off important criterion. The centre was built to an efficient start. This shortens the according to the Building Research overall time spent on the construction Establishment’s Environmental Assessment work. Method (BREEAM) certification. NEW PULP now even more of the wood used in the process can be turned into pulp. In SAVES ENERGY addition, the production capacity of the mill will increase by 10%. Strength is one of the most important Manufacturing of the Botnia Nordic characteristics of northern softwood fibre Pine+ and Botnia Nordic Strong+ when manufacturing tissue paper, board polysulphide pulp types commenced in and coated printing paper used in summer 2013 when the new production brochures and annual reports, among process was introduced at Joutseno mill. others. With polysulphide pulp, Metsä Metsä Fibre continues product Fibre's new product, paper and board development with its customers so that customers get a suitable tensile strength the new pulp types will function optimally for their product with less energy used in their processes. than before. Manufacturing the new pulp will improve the efficiency of Joutseno mill as 18 PRODUCT AND SERVICE CASES SERVICE TO SECURE the forest and the income generated by it – bad stands result in significant losses to SEEDLING STANDS forest owners. The new service package includes all the measures that are needed A unique service for the Cooperative’s to secure the growth and quality of a new owner-members was introduced in May, forest after regeneration felling: securing the early phases of a new forest. • soil preparation Forest owners who acquire the service • seedlings and their planting package from Metsä Group no longer need • an inspection visit and reporting to worry about whether regeneration • additional cultivation (if necessary) measures succeed. The new service to • tending of the seedling stand secure the growth of the seedling stands • forest insurance promotes the sustainable use of forests and aims at securing the growth of highAccording to the service contract, the quality wood also in the future. average height of the stand at the time of Metsä Group wants to be the number handing over is approximately 1.3 meters, one partner for forest owners. This is why it is healthy and grows well. The service is forest owners are offered services that complemented by group forest insurance both improve the profitability of their forest throughout the contract period, ownership and make it easy for them to reimbursing any natural disasters affecting take care of their forests. the stand. No other company in the forest Well performed regeneration has an industry offers such an advanced essential impact on the development of regeneration service. METSÄ-TAPIOLA Metsä Group’s new office building in Espoo, Finland, won its category in the Iconic Awards and was the public’s favourite to win the Wood Award. RECEIVES AWARD One can feel the power of wood at its strongest in Metsä Group’s personnel restaurant. PRODUCT AND SERVICE CASES 19 BROAD PRODUCT RANGE MADE OF RENEWABLE RAW MATERIAL Metsä Group’s main raw material, environmental impacts of both our products CONSUMERS DEMAND FOR ECOLABELS sustainably grown wood, is renewable and processes. All these tools differ somewhat Consumers are increasingly interested in the and recyclable. Our products enable in what is reported and how wide the scope is. environmental impacts of the choices they our customers to make sustainable The Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) assesses make when purchasing a product. Ecolabels choices and improve their environthe environmental impacts associated with all help consumers make those choices. Metsä mental footprint. All of our products stages of a product's life cycle. The EnvironGroup is involved in the development of the provide good alternatives to many mental Product Declaration (EPD) is based EU Ecolabel as well as the Nordic Swan critecarbon-intensive products and raw on LCA calculations and reports the product’s ria. We work continuously at our mills to materials. potential environmental impacts from raw improve their environmental performance in material source to production, and provides order to fulfil the demanding criteria. Metsä Group’s sustainable offering includes information on both renewable and nonEcolabels are essential for both Metsä tissue and cooking papers; board for packagrenewable materials and energy resources. The Tissue’s products and Metsä Board’s office ing and the graphic industry; office papers; Paper Profile or carbon footprint calculations paper range. Since Metsä Fibre's and Metsä pulp; wood products for exteriors and interiare more limited in scope. Board’s pulps are also used as raw materials in ors; and forestry services. This wide range of Metsä Wood issued an EPD for its plyvarious eco-labelled products, they must fulfil high-quality products is produced from wood products and it is verified against the the same criteria. renewable northern wood and wood fibre. European Standard EN 15804, which serves During 2013, Metsä Fibre and Metsä as core product category rules for construcBoard pulps were made available also to the DIFFERENT COVERAGE IN DIFFERENT tion products. Metsä Wood has also produced new Nordic Ecolabel database (My Swan PRODUCT DECLARATIONS an EPD for Kerto® laminated veneer lumber. Account). Since knowing the environmental impact of An EPD has also been prepared earlier for In spring, Metsä Tissue had a promotion our products is essential to our customers, we Simcote, a folding boxboard product by Metsä with love poems printed on Lambi toilet use various methods to communicate the Board. paper. Despite pre-screening, two poems with their origin in the Bible were detected in 20 SUSTAINABLE OFFERING Norway. The incident was reported in the tion, finding value-added use to all sideIn 2013, Metsä Group invested about social media and in newsfeeds in many counstreams is highlighted. R&D cooperation EUR 18 million in R&D (excluding capital tries. Metsä Tissue’s apology was also between Metsä Group’s business areas has expenditure; EUR 20 million in 2012), which acknowledged in the media. The poems were been systematically deepened over the past accounts for 0.4% of total operating expenses subsequently removed from the Norwegian few years. This work is led by Metsä Group’s (0.4% in 2012). print originals. R&D team, which comprises representatives from each business area and the Group’s susRESEARCH NETWORKS ON BIOECONOMY CE MARKING FOR CONSTRUCTION PRODUCTS tainability function. At the same time, the To strengthen the external R&D networks, Starting from 1 July 2013, the Construction importance of external R&D networks has Metsä Group co-founded and acts as a chairProduct Regulation entered into force and CE also been emphasised. By cooperating more man in the Finnish Bio-economy Cluster, marking became mandatory for all construcclosely among the business areas, synergies can FIBIC Ltd, an umbrella organisation for large, tion products covered by a harmonised standbe found and the R&D process improved. forward-looking research programs. ard or a European Technical Assessment. The An R&D roadmap for 2020 identifies At the end of 2012, Metsä Group was manufacturer has the obligation to issue a three focus areas: involved in establishing an international Declaration of Performance (DoP) and affix a • Process efficiency and resource value industry consortium to advance the developCE marking to be able to sell the products • Renewable raw materials as a competitive ment of bioeconomy in Europe. The Biowithin the EU. edge based Industries Consortium (BIC) aims to • Value-added products and services catalyse the unique partnerships between the Metsä Wood’s Declaration of Performance documents are industry’s companies and the European Comavailable online at: www.metsawood.com/DoP Process efficiency and resource value contains mission which would, in practice, co-fund several R&D topics that need continuous high-risk piloting and demonstration projects NO COMPROMISE ON PRODUCT SAFETY efforts including increasing the yield of proof European companies of the bio-based The meaning of product safety depends on the duction, minimising the use of energy and industries. One of the key targets of the parttype and end-use of a product. Ensuring prodfinding optimal use for the side-streams. nership is to strengthen the competitiveness of uct safety is extremely important in products Value-added products and services means European bio-based industries. that are used in human or food contact applimaking customers more content and their As a consequence of the efforts of the cations such as packaging boards, napkins or lives easier. Linking ICT solutions to our BIC, the European Commission proposed to cooking and baking products. As a minimum operations, and thus facilitating the cooperaestablish said partnership, also known as the requirement, all our mills that manufacture tion between Metsä Group and its partners, is Bio-based Industries Public-Private Partnerfood contact materials or chemical pulp used one of the R&D directions. ship (BBI PPP) in July 2013. The final deciin manufacturing these products are certified sion is due in early 2014. according to ISO 22000 or BRC food safety management systems. In building and construction materials, METHODS TO COMMUNICATE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT product safety means that there are no emissions of harmful chemicals into indoor air or The various tools used to describe a product’s environmental impacts and production chains do so that the strength properties of a building are in very different ways. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) typically contains all relevant emissions and sufficient, among others. resource use as well as the whole production chain from material procurement to product disposal. Most customer complaints are filed due to Other tools have a much narrower view. visual or mechanical damages originating from production. Product complaints related to FULL COVERAGE OF product safety are extremely rare. EMISSIONS CARBON FOOTPRINT A LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENT, (LCA) Metsä Group does not use genetically modified trees or raw materials. In 2011, the ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT European Commission adopted a recommenDECLARATION, dation on the definition of nanomaterial that (EPD) PAPER ENERGY is based purely on particle size and applies to CONSUMPTION PROFILE naturally occurring, man-made or specially engineered materials. Metsä Group does not approve of nanotechnology-based new subWATER stances until more information on their safety RAW MATERIAL FOOTPRINT CONSUMPTION becomes available. Metsä Group continues to actively follow-up and participates in the research in these areas. STRENGTHENING R&D COOPERATION Metsä Group’s R&D strategy focuses on PROCUREMENT OF RAW MATERIALS MANUFACTURING DISTRIBUTION USE DISPOSAL material, energy and water efficiency. In addiSUSTAINABLE OFFERING 21 SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS THE NORTHERN FORESTS Metsä Group has a long tradition of working closely with its key stakeholders, especially with Finnish forest owners, and the wood we use mainly originates from family-owned forests that belong to the members of the Cooperative. In addition to Finland, Metsä Group has wood supply operations in Sweden, Russia and the Baltics. The northern forests play a significant role as a TARGET PROGRESS COMMENTS source of wood raw material and income to forest owners. They also provide a wide range To sustain the 82% in 2013. We are constantly aiming to maintain the of benefits from recreation possibilities and amount of certified high share of certified wood raw material and wood above 80%. are actively promoting forest management berry and mushroom picking to the maintecertification in the areas where we operate. nance of hydrological systems and soil quality. Regionally, Metsä Group is an important employer when utilising services from local NATURE MANAGEMENT TO In addition to enhancing nature management entrepreneurs in harvesting, transport and MAINTAIN BIODIVERSITY in private forests, Metsä Group endorses nature forest services. Metsä Group’s wood mainly In 2013, Metsä Group continued to advance management in its own and leased forests. originates from family-owned forests that its five environmental goals for wood supply: These operations imitate natural processes, belong to the members of the Cooperative – • Maintain biodiversity such as prescribed burning, in order to safesome 123,000 Finnish forest owners. Metsä • Decrease impacts to water guard biodiversity. Due to the small size and Forest provides forestry services for its owner• Reduce operations’ emissions rarity of forest fires in Finland, prescribed members with the goal of enhancing the value • Ensure legal and sustainable wood supply burning has become essential for those species of members’ forest assets and ensuring wood • Secure the knowledge of personnel and dependent on burned wood. Metsä Group supply to Metsä Group’s mills. contractors. started surveying species dependent on forest 22 FOREST MANAGEMENT LESS THAN 10 % OF ALL THE FORESTS IN THE WORLD ARE CERTIFIED 10 % ONLY 25 % OF THE RECOVERABLE FORESTS HAVE BEEN CERTIFIED 25 % MORE THAN 80 % OF THE WOOD USED BY METSÄ GROUP IS CERTIFIED 80 % planning forest management and guidance on led to a termination of the wood delivery how to create and maintain the required feacontract with the supplier. tures of the habitats will be published in 2014. In order to ensure the wood supply’s upThe survey of the biodiversity values of to-date knowledge and the subcontractors’ Metsä Group’s leased forests in Podporozhye, competence in quality and environmental Russia, that was commissioned in 2007 conissues, Metsä Forest has established an online tinues. The experts in birds, vascular plants, training platform. The plan is to extend the lichens, mosses and fungus took part in field use of the online tool to cover all subcontracwork during the year. Some 378 hectares of tors during 2014 including forest services, biologically valuable forests have been estabharvesting, wood energy and wood transporlished to safeguard the valuable habitats. tation contractors. In 2013, water protection actions As an indicator of a strong commitment included a completion of extensive training to sustainability, Metsä Forest Podporozhe for forest specialists in Metsä Forest’s Finnish was awarded a title of the best forest leaseoperations on the new water protection holder for its contribution to sustainable use, requirements on peat lands. regeneration and protection of forests in the Leningrad region, Russia. fires in its northern Finland forests in 2013 and ENSURING SUSTAINABILITY will continue this work in the coming years. IN FOREST MANAGEMENT TRACEABLE WOOD Metsä Group participated in a cooperation Metsä Group makes regular and extensive Regardless of the country of origin or whether network under the METSO programme in field audits to ensure that the nature manageit comes from certified or non-certified 2011–2013 aiming to develop the nature ment of harvesting operations complies with forests, Metsä Group always knows the origin legislation and forest certification criteria. of the wood it uses, ensures its legality and Metsä Group’s and its suppliers’ performance takes measures to prevent the risk of unaccepin harvesting operations is constantly evalutable practices in the supply chain. Metsä 2/3 OF METSÄ GROUP’S ated internally and by external auditors. The Group holds Chain-of-Custody certificates in WOOD SUPPLIES IN results of these evaluations are part of the all wood supply and production units. FINLAND ORIGINATE FROM incentive scheme and they help in assessing Because Metsä Group was one of the FAMILY-OWNED FORESTS. the development needs. pioneers in developing the wood origin tracMetsä Forest Finland, Russia, Estonia and ing systems in Russia, it gave us a solid base for Latvia perform regular wood supplier and adapting to the EU Timber Regulation's management of the ecotones of forest areas logging site audits to verify the wood origin requirements. We have gathered wood origin towards enhancing game species' habitat and sustainability of the wood supply. One information right from the beginning of our requirements. As a result, a guidebook for serious malpractice was found in 2013 and it FOREST MANAGEMENT 23 THE EU TIMBER REGULATION – KEY ELEMENTS OF THE SUPPLY CHAIN The aim of the EU Timber Regulation (EUTR) is to timber products including roundwood, solid wood obligation to prove legality to the authorities. ensure that companies take actions to avoid products, plywood, pulp, paper and paperboard. Metsä Wood, Metsä Fibre, Metsä Board, Metsä illegally harvested timber entering the EU market. Metsä Group has the necessary process in Tissue as well as their customers act as a ‘Trader’ The regulation entered into force in all 27 member place to fulfil the EUTR obligations. Metsä Forest, with obligation to keep a record for five years of states in March 2013 and covers a broad range of as a wood importer, acts as an ‘operator’ with the their suppliers and customers. SOURCES OUTSIDE THE EU EU INTERNAL MARKET WOOD SUPPLY OPERATOR TRADER TRADER END-USER e.g. Metsä Forest e.g. Metsä Board e.g. brand owner, • Prohibition on • Details of supplier retailer illegal timber • Details of customer • Details of supplier • Due diligence systems (DDS) PROCESSORS AND MANUFACTURES Source: Agency for Rural Affairs. wood supply operations in Russia to avoid it originating from unacceptable sources. ACTIVELY DEVELOPING FOREST CERTIFICATION Metsä Group considers forest management EXCHANGING SUSTAINABLE and Chain-of-Custody certifications to be FORESTRY PRACTICES excellent tools to both ensure and further evolve the sustainability of the supply chain BETWEEN FINLAND AND RUSSIA and forestry operations. This is why Metsä Group actively takes part in the development of the certification schemes and promotes forest certification initiatives in all wood Metsä Forest Podporozhye has been active practices on sustainable forest management supply regions. in exchanging sustainable forest manageand discuss with the relevant parties about While only some 10% of all the forests in ment practices between Finland and Russia the best implementation possibilities in the world have been certified, the target of since 2007. Some 20 employees from the Russia. It has been highly beneficial to disforestry and road construction departments, cuss the challenges of implementation with Metsä Group is to sustain the amount of mostly foremen and planning engineers as the authorities in the forest sample plots. certified wood in our operations above 80%. well as Russian representatives of local As a result of adapting new practices, In 2013, some 82% of the wood supplied by Podporozhye and regional Leningrad forest the quality of forestry roads has improved Metsä Group was PEFC and/or FSC® authorities, have taken part in forest manasignificantly in the Podporozhye area. Metsä (Licence Code FSC-C014476) certified (82% gement training. Forest Podporozhye has also recently started in 2012). Additionally, Metsä Forest offers Training has mainly focused on reforesto use potted seedlings in the forest plantaforest owners who have a forest management tation methods, pre-commercial thinning tions, make soil scarifications with mounders agreement with the company the possibility to and forest road construction. The goal of the and perform intensive pre-commercial join the Group’s PEFC and/or FSC group training has been to acknowledge good thinnings. certifications. 24 FOREST MANAGEMENT CHANGES IN THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT The certification systems adapted the EU Timber Regulation's requirements by revising those of the Chain-of-Custody to be in line with the new regulation. The Finnish PEFC CLOSE COLLABORATION forest management certification criteria were under revision in 2013 and work will continue WITH FOREST OWNERS in 2014. The Russian PEFC forest manageMetsä Group’s parent company, the 80-yearMetsä Forest continuously develops its ment standard is also under revision. old Metsäliitto Cooperative, is owned by service portfolio in collaboration with forest The new Finnish Forest Act entered into some 123,000 Finnish forest owners and owners, and has over 300 forest specialists force at the beginning of 2014. The renewed boasts a long tradition of working in coopelocated in over 100 offices across Finland. In regulation enables forest owners to decide ration with its owner-members. addition to forest management and consulmore freely on forest regeneration and forest An owner-member has influence over tation services, such as forest taxation, management, such as having the possibility to the Cooperative by having the right to stand Metsä Forest continuously gathers customer use loggings that aim at the uneven-age strucas a candidate in the representative council service feedback on each forest manageture of a forest stand. Metsä Group particielections that take place every four years ment operation. pated in the revision working group of the covering all of Finland in 14 districts. Every In 2013, approximately 30,000 responForestry Development Centre Tapio’s Forest member has one vote. The representative ses were received (response rate 35%) to council consists of 62 members and holds gather the forest owners’ wishes and ideas Management Recommendations. Metsä the highest decision-making power in the on how to improve the services. The results Forest has been preparing for the forthcoming Cooperative, for example on adopting the have been very good and they have further changes already in 2013 by organising training profit and loss account. improved during the last few years. on Forest Act changes and on uneven-aged The district councils have 125 elected silviculture, among others. members across the districts and meet Moreover, the Act on the Prevention of twice a year. The councils’ most important Forest Damages entered into force at the task is to act as an information channel beginning of 2014. The Forest Management between the members and the Cooperative’s Association Act will come into force in 2015. wood supply and forest services organisaThe Nature Conservation Act and the Act on tion, Metsä Forest. the Financing of Sustainable Forestry are under revision in 2014. MAIN FOREST AREAS OWNED OR LEASED BY METSÄ GROUP 1) Including forestry land and other land within the forest estate / area. FOREST OWNER / TOTAL AREA, OF WHICH PROTECTED COUNTRY LEASEHOLDER HECTARES 1) AREAS, HECTARES CERTIFICATION 2) Including Nature Conservation Areas, Natura 2000 areas and Conservation Programme areas. Small-scale valuable forest habitats Finland Metsä-Botnia, Metsät Oy 35,448 960 2) PEFC and FSC and the buffer zones of watercourses are not included in the figures. Kirkniemen Kartano Oy 961 217 2) PEFC 3) Including forests with a protective function (e.g. forests along watercourses); those with special limitations of the utilisation Russia OOO Metsä Forest 215,330 55,054 3) PEFC and FSC regime; and biologically valuable forests that have been excluded from commercial use by the company. Strictly protected areas are Podporozhye excluded from the lease areas in Russia. Small-scale valuable forest habitats are not included in the figures. ZAO Petrovles 56,525 19,715 3) PEFC and FSC Podporozhye In addition to the areas presented in the table, Metsä Group owns small forest estates in Finland and in Estonia (altogether 290 ha ). Further, Metsä Group owns shares (<50%) in the Finnish forestowning entities Finsilva Oyj and Suomen Metsäsijoitus Oy, and in the Russian forestry holding Vologodskie Lesopromyshlenniki. THE GROUP’S WOOD SUPPLIES BY COUNTRY IN 2013 EVALUATION OF NATURE MANAGEMENT IN STANDS LOGGING SITE CLASSIFICATION IN RUSSIA % HARVESTED BY METSÄ GROUP IN FINLAND AND THE BALTICS IN 2013 % % 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Finland 72% Poor Good 70% Russia 11% Fair Fair 29% Baltic countries 9% Good Poor 1% Sweden 8% Excellent FOREST MANAGEMENT 25 WORKING WITH RELIABLE AND RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIERS Ethical business practices are the foundation of Metsä Group’s TARGET PROGRESS COMMENTS purchasing operations. Transparency To include the Included in 216 In 2013, we have continued with the work to and responsibility of the entire supply Supplier Code of contracts, accounting include the Supplier Code of Conduct in all chain are of rising interest to our Conduct in all new for 50% of all new and supplier contracts. At the same time, we customers and other stakeholders. supplier contracts. renewed supplier have developed a risk assessment process contracts in 2013. for our raw material suppliers in order to identify risk-rated suppliers that are to be Metsä Group’s materials and services puraudited from a sustainability point of view. chases mainly originate from Europe accountOur new target is to audit all of risk-rated ing for 98% (99% in 2012) and mostly from key material suppliers against sustainability criteria by 2015. countries with the Group’s own manufacturing operations meaning 87% (88%). The purchasing is organised into 17 main categories including pulps, chemicals, pigments and fillers, energy and logistics. Wood corruption, child labour or human rights NEWLY IMPLEMENTED procurement is operated by Metsä Forest and abuses in our supply chain. SUPPLIER RISK ASSESSMENT therefore outside the scope of Metsä Group’s We want to ensure that all parties in the During 2013, we have further developed our centralised purchasing function. supply chain act responsibly. The requirement risk assessment process in order to identify In 2013, Metsä Group’s spend excluding for transparency and responsibility of the potential risk suppliers regarding sustainabilwood procurement amounted to EUR 2 supply chain comes also from our customers ity. Audits are prepared and carried out annubillion (slightly lower than in 2012). and other stakeholders. ally for each of the purchasing categories. Metsä Group has altogether 20,000 active The aim is to ensure that the Supplier SUPPLIERS ARE OUR LONG-TERM PARTNERS supplier relationships, of which some 200 are Code of Conduct is followed in practice We only deal with reliable suppliers who act determined as key vendors – active suppliers throughout the supply chain. As we strive to responsibly and are committed to sustainabilwho bring significant value to our business. increase transparency in all our operations, we ity. Our suppliers must agree to Metsä Group’s Key vendors are selected based on strategic only do business with suppliers we know. Supplier Code of Conduct. All our suppliers importance, a wide variety of unique products In 2013, Metsä Group performed 65 (52) are required to act upon the same high ethical or services, strategic criticality, significant supplier audits. standards as we do and that there is no risk of spend or a long-term partnership. 26 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT EFFICIENT AND RELIABLE LOGISTICS AS A COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE The most crucial task of Metsä Group’s logistics is to ensure the continuous flow of products to customers and raw materials to the BIGGER TRUCKS FOR LESS EMISSIONS – mills. New solutions for more efficient, MORE EFFICIENT SAFER LOADS reliable and sustainable logistics TRANSPORT A more sustainable, efficient and safe solution throughout the whole transportations to pulp transportation has been introduced at chain are continuously developed. Road transport is vital to Metsä Group due to Metsä Fibre’s Kemi mill. A new type of truck the high number of wood supply locations that runs between Kemi mill and Ajos harbour and product destinations that cannot be Several transportation modes road – rail, has a larger load space designed to meet the feasibly covered by other transport modes. maritime transport and log floating – are requirements of pulp transportation, better Finland has allowed the use of heavier needed to transport the Group’s wood raw driver comfort and improved safety stanvehicles (76 tonnes instead of 60 tonnes) material, pulp and products. To this end, dards. The large load space means that the since 1 October 2013. Longer and heavier transport efficiency is one of the key perfortruck drives 33,000 kilometres less each year trucks are more eco-efficient as they bring with lower emissions. There is unobstructed mance indicators and part of the bonus syssignificant emission and cost savings as well view to the load space which can be opened tems in certain positions within the Group. as positive effects on road safety. Metsä from the cab – the driver can thus stay inside We are committed to reduce emissions in a Group has actively studied the advantages of during pulp loading and fastening which is cost-effective way. heavier trucks together with its transportaautomatised, making it a quick and secure Efficient and reliable logistics is something tion entrepreneurs and has implemented process. In addition, the new truck has an we consider as a competitive advantage; and as mechanisms to support extending the utilisaalcolock, excellent daytime running lights and tion of higher transportation capacity. managing transportation would not be posefficient lighting in the load space. sible without our extensive vendor network, it is important that sustainability is taken into account in cooperation with them. Consemum sulphur content of marine fuel will order to maintain our competitiveness, we are quently, Metsä Group’s Supplier Code of decrease from 1.0% to 0.1% as of 1 January evaluating possible low-emission maritime Conduct is included in contracts with both 2015. In other European sea areas, the maxitransportation options as well as re-considerwood harvesting and transportation service mum sulphur content of marine fuel will ing our routings, alternative modes of transproviders. We also audit our selected transport decrease from 3.5% to 0.5% by 2020 based on portation and other ways to improve the vendors systematically in all geographical the EU Directive. efficiency of the logistics chain. regions. With these regionally tighter regulations We are carefully following all plans and Our mills in Finland are located in remote and timeframe, it is challenging to find feasipreparations that might further increase enviareas where we are a significant employer. In ble solutions to fully mitigate the negative ronmental regulations in logistics and transmany regions, our transportation and harvestimpact to Metsä Group’s logistics costs. In portation. ing operations also provide work for many local entrepreneurs. THE GROUP’S PURCHASES IN 2013 THE GROUP’S PURCHASES 1) BY COUNTRY IN 2013 % OF MATERIAL AND SERVICE PURCHASES % THE EU’S SULPHUR DIRECTIVE ENTERING IN FORCE The amendments to the EU’s Sulphur Directive regulating ship emissions will come into force from the beginning of 2015 without a transition period and in a more strict form than earlier agreed by the International Maritime Organization (IMO). In the IMO regulations, the target is to decrease the sulphur Wood 29% Finland 56% content in Sulphur Emission Control Areas Pulp and recovered fibre 16% Sweden 17% Logistics 16% Other EU countries 13% (SECA), namely the Baltic Sea, the North Indirect materials and services 14% Germany 11% Sea, the English Channel and the coastal areas Chemicals, pigments and fillers Energy 11% 8% Outside Europe Other European countries 2% 1% of North America. In these areas, the maxiOther (e.g. packaging materials) 6% 1) Wood procurement excluded LOGISTICS 27 BIOENERGY INVESTMENTS HAVE REDUCED THE CO2 LOAD Due to the latest bioenergy TARGET PROGRESS COMMENTS investments, Metsä Group has been able to reach its target to reduce To reduce fossil CO2 -32% (2009–2013). Thanks to the full-year impact of the bioenfossil CO2 emissions by 30%. emissions in ergy investments completed during 2012 production by 30% per and the good energy efficiency developIncreasing the share of bioenergy product tonne by 2020 ment, we were able to achieve the CO2 along with improving energy from the 2009 level. reduction target already in 2013. efficiency are the Group’s main To improve energy 5% (2009–2013). The considerable production efficiency means to combat climate change. In efficiency by 10% by improvements at mills combined with addition to environmental benefits, 2020 from the 2009 continued specific energy saving actions the work towards these targets also level. resulted in a big improvement in the energy efficiency. improves cost efficiency and competitiveness. Metsä Group’s total primary energy consumpwas produced mainly by using carbon-neutral 1,200,000 tonnes annually. This is 40% more tion was 29.7 TWh (29.0 TWh in 2012). The energy sources such as nuclear and hydro than the Group’s annual CO2 emission load. share of direct energy consumption – primary power. fuel consumption at the mills – reached The Group supplied 4.4 TWh woodHIGH SHARE OF BIOENERGY STILL INCREASES 22.8 (22.7) TWh. based fuels originating from process side The share of wood-based biofuels in the Indirect energy consumption as purchased streams and logging residuals. This fuel enaGroup’s own energy production accounted for electricity was 2.6 (2.4) TWh and as purbles our customers to replace fossil fuels and 85% (83%), partly as a result of the bioenergy chased heat 0.34 (0.2) TWh. Indirect energy reduce their fossil CO2 emissions by some projects taken into use at Kyro and Joutseno 28 ENERGY AND CLIMATE REDUCED CLIMATE CHANGE EFFECT Currently, Metsä Group does not have The GHG Protocol, which categorises the sufficient data for calculating Group-wide emissions from direct and indirect sources, is emissions from producing and transporting the most widely used tool to quantify greenthe main raw materials (Scope 3). house gas (GHG) emissions. Scope 1 covers all direct GHG emissions from own energy production; Scope 2 indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, 85% OF THE FUELS heat or steam; Scope 3 includes other indirect USED BY METSÄ GROUP emissions, such as the production of purchased materials and fuels, transport-related ARE BIO-BASED. activities and waste disposal. In Metsä Group, Scope 1 fossil CO2 emissions amounted to 855,000 tonnes (962,000 LOWER ENERGY USE MEANS LESS COST tonnes in 2012). They were lower than the Energy efficiency is optimised jointly with previous year due to replacing fossil fuel with other aspects of production and resource wood-based fuels as process fuel at Husum efficiency, mainly utilising the wood-based and Joutseno pulp mills and changes in Kyro raw materials as efficiently as possible. Energy mill’s energy production where the new bioefficiency is improved mainly by conducting power plant was in use for the first full year. energy analyses, modifying processes and Scope 2 emissions were 521,000 (392,000) cooperating with equipment manufacturers. tonnes. Together, Scope 1 and 2 emissions The work is supported by the Energy Effiper tonne of production decreased by 32% ciency Systems and the ISO 50001 Energy from the 2009 emission level, more than our Management Systems. 30% reduction target from 2009 to 2020. In 2013, altogether 96 actions (87 in Roughly 50% of the emissions materialised 2012) were completed that will potentially in Finland. reduce annual electricity consumption by THE GROUP’S FUEL CONSUMPTION IN 2013 THE GROUP’S PRIMARY ENERGY CONSUMPTION % OF PURCHASED ELECTRICITY AND HEAT IN 2013 % mills in late 2012. The full potential of these investments was not reached in 2013 as the biomass gasification plant at Metsä Fibre Wood-based fuels Gas 85% 8% Nuclear power Hydro power 56% 15% Joutseno mill in Finland failed to reach its full Oil 4% Coal 15% Coal 2% Gas 8% capacity due to problems in the ramp-up Peat 1% Wood-based biofuels 3% Oil 3% phase. However, together they reduced CO2 emissions by 140,000 tonnes with a further 35,000 tonnes expected to be reduced THE GROUP’S PRIMARY ENERGY CONSUMPTION ENERGY EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT 1) GWh BY BUSINESS AREA later on. % A new biomass plant is being built in 36,000 100% conjunction with Metsä Tissue Mariestad mill 30,000 98% in Sweden. It will reduce the mill’s oil use by 24,000 96% 90% and decrease the mill’s CO2 load by 18,000 94% approximately 4,000 tonnes, i.e. 25% from the 12,000 92% present. The mill will use energy wood and re­6,000 90% cycled fibre residues from the mill as fuels. In addition to producing heat to the mill, it will 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 88% provide renewable energy for the surrounding Purchased heat Metsä Group total Metsä Fibre community in the form of district heat and Fossil fuels Purchased electricity Metsä Tissue Metsä Board Metsä Wood bio-based electricity to the grid. The plant is Wood-based biofuels 1) Expressed as specific energy consumption development expected to be operating by the end of 2014. ENERGY AND CLIMATE 29 CO2 EMISSIONS ALONG THE VALUE CHAIN The value chain of wood-based products is largely paved with green renewable carbon some 32 (101) GWh and heat by 148 (179) recycling from forest to product and through product degradation to the atmosphere GWh, thus eliminating fossil CO2 emissions and back to new wood growth. Part of the wood material is used as bioenergy at the by approximately 17,000 (38,000) tonnes mills. The grey fossil emissions increasing the atmosphere’s climate effect are smaller annually. and come from transportation and energy production at the mills. Improving energy efficiency is an integral part of all major investments in production capacity. In Metsä Tissue’s renewed Krapkowice mill inaugurated in October 2013, for RENEWABLE CARBON example, world-class energy efficiency was one FOSSIL CARBON of the design principles from the outset. The D over EUR 55 million investment includes two OO W new, state-of-the-art tissue paper machines. O T TH COROW 2 Our long-term target is to enhance our energy efficiency by 10% by 2020 from the 2009 G level. To date, we have improved it by 5%. OUR FOSSIL CO2 LOAD HAS BEEN CUT BY 32% PER TONNE OF PRODUCT SINCE 2009. FOSSIL CO2 FROM FOREST FOSSIL CO2 FROM MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS DIESEL FUEL CHANGES IN THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT The final decisions on the allocations of freeof-charge CO2 allowances per mill for the EU’s third CO2 Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) for the period 2013–2019 were still somewhat unclear at the end of 2013. Thanks to its high share of bioenergy, Metsä Group expects to receive sufficient CO2 allowances. The EU is preparing a 2030 Climate Change and Energy Package in a situation where the economic and political landscape WOOD SUPPLY WOOD TRANSPORTATION has drastically changed and the global competitiveness of Europe has weakened. Metsä Group sees that in the future, the EU should have only one CO2 reduction target and it should not set binding targets on renewable leakage’, the EU should ensure a competitive nationally binding climate agreement. It is energy or energy efficiency. Herewith, the market conditions for its globally operating crucial, therefore, that the forest industry selection of CO2 emission reduction measures industries. remains a carbon leakage sector. would be left to the member states. FurtherThe European Commission is preparing a In 2013, the national implementation more, the EU should not unilaterally tighten review on carbon leakage and will present its plans of the new Energy Efficiency directive its CO2 reduction target since combating proposal in early 2014. This is an essential tool were prepared. For the time being, Metsä climate change requires global actions. The when trying to safeguard the global competiGroup expects that our Energy Efficiency EU’s unilateral measures might even have a tiveness of European industries. It minimises System and on-going continuous efforts are negative impact on the climate if it leads to the negative impacts of the European Trading for the most part sufficient for compliance. the transfer or growth of industrial producScheme on the industry as long as our comtion in areas with higher CO2 emissions competitors outside the EU do not have similar pared to the EU. In order to avoid this ‘carbon requirements, and as long as there is no interEmission data at the Group, business area and mill levels are available on pages 46–49. 30 ENERGY AND CLIMATE CLIMATE EFFECT CO DE 2 FR GR O AD M P AT RO IO D N UC T CO2 MAINLY FOSSIL CO2 FROM FROM BIOENERGY DIESEL FUEL PRODUCTION PRODUCT TRANSPORTATION END-USER RECYCLING ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY BUSINESS AREA % Metsä Group total Metsä Tissue Metsä Board Metsä Fibre 1) Metsä Wood 2) Metsä Group total 3) GWh 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Wood-based biofuels 0% 0% 17% 17% 46% 45% 3% 2% 66% 65% 19,446 18,934 Fossil fuels 3% 4% 5% 6% 3% 3% 0% 0% 11% 13% 3,342 3,900 Purchased electricity 7% 7% 19% 18% -5% -6% 2% 2% 22% 21% 2,590 2,380 Purchased heat 1% 2% 3% 2% -3% -3% 0% 1% 1% 1% 337 200 Total primary energy consumption3) 12% 12% 44% 44% 40% 39% 5% 5% 100% 100% 29,660 29,018 1) Most of the energy that Metsä Fibre produces in excess of its own needs is sold. Metsä Fibre is a net seller of heat and electricity, and also sells part of its bark. 2) Nearly all of the heat purchased by Metsä Wood is produced from the wood material by-products of its production plants. 3) Total energy is shown in terms of fuel, i.e. the quantities of heat and electricity purchased have been converted to the corresponding amount of fuel that would be required to produce them. ENERGY AND CLIMATE 31 REDUCED WATER USE CUTS COSTS AND SAVES NATURE As water is essential in our processes, our mills are located in areas with TARGET COMMENTS abundant water sources. All the same, To reduce process This new target was introduced in 2013 and the reporting against it starts we continuously seek new ways to water use by 10% by in 2014. Some investments and improvements have already been carried reduce the use of fresh water. Metsä 2020 from the 2010 out at Metsä Fibre Kemi and Joutseno mills, for example; several further level. actions are planned for 2014. Group’s newly established target is to reduce process water use by 10% by 2020. our mills is not threatened by our water use. management more efficient. The Blueprint In most cases, the mills have their own drives EU water policies over the long-term In 2013, Metsä Group’s fresh water intake wastewater purification plants. and enhances the implementation of the totalled 302 million m3 (258 million m3 in The main wastewater impacts are eutrophWater Framework Directive in all member 2012), almost all 99% (98%) was surface ication and oxygen demand caused by phosstates by 2015. The follow-up actions can set water from rivers and lakes. Process water phorus and nitrogen nutrients as well as possible restrictions on the use and pricing of intake decreased to 146 (149) million m3, and organic matter. For this reason, discharged water as well as mandatory water footprint cooling water intake increased to 110 (95) process waters and their impacts are systematicalculations. million m3. Pulp and paper mills are usually cally monitored and reported to the authorities. Each mill has its own specific environTHE GROUP’S WATER USE mental permit which sets limits for pollutants. 1,000 m3 Incidents of exceeding these limits are ALMOST 95% OF WATER reported on page 37. 300,000 USED BY THE PULP AND The Group’s total wastewater volume 240,000 PAPER INDUSTRY IS totalled 146 (149) million m3. The Group’s 180,000 RETURNED TO ITS SOURCE. COD load was 42,934 (43,629) tonnes and 120,000 phosphorus 54 (50) tonnes; nitrogen 60,000 decreased to 624 (637) tonnes. located alongside a river in order to easily get 2011 2012 2013 0 enough water for the mill. As a mills’ water WATER MANAGEMENT IS ESSENTIAL Process water intake is typically less than 10% of the total ALSO IN WOOD SUPPLY Cooling water flow of a river or a lake, the mill does not limit Metsä Group has set a goal for its wood other water uses in the region. When groundsupply to decrease the impacts to water in THE GROUP’S WATER USE water is used, the intake volume is determined forestry operations. We have defined actions BY WATER STRESS INDEX IN 2013 % and carefully controlled according to each to meet this target and developed a set of mill’s environmental permit. indicators to follow its implementation. The Group-level goal is realised via the environMAKING MORE FROM LESS mental programmes in each wood supply Metsä Board’s mills started a project aimed at country. During 2013, Metsä Group’s subsidireducing water intake and fibre loss, and aries specified their own goals unified with making water use more effective. The action those of the Group. plan is now ready and the implementation at the mills will start in 2014. CHANGES IN THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Abundant water resources 1) 97% The European Commission is considering Moderate water stress area 2) 3% Severe water stress area 3) <0.1% MINIMISING IMPACTS FROM WASTEWATERS follow-up actions on the Blueprint issued in 1) Water stress index (WSI) <0.1 Source: Pfister et al., 2009. Process waters are carefully cleaned before November 2012. The aims are to guarantee 2) WSI=0.1–0.5 The water stress index is 3) WSI=0.5–1.0 calculated based on the total they are released back into the watercourse, good quality fresh water for everyone in annual fresh water withdrawals versus local ensuring that the environment surrounding Europe, reduce water scarcity and make water hydrological availability. 32 WATER Metsä Board’s Simpele and Joutseno mills WATER FLOWS AND WATER RECYCLING in Finland investigated their raw materials and IN PAPER PRODUCTION process chemicals for priority substances listed in the Water Framework Directive and sent Pulp and paper mills use water in their processes and for cooling. Cooling water is used to the results to the authorities. Priority subremove heat from the process; and as it is not contaminated in the process, it can be recycled stances are potential pollutants. A conclusion directly back to the nature. was that most of the priority substances are Process water is used to help separate and bind the fibres, and transport them in the not present in our raw materials or chemicals process. It also serves as a medium for chemical reactions and as a carrier of heat energy in nor do they form in our processes. Only the form of steam. The process water is continuously recycled throughout the process and eutrophication causing nutrients and some reused several times, either directly or after the internal purification. It is also effectively cleametals taken up by growing trees from natural ned before releasing it back to the watercourse. Only the smaller amount of water that is run to forestlands can be found in our processes. wastewater treatment is substituted by fresh water from the water source. Water consumption varies significantly between mills as it depends on the production process design, paper grade and the raw materials used. Only a very small fraction of the water is lost through evaporation as the paper is dried to its final moisture content. EVAPORATION COOLING WATER PAPER MACHINE WATER IN HEADBOX & WIRE PRESSING & DRYING WATER IN PULP PRODUCT WASTEWATER TREATMENT COOLING WATER PROCESS WATER WATER USE BY BUSINESS AREA % Metsä Group total Metsä Tissue Metsä Board Metsä Fibre Metsä Wood Metsä Group total 1,000 m3 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Process water 5% 5% 28% 31% 24% 25% 0.1% 0.1% 57% 61% 145,588 149,096 Cooling water 1% 1% 19% 18% 23% 20% 0.6% 0.3% 43% 39% 109,502 94,560 Total water use 6% 6% 47% 48% 47% 45% 0.7% 0.4% 100% 100% 255,090 243,656 WATER 33 RESOURCE EFFICIENCY REDUCES ALSO WASTE Material efficiency means efficient use of natural resources and efficient re-use of waste and residuals. It incorporates process efficiency, improved raw material yield and good FERTILISING FORESTS WITH ASH environmental management. Metsä CIRCULATES NUTRIENTS BACK Group continuously seeks new ways to re-use residuals and reduce the INTO NATURE amount of waste by enhancing Some 50,000 tonnes of wood-based and effect is long lasting compared to many other recovery processes and increasing mixed ash is generated annually as a byfertilisers. the energy use of organic waste. product in energy production at Metsä Metsä Group offers peatland recovery Group’s mills. The ash is further used as services to forest owners. They include an construction material in roads, sports analysis of the forest site as well as the planIt is essential to use raw materials where they grounds and landfill sites, for example, and as ning and execution of required forestry operaadd most value. The primary use for residuals a forest fertiliser for peatlands. tions including water and forest management and waste is first material recycling then Metsä Group has some 20 years’ experiprocedures. An extensive training programme energy recovery. Residuals and waste will be ence in forest peatland improvements. The on peatland forest management was complandfilled only if they cannot be used elsebenefits of ash fertiliser are significant when leted for Metsä Group’s forest specialists in where. adapted to an appropriate forest site. The 2013. The amount of waste generated at the nutrients in the ash dissolve slowly so the production units varies greatly between the Group’s business areas as different processes generate different types and amounts of residuals. However, all mills have significant potenfrom energy production and green liquor tonnes and mainly contained oils, chemicals sludge from chemical pulp production. From and batteries. this, only 76,000 (81,000) tonnes were landMOST OF OUR PROCESS filled consisting mostly of green liquor sludge. ACTIVE R&D WASTE IS A VALUABLE RAW Furthermore, 766,000 tonnes representing During 2013, Metsä Group was active in MATERIAL ELSEWHERE. 91% of the total waste amount was recycled R&D projects related to the re-use of waste. A (608,117 tonnes i.e. 88%) in bioenergy profine example is the TUULI project in Finland, duction or as fertiliser, for example. The which is a national scale collaboration project tial to improve their resource efficiency. In amount of hazardous waste was 1,256 (2,021) Metsä Wood, the low waste amount is mainly ash from energy generated by the re-use of THE GROUP’S RESIDUES BY SOURCE IN 2013 THE GROUP’S RESIDUES BY DESTINATION IN 2013 % % wood-based waste. As a contrast, Metsä Tissue’s higher waste volumes are generated in 100% the de-inking process of recycled paper. 80% In future, Metsä Group will focus on 60% diminishing fibre losses at board mills and improving dry matter content in all waste 40% fractions, especially in de-inking sludge. 20% 0% REDUCING THE WASTE GENERATION 2011 2012 2013 In 2013, the total amount of residuals and Process waste 72% Hazardous waste Wastewater treatment waste 16% Landfilled waste waste generated by Metsä Group’s production Energy production waste 8% Energy recovery units was 845,000 tonnes (805,000 tonnes in Municipal waste Packing, absorbent and filter waste 3% 1% Material recycling 2012) mainly consisting of fibre sludge, ashes Other 1% 34 MATERIAL EFFICIENCY MATERIAL AND ENERGY FLOWS AT MILL INTEGRATE Wood for the pulp making is by far the biggest material flow at the mill integrate. The board mill gets chemical pulp and energy directly from the on-site pulp mill as well as from the local biopower plant, which uses bark from the pulp mill as fuel. The board mill’s main external raw materials are CTPM pulp and filling and coating materials. The biopower plant also sells energy to other industrial uses and municipal heating. Waste is mainly recycled for material and energy use. ENERGY PRODUCTION FUELS ENERGY ENERGY OTHER MATERIALS BOARD MILL CTMP PULP BOARD ENERGY BARK PULP WOOD ENERGY PULP MILL CHEMICAL PULP TEMPORARY STORAGE RAW MATERIALS WASTE TO RECYCLING ENERGY LANDFILL WASTE AND RESIDUALS PRODUCTS to create new products, materials and business CHANGES IN THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT from incineration. The industry welcomed the opportunities from ashes derived from bioSince legislation in Europe is driving our exclusion of both de-inking and green liquor mass. Metsä Group has also financed academic industry to reduce and re-use waste, we must sludge from the organic waste landfilling ban. studies and other R&D projects related to the overcome the current barriers and develop When the incineration potential and re-use of waste during 2013. Moreover, we are new products and processes. By allowing landfilling tax are dependent on the wet participating in the UUMA2 project through inorganic wastes in landfilling and for re-use weight of the waste, it is clear that the industry the Finnish Forest Industries Federation, in earth construction, the authorities would needs to increase the solid content of the which aims to increase the use of waste mateencourage the forest industry to seek new waste. In Metsä Group, deinking sludge is a rials in soil and road construction. solutions for wastes with high organic content prime example of reaching this target. WASTE MANAGEMENT BY BUSINESS AREA % Metsä Group total Metsä Tissue Metsä Board Metsä Fibre Metsä Wood Metsä Group total tonnes 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Material recycling 17% 24% 17% 9% 9% 3% 1% 1% 44% 37% 374,901 257,198 Energy recovery 27% 32% 13% 12% 5% 7% 2% 0% 47% 51% 390,740 350,919 Landfilled waste 3% 2% 1% 0% 5% 9% 0% 0% 9% 12% 76,151 81,435 Hazardous waste 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 1,256 2,021 Total waste flow 46% 58% 31% 21% 19% 19% 3% 1% 100% 100% 843,048 691,573 MATERIAL EFFICIENCY 35 GREENHOUSE GAS EFFECT (CO2 EQUIVALENT) BY BUSINESS AREA 1,000 TONNES 1,500 SMALLER ENVIRONMENTAL 1,200 900 IMPACTS THROUGH 600 EFFICIENT OPERATIONS 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 300 0 Metsä Wood Metsä Fibre Metsä Board EUTROPHICATION (P EQUIVALENT) BY BUSINESS AREA Metsä Tissue TONNES 300 240 180 120 60 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Metsä Wood Metsä Fibre Metsä Board ACIDIFICATION (SO2 EQUIVALENT) BY BUSINESS AREA We continuously assess the ever, was smaller than the increase in Metsä Tissue TONNES environmental risks of both our own production. 12,000 and our partners’ operations. Environmental impacts and related ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES REMAIN THE SAME 9,600 risks are mitigated by sustained We constantly evaluate our liabilities from 7,200 development of our production closed down, sold or leased industrial proper4,800 processes. ties as well as decommissioned landfills. We 2,400 reduce our liabilities through thorough remeEach mill has environmental permits that set diation work. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 0 the limits for discharges to water, emissions to Metsä Group’s environmental obligations Metsä Wood air and noise. In addition, mills carry out at the end of 2013 totalled EUR 28 (27) MetsäTissue Metsä Fibre Metsä Board Metsä Fibre Metsä Wood Metsä Board actions to prevent accidental releases and million. In 2013, the capital expenditure Metsä Tissue conduct regular environmental risk analyses. totalled EUR 207 (204) million, and the Metsä Group’s crisis management team conGroup received from the Government EUR ducts regular training to prepare for possible 0.0 (2.0) million as support for investments. exceptionally low water level were cleaned emergency situations. immediately from the shoreline. ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS WERE MAINLY Metsä Fibre’s Joutseno mill suffered from ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS DECREASED MECHANICAL FAILURES abnormally high emissions of reduced sulphur Greenhouse gas emissions decreased to All environmental incidents that resulted in compounds during the year, which generated 855,000 tonnes CO2 (962,000 tonnes in major permit violations, claims, compensaseveral complaints of bad odours in the sur2012). The reduction is the result of replacing tions or significant media coverage are rounding residential areas. Corrective actions fossil oil with wood-based biofuels at Husum detailed in the following table. In addition, have been defined and they will be carried out and Joutseno pulp mills, and changes in Kyro minor and short-term non-compliances with during 2014. mill’s energy production where the new bioenvironmental permit requirements were also Svir sawmill in Russia paid EUR 20,527 power plant had been in operation for the first reported at Metsä Board Gohrsmühle mill in for exceeding the permit level for water disfull year. Germany and Simpele mill in Finland. The charges. In addition, a fine of EUR 622 was Acidification emissions increased to 6,698 authorities were informed immediately and paid to the Russian Environmental Depart(6,183) tonnes SO2 eqv. due to higher sulphur corrective actions were taken in all cases. ment in the North-Western Federal District. emissions from the chemical pulp mills. Traces of oil from Äänevoima’s oil inciSeveral improvements have been made and Eutrophication emissions were 179 (184) dent in 2011 were detected in Lake Kuhnamo more planned for the water treatment and tonnes P eqv. Due to changes in the BOD at Äänekoski, Finland. The authorities were monitoring system in order to cope with the measurement, the comparable figure for 2012 informed and oil traces exposed by the lake’s local system of environmental permitting. is 176 tonnes P eqv. resulting in a slight eutrophication increase. This increase, how36 ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT REDUCED AIR LARGE BETTER EMISSIONS AT IMPROVEMENTS WITH ENVIRONMENTAL KRAPKOWICE MILL MODEST INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE AT AT KEMI MILL VILPPULA SAWMILL Metsä Tissue’s EUR 55 million investment at Krapkowice mill, Poland, doubled the producMetsä Fibre’s Kemi mill in Finland has decMetsä Wood’s investment of EUR 30 million tion capacity, yet significantly decreased emisreased the use of process water by over 20% to upgrade Vilppula sawmill in Finland was sions. The investment included two new tissue from 2010 amounting to some 3.6 million m3 allocated to build a new saw line and sorting paper machines, a new converting line and a of fresh water annually. A key element has lines. The benefits include improved material new energy plant using natural gas. By utilising been the careful monitoring of water use, efficiency, reduced energy use and a lower the best available technology and cleaner fuels, which has led to many small improvements, noise level. Optimising the use of wood and Metsä Tissue will be able to cut the mill’s CO2 for example in pulp washing and causticising more accurate de-barking saves raw material emissions per production by 60%; NOX emissiprocesses and water temperature adjustand improves yield. Additionally, the use of ons by over 50%; and virtually eliminate SO2 ments in water treatment process. The work pine in the product range will shorten the emissions. The improvements in water usage has resulted in large savings without major average delivery distance of wood raw mateand wastewater treatment have also reduced investments. rial. the amount of wastewater decreasing the mill’s eutrophication impacts. CHANGES IN THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT In July 2013, the European Commission issued posed emission levels will require some investAdditionally, the Commission is planning to the final draft of the revised Best Available ments and steady operations. The document set more stringent limits also for small and Techniques Reference Document (BREF) for will be finalised in early 2014 and the new medium size power plants as a part of the air the production of pulp, paper and board, requirements will enter into force by 2018. quality review. Metsä Group considers the which sets the requirements for environmental The European Commission published also proposed emission limits too stringent and the permits for all pulp and paper mills in Europe. the first draft of the BREF document for large relative cost of reducing the emissions too high Metsä Group, along with other forest industry combustion plants in June 2013. The draft compared to achievable environmental bencompanies and associations, participated tightens the required emission levels from efits. The new requirements are expected to actively in the commenting process. The prothose set in the Industrial Emissions Directive. enter into force by 2020. ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS PER UNIT IN 2013 BUSINESS AREA UNIT INCIDENTS CORRECTIVE ACTIONS METSÄ TISSUE Mänttä mill, The permit limits for COD and BOD emissions to water were Discussions on better preparedness and prompt actions in Finland exceeded in September and October due to mechanical probcases of unexpected mechanical failures were held with the lems in the wastewater treatment. operator of the wastewater treatment plant. METSÄ BOARD Simpele mill, Nitrogen emissions to water exceeded the permit limit slightly in Training on the basics of the biological wastewater treatFinland April due to a momentary over-dosage of nitrogen into the waste ment and correct actions needed in solving such unexwater treatment plant. pected operational problems was arranged to all plant operators. METSÄ FIBRE Rauma mill, Daily limit for TRS emissions from the dedicated burner of Adequate dosing of NaOH to the venturi cleaners was Finland odorous gases was exceeded on 21 June. ensured and the capacity of TRS burner was checked. The monthly emission limit for SO2 emissions to air was Investigations on the causes and possible corrective exceeded in June. Increased emissions were caused by the actions for the operational problems of the evaporation operational problems in the evaporation plant, forcing the use of plant were carried out. heavy fuel oil as supplementary fuel in the recovery boiler. Tall oil soap was accidentally released from the evaporation plant Additional risk surveys were conducted and the safety to the watercourse via the rainwater drainage in September. measures updated around the evaporation plants. Safety training to handle such incidents was held at all Metsä Fibre mills. Joutseno mill, Particle emissions to air from the lime kiln exceeded the permit The electrostatic precipitator was repaired and the process Finland limit in the bi-annual emission measurements due to a malfuncparameters adjusted. However, the emission levels stayed tioning electrostatic precipitator. high towards the end of the year. Additional measures will be carried out in 2014. Kemi mill, Phosphorous emissions to water exceeded the permit limit in The operation of the chemical recovery process was stabiFinland July due to the excess loading of phosphorous from the mill and lised and phosphorous loading returned to normal. internal loading from the plant’s after-basin. METSÄ WOOD Punkaharju mill, The permit limits for COD and phosphorous emissions to water The amount of water in the system was increased and the Finland were exceeded in the 2nd quarter of the year due to a peak in emissions controlled with chemical precipitation. Discusemissions resulting from exchanging the water in the log incubasions were held with the authorities on possible changes in tion basin. the structure of the permit requirements. ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT 37 WORK SAFETY IS OUR PRIORITY Safety as a fundamental requirement applies to everything. It includes not just our working environment, but also the products we offer and the health of our employees, suppliers and partners. Ensuring a secure environment demands the continuous development and promotion of occupational safety and wellbeing at work along with the right attitude. Preventive work is the most essential tool with TARGET PROGRESS COMMENTS which to secure a safe working environment. Metsä Group constantly educates its employZero lost-time 13.2 in 2013 i.e. -16% Business areas, together with Corporate ees and management to create a healthy workaccidents, to compared to the Safety & Security and HR functions, are decrease lost-time previous year. working closely with our personnel to reach ing environment for everyone. Safety reflects accident frequency the target of zero accidents. All units monithe overall quality of our operations. rate by 10% annually. tor safety statistics on a monthly basis. Safety training is systematic and consistIn order to further improve our safety performance and to reach the level of zero ent, yet we aim to keep it customised as our accidents, we have carried out numerous employees are the best source of new ideas on actions and we will introduce a new HSEhow to develop the safety culture in their own tool in 2014. To retain the sickness 4.0% in 2013. An early intervention process is in place absenteeism rate throughout the Group; additional actions to below 3% at all times. mitigate absenteeism have been taken at SOLID LEADERSHIP AND units with more than 5% absenteeism. INTERNAL COMMUNICATION ARE THE BEST TOOLS TO Solid leadership and internal communicaHowever, we still have room to improve IMPROVE SAFETY. tion are the best tools with which to pay our safety culture. In December 2013, one constant attention to safety matters. Aspiring employee died after an accident at Punkaharju targets and indicators press us to develop our mill. The cause is currently under investigaoperational environment. Also, Metsä Group preventive safety work and the ability to idention. In addition, two other industrial safety carefully takes note of the employees’ safety tify potential risks. In 2013, the lost-time accidents resulted in minor injuries in 2011; observations as they must be addressed immeaccident frequency rate was 13.2 (15.7 in in 2013, the local courts have ordered the diately. 2012), i.e. 16 % lower than the previous year. supervisors and foremen to pay day-fines. All 38 SAFETY AT WORK accidents were thoroughly investigated and actions were taken in order to prevent similar cases happening in the future. There was also one serious incident in our CONTINUOUS DEVELOPMENT IN supply chain. In January, a worker at Husum CORPORATE SAFETY AND SECURITY harbour was fatally injured during the docking of a ship that was transporting wood to the mill. Metsä Group believes that only by ensuring Metsä Group has introduced a new safety and security in every situation of our uniform model to measure overall corporate HEALTHY EMPLOYEES ARE OUR STRONGEST daily work we can aim for the best results. safety and security, to better compare the ASSET During 2013, Metsä Group has taken several results and to recognise the prevailing issues steps to build up a more integrated approach that might need improvement. In addition, a When employees are healthy, motivated and to the Group’s corporate safety and security system has been created to better observe satisfied, good results can be reached. Metsä practices. In particular, the focus has been and report possible accidents, injuries or Group wants to support its employees’ work on developing work safety at the mills, identigeneral dangerous situations at the mills. capacity throughout every phase of their workfying good practices and applying them This has strengthened our ability to prevent ing life. Our unified model includes early supacross the Group. injuries and interruptions in production. port, an assessment of work capacity and a personal work capacity development plan to ensure well-being for everyone every day. THE GROUP’S PERSONNEL DATA 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Number of employees 1) 10,741 11,447 12,525 12,820 13,592 METSÄ GROUP SUPPORTS Share of permanent employees, % 2) 94.3 94.0 94.2 94.0 95.0 ITS EMPLOYEES’ WORK Average age, years 2) 44.4 44.1 43.8 43.5 44.0 CAPACITY IN EVERY PHASE Average years served, years 2) 16.7 16.3 15.6 15.2 16.8 OF THEIR WORK LIFE. Employee turnover, % 2) 3) 9.5 12.0 7.8 6.9 11.2 Ration between men/women, % 2) 78/22 78/22 79/21 81/19 81/19 Share of women in management, % 4) 14.3 13.3 12.9 11.1 8.3 Sickness absenteeism, % 5) 4.0 4.1 4.4 4.2 4.3 This process safeguards a motivating work Work accident absenteeism, % 5) 0.24 0.22 0.22 0.28 0.27 environment and facilitates equal treatment of Accident rate 6) 13.2 15.7 18.3 17.3 15.7 all employees. In order to succeed, Metsä Registered occupational diseases, no. of cases 7) 2 2 Group cooperates closely with occupational Work related fatalities, no. of cases 1 1 1 1 1 health care providers; moreover, our supervinot reported 1) Full-time equivalent (FTE) on 31 December. sors have been educated to identify potential 2) The figures covered 99% of Metsä Group employees in 2010–2013. In 2008–2009 they covered 97% of employees. 3) The figure includes all permanent leavers, also redundancies as a result of the resructuring of the businesses, and is calculated against the situations that may risk the well-being of our average permanent head count. 4) Management includes Board of Directors, Executive Management Team and business areas’ management teams. Change in calculation in employees. Our personnel have been very 2013–2012. 5) % of potential working hours. satisfied with the results. 6) The lost-time accident 1 frequency rate includes all accidents at work that have resulted in at least one disability day. The LTA1 fr is calculated as accidents at work per million worked hours. Metsä Group also encourages its employees 7) The figures cover 85% of Metsä Group employees. to take a proactive approach to their own health. For this reason, we constantly provide THE GROUP’S PERSONNEL BY COUNTRY IN 2013 THE GROUP’S PERSONNEL BY BUSINESS AREA IN 2013 information on healthy eating and stress-pre%, ON 31 DEC 2013 %, ON 31 DEC 2013 ventive actions, among others. We also support recreational activities such as sports and culture. WELL-BEING IS MONITORED THROUGH THE GROUP-WIDE TARGET To ensure a healthy work environment, we have set a target to keep the sickness absenteeism rate at the best European level within the industry and below 3% at all times. In 2013, Finland 49% Metsä Board 29% the rate was 4.0% (4.1%). Germany 16% Metsä Tissue 26% Sweden 13% Metsä Wood 23% Local occupational health and safety United Kingdom 5% Metsä Forest 9% Russia 5% Metsä Fibre 8% committees play an important role in training Poland 4% Group functions 5% and facilitating health and safety at the local Slovakia France 3% 2% level. These committees cover 100% of our Rest of Europe 2% Baltic countries 1% employees in all main operating countries. Other countries 1% SAFETY AT WORK 39 THE RIGHT COMPETENCIES TO SECURE FUTURE SUCCESS In 2013, Metsä Group’s overall situation stabilised after major re-structuring that was carried out during 2005–2012. In 2013, the focus was on developing operations further and securing future competences. Many of our employees will retire in the comtime employees accounted for 7% of all Metsä be trained to implement these principles; the ing few years. Plans for securing resources were Group’s personnel at the end of the year. As programme started with Metsä Fibre and made on a long-term basis and a recruitment the roots of the company are in Finnish forMetsä Tissue. At the Group level, we contintraining programme for blue-collar employees estry and the majority of our operations are in ued the annual management development in Metsä Fibre started. Succession plans in all Finland, almost half of our employees are programme, Challenger, for the sixth time business areas have also been made. based in Finland including a large group of running. In addition, all business areas have Metsä Group promotes good employer senior management. their own training programmes in place for practices to keep existing personnel and key personnel. attract future potential. In 2013, we increased WELL-BEING AT WORK the cooperation with schools and universities WITH GOOD MANAGEMENT CONTINUOUS LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT in order to ensure that future employees know Through effective management practices and IMPROVES JOB SATISFACTION about career opportunities at Metsä Group. leadership skills, such as personal development Metsä Group offers its employees the We participated with other industry playappraisals, we make sure that employees possibility to enhance their competences ers in a nation-wide school campaign to prounderstand their responsibilities, have clear through training, internal job rotation and mote the forest industry for 9th graders in targets, get feedback on their performance and other learning opportunities. In addition to a Finland where we reached some 300 schools have an opportunity to discuss both their large number of local training events, the and about 20,000 pupils. We also took part in professional skills and development needs. We Group’s HRD function organised 94 training a Dialog project where students from vocatrain our managers, supervisors and employees days attended by 791 employees. tional schools shared their views on their to understand and follow all our Group-wide The employee’s annual personal developcareer expectations. In 2013, we offered over policies and guidelines. ment plan is made in the Personnel Develop900 summer jobs and internships. During 2013, common value-based prinment Appraisal (PDA). The PDA processes At the end of 2013, Metsä Group had a ciples for Metsä Group’s management pracand practices for blue-collar employees vary total of 10,741 employees (11,447 in 2012), tices and leadership skills were defined. All and therefore PDA process harmonisation for of whom 94% had permanent contracts. PartMetsä Group’s managers and supervisors will blue-collar employees started in 2013 in pilot 40 RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER units and will be phased-in Group-wide. In unions. Metsä Group applies country-specific turing which started in late 2012, made 33 pilot units 94% of blue-collar employees held collective bargaining agreements. employees redundant and 14 contract ended PDA discussion in 2013. In 2013, 94% of We promote equal opportunities and due to other reasons in 2013. Metsä Group’s white-collar employees in emphasise that discrimination may lead to Finland and 86% abroad held PDA discusdisciplinary actions. It is the responsibility of OUR GOAL IS A SATISFIED EMPLOYEE sions. A Group-wide bonus system, of which each employee to report any discrimination. In 2013, Metsä Group hired 206 new the terms and target groups are decided by the Any formal complaints will be systematically employees in Finland and 267 abroad. For all Board of Directors annually, supports and handled through the Group’s Code of Conpermanent, fixed-term and part-time motivates the personnel in reaching and surduct practices. One suspected case of discrimiemployees we provide the benefits required by passing agreed targets. In 2013, Metsä Group nation was reported and investigated in 2013; local legislation such as occupational health paid as salaries, wages and benefits including however, it did not lead to any disciplinary care, insurance against occupational diseases, employee costs EUR 692 (710) million. actions. parental leave and retirement benefits. In We post all job opportunities internally on We conduct a formal employee consultaaddition, we support our employees’ our intranet site for all personnel. Our employtion process in our main operating countries. recreation possibilities. ees are encouraged to widen their work experiMetsä Wood’s, Metsä Board’s and Metsä TisWe continuously monitor employee satisence within the Group. The average years sue’s employee dialogue across European faction. In 2013, our employee satisfaction served in Metsä Group is 16.7 (16.3). countries is developed through the European survey covered all business areas and included Works Council (EWC), a forum between aspects of well-being at work and safety issues. management and employee representatives. The results are thoroughly analysed and During 2013, the most discussed themes were appropriate development actions are impleOUR EMPLOYEES CAN work safety and well-being at work. Organisamented to support the Group and business tional functionality results were also on the areas reach their strategic goals. On a scale of ENHANCE THEIR agenda. 4 to 10, Metsä Group had an overall job satisCOMPETENCES THROUGH We meet with our labour union reprefaction rating of 8.3 in 2013 (8.3) with a TRAINING AND JOB sentatives regularly to discuss current situaresponse rate of 73 % (82%). ROTATION. tions and future plans in addition to meetings required by law. We comply with all local agreements and legislation in redundancy situCODE OF CONDUCT AND LABOUR RELATIONS ations and assist those made redundant in In all operating countries, Metsä Group finding new job opportunities with individual THE GROUP’S AGE DISTRIBUTION conforms to the country-specific laws and support. % agreements in terms of employment. Metsä The restructuring of our businesses 100% Group’s Code of Conduct and Sustainability affected a total of 2,607 employees during Principles guide employees in the field of 2013, of whom 311 were made redundant and 80% social responsibility, taking into consideration 155 contracts ended due to other reasons such 60% human rights and child or forced labour. as retirement, transfer of a business or the 40% Correspondingly, the Sustainability Principles non-renewal of fixed-term contracts. Total of state that our employees are free to associate 657 employees were temporarily laid off in 20% with or join any union. In 2013, 98% of our 2013. Two restructurings of business processes 0% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 employees in Finland were covered by started during 2013 but they are still in-pro< 26 years collective bargaining agreements, of whom cess. Total of 600 employees is affected by 26–35 74% were known to be members of trade these restructurings. In addition, the restruc36–45 46–55 > 55 WELL-BEING INDICATORS BY BUSINESS AREA Metsä Tissue Metsä Board Metsä Fibre Metsä Wood Metsä Forest Metsä Group 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Organisational functionality index 8.3 4) 8.3 4) 8.4 8.4 5) 7.9 8.0 8.2 8.2 6) 8.3 8.3 Organisational functionality research response rate, % 1) 72.0 4) 70.4 4) 79.1 78.2 65.8 81.6 87.5 92.8 73.1 82.0 Sickness absenteeism, % 2) 4.8 4.8 3.9 3.9 4.1 4.2 4.4 4.9 2.1 2.1 4.0 4.1 Work accident absenteeism, % 2) 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.2 Accident rate 3) 7.5 11.3 12.2 13.2 8.4 7.7 26.8 32.4 6.5 2.3 13.2 15.7 Registered occupational diseases, no. of cases 0 1 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 2 2 Work related fatalities, no. of cases 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 1) Organisational functionality research covered 90% of Metsä Group's employees in 2013. 5) Data covers Metsä Fibre Finland (excluding Svir Timber) 2) % of potential working hours. 6) Data covers Metsä Forest operations in Finland 3) The lost-time accident 1 frequency rate includes all accidents at work that have resulted in at least one disability day. The LTA1 fr is calculated as accidents at work per million worked hours. 4) Research was not conducted in 2012. RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER 41 A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN Metsä Group is a Finnish forest company that operates in some 30 countries and has production units in nine. Most of our production units are located in remote areas, creating significant employment opportunities in local communities. We recognise our responsibility to various stakeholders from forest owners to the end-users of our products. Sustainability is an integral part of all our Finnish wood. Today, the cooperative is JOBS AND WELL-BEING IN COMMUNITIES operations and products – we want to owned by 123,000 Finnish forest owners. Its Most of Metsä Group’s production units are improve the quality of life of all our stake­ mission is to create value for its members and located in remote areas, creating for example holders and provide well-being for society to provide them with a wide range of forest significant employment opportunities in local as a whole. and nature services. communities. We employ directly some Metsä Group is a significant player in 11,000 people, and indirectly tens of thou80 YEARS OF SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY the Finnish forest economy: our ownersands through our partners, suppliers and Metsä Group’s parent company, Metsäliitto members own approximately half of all Finnish subcontractors. Cooperative, was founded 80 years ago in privately-owned forests, amounting to 5.3 January 1934 to promote the export of million hectares. 42 WELL-BEING FOR LOCAL COMMUNITIES A SQUIRREL’S TOUR – MEMORIES IN NATURE FOR FAMILIES Metsä Fibre Äänekoski mill and the local chance to sit in a harvester’s cabin and association of the Mannerheim League for experience how it feels to control this huge Child Welfare arranged a fun-filled nature machine. event for families in August where Serla Altogether, 250 visitors enjoyed the ‘squirrels’ guided visitors along a nature trail event that was part of Tukikummit organised by local guides. They learnt about Foundation’s activities. The purpose of these pulp – what it looks and feels like, while the events is to show how everyday things, such younger visitors had to guess what pulp is as a camp fire or trip into nature, can be made of…wood, milk or sand? meaningful experiences to children and for One of the most popular attractions – adults to learn something about the forestry along with grilling sausages – was the sector and the services it provides. By creating job opportunities in rural areas, we support communities in providing services that might otherwise cease to exist. WE FOCUS ON SPONSORING We also understand our responsibility and SUSTAINABILITY the impact of our actions when we invest in INITIATIVES AND AIM TO existing facilities or new projects, for instance, IMPROVE THE WELL-BEING or if we discontinue our operations. Open and OF CHILDREN AND YOUNG continuous dialogue with our employees, local PEOPLE. and regional authorities, partners and other stakeholders is vital. In 2013, our biggest initiative was the SELECTED SUPPORT FOR YOUTH EUR 100,000 support to the ‘Tukikummit’ AND SUSTAINABILITY Foundation in Finland by Metsä Tissue’s Serla Based on our Group-wide sponsorship and brand. This collaboration, which aims at donation strategy, we focus on sponsoring preventing social exclusion of unprivileged sustainability initiatives, especially projects children and teens in Finland, will continue in that aim to improve the well-being of children 2014. Similar support activities have been and young people. All support activities must carried out in Sweden, Poland, and Russia also be in line with our business strategy and where we have granted support to youth clubs, build a positive corporate image. Most activideprived families and local schools. MOST OF OUR PRODUCTION ties are carried out at the local level in our In March 2013, Metsä Group’s Kemi mill UNITS ARE LOCATED IN operating countries. in Finland and the local taxi company were REMOTE AREAS CREATING In addition to monetary support, we awarded for organising a theatre trip to 400 SIGNIFICANT EMPLOYMENT participate in organising events and activities kindergarten children. The granted monetary with local people and organisations. We do prize given by Teatterijärjestöjen Keskusliitto OPPORTUNITIES IN LOCAL not sponsor political associations, religious was later forwarded to a local youth associaCOMMUNITIES. organisations, motor sports or private indition that provides musical and theatrical viduals, including athletes. performances in local retirement homes. WELL-BEING FOR LOCAL COMMUNITIES 43 METSÄ GROUP BALANCE PERSONNEL DATA 2013 2012 RAW MATERIAL USE Number of employees 1 10,741 11,447 + % Accident rate1) 13.2 15.7 Sickness absenteeism, % 4.0 4.1 Organisational functionality index 8.3 8.3 1) Lost-time accident 1 frequency rate. Accidents at work per million worked hours. ACCIDENT RATE -16 % RAW MATERIALS 2013 2012 WOOD-BASED RAW MATERIALS Wood (1,000 m3) 21,346 21,116 Pulp (1,000 t) 423 390 Recovered paper (1,000 t) 256 287 OTHER RAW MATERIALS (1,000 t) Pigments 404 406 Adhesives 68 79 PURCHASED ENERGY (GWh) Fuels 3,992 4,583 Fossil fuels 3,342 3,900 Biofuels 649 683 WASTE WATER FLOW -3 % Electricity 2,590 2,380 Heat 337 200 WATER INTAKE (1,000 m3) 301,707 258,000 Surface water 297,237 254,000 Groundwater 4,470 4,000 44 METSÄ GROUP BALANCE FOSSIL CO2 EMISSIONS EMISSIONS TO AIR (t) 2013 2012 -11 % Biogenic carbon dioxide (as CO2 bio) 7,070,458 6,884,288 Fossil carbon dioxide (as CO2) 855,026 962,328 Nitrogen oxides (as NO2) 6,482 6,432 Sulphur (as SO2) 2,160 1,681 Particles 1,607 1,817 PRODUCTION + 3% PRODUCTS 2013 2012 Chemical and CTMP pulp (1,000 t) 3,546 3,471 Board (1,000 t) 1,174 1,090 Paper (1,000 t) 791 786 Tissue and cooking papers (1,000 t) 611 589 Sawn timber (1,000 m3) 1,677 1,622 Plywood (1,000 m3) 250 244 Kerto® (1,000 m3) 204 196 Other upgrading products (1,000 m3) 728 775 By-products sold for energy production (GWh) 1,914 2,166 DISCHARGES TO WATER (t) 2013 2012 Waste water flow (1,000 m3) 145,307 149,096 Chemical oxygen demand (COD) 42,934 43,629 Total suspended solids 3,660 3,161 Biological oxygen demand (BOD) 1,228 2,107 Nitrogen (N) 624 637 LANDFILL WASTE Phosphorus (P) 54 50 -6 % WASTE (t) Recycled waste 765,641 608,117 Landfill waste 76,151 81,435 Hazardous waste 1,256 2,021 METSÄ GROUP BALANCE 45 SUSTAINABILITY DATA BY UNIT IN 2013 METSÄ TISSUE Mill Country Personnel Production (1,000 t) Management systems Chain-of-Custody Sickness Organisational Tissue and ISO Number of Accident absenteeism functionality cooking ISO ISO ISO OHSAS 22000/ CO2 employees 1) rate 2) %3) index4) papers 9001 14001 50001 18001 BRC PEFC FSC® bio Mänttä 6) Finland 366 23.9 5.2 8.0 113 x x5) x x x 0 Düren Germany 107 4.8 6.5 8.1 20 x x x x x x x 0 Kreuzau Germany 412 4.4 7.5 8.4 148 x x x x x x x 9,075 Raubach Germany 270 2.2 5.5 8.7 50 x x x x x x x 0 Stotzheim Germany 299 6.0 7.3 7.8 20 x x5) x x x x x 0 Krapkowice Poland 295 7.0 3.7 7.8 56 x x x x x 0 Žilina Slovakia 325 1.7 2.0 8.1 79 x x5) x x x x 0 Katrinefors Sweden 342 0.0 4.4 8.1 75 x x5) x 0 Nyboholm Sweden 195 15.3 3.1 8.5 26 x x5) x 5,361 Pauliström 7) Sweden 24 x x5) x 10,701 Others 8) 226 Metsä Tissue Total 2,837 7.5 4.8 8.3 611 25,137 1) Full-time equivalent on 31 December 2013 2) Lost-time accident 1 frequency rate. Accidents at work per million worked hours. 3) % of potential working hours. 4) Organisational functionality indexes of Metsä Tissue mills are calculated based on responses of production personnel. 5) ISO 14001 standard includes the Energy Efficiency System (EES). 6) Includes Tissue and Baking and Cooking businesses. 7) Pauliström mill's personnel figures are included in Nyboholm mill's figures. 8) Includes personnel of Vorsino and others than mill locations. Personnel figures of Others are included in Metsä Tissue's total figures. METSÄ BOARD Mill Country Personnel Production (1,000 t) Management systems Chain-of-Custody Sickness Organisational Chemical Board ISO Number of Accident absenteeism functionality pulp and and ISO ISO ISO OHSAS 22000/ CO2 employees 1) rate 2) %3) index CTMP paper 9001 14001 50001 18001 BRC PEFC FSC® bio Joutseno BCTMP Finland 52 11.1 4.0 8.8 287 x x x x x x x 0 Kaskinen BCTMP Finland 80 36.5 2.0 8.2 296 x x x x x 116,440 Kemi Finland 103 5.8 3.9 8.6 375 x x x x x x x 0 Kyro Finland 250 11.8 4.7 8.0 218 x x x x x x x 0 Simpele Finland 301 9.4 3.6 8.4 251 x x x x x x x 123,804 Tako Finland 202 13.9 4.8 8.7 184 x x x x x x x 0 Äänekoski Board Finland 189 0.0 3.5 8.4 216 x x x x x x x 116,246 Gohrsmühle Germany 475 19.1 5.1 8.3 47 x x x x x x x 0 Husum Sweden 842 12.7 3.6 8.2 666 674 x x x x x 1,498,406 Others 4) 622 3,508 Metsä Board Total 3,116 12.2 3.9 8.3 1,249 1,965 1,858,404 1) Full-time equivalent on 31 December 2013 2) Lost-time accident 1 frequency rate. Accidents at work per million worked hours. 3) % of potential working hours. 4) Includes personnel from sales and logistics operations, management and subsidiaries. Emissions and waste originate from Äänevoima's production of energy sold for external use. Personnel figures of Others are included in Metsä Board's total figures. 5) Not measured METSÄ FIBRE Mill Country Personnel Production Management systems Chain-of-Custody Sickness Organisational Chemical Sawn ISO Number of Accident absenteeism functionality pulp timber ISO ISO ISO OHSAS 22000/ CO2 employees 1) rate 2) % 3) index 4) (1,000 t) (1,000 m3) 9001 14001 50001 18001 BRC PEFC FSC® bio Joutseno Finland 133 12.9 4.8 8.3 604 x x x x x x x 1,313,292 Kemi Finland 169 6.9 4.6 8.5 564 x x x x x x x 1,303,905 Rauma Finland 120 14.6 5.0 8.0 612 x x x x x x x 1,291,054 Äänekoski Finland 171 11.0 4.6 8.3 516 x x x x x x x 981,334 Svir Russia 142 3.6 2.6 8.5 244 x x5) x x x 21,866 Others 6) 138 Metsä Fibre Total 873 8.4 4.1 8.4 2,297 244 4,911,452 1) Full-time equivalent on 31 December 2013 2) Lost-time accident 1 frequency rate. Accidents at work per million worked hours. 3) % of potential working hours. 4) Organisational functionality index of Metsä Fibre Finnish mills are calculated based on responses of production personnel. 5) Svir Timber's ISO 14001 stardard includes the Energy Efficiency System (EES). 6) Includes personnel from sales operations, a subsidiary and management. Personnel figures of Others are included in Metsä Fibre's total figures. FSC® Licence Code FSC-C014476 46 SUSTAINABILITY DATA BY UNIT Emissions to air (t) Discharges to water (t) Water use (1,000 m3) Solid waste (t) Mill Nitrogen Total Waste CO2 Sulphur oxides suspended Water water fossil as SO2 as NO2 Particles COD BOD Phosphorus Nitrogen solids sourcing flow Recycling Landfill Hazardous 13,204 0 5.8 0 448 69 1.4 23 75 5,257 5,261 59,347 1,372 0 Mänttä6) 34,397 0 37 0 47 4.8 0.24 0 4.8 968 479 3,527 0 0.69 Düren 88,732 12 95 0.25 396 17.9 0.90 0 18 2,606 1,790 107,720 7,639 4.5 Kreuzau 23,028 0 20 0 3.0 4.5 0.23 0 4.5 497 452 39,844 0 87 Raubach 10,191 0 1.9 0 43 2.2 0.11 0 2.2 300 217 1,839 21 1.2 Stotzheim 21,291 0.70 10 0.50 54 4.2 0.21 6.7 8.8 819 708 25,934 1,369 0 Krapkowice 14,605 0 7.2 0 159 10 0.51 0 10 1,021 1,021 55,106 11,639 2.9 Žilina 12,264 0 5.4 0 317 74 0.52 16 14 3,192 2,292 77,332 0 3.0 Katrinefors 11,437 2.5 19 4.4 6.9 1.3 0.050 1.4 1.6 299 299 1,778 0 0.53 Nyboholm 6,461 0.40 7.2 7.8 40 15 0.037 0.45 3.3 274 273 1,539 0 2.0 Pauliström7) Others 8) 235.609 15 209 13 1,513 203 4.2 48 142 15,233 12,793 373,966 22,040 102 Metsä Tissue Total Emissions to air (t) Discharges to water (t) Water use (1,000 m3) Solid waste (t) Mill Nitrogen Total Waste CO2 Sulphur oxides suspended Water water fossil as SO2 as NO2 Particles COD BOD Phosphorus Nitrogen solids sourcing flow Recycling Landfill Hazardous 23,772 0 13 12 428 24 0.39 13.4 8.7 5,738 622 7,953 9.1 0 Joutseno BCTMP 8,005 104 180 2 1.591 61 1.7 14 237 9,828 3,628 38,461 633 69 Kaskinen BCTMP 5,684 0 2.5 0 283 27 1.0 39 85 8,648 6,786 7,506 932 18 Kemi 5,999 0 3.0 0 246 29 0.48 16 76 6,335 4,022 41,686 58 18 Kyro 85,058 155 159 1.4 340 25 1.3 14 40 24,732 4,732 22,532 140 43 Simpele 70,690 0 68 0 130 60 0.94 0.81 27 3,975 2,210 4,996 321 82 Tako 0 6.1 96 1.3 686 230 0.73 3.4 332 4,039 3,230 34,946 103 36 Äänekoski Board 118,950 265 178 2.59 86 30 0.61 4.5 47 3,167 3,268 27,797 0 65 Gohrsmühle 68,913 411 1,217 349 8,347 -5) 19 140 1284 46,745 43,061 64,378 7,338 3.0 Husum 1,390 3.0 4.5 0.052 6218 37 0.30 Others 4) 388,461 944 1,920 368 12,137 486 26 245 2.136 113,207 71,559 256,473 9,572 334 Metsä Board Total Emissions to air (t) Discharges to water (t) Water use (1,000 m3) Solid waste (t) Mill Nitrogen Total Waste CO2 Sulphur oxides suspended Water water fossil as SO2 as NO2 Particles COD BOD Phosphorus Nitrogen solids sourcing flow Recycling Landfill Hazardous 56,735 351 1,029 182 5,707 106 5.6 83 234 70,687 16,384 19,744 11,693 31 Joutseno 61,508 205 1,033 140 8,393 134 6.5 126 400 38,773 14,584 72,862 0 52 Kemi 45,637 196 1,082 208 10,260 133 4.9 47 264 19,470 14,500 22,605 10,855 50 Rauma 58,582 431 880 466 4,814 122 6.1 72 461 42,479 15,094 2,322 14,415 44 Äänekoski 141 0.47 22 22 49 6.7 0.20 2.4 18.4 239 393 2,330 5,890 0.11 Svir Others 6) 222,604 1,183 4,046 1,017 29,223 502 23 331 1,378 171,648 60,955 119,863 42,853 177 Metsä Fibre Total SUSTAINABILITY DATA BY UNIT 47 METSÄ WOOD Mill Country Personnel Production (1,000 m3) Management systems Chain-of-Custody Sickness Organisational Number of Accident absenteeism functionality ISO ISO OHSAS CO2 CO2 employees 1) rate 2) %3) index Wood products 9001 14001 4) 18001 PEFC FSC® bio fossil Reopalu Estonia 40 0.0 2.2 8.0 sawn timber 76 x 8,324 72 Eskola Finland 12 sawn timber 58 x x x x 0 0 Hartola Finland 47 85.3 2.8 7.8 glulam production 21 x x x 212 0 Kaskinen TC and Thermowood Finland 65 19.6 2.6 further processing 88 x x x x x 11,322 0 Kolho 6) Finland further processing 26 x x x x 0 425 Kyrö Finland 74 39.6 3.3 8.1 sawn timber 215 x x x x x 21,161 542 Lappeenranta Finland 73 30.5 5.0 8.0 sawn timber 228 x x x x x 23,061 0 Lohja Finland 158 24.8 6.4 7.7 Kerto® 92 x x x x 0 0 Merikarvia Finland 78 7.3 4.4 7.9 sawn timber 202 x x x x x 24,425 789 Punkaharju Finland 485 43.5 6.0 7.9 plywood and Kerto® 168 x x x5) x x 0 0 Renko Finland 75 22.5 4.1 8.4 sawn timber 298 x x x x x 28,239 139 Suolahti Finland 455 44.3 7.1 7.8 plywood 194 x x x x x 63,113 434 Vilppula Finland 117 21.1 3.2 8.2 sawn timber 351 x x x x x 65,442 4,903 Boulleville and Honfleur France 122 34.9 3.5 further processing 102 x 0 0 Casteljaloux France 29 0.0 1.4 further processing 13 x 3,120 0 Boston Great Britain 286 9.0 2.3 further processing 252 x x x x x 0 47 Grangemouth Great Britain 42 0.0 1.6 further processing 29 x x x x x 0 122 King's Lynn Great Britain 28 8.2 1.3 further processing 119 x x x x x 0 124 Newport Great Britain 27 0.0 0.6 further processing 35 x 0 569 Widnes Great Britain 85 11.5 3.3 further processing 50 x x x x x 0 0 Others 7) 192 27,048 186 Metsä Wood Total 2,490 26.8 4.4 7.9 2,616 275,465 8,352 Not reported 1) Full-time equivalent on 31 December 2013 2) Lost-time accident 1 frequency rate. Accidents at work per million worked hours. 3) % of potential working hours. 4) ISO 14001 standard includes the Energy Efficiency System (EES). 5) OHSAS concerns only plywood production. 6) Kolho's personnel figures are included in Kaskinen TC and Thermowood's figures. 7) Includes personnel from sales operations and management. Personnel figures of Others are included in Metsä Wood's total figures. Emissions and water use originate from Kumpuniemen Voima's production sold for the external use. Metsä Wood's emissions to water occur only in plywood production processes. St. Petersburg planing plant in Russia is not included in the figures above. METSÄ FOREST Country Personnel Wood procurement Management systems Chain-of-Custody Sickness Organisational Number of Accident absenteeism functionality ISO ISO employees 1) rate 2) %3) index 1,000 m3 9001 14001 PEFC FSC® Estonia 28 0.0 0.7 8.5 1,386 x x x x Finland 580 9.4 1.9 8.2 22,000 x x x x Latvia 46 0.0 1.2 8.3 1,451 x x x x Russia, St. Petersburg 19 0.0 x4) x5) x x Russia, Podporozhye 244 2.2 3.1 8.2 2,590 6) x4) x x x Sweden 2 2,031 x x x x Others 170 7) Metsä Forest Total 919 6.5 2.1 8.2 29,628 1) Full-time equivalent on 31 December 2013 2) Lost-time accident 1 frequency rate. Accidents at work per million worked hours. 3) % of potential working hours. 4) Included in Metsäliitto Cooperative's quality systems (ISO 9001). 5) Included in Metsäliitto Cooperative's environmental systems (ISO 14001). 6) Includes all wood procurement from Russia. 7) Includes wood from Lithuania. FSC® Licence Code FSC-C014476 48 SUSTAINABILITY DATA BY UNIT Emissions to air (t) Discharges to water (t) Water use (1,000 m3) Solid waste (t) Mill Nitrogen Total Waste Sulphur oxides suspended Water water as SO2 as NO2 Particles COD BOD Phosphorus Nitrogen solids sourcing flow Recycling Landfill Hazardous 0.0053 8.3 8.3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6.5 Reopalu 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.58 0 0.70 1.2 0 Eskola 0 0.21 0.21 0 0 0 0 0 1.0 0.20 80 11 9.6 Hartola 0 11 11 0 0 0 0 0 16 1.8 59 292 Kaskinen TC and Thermowood 1.4 0.55 0.27 0 0 0 0 0 11 0 12 20 7.7 Kolho 6) 0.040 22 21 0 0 0 0 0 8.7 7.3 1,936 17 3.9 Kyrö 0 23 23 0 0 0 0 0 153 0.075 65 19 10.2 Lappeenranta 0 0 2.4 2.8 1.3 0.011 0.016 0.25 83 72 222 7.3 72 Lohja 0.058 25 24 0 0 0 0 0 6.1 4.5 4,199 46 1.7 Merikarvia 0 0 0 53 31 0.042 0.11 1.9 55 35 41 448 251 Punkaharju 0.010 28 28 0 0 0 0 0 87 5.3 2,390 4.4 8.7 Renko 0.13 80 13 4.6 5.4 0.09 0.14 2.6 434 80 271 124 135 Suolahti 16 71 68 0 0 0 0 0 0.46 0 3,820 71 6.5 Vilppula 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 227 52 Boulleville and Honfleur 0 3.1 3.1 0 0 0 0 0 2.8 2.8 10 3.0 6.0 Casteljaloux 0 0.084 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,799 156 49 Boston 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1.6 0 162 55 16 Grangemouth 0.0090 0.17 0.017 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 35 60 0 King's Lynn 0.042 0.77 0.077 0 0 0 0 0 0 6.7 11.0 85 8.0 Newport 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 227 39 0 Widnes 0.054 34 5.7 760 0 Others 7) 17 308 209 61 37 0.14 0.27 4.7 1,620 216 15,339 1,686 643 Metsä Wood Total SUSTAINABILITY DATA BY UNIT 49 GRI The Sustainability Report 2013 has been prepared according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 guidelines (version G3.1). We have selected those indicators most relevant to our INDEX operations, products and stakeholders. The table specifies also where you can find more information on GRI standard disclosures. We have self-declared our reporting to be Application Level A+ of the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. Mitopro Oy has externally assured our reporting and has confirmed it to be Application Level A+. AR Metsä Group Annual Review 2013 GRI core indicator FS Metsä Group Financial Statements 2013 SR Metsä Group Sustainability Report 2013 Fully reported Partially reported GRI TABLE 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS More information Reporting level 1.1 Statement from the CEO SR p. 4–5, AR p. 2–3 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities SR p. 4-8, 15, AR p. 10-11 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation SR and AR coverpages, FS p. 113 2.2 Primary brands, products and /or services SR p. 7, 16-19, AR p. 5, 12-23 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation SR p. 7, AR p. 24 2.4 Location of the headquarters SR and AR coverpages, FS p. 113 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates SR p. 56–57 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form SR p. 7, FS p. 113 2.7 Markets served SR p. 56-57, AR p. 14-25, FS Note 3 p. 56 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation SR p. 12–14, FS p. 41–96 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period FS p. 30 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period SR p. 2–3 3. REPORT PARAMETRES Report profile 3.1 Reporting period 1 Jan—31 Dec 2013 3.2 Date of the previous report March 2013 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions SR inner front cover, sustainability@metsagroup.com Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining the content of the report SR p. 9–11, 15, 53–54 3.6 Boundary of the report SR p. 53–54, FS Note 1 p. 41–43 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report SR p. 53–54 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities etc. FS Note 1 p. 41–43, 107–108 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations SR p. 53–54 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information SR p. 53–54 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied No changes, SR p. 53–54 Assurance 3.13 External assurance for the report SR p. 55 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT Governance 4.1 Governance structure FS p. 113–118 Corporate Governance Statement 4.2 Position of the Chair of the Board of Directors FS p. 113–118 Corporate Governance Statement 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive directors on the Board of Directors FS p. 113–118 Corporate Governance Statement 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to the highest governance FS p. 113–118 Corporate Governance Statement body 4.5 Executive compensation FS Salary and remuneration report p. 119–121; Executive remuneration is based on the Group-level and personal targets, which depend on the person's area of responsibility incl. issues related to sustainability. 4.6 Ensuring processes to avoid conflicts of interest FS p. 113–118 Corporate Governance Statement 4.7 Determining the composition, qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance FS p. 113–118 Corporate Governance Statement body and its comittees 4.8 Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct and sustainability principles SR p. 8, 12–14 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation's identification and manSR p. 12–14, FS p. 113–118 Corporate Governance agement of economic, environmental and social performance incl. relevant risks Statement 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own sustainability performance SR p. 12–14, FS p. 113–118 Corporate Governance Statement Commitments to external initiatives 4.11 Addressing the precautinary approach SR p. 4-8, 10, FS p. 113-118 Corporate Governance Statement 4.12 Externally developed sustainability charters, principles or other initiatives SR p. 9–11 4.13 Memberships in associations SR p. 11 50 GRI INDEX 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT More information Reporting level Stakeholder engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation SR p. 9–11 4.15 Basis for the identification and selection of stakeholders SR p. 9–11 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement SR p. 9–11 4.17 Responding to key topics and concerns resulting from stakeholder engagements SR p. 4–5, 9–11 ECONOMIC INDICATORS (EC) MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY SR p. 12–13 Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed FS Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income p. 37; Figures not presented in GRI table format. EC2 Risks and opportunities due to climate change SR p. 6–8 EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan obligations FS Note 23 p. 75-78; Retirement Obligations; Financial reporting is prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). EC4 Significant financial assistance received from the government SR p. 36-37, FS Note 6 p. 58; No governmental support for investments in 2013. Market presence EC6 Policy, practices and the proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers SR p. 22–27 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community SR p. 40-41; Group-wide policy for local hiring does not exist. Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services SR p. 42–43; Due to developed infrastructure in our operating countries, no major in-kind or pro bono investments have been made in 2013. EC9 Indirect economic impacts SR p. 9–11, 42–43 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS (EN) MANAGEMENT APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY SR p. 12–14 Materials EN1 Materials used SR p. 44 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recyled input materials SR p. 44 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption SR p. 28–31 EN4 Indirect energy consumption SR p. 28–31 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements SR p. 28–31 EN6 Renewable energy-based products SR p. 16–21, 28–31, AR p. 12–23 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved SR p. 28–31 Water EN8 Water usage by source SR p. 32–33, 44–49 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by the withdrawal of water SR p. 32–33 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused water SR p. 32-33; Amount of recycled water not disclosed. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas SR p. 22–25 EN12 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity SR p. 2, 22–25 EN13 Protected or restored habitats SR p. 22–25 EN14 Managing impacts on biodiversity (incl. engagement with relevant stakeholders) SR p. 2–5, 9–11 Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions SR p. 28–31 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight SR p. 28–31; Currently Metsä Group does not have sufficient data for calculating the Group-wide emissions from producing and transporting the main raw materials (Scope 3 in the GHG Protocol). EN18 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions SR p. 28–31 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Not relevant in Metsä Group's operations as ozone depleting substances are related to energy production and are emitted only in a very limited extent. EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions SR p. 44–49 EN21 Water discharges SR p. 44–49 EN22 Waste by type and disposal method SR p. 34–35, 44–49 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills SR p. 36–37 EN24 Transported, imported, exported or treated hazardous waste Not relevant for Metsä Group operations. EN25 Water bodies and related habitats affected by the discharges of water SR p. 22–25, 32–33 Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate the environmental impacts of products SR p. 2–3, 16–21 EN27 Percentage of products and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category SR p. 20–21, 34–35; All the Group's products are recyclable or biodegreable. Paper and board recycling is organised by local municipalities and no exact data related to this is available. Compliance EN28 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SR p. 36–37 Transport EN29 Environmental impacts of transportation SR p. 27–31 Overall EN30 Environmental expenditures and investments SR p. 36–37, FS p. 32–35, FS Note 24 p. 78, FS Note 36 p. 95 GRI INDEX 51 INDICATORS FOR LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK (LA) More information Reporting level MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO LABOR PRACTICES SR p. 12–14 Employment LA1 Breakdown of workforce SR p. 39–41, 46–49. The Group, business areas and mill-level data reported. The regional breakdown by gender is not considered as material. LA2 Employee turnover SR p. 39–41. Breakdown of new hires by age and gender not considered as material. LA3 Employee benefits SR p. 40–41 LA15 Return to work after parental leave Not material as the work contracts continue unchanged after the parental leave. Labour/management relations LA4 Collective bargaining agreements SR p. 40–41 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational change SR p. 40–41 Occupational health and safety LA6 Workforce represented in formal joint management health and safety programs SR p. 38–41 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and fatalities SR p. 38–41, 44–49; Business area breakdown provided, geographical breakdown not considered as material. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention and risk-control programs SR p. 38–41; Not material in Metsä Group's operations. Training and education LA10 Average hours of training SR p. 38–41; The training of employees is reported in days per year. Only trainings organised by Metsä Group’s HRD function are reported. LA11 Programs for skill management and lifelong learning SR p. 40–41 LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews SR p. 40–41 Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees SR p. 39–41, FS p. 124–125 Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men SR p. 39; The ratio not reported. A Group-level comparison is not possible to obtain. HUMAN RIGHT INDICATORS (HR) MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO HUMAN RIGHTS SR p. 12-15 Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating SR p. 26; No investments with significant human rights human rights concerns impacts in 2013. HR2 Significant suppliers and other business partners screening for human rights SR p. 26 HR3 Employee training on human rights SR p. 12–14, 40–41; No data available on the number of hours devoted to training. Non-discrimination HR4 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken SR p. 40–41 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified for the risk of not to exercise freedom of association or SR p. 10, 26; No geographical risk assessment currently collective bargaining available. Child labour HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents SR p. 10, 26; No geographical risk assessment currently of child labour and measures taken to eliminate it available. Forced and compulsory labour HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for forced or compulsory SR p. 10, 26; No geographical risk assessment currently labour and measures taken to eliminate it available. Indigenous rights HR9 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken Metsä Group's operations have no significant impact on the rights of indigenous people. No incidents detected in 2013. Assessment HR10 Percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews Metsä Group's operations are located in nine European countries. Not material to Metsä Group's operations. Remediation HR11 Grievances related to human rights field No reported grievances related to human rights in 2013. SOCIETY INDICATORS (SO) MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO SOCIETY SR p. 9–14, 42–43 Local communities SO1 Management of impacts on communities in areas affected by activities SR p. 40–43; No Group-wide community engagement or impact assessment programmes available. SO9 Operations with negative impacts on local communities SR p. 40–43 SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with negative impacts on local SR p. 40–43 communities Corruption SO2 Percentage of business units analysed for risks related to corruption SR p. 6–8, 12–14, FS Corporate Governance Statement p. 113–118 ; Corruption is included in the Internal Audit's risk assessment procedures. SO3 Employees trained in organisation's anti-corruption policies and procedures SR p. 12–14 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption SR p. 12–14 52 GRI INDEX SOCIETY INDICATORS (SO) More information Reporting level Public policy SO5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying SR p. 11 SO6 Contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions SR p. 42–43. No political contributions in 2013. Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Anti-trust and monopoly court cases SR p. 13, FS Report of the Board of Directors p. 34–35, FS Note 3 p. 92–93 Compliance SO8 Sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations SR p. 13 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS (PR) MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY SR p. 20–21 Consumer health and safety PR1 Product safety SR p. 20–21 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product No incidents reported in 2013. safety Product and service labelling PR3 Product information SR p. 20–21 PR4 Non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product information No incidents reported in 2013. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction SR p. 9–11, AR p. 12–23 Marketing communications PR6 Programmes for adhere to laws, standards and voluntary codes related to marketing communications SR p. 20-21 PR7 Non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes on marketing communications SR p. 20–21 Customer privacy PR8 Number of complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data No incidents reported in 2013. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the No incidents reported in 2013. provision and use of products SCOPE OF THE REPORT Metsä Group comprises Metsä Tissue, Metsä human resource management, or ethical busi• Only material flows to and from industrial Board, Metsä Wood, Metsä Fibre and Metsä ness practices. sites are included. Forest. This report covers the whole Group, The Sustainability Report 2013 presents • Discharges to water through external including the production, warehousing and Metsä Group’s approach to sustainability wastewater treatment plants (typically sales units of the business areas. Sustainability management and detailed performance indimunicipal) are taken into account assumreporting follows the same principles of concators. The Annual Report 2013 includes a ing an 85% reduction for COD. Emissolidation as our Financial Statements. summary of the Group’s sustainability work. sions of BOD, phosphorus and suspended Metsä Group reports its sustainability Furthermore, the subsidiaries Metsä Board solids are calculated according to the flow performance at the Group, business area and and Metsä Fibre publish individual annual with the following residual concentraproduct levels. The Sustainability Report reports in which their sustainability work is tions: BOD 10 mg/l; total phosphorus 2013 has been prepared according to the presented in brief. 0.5 mg/l; and total suspended solids 10 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines The sustainability performance data in mg/l. The total nitrogen emission is (version 3.1). We have selected the indicators this report and claims based on the data have regarded as zero because there is surplus that are the most relevant to our operations, been externally assured by an independent nitrogen in municipal wastewaters and the products and stakeholders based on the matethird party, Mitopro Oy. Read more about the reduction of our BOD binds nitrogen to riality analysis, an assessment of the most assurance process in the assurance report on biomass thus reducing the plant’s total significant sustainability issues for the compage 55. nitrogen emission. pany and its stakeholders. The report also • The emissions of external wastewaters covers major permit violations, claims, comDATA MEASUREMENT TECHNIQUES treated at our wastewater treatment plants pensations and topics related to the Group The calculation coverage of the environmental are not included. The allocation of emisthat have gained public attention or may have parameters follows that of the financial sions between internal and external caused a reputation risk in environmental or accounting with the following amendments: inflows is carried out assuming theoretical SCOPE OF THE REPORT 53 COD reductions for each inflow, which nelled to final disposal from both the mills’ • The share of women in management are then corrected according to the real processes (not including the volume led to includes women in the Board of DirecCOD reduction for the whole plant. temporary storage) and from the temporary tors, the Executive Management Team Other emissions are allocated according to storage. In 2013, some 845,000 tonnes were and the business areas' management teams the flow. generated by the mill processes and some at the end of the year. Change in calucula843,000 tonnes were led to final disposal. tion in 2012–2013. Total energy consumption is expressed as Part of the CO2 from Äänekoski pulp mill • New entries include only new permanent primary fuel consumption and calculated is used to produce PCC at the site. Until employees. Leavers include only permaassuming 40% energy efficiency for purchased 2012, this was shown as an emission reduction nent employees who left Metsä Group. electricity production and 85% energy effifor the mill. From 2013, the emission is not Employee turnover includes all permanent ciency for purchased heat production. reduced from the pulp mill’s emissions. leavers, also redundancies as a result of the Environmental impacts, acidification and restructuring of the businesses, and is eutrophication are calculated by multiplying TECHNIQUES IN MEASURING HR DATA calculated against the average permanent impact-causing emissions by coefficients. The data gathering and calculation coverage head count. Acidification is expressed as sulphur dioxide follows that of the financial accounting with equivalents. The coefficient for sulphur is 1 the following amendments: and for NOX 0.7. Eutrophication is expressed • The coverage of the employee data was as phosphorus equivalents. The coefficient for 99% of employees in 2010–2013 and 97% total phosphorus is 1; for BOD 0.0088; for in 2009. Employee data excludes statistics total nitrogen 0.14; and for NOX 0.0041. The from Hangö Stevedoring. greenhouse effect only consists of carbon • However, the number of employees, sickdioxide emissions and has a coefficient of 1. ness absenteeism, work accident absenteeThe following CO2 emission coefficients have ism and lost-time accident 1 frequency been used for fossil fuels: heavy fuel oil 279 kg rate (LTA1 fr) cover 100% of the employCO2/MWh; light fuel oil 267 kg CO2/ ees. The number of employees is reported MWh; natural gas 202 kg CO2/MWh; liqueas full-time equivalent (FTE). The sickfied petroleum gas 227 kg CO2/MWh; coal ness absenteeism % and work accident 341 kg CO2/MWh; peat 381 kgCO2/MWh; absenteeism % are calculated per potential and waste fuel according its specific content at working hours. The LTA1 fr includes all each site. accidents at work that have resulted in at In mill-specific data, discharges from least one disability day. The LTA1 fr is wastewater plants serving several mills are calculated as accidents at work per million allocated to mills using the methodology worked hours. Only accidents involving explained above. Emissions from power plants Metsä Group’s personnel are included in separate to mill units are also allocated to the LTA1 fr indicator. mills using the energy. In this allocation, the • The organisational functionality index is use of 1 MWh of electricity is double the based on the results of the internal organivalue compared to the use of 1 MWh of heat. sation functionality studies. The studies In 2013, the figures for BOD emissions reflect the 26 defined Group-level topics do not include those from Husum mill. The that affect the functionality of the organimeasurement is not required by the authorisation, Metsä Tissue has its own four ties and is thus not taken anymore. additional topics, from which the overall Waste volumes are reported including the level of organisational functionality is moisture. The use of temporary waste storage calculated for each company on a scale of before final disposal at some mills gives some four to ten. The organisational functionalvariations to the waste figures depending on ity research is conducted for 90% of the how much waste is channelled to temporary employees. storage and how much is taken from there • The registered occupational disease data each year. The storage provides two alternacovers 85% of employees. The figures tives for total waste production: the volume cover all employees in other production generated by the mills and the volume chancountries excluding Sweden. 54 SCOPE OF THE REPORT INDEPENDENT EXPERT REVIEW TO THE MANAGEMENT AND understand stakeholder expectations and to response stakeholder conSTAKEHOLDERS OF METSÄ GROUP cerns. The material topics presented in the Report correspond to stakeholder interests and major economic, environmental and social impacts SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES in Metsä Group’s value chain. It is our opinion that the Report gives a The Management of Metsä Group commissioned us to prepare an independent fair and balanced view on the material topics and stakeholder interests. expert review for the Metsä Group Sustainability Report 2013 (“the Report”). We have duly performed an independent expert review, the objective of which SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA was to evaluate: We have reviewed the basis of the sustainability information provided in the • the selection of the most important topics for the Report; Report. It is our opinion that the Report provides adequate information of • the presentation of material topics and responses to stakeholders’ interests; Metsä Group’s sustainability performance and the information is presented in • the reliability of performance information presented in the Report accordaccordance with the reporting criteria. ing to the Reporting Principles for defining Quality in the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines 3.1; and GRI APPLICATION LEVEL • the GRI application level of the Report. The Report corresponds to the GRI application level A+. RESPONSIBILITIES OBSERVATIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS Metsä Group’s Management is responsible for the preparation of the Report and Based on our review, we present the following observations and recommendathe performance data and statements presented therein, which the Board of tions, which do not affect the conclusions presented above. Directors of Metsäliitto Cooperative has approved. Our responsibility as an • In Metsä Group, there is a solid foundation for sustainability with compeindependent reviewer is to express a conclusion based on our work performed. tent people and integration to management. Operational sustainability The criteria used for our assessment include the Global Reporting Initiative through tangible actions and targets is a strength of Metsä Group. Metsä Guidelines 3.1 and Metsä Group’s own internal reporting guidelines. Group is well positioned to meet growing stakeholder requirements for sustainability. We encourage Metsä Group to utilize this opportunity even REVIEWER’S INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE better in its business development when anticipating the future. We have conducted our review as independent and impartial from the reporting • Metsä Group has made progress towards the Group-level sustainability organization. We were not committed to any assignments for Metsä Group that targets. Metsä Group has made significant development in the reductions would conflict with our independence, nor were we involved in the preparation of fossil carbon emissions, increasing the share of bioenergy and the coverof the Report. Our team consists of competent and experienced sustainability age of certified wood in operations. There is also a notable development in and reporting experts, who have the necessary skills to perform a review. occupational health and safety performance, but further improvements are still needed. Some of the Group-level targets are now revised, but there is BASIS OF OUR OPINION still room for more challenging targets covering the whole value chain from Our opinion is based on the following procedures performed: the forest to the customer. • Interviews with ten senior management representatives from Metsä Group • Metsä Group has developed further its processes on stakeholder engageand business areas to gain an understanding of the major impacts, risks and ment and gathering weak signals on megatrends potentially having impact opportunities related to Metsä Group’s sustainability agenda. on the company. This is supporting the future sustainability agenda and • Assessment of the procedures Metsä Group has in place to ensure the preparedness to changes in external environment. We encourage Metsä inclusivity of stakeholder engagement processes, the identification of mateGroup to further intensify this kind of stakeholder dialogue and also utilizrial stakeholder expectations and the responsiveness to stakeholder coning the existing stakeholder engagement channels even better for sustaincerns. ability management purposes. • Peer review of sustainability reporting to compare Metsä Group’s reporting against industry best practices. • Interviews with Metsä Group specialists responsible for sustainability performance data collection at Group-level and in selected sites. • Review of Group-level systems and procedures to generate, collect and report sustainability performance data for the Report. • Review of data sources, data generation and reporting procedures at Metsä Wood Renko sawmill in Finland and Metsä Tissue Krapkowice mill in Poland. Helsinki, Finland, 25th February 2014 Mitopro Oy CONCLUSIONS MATERIAL TOPICS AND STAKEHOLDER INTERESTS Metsä Group has made a commitment to active stakeholder dialogue. Mikael Niskala Tomi Pajunen Metsä Group has stakeholder engagement processes in place in order to Independent Sustainability Expert Independent Sustainability Expert INDEPENDENT EXPERT REVIEW 55 METSÄ GROUP IN FIGURES Metsä Group is a Finnish forest industry company operating on the international market. Our production units are at the top of the industry, and their efficiency and environmental performance are continuously being developed by a systematic investment programme. Sales companies, retailers and agents sell our products around the world. Europe is our main market area. SALES EUR MILLION 6,000 4,000 PRODUCTION SALES 2,000 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 METSÄ GROUP SALES TOTAL 4.9 EUR BILLION PERSONNEL TOTAL 11,000 METSÄLIITTO COOPERATIVE GROUP'S PARENT COMPANY OWNED BY 123,000 FINNISH FOREST OWNERS METSÄ TISSUE METSÄ BOARD METSÄ FIBRE METSÄ WOOD METSÄ FOREST TISSUE AND PAPERBOARD WOOD SUPPLY AND COOKING PAPERS AND PAPER PULP WOOD PRODUCTS FOREST SERVICES SALES SALES SALES SALES SALES EUR 1.0 BILLION EUR 2.0 BILLION EUR 1.3 BILLION EUR 0.9 BILLION EUR 1.6 BILLION PERSONNEL PERSONNEL PERSONNEL PERSONNEL PERSONNEL 2,800 3,100 900 2 ,500 900 OWNERSHIP OF METSÄLIITTO OWNERSHIP OF METSÄLIITTO OWNERSHIP OF METSÄLIITTO OWNERSHIP OF METSÄLIITTO OWNERSHIP OF METSÄLIITTO COOPERATIVE 91% COOPERATIVE 42.8% COOPERATIVE 50.2%, COOPERATIVE 100% COOPERATIVE 100% (HOLDING OF VOTES 62.2%) METSÄ BOARD 24.9%, ITOCHU CORPORATION 24.9% 56 METSÄ GROUP IN FIGURES SALES BY MARKET AREA, % Rest of Europe 30 Finland 19 Germany 13 United Kingdom 10 China 7 Italy 5 Sweden 5 North America 4 Rest of Asia 4 Other countries 3 PRODUCTION IN FOR FOREST OWNERS 9 COUNTRIES 117 SERVICE OFFICES IN FINLAND SALES COMPANIES IN 28 RETAILERS AND AGENTS SELL THE GROUP’S PRODUCTS AROUND THE WORLD COUNTRIES KEY FIGURES 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Sales, EUR million 4,932 5,001 5,346 5,377 4,837 Operating result, EUR million 334 241 29 497 -169 Operating result, excl. non-recurring items, EUR million 342 256 314 547 -75 Return on capital employed, % 8.9 6.7 1.1 11.8 -3.3 Return on capital employed, excl. non-recurring items, % 9.1 7.1 8.5 13.4 -1.4 Equity ratio, % 38.1 34.8 28.1 29.7 24.5 Net gearing ratio, % 76 86 132 116 157 Investments, EUR million 207 204 227 138 152 Personnel, 31 December 10,741 11,447 12,525 12,820 13,592 Share of certified wood, % 82 82 81 80 78 Lost-time accident rate, per million worked hours 13.2 15.7 18.3 17.3 15.7 Fossil CO2 emissions, 1,000 tonnes 855 962 1,200 1,251 1,384 OPERATING RESULT EXCL. RETURN ON CAPITAL EQUITY RATIO % NET GEARING RATIO INVESTMENTS NON-RECURRING ITEMS, EMPLOYED EXCL. % EUR MILLION EUR MILLION NON-RECURRING ITEMS, % 600 16 40 160 240 500 12 30 120 180 400 300 8 20 80 120 200 4 100 10 40 60 0 0 -100 -4 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 METSÄ GROUP IN FIGURES 57 Cover: Carta Integra 210 g/m2, inside: Galerie Art Silk 130 g/m2. © Metsä Group 2014 METSÄ GROUP P.O. Box 10 FI-02020 Metsä, Finland Tel. +358 10 4601 www. metsagroup.com/sustainability PEFC/02-31-120
