Communication on Progress Year: 2014 Statement of Continued Support of the UN Global Compact Ms. Judy Njino Global Compact focal point-Kenya United Nations Global Compact Nairobi Kenya. Dear Judy Njino, Re: TATA Chemicals Magadi Co Ltd. support to the UN Global Compact TATA Chemicals Magadi Limited (TCML) is committed to rendering support to the global compact programme of The UN and will endeavor to abide by the TEN principles of the United Nations Global Compact in The core agendas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. As a responsible business, TCML has been a leader in corporate social responsibility, environment, safety, and human resource management for several decades. As part of actions that demonstrate increasing commitment to sustainability, TCML participated in piloting The IS026000 standard in partnership with The Kenya Bureau of Standards in June 2014. With this communication we express our willingness to continue supporting and advancing the principles of The UN global compact through our policies, processes, products, and services.In case of any further enquiries do not hesitate to get in touch with The Manager of The Magadi Soda Foundation-Mr. David Aoll on Telephone +254 722 773 492. _______________________________________ 07/11/2014, ENG. JACK M. MBUI-MANAGING DIRECTOR TATA Chemicals Magadi, David Aoll 1/13 Company name: TATA Chemicals Magadi Limited Sector: Mining/Extractives Number of employees: 400 UN Global Compact signatory since: 2007 Contact person: David Aoll (Manager, Magadi Soda Foundation) Address: Magadi Soda Foundation. PO BOX 1-00205 Magadi, Kenya Email:domondi@tatachemicals.com;davidaoll@yahoo.com Phone: (+254) 20 6999 330 | CELL (+254) 722 773 492 Brief description of nature of business Tata Chemicals Magadi occupies a significant place in the African economy. It is Africa's largest soda ash manufacturer and one of Kenya's leading exporters. Just as significant, the company is an important part of the socio-economic fabric of the Lake Magadi region in Kenya where its soda ash facility is based. Scope of this COP The scope of This COP defines the activities of the last year in four areas: Human Rights, Anticorruption, Labour Rights and Environment. TATA Chemicals Magadi has elaborate strategies and plans in these areas and has recently strengthened action plans in fulfilment of the same. This COP provides a summary of activities and outputs in these four areas. In this year’s COP we wish to demonstrate unalloyed commitment to the ten principles of the UNGC. TATA Chemicals Magadi, David Aoll 2/13 TATA Chemicals Magadi, David Aoll 3/13 Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally UN Global Compact proclaimed human rights principles covered: Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Commitment TATA Chemicals Magadi commits to the full support of Human Rights. The company adheres to all relevant Kenya legislation that are applicable in the industry:  Right to life, liberty and security of the person right to peaceful assembly  Right to an adequate standard of living(including food, clothing, &housing)  Right to physical&mental health; access to medical services&right to education  Equal recognition&protection under the law; freedom of thought; conscience ,land religion  Right to a fair trial&right to hold opinions; freedom of information and expression  Right to participate in cultural life, the benefits of scientific progress, protection of authorial interest’s right to social security; freedom of movement.  Right to a safe work environment; Right to rest and leisure; and right to family Human Rights life. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Current  The company maintains safety, health, and environment policy  Employees have free access to portable water, health services, and modern housing.  The company provides four schools and a hospital.  Employees are covered by group, personal accident insurance  For the local community the company runs a robust community social responsibility program under The Magadi Soda Foundation –providing water, health, employment, microenterprise development, and education, etc  The company holds monthly consultations with the community.  A passenger coach provides service from Magadi to Kajiado for staff, their families, and the community.  Provision of protective clothing for staff. Activities implemented in the last year  Employee refresher training on Labour Laws(Rights Under)  Hiring of Magadi Soda Foundation Manager TATA Chemicals Magadi, David Aoll 4/13  Strengthened audit around the labour function Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  Hiring of a substantive manager for The Magadi Soda Foundation  Development of the five year(2014-2019)plan for Magadi Soda Foundation  Training staff at all levels on human rights  Consultations were held with all stakeholders-employees, communities, suppliers, and contractors.  Improved health access to the community-MOH reports  Improved access to education through bursaries and support  Equal access to employment opportunities to surrounding communities  Zero discrimination based on faith and ethnicity  Cordial relations with all stakeholders through survey reports-union, local community, suppliers, and contractors  Zero targets for loss and injury  Improved preventive health care-leading to less sick off, high staff productivity, reduced mortality, and reduced accidents. Activities planned for next year  1.Strengthened support systems for HIV and AIDs Human Rights  2. Fully fledged wellness program for staff and the community. Future TATA Chemicals Magadi, David Aoll 5/13 Labour Rights Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and UN Global Compact compulsory labour principles covered: Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Commitment :  The company strictly adheres to existing labour laws: Right to work; Right to equality at work; Right to equal pay for equal work; Right to organize and participate in collective bargaining; Freedom of association; Right to nondiscrimination; Right to just and favorable remuneration  The company support international labour laws including ILO.  TATA code of conduct extended to suppliers and contractors for fair labour practices.  Employees are engaged in free and fair labour  The company does not discriminate persons on grounds of skin colour, sex/gender, religion, or tribe  Staff employed must be above 18 years of age and provide proof through a national ID card  The company has an affirmative action plan for marginalized groups such as Labour Rights minorities and disables in accordance with the constitution of Kenya. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Current  A staff collective bargaining agreement is in place  Staff wellness program relaunched  Open door policy  Staff suggestion boxes and complaints mechanisms Activities implemented in the last year  Audits were conducted last year and are conducted twice yearly to ensure compliance with labour laws  Strengthened audit of employment practices and labour practices through a full time internal audit Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  Independent audits show implementation of labour laws  Training of staff to understand their rights undertaken half yearly  The HR policy was reviewed to improve compliance with emerging labour rights issues TATA Chemicals Magadi, David Aoll 6/13  Cordial relations with stakeholders such as the union and local communities  Zero targets of loss time injury  Health measurements  Improved staff wellness  Improved HIV and AIDS programs  Demographics of management and employees  Periodic Management reviews Activities planned for next year:  policy review and forums to sensitize staff  Accident and safety policy review and improvement Labour Rights  Improved Communicable and non communicable diseases systems  Fully fledged wellness program Future TATA Chemicals Magadi, David Aoll 7/13 Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges UN Global Compact Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental principles covered: responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Commitment TATA Chemicals Magadi has demonstrated over the years a commitment to environmental stewardship, protection, and sustainability. This includes having an openly displayed policy as well as integrating environmental considerations in overall management systems and our operations.  The company has obtained a robust safety, Health, and Environment policy  The company conforms to The National Environmental legislation under The Environmental Management and coordination ACT of 1999.  Audits of operations as per the International Finance Corporation(IFC)  Environmental and social audits once every two years A brief description of our Processes or Systems Environment Performance objectives include:  Continuous improvement  Eliminate unacceptable risk to the environment and health of employees, Current customers and members of the public  Reduce to a practicable minimum adverse effect of the environment  Consult regularly with employees, regulatory authorities, and local community Activities implemented in the last year  Tree planting in Kajiado and Magadi  Construction o Electro Static Precipitator(ESP)to reduce the amount of dust emitted  Energy audits  Energy conservation practices  Water conservation polices  Employee sensitization on environmental issues  Environment matters embedded in Magadi Soda Foundation Strategies  Environmental management systems to identify, monitor and improve TATA Chemicals Magadi, David Aoll 8/13 environmental responsibility Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company:  Minimum of dust released to the environment  Reduced evaporation rate of water at Oloibortoto river  Rate of improved tree cover  Environmental action plan and environmental audits  Result of 2014 environmental audits  Support of water river users association for water resource management  Greening project implementation-centenary park maintenance  External audits  Management reviews  Policy on dealing with environmental breaches Activities planned for next year  Revised environmental policy  Community sensitization on environment forums  Environment strategy strengthened within The Magadi Soda Foundation Environment  Participate in international environment forums  Tree planting in Magadi and Kajiado Future TATA Chemicals Magadi, David Aoll 9/13 Anti-corruption UN Global Compact Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including principles covered: extortion and bribery Commitment  The standing Instructions of Tata Chemicals Magadi provide guidelines on matters of integrity and ant-corruption.  The TATA code of conduct is strictly enforced and this has a clear anticorruption clause  The UK ant bribery act is enforced as part of the Code of conduct as we have major operations in the UK  The standing instructions of TATA Chemicals Magadi are clear on Zero tolerance for corruption.  The company is still committed to adhere to national legislation on corruption. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Anti-corruption  The whistle blower policy encourages reporting of issues on corruption  The total quality team is tasked with strategies to combat corruption  Monthly communications on company policy including on areas of corruption Current is shared with staff at all levels.  New staff are inducted and have to sign an anticorruption agreement before joining  The company participates in several forums and initiatives to combat corruption-both government and private sector  The company strengthened the audit function by hiring a new competent internal auditor to ensure compliance Activities implemented in the last year  All employees, suppliers and contractors sensitized on the TATA code of conduct  Monthly meetings and communications targeting anti-corruption  The CEO Zero tolerance to corruption policy launched. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  The policy on handling corruption cases is clear and disseminated widely TATA Chemicals Magadi, David Aoll 10/13 through email, employee manuals and staff meetings  Audits are carried out to ensure consistence with anticorruption police  There have been no legal case and fines related to corruption and bribery in the last year  During the last year the employees, suppliers, contractors have been taken through training regarding our anticorruption policy and had to sign the TATA code of conduct.  Zero reported incidences of corruption cases  Zero reported incidents of fines and other costs related to corruption  High scores in the corruption survey reports by anticorruption agencies  Improved reputation as a corruption free zone and organization Activities planned for next year  All suppliers, contractors and all categories of staff re-orientation on zero tolerance to corruption policy  Organization wide communication including posters on anti-corruption Anti-corruption  Greater visibility in the anti-corruption dialogue by partnering with and participating in national and international anti-corruption forums Future TATA Chemicals Magadi, David Aoll 11/13 How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders?  Regular Stake holder Meetings e.g. the monthly community meetings  Newsletters/ Email/ Posters – This strategy is one way communication and utilizes emailed updates, hard copy brochures, and posters, newsletters mailed or emailed.  Lunch Meetings, Drink at the bar after work – These casual environments can be great for connecting, getting feedback, ideas, and work to build support  Sporting events – tennis, golf, etc are an easy forum to get the input on what support exists, feedback  written submissions  workgroups developing specific documents  formal or informal face to face meetings  face to face negotiation and dialogue  partner and industry newsletters and forums  briefing meetings  publications, distribution of documents and invitations to comment  project site visits  site visits and dialogue  written material and email  fact or information sheets  written and printed material  pamphlets or brochures  publications and printed material  graphics or illustrations  presentations  networks and social organisations  power point presentations, overhead or slide presentations  forums, workshops and core groups  newspaper articles or advertisements  media  broadcast commentary or coverage  web based vehicles TATA Chemicals Magadi, David Aoll 12/13 Donations, awards We support the community in various activities among them are:  Bursary awards to students in secondary schools and university  Distribution of water to the community, school, and heath centres  Development of school infrastructure-Patterson school  Subsidized health services to the community at The Magadi Hospital and Health centres infrastructural development  Supporting the youth and economic sustainability. Awards: 1. Kenya Institute Of Management (COYA): • 2002 Corporate Citizenship Award • 2003 Corporate Citizenship Award • 2004 Corporate Citizenship Award • 2005 Corporate Citizenship Award • 2006 Corporate Citizenship Award • 2000 Corporate Citizenship Award • Manager of the Year, CEO, HR and Financial Management awards. 2. KHRC recognition of CSR as Best Practise 3. Recognised by IFC as a leader in CSR. 4. GBCHealth Commendation Award (Community Investment) in June 2011 in New York, USA. 5. Used as a case study in Harvard, Canada and local universities such as USIU & Strathmore. 6. TCML’s case study used as a pilot organisation for the new ISO 26000 on Social Responsibility. 7. Won the MDG Award (Promotion of Universal Primary Education category) in April 2013 in Kenya. 8. HR Award on Staff Attraction & Retention from Kenya’s Institute of Human Resource Management in Dec 2013. TATA Chemicals Magadi, David Aoll 13/13
