United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Report For the period of 14 December 2012 to 13 December 2014 En Masse Pty Ltd En Masse Pty Ltd Suite 102/9 – 11 Claremont Street South Yarra VIC 3141 | t. 03 9827 1388 | e. enquiries@enmasse.com.au | ABN 31 142 435 532 | 1. En Masse’s Support for the UN Global Compact En Masse proudly became a signatory to the UN Global Compact within its first year of operations, at the end of 2010. I am pleased to confirm that En Masse will continue its support of the ten principles of the Global Compact, with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-­‐ corruption, through the year 2015. En Masse is a wellbeing company, focussed on providing mental health, equal opportunity, human rights and behaviour change programs to businesses, government and schools, in order to ensure the observation and promotion of human rights principles within these respective bodies. En Masse’ policies, public commitments, organisational goals and initiatives are in line with this central focus, and are strongly guided by the principles of the Global Compact. Last year En Masse developed and delivered a number of training programs, across a variety of organisations, dealing with areas such as anti-­‐discrimination, anti-­‐bullying, trauma reduction, workplace behaviour, improved mental health outcomes and equal opportunity. The aim of this training was to improve outcomes in these areas, leading to better mental health and wellbeing for the participants involved, whule contributing to a positive human rights culture in Australia. We have maintained our commitment to these activities in 2014, and have extended our commitment to the principles of the Global Compact by developing and engaging in a number of new activities and programs, including, but not limited to: • Establishing a family and parenting training program to support people in workplaces to build upon their positive, responsible parenting techniques; • Developing an innovative new online behaviour change program to help young people build upon positive mental health outcomes, due to be released as a pilot in schools in 2015; 2 • Piloting a drug and alcohol awareness and addiction training campaign for use in universities; • Rolling out hundreds of mental health and wellbeing programs using the principles of positive psychology to support workers at all levels and prevent psychological injury; • Commencing a workplace program tackling violence against women; • Providing three online human rights training and awareness programs for Victorian government employees; and, • Successfully obtaining a Victorian government grant to build a respect and equality program, targeting improved workplace participation and inclusion for women. This project is currently underway. We are pleased to present this, our fourth annual Communication on Progress under the United Nations Global Compact, and are inspired to continue our development as an organisation and make further progress towards the principles of the Compact during the next year of our signatory status. Mark Dean, Managing Director 23 December, 2014 3 2. En Masse’s Progress in Supporting the UNGC’s 10 Principles 2.1 Human Rights • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and, • Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. En Masse encourages all of its employees, as well as all people with whom our organisation comes into contact with, to behave in a manner that is respectful of human rights. We proudly incorporate our commitment to the advancement of human rights through our business policies and activities, and it is central to our mission. Our Code of Conduct states that employees “must agree to uphold and respect the law and the principles of human rights.” Through workshops and training programs we teach people, including our own employees and our business and government clients, how to take active responsibility for respecting and promoting human rights at work and in the community. We have supported and respected the protection of human rights, and ensured we are not complicit in any human rights abuses, in the following ways: 1. En Masse has developed and implemented hundreds of mental health and wellbeing programs in a variety of workplaces across the country. These programs utilise the principles of positive psychology to help workers at all levels prevent psychological injury to themselves and others; 2. Established a program tackling the prevention of violence against women, commenced in a number of workplace environments. This program promotes the rights of women to be free from discrimination and free from cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, as stipulated by the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. En Masse has also successfully obtained a Victorian government grant to build a respect and equality program, targeting improved workplace 4 participation and inclusion for women; 3. Contributed to the human rights education of people working within government. In 2014, En masse has continued its work as a provider of workplace training services to Federal Australian and Victorian Government. Through this avenue we are actively engaged in programs that assist government executives to understand human rights and learn how to responsibly discharge their roles so as to respect, protect and promote human rights; 4. Rolled out three new online human rights training and awareness raising programs for Victorian government employee; and 5. We have developed a number of unique online training programs that deal with specific areas of vulnerability based on human rights education principles. These programs deal with reducing incidences of harassment and bullying in the workplace and have been implemented in a number of service industry organisations. We had developed three new online human rights training and awareness raising programs this year, specifically for Victorian government employees. In addition to contributing to human rights training, education and awareness within schools, government and organisations, En Masse also ensures that all of its employees and contractors receive human rights training and observe the principles of human rights at all times. En Masse has a system in place which ensures that employees are able to report on human rights issues and abuses and have them promptly assessed and remedied. En Masse has had no human rights issues to date. Each of En Masse’s programs, whether delivered online or in person via workshops, are followed with an assessment process that measures the effectiveness of our programs. Specifically, we measure the increased skill and awareness of participants 5 with respect to human rights as a result of the training. Our programs have delivered very promising results to date, indicating that our activities have promoted respectful workplace cultures, reduced the risk of bullying, sexual harassment and discrimination in the workplace and community, and have improved mental health outcomes. 2.2 Labour • Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour; and • Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. En Masse is a small organisation that focuses on the provision of professional services and related online training and awareness raising programs. Thus, we are not confronted with the labour related human rights issues that many other organisations face by virtue of their scale and operations. Despite this, En Masse maintains a firm resolution to uphold the principles of fair labour in all its dealings, and seeks to eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. En Masse is particularly committed to the promotion of this principle both within its organisation and within the broader government and community. Our extensive corporate training programs deal with workplace behaviour, and refer to equal opportunity and anti-­‐discrimination as vital guiding principles for healthy workplace behaviour. We are able to measure the positive outcomes of these training programs through embedded assessment processes, and have ascertained that they tend to result in reduced discrimination, increased productivity, and better mental health outcomes among participants and all stakeholders. 6 En Masse prides itself on its non-­‐discriminatory hiring practices, and its flexible work arrangements offered to suit parents and carers. 85% of our workforce works on part time and/or flexible arrangements. Our small workforce in Australia is comprised of employees and contractors who come from a variety of different backgrounds, including minority groups of differing ethnicity and sexuality, those of non-­‐English speaking background, and Indigenous Australians. In addition to this, more than 60% of our permanent and contract workforce, including shareholder directors, are female. 2.3 Environment § Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; § Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and § Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. En Masse and its employees are committed to the protection of our precious environment and its finite resources. As a small organisation, we have a relatively small carbon footprint and use minimal resources. However, we are endeavouring to further minimise our environmental impact and carbon footprint, and promote sustainability within our organisation and the broader community. In 2014, En Masse has continued to commit itself to making progress in the following key areas: • Reducing our consumption of non-­‐renewable resources such as paper, plastics, electricity and water; • Finding more sustainable sources for all of our consumables; • Reducing waste and promoting recycling; 7 • Reducing travel through phone and video conferencing; • Promoting sustainable procurement; and, • Encouraging the use of public transport. We have made measurable progress in these areas through a wide range of actions, including, but not limited to: • The use of Skype video conferencing for interstate and international meetings wherever possible, thereby reducing the need for air travel; • The purchasing of recycled paper products; • Minimal use of heating and air-­‐conditioning in our offices; • Using Energy Star rated appliances and turning off appliances and equipment where possible and when not in use; • The implementation of paper recycling systems within the office; • The use of electronic, rather than paper filing systems; • Donating surplus office supplies and IT hardware to charity, rather than discarding them; • Encouraging staff to car pool, ride to work, or use public transport; • Encouraging staff to bring their own lunches and providing staff with non-­‐ disposable coffee cups, to reduce waste; and, • The implementation of a paperless program, which has reduced paper consumption at En Masse by 85% in its first year. En Masse also enforces a Sustainable Procurement Policy, the aim of which is to assess the environmental, ethical and social credentials of our suppliers. This enables us to 8 determine whether our suppliers are on board with our commitment to environmental sustainability. Our commitment to sustainability is embraced and driven by senior management within the company, and we have appointed a dedicated green office coordinated to ensure progress is being made. 2.4 Anti-Corruption • Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. En Masse works against corruption in all its forms at an intrinsic and extrinsic level, ensuring that wherever En Masse and its people operate, we reduce the risk of corruption, extortion and bribery occurring. Our principal methods for ensuring this include: a) Conducting training programs on a regular basis to ensure that our people understand and are able to promote the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact, including those principles which relate to anti-­‐corruption; and b) Through our Code of Conduct. Specifically, En Masse’ Code of Conduct states that our employees and contractors must: • Act in good faith and with honesty; • Apply integrity, transparency and impartiality to all of your activities, decisions and in the discharge of your responsibilities; • Communicate regularly with your manager about your dealings with En Masse’s clients and promptly raise any concerns about the behaviours of any people working with out clients that may impact negatively on your wellbeing, the wellbeing of anyone at En Masse or any other person or group of people affected by our clients’ activities; and, 9 • Promptly report any conflicts of interests, fraud or corruption. These policies, as written in our Code of Conduct, reflect En Masse’s commitment to ensuring acts of corruption are prevented and discouraged, and are to be dealt with promptly should they arise. En Masse is also currently working as a consultant to government agencies, training them on best practice and behaviour change to help reinforce anti-­‐corruption objectives. 10 3. Measurement of impacts of business activity During 2014, approximately 13,700 people participated in En Masse’s behaviour change programs online and face to face. Our face to face training programs have resulted in, on average, a 22% increase in awareness about the factors that help continue to a reduction in negative mental health outcomes, a 26% increase in the “protective factors” relating to respectful workplace behaviours and up to 40% increase in participants’ capacity to flourish in their working lives. Further, our pre and post program surveys indicate that we have assisted participants to increase their confidence levels in dealing respectfully with mental illnesses in their workplaces by up to 67%. The measurement of outcomes to be obtained from En Masse’s efforts as a human rights and behaviour change organisation is a long term process. Next year, we will be reporting on the number of people who have taken up our behaviour change programs during 2015, and a summary of the results of those programs from our forthcoming surveys including with respect to positive impacts on the lead indicators of gender equality outcomes. 11 4. Conclusion In summary, during 2014 En Masse has continued its commitment to honour and promote the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, both internally and externally, in 2014. This, our fourth Communication on Progress demonstrates a number of policies, actions and initiatives which we have implemented to support this commitment. Through the forthcoming year, En Masse will continue to implement a number of these initiatives, and plans to further expand the reach of our programs. We envision a culture in Australia that inherently supports and respects human rights and the environment, and we are inspired to work towards this vision. Through working collaboratively with our partners and clients in government, business, and the not-­‐for-­‐ profit sector, En Masse will continue to make progress on its goals to support the United Nations Global Compact. 12
