CSR Report 2013 lifelong relationships Content CSR in Nordea 04 Welcome from our CEO 06 About Nordea 08 Our impact on society 10 An informed CSR strategy 4 In 2013 Nordea recorded stable results and we were again acknowledged as one of the world’s safest banks. Read how this was achieved and what our financial impact is on society. We also describe how we worked with corporate social responsibility during the year. Sustainability in core business 14 Creating great customer experiences 20 People make Nordea great 26 A future for youth 28 Responsible processes: investments, lending and supply chain 14 Everything we do at Nordea has one purpose: to create great customer experiences. In this section we focus on delivering responsible advice to all our customers. We also describe how our people distinguish us from our competitors. At the core of our responsibility are our responsible investments, lending and supplier management. Responsible operations 34 Compliance for a safer society CS R 38 What we do and how Repor data 40 Corporate governance untrie s ance erform ic co Nord 3 P e in 50 y ag Over age 44 Environmental impact rb t 201 rnove s of year e tu 29 0 loye 30-5 age Emp 13 34 s of year 28 r 30 LA 2 Unde age 223 s of We look at compliance not just as something we have to do to earn and retain 100% 48 year 82 %. 80% 94 s 3.95 s wa er oyee rnov empl 60% 118 our “licence to operate,” but as something we want to do, because ultimately, it e tu ber of 59 loye num total mp ge of 40% 28 of e as a percen. ta 62 en Swed up s Rate a Gro 72 Norw ay untrie ic co er 4% orde turnov was 6. 20% builds trust with our customers and makes society safer. We describe how we Nord oyee is figure nd Empl ion in N Finla 12 th ark er in In 20 y reg 0% Denm end Fem ale o ver b ver by g e turn turno Male loye e ensure that our business is run responsibly. Emp Emp loye 53 154 100% C* land, NO 116 125 Po 80% nia Esto 157 a 60% 70 Latvi ia 40% en Russ 122 59 Swed ay nia 20% Norw Lithua nd ay Finla ark 48 Norw 0% Denm 7 sick LA e of region m Performance data ngdo d Ki aus bec roup by s 9 days, Unite nd 14% Finla 12% eism G 13 wa m bour g 10% b s ente Nordea ployee in 20 Luxe 8% A e in leave per12 em Denm ark 6% leav sick . es, 20 age ys in beri aver to 8 da en 4% Swed The , rob d 2% to LA 7 pare oyee sses muting com empl 7 per 46 GRI Index illne 0% days and hile com Sick 11 t ri e s s tha injurie ered in inju ents w region and Swedenessalsis not regist o 15 ark ted id Denm rela d acc up by ted. In FinWlanork related d illn 9 nd Worklities an ea Gro employeesrelaffateecd injuries. Finla 3 48 Social data k Wor Norw ay ta o rd ted 2 in N er to the numb of rk fa er en as wo rela es Swed en work in this tablengrefto/from work are se s ss 3 nts litie illne mbu rg cide Fata Luxe dom 6 ation mmuti Ac Inform when co while d King r ery ing 0 0 Unite 50 Environmental data occu ark. mut 2 Denm k Robb ses com nia Wor ca 0 0 0 Esto 5 ted a rela s 91 0 0 Latvi 9 rie 43 try Inju nia Coun 34 3 1 0 0 Lithua C* 9 d, NO 0 0 Polan 53 Taxation data 73 0 26 k De nmar 6 2 0 0 Russ ia 15 AG E Fi nland 10 0 0 0 0 AVER No rway 0 0 0 0 0 en Swed 54 About this report 0 roup 2 0 3 0 ea G nia Esto 0 0 0 0 Nord 4 a Latvi 123 re in 0 0 uctu nia Lithua Str C* 0 61 d, NO Age 4 55 Auditor’s review Polan 18-2 125 ia 4 AVE Russ 4% 25-3 L TOTA d 5% 35-4 4 roun roup 24% ckg rdea G 16% 45-5 4 l ba ona s in No -60 cati ol YEAR 55 e y scho 3 Edu mploye ed pr imar 201 61of e At tend from uate d 22% 5% Grad y school ee 29% ndar degr 7% seco rsity r unive gree Lowe ity de 31% ivers er un High YEAR 3 r 201 Othe To download a copy and for further information please visit www.nordea.com/csr 37% 20% We welcome your feedback. Contact us at csr@nordea.com Welcome from our CEO At Nordea we believe that enabling our customers, and thus the economy, to thrive is the most important part of our social responsibility. 2013 has been another year of low growth and interest rates declined to record-low levels. In this environment we have delivered a stable income level and seen a continued inflow of relationship customers. We expect that the economic growth and the interest rates levels will stay low for a prolonged period of time. As the last five years of recession and mediocre growth have proven, strong banks are vital not only for financial markets but for society at large. Throughout the crisis, Nordea has been a stabilising force in society, serving more customers and doing more business. And I am pleased that in 2013 we were again acknowledged as one of the world’s safest banks1. Our strong financial platform is fundamental to our ability to meet our customers’ needs and thus support economic growth, and to our ability to deliver on our relationship strategy and our most important value – creating great customer experiences. Building strong relationships Everything everyone does at Nordea has one purpose only: to create great customer experiences. At every level of our organisation, this message is the most important guidance for every action and every decision. We want to create long-term relationships with our customers, built on trust and accountability. We strive to understand our customers’ needs, present and future, and aim to make sure that our customers understand us, what we offer and why we suggest a certain service or solution. ” We recognise that we are part of society and want to do our share in creating a sustainable future.” Christian Clausen, President and Group CEO 4 CSR Report 2013 CSR in Nordea We are firm in our stance that no service, advice or legislation. Nordea has allocated many resources to product should be offered until our people know and these exercises, and all business areas and group funcunderstand our customers’ situation. This includes their tions are engaged in this work. These efforts require current financial situation as well as their ambitions patience from everyone – our people as well as our and goals. Once we understand and match their needs, customers – but it is work to which we are committed, we help them realise their aspirations and build longand that serves an important purpose in today’s world. lasting relationships. This is the core of our relationship strategy – ensuring financial stability for our customers, Minimising negative impact leading to high satisfaction and closer relationships. In Another important element of our responsibility is turn, these closer relationships lead to reduced risk for minimising the negative impact of our business on the the bank. environment. While as a financial institution, the direct environmental impact from our activities is relatively To enable this, we also strive to live our other values: It’s small, we still strive to minimise our negative impact all about people and One Nordea team. We believe that by reducing our CO2 emissions. In 2013, Nordea was people make the difference. When each and every one recognised as a Nordic leader in disclosing climate of us takes personal responsibility and when we team change data direct as well as indirect in the CDP up and work together smoothly and efficiently across Nordic Climate Change Report.2 The report shows how business areas, we deliver value to our customers. the world’s largest listed companies act in response to the changing climate. Compassion for community To an even greater extent, we also reach beyond our A long-term journey existing customers in our growing community involveWe recognise that we are an integral part of society, ment. We focus on the two main issues closely linked and as such, we want to do our share in creating a to our business, and towards which our people can use sustainable future. Our values, together with our code their core competencies: enhancing financial literacy of conduct and sustainability policy serve to guide our and encouraging entrepreneurship for young people. people in their behaviour towards customers and our We believe that, by supporting the empowerment of work to act ethically throughout Nordea. We are comyoung people, we can affect their future in a way that mitted to the UN Global Compact and integrating corwill be beneficial not only to them, but to society at porate social responsibility into our business. We know large. The desire to contribute is strong, and when actthat this will be a constantly evolving, moving target. We ed upon, the energy it generates is tangible, not only to are on a journey without an end – as the world continthe person involved, but to colleagues and customers. ues to change, we need to adapt to those changes. But we are moving along our chosen path. This is much like Compliance – a key focus area our commitment to great customer experiences, which The onslaught of new legislation in the aftermath of the is part of our DNA, but delivering on that commitment is financial crisis has been immense. One main element is, also a constantly evolving journey. of course, the capital and liquidity requirements to bolster banks’ ability to better respond to future crises. Another has the important objective of undermining criminals’ attempts to use the financial system for their activities. In 2013 we launched a project to further improve our anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism work. Christian Clausen This important work is very much present everywhere President and Group CEO in Nordea ensuring that we are not party to laundering money connected to or intended to be used to finance illegal activities, including terrorism. 1 Global Finance’s 22nd Annual Ranking of the World’s We are focused on incorporating all these new requireSafest Banks ranked Nordea the 20th safest bank in the ments into our existing framework. Gap analyses have world, and the safest bank in the Nordic Region. been performed on every new directive, regulation and 2 Formerly Carbon Disclosure Project *Formerly Carbon Disclosure Project Christian Clausen, President of the European Banking Federation In 2013 Christian Clausen continued The EBF works to achieve a single market financial markets and securities, retail his second term as Chairman of the in financial services. It fulfils a unique financial services and payments, financial European Banking Federation (EBF). role for the sector at the European level, reporting and taxation, corporate governThe EBF is based in Brussels, and has and is a European partner at the global ance and counteracting financial crime, 4,500 member banks from 31 counlevel. The EBF provides position papers the economy, business and trade, social tries with 2.5 million employees. on banking regulation and supervision, affairs and corporate social responsibility. 5 About Nordea Nordea is the largest financial we set and how we lead, listen to, develop and support our people. services group in the Nordic and Baltic •• Optimised value chain integration and decreased complexity: We aspire to adopt and develop best Sea region with market capitalisation practice and remain loyal to simplicity, transparency and reducing complexity, in order to manage our of approximately EUR 39,7bn and total resources while maintaining focus on our customers assets of EUR 233bn. Nordea had and their goals. •• Trust and responsibility: Our continued focus on com31,327 employees and close to pliance, and emphasis on implementing new rules and regulation quickly, makes it possible for us to 11 million customers at the end of 2013. capture the benefits of the investments necessary in order to comply also in the form of a deeper underNordea has leading positions within corporate merstanding of our customers and risks. chant banking as well as retail banking and private banking. It is also the leading provider of life and penToday Nordea has some 11 million customers, around 800 sions products in the Nordic countries. branch offices and a leading net-banking position. Nordea offers a wide range of products, services and solutions Our long-term strategic objectives reflect our convicwithin banking, asset management and insurance. tion that we are an integral part of the societies we serve. Our aim is to be an enabling, positive force for Nordea’s formal name is Nordea Bank AB (publ) and customers, society and investors by focusing on creatit is legally registered in Sweden with head offices in ing a sustainable business model for all our stakeholdStockholm. Christian Clausen is the Group President ers. Our vision is to become a Great European bank and CEO. At the end of 2013, we had 31,327 employwhich is acknowledged for its people, and creates ees. Nordea’s organisation consists of three main superior value for customers and shareholders. Our business areas geared towards increased flexibility, vision and strategic targets are firmly supported by our and focused on capital and cost efficiency. A detailed culture and values – Great customer experiences, It’s organisational chart is available on www.nordea.com. all about people and One Nordea team. Nordea has no major joint ventures, apart from Nordic Processor, jointly owned by Nordea and IBM that delivOur roadmap towards the future is primarily a result ers IT infrastructure services solely to Nordea. and reflection of the needs of our customers and the challenging macroeconomic and regulatory environThe Nordea share is listed on NASDAQ OMX Nordic ment in which we operate. Exchange in Stockholm, Helsinki and Copenhagen. With high market capitalisation and high liquidity, the During 2014 and 2015 we will continue to work with share is included in key indices. During 2013, the our main focus areas: Swedish State sold its remaining stake in Nordea. At the end of December 2013, the three largest share•• Balanced customer focus: We build on a customerholders were Sampo plc with 21.4% (21.4% in 2012) centric organisational design, in which we deliver the of the shares, Nordea Fonden with 3.9% (3.9%) and right products in the right manner at the right price. Swedbank Robur Funds 3.2% (3.4%). Nordea has •• People focus: We aim to nurture clear values and 449,572 shareholders who hold 4,049,951,929 shares. principles, reflected in the objectives and incentives In 2013 we received no state subsidies. Recognition and awards Nordea received several awards and recognitions during 2013. Some of the main awards were: More information on received awards •• Safest bank in the Nordic region by Global Finance Magazine is available on www.nordea.com. •• Best Banking Group Nordics by World Finance Banking Awards •• Best bank in Nordic region by Global Finance magazine •• Best Bank in the Nordics and Baltics by Euromoney 6 CSR Report 2013 CSR in Nordea NORWAY FINLAND 1,059,501 3,223,678 CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS SWEDEN RUSSIA 68,000 4,347,418 CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS ESTONIA 144,399 CUSTOMERS DENMARK LATVIA 113,281 1,848,858 CUSTOMERS LITHUANIA CUSTOMERS 157,817 CUSTOMERS INTERNATIONAL MARKETS Beijing, Frankfurt, London, Luxembourg, New York, Sao Paulo, Shanghai, Singapore Key financial figures 9,891m TOTAL OPERATING INCOME, EUR 21 b.p. LOAN LOSS RATIO 4,116m OPERATING PROFIT, EUR 11.0% RETURN ON EQUITY 14.9% CORE TIER 1 CAPITAL RATIO 0.43 PROPOSED DIVIDEND, EUR PER SHARE 7 Our impact on society Our financial impact on society is a combination of our own financial result and how we generate value directly to our customers, Deposits â suppliers and business partners, 119,8 BN€ employees, shareholders and OF DEPOSITS1 other investors. We also generate value to society through our stakeholders and by paying taxes. Stable or positive development We illustrated our impact for the first time in the Shareholders â 449,572 2012 CSR report. In 2013, the development of our financial impact has been generally stable or positive. Because we are a relationship bank, our ability SHAREHOLDERS1 to service and impact our customers and help them to fulfil their aspirations is most important to us. During 2013 we had close to three billion contacts 39,7 BN€ with our customers. Customers’ wishes on how MARKET CAP1 to interact with us have changed; mobile banking and contact centres are preferred more and more, however, it is still important that we also meet the 1,37 BN€ customer in order for us understand their personal DIVIDENDS6 finances in a comprehensive way and be able to make their ambitions possible. Customer meetings at an all-time high In 2013 Nordea’s advisors conducted more than 700,000 meetings with our household customers. This is approximately 130,000 more than in 2012. In these meetings we go through the customer’s overall financial situation, plans and needed soluDebt securities in issue â tions. Additionally we made almost 800,000 individual financial plans helping our customers to system186 BN€1 atically save and prepare for their future needs. Our assets under management grew from EUR 217,4bn to EUR 233 bn which is our all-time high. 1 Based on 31 Dec 2013 Other figures are In 2013 we increased our interaction with small based on full year 2013 and medium size corporates. We conducted almost 2 Net sales plus revenues from financial investments and sales of assets 290,000 advisory meetings compared to 230,000 in 3 Donations, voluntary contributions 2012. Our total corporate lending also grew. 4 Payments to suppliers, non-strategic investments, royalties and facilitation payments Our services to large and multinational companies 5 All monetary outflows for employees (current payments, not future commitments) developed positively in 2013. Our aim is to assist our 6 All financial payments made to the providers of corporate customers with all of their financial needs. the organisation’s capital 8 CSR Report 2013 CSR in Nordea Gross Taxes More on taxation â Household lending 927 M€ see page 53 274,700 MORTGAGES ISSUED IN 2013 ã 124,2 BN€ Donations 3 MORTGAGES 0,688 M€ 24,1 BN€ OTHER LENDING Revenues 2 ã 9,156 BN€ â Corporate lending ã 50,9 BN€ Purchases CORPORATE LENDING 2,1 BN€ 86 BN€ 1,000 CONTRACTORS1 BONDS AND SYNDICATED LOANS ISSUED IN 2013 ã â Wealth management 233 BN€ ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT1 1,599,513 NUMBER OF FUND UNIT HOLDERS1 â Advisory 711,632 ”360 DEGREE” MEETINGS 287,305 MEETINGS WITH SMALL & MEDIUM CORPORATES 788,080 ã FINANCIAL PLANS Employees 31,327 EMPLOYEES1 â Transactions 256,552,686 NETBANK TRANSACTIONS 2,9BN€ 19,446,161 BRANCH OFFICE TRANSACTIONS SALARIES AND OTHER CONTRIBUTIONS RELATED 1,349,449,580 CARD TRANSACTIONS TO EMPLOYEES5 974,466 NEW CARDS 217,899,182 MOBILE LOG-ONS 9 An informed CSR strategy In 2013 we continued to integrate materiality analysis has been the underlying factors that help our business succeed, and how they sustainability into our business, are managed and measured. The materiality matrix below shows the most important factors to us and our shifting the focus even more towards stakeholders. our everyday banking business. This report is structured around four main aspects of our core business. We describe how our customer Thanks to overwhelming participation in our Spring relationships (pp. 14-19), our people (pp. 20-25), our 2013 stakeholder survey, one of the highlights of the engagement with the community (pp. 26-27), and our year, we were able to gather a substantial amount products and processes (pp. 28-33) are connected of feedback, ideas and expectations on how we can to the impact we make on society. become an even more responsible company and convey that to our organisation at large. In addition to what we do, we explain how we operate. These topics are grouped under operational risk and Bilateral discussions were held with the three business governance (pp. 34-37), our corporate governance areas and group functions with the aim of improving framework (pp. 40-41), and our environmental footunderstanding of corporate social responsibility in the print (pp. 44-45). different parts of the group. This is an ongoing process, the outcome of which can most concretely be seen Finally, we attempt to illustrate the specific nature in 2013 in the adjustments we made to our corporate of a bank’s business compared to other businesses. social responsibility strategy. Customers’ assets, i.e. money and securities, flow through the banking system, but they must at all times Reporting on what matters to you be kept separated in the accounting system of the In this report, we focus on the issues that have the bank; they are assets and liabilities in the bank’s balmost relevance to our stakeholders and the greatance sheet (see the illustration on page 38-39 “What est impact on our business. The starting point for our we do and how”). Materiality matrix Values in daily Connecting HIGH work and with society leadership Motivated Customer people relationships & importance to stakeholders experience Diversity Simplicity in communications Risk & governance Responsible products & processes LOW LOW importance to Nordea HIGH 10 CSR Report 2013 CSR in Nordea Nordea CSR strategy A GREAT EUROPEAN BANK, acknowledged for its people, creating superior value for customers and shareholders LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY Engaging with society Communications CSR IN CORE BUSINESS Customer People Products & relationships processes QUALIFYING CSR Risk & Environmental Reporting governance impact Responsibility delivers results in a sustainable way, securing a solid foundation and Our CSR strategy is derived from our stakeholders’ a “licence to operate”. Our aim is to further integrate expectations, our business strategy, our corporate responsibility into our business and, by doing so, supvalues, our internal guidelines and policies, and our port our overall group strategy and distinguish us from external commitments. It sets a guideline for us to be our competitors. able to work with the challenges and opportunities we face in the societies in which we operate. Our community engagement and communications strategies reflect our intention to further develop and We aim to have a strong balance sheet, high ratings, enhance the positive impact our business has on sociand solid returns by running our business in a responety, and our dedication to communicating that impact sible way and engaging in strong relationships with our in an understandable and useful way. As these two customers. We believe that this positive spiral can creelements are related to everything we do, they are illusate a solid bank that attracts customers and the best trated as an element that surrounds the whole strategy. employees. Huge response to stakeholder survey Paying close attention to risk and governance, our In 2013, we conducted a web-based ‘virtual brainstormenvironmental impact, and transparency in reporting’ dialogue with all of our stakeholders – our customing ensures that we run the bank and its processes ers, employees, shareholders, suppliers, analysts, and ” By securing responsibility at the core of our daily work, we make sure we have the foundation to deliver on our business targets.” Liisa Jauri, Head of CSR Nordea’s stakeholder groups and engagement in 2013 Number of respondents Stakeholder Methods in stakeholder survey Participation group of engagement 2013, % of total respondents (4,020*) •• Customer satisfaction survey 95.000 responses Customers •• Feedback from individual 2,173 (50.1%) Close to11million cutomers customer meetings 95,000 responses •• Customer Ombudsmen 145,100 pcs of feedback •• Employee satisfaction survey 31,043 Employees •• Performance and 1,688 (39.2%) 31,327 employees Development Dialogue 29,179 •• One-on-one meetings Shareholders •• Roadshows with On a continuous basis 449,572 shareholders, 34% 247 (5.7%) Investor Relations throughout the year responsible investors •• Answering questionnaires Suppliers •• On spot reviews 6 26 (0.6%) 1,000 contracted suppliers •• One-on-one meetings Analysts •• Roadshows with On a continuous basis 47 (1.1%) Close to 30 follow us regularly Investor Relations throughout the year •• Answering questionnaires NGOs •• Facilitated discussion 50 invited, 5 signed 26 (0.6%) 50 identified with NGOs up, 4 participated On a regular basis Governmental authorities •• Disucssions 11 (0.3%) throughout the year * The sum of the amount of respondents to the stakeholder survey is larger than the amount of responses because some respondents indicated belonging to more than one stakeholder group. In addition to the above, 109 respondents indicated belonging to a stakeholder group labelled Other . nongovernmental organisations (NGOs). The link was discussion agenda brought input to our daily operaopen to the public at large, and was placed in most of tions, while the development agenda influenced the our stakeholder touch points, including social media. adjustments we made to our CSR strategy. We also contacted many of our stakeholders by e-mail. The survey attracted 4,020 responses and gave us over In addition to the stakeholder survey, we conducted 5,300 ideas on how to become a more responsible bank. a roundtable discussion with NGOs interested in our Because of the large number of responses to the survey, business from across all the Nordic countries. Four the results also covered a very wide range of topics. NGOs were present, and communications was chosen as the main theme for the discussion because it was We have conveyed our stakeholders’ responses to the raised by the NGOs in our stakeholder survey. relevant parts of our organisation, and integrated the main expectations into our materiality analysis. The surDuring the year, we are in constant dialogue with our vey’s methodology led to the results being divided into customers through our Customer Ombudsmen, who a discussion agenda and a development agenda. The received 145,100 pieces of feedback from our custom4,020 responses to 5,300+ ideas the stakeholder survey for our business 12 CSR Report 2013 CSR in Nordea Chairman: Ari Kaperi, ers in 2013. Customer feedback is also received Chief Risk Officer and member of Group through our annual customer satisfaction survey (p. Executive Management 18) and feedback is also gathered after individual customer meetings. Rodney Alfvén, Head of Investor Relations The dialogue with our employees in the Performance and Development Dialogue (PDD) discussions is an important part of our manageSasja Beslik, ment process; 94% of employees had a PDD with Head of Responsible Investment their immediate managers in 2013. Various other forms of dialogue also exist, and to encourage interactive and open communication between all Olli-Petteri Lehtinen, employees at Nordea, the possibility to comment Head of Corporate & Institutional on and respond to comments on articles on the Banking, Finland intranet has been introduced. Toni Elin Hindsgavl Madsen*, CSR Stakeholder Board We conducted a survey to understand how many of Union representative Nordea’s shareholders can be defined as responsible investors. The criteria used were whether the investors had endorsed the Principles for Topi Manner, Responsible Investment (PRI) or publicly stated Head of Retail Banking, Finland that they apply the PRI in their investment decision process. At the close of 2013, 34% of Nordea’s shares were owned by responsible investors (31% Henrik Priergaard, in 2012). Head of HR and CEO Office CSR governance Nordea’s CSR unit coordinates the group-wide Niklas Rydberg, CSR strategy, CSR initiatives and brings issues to Senior Business Developer, representative the attention of senior management. The Group from Young Significant Talent programme Executive Management (GEM) is responsible for approving the CSR strategy and goals each year. Tapio Saarelainen, The GEM receives an update on CSR topics from Head of Risk and Compliance Office, the Head of CSR three to four times annually. Group Corporate Centre The CSR Stakeholder Board is responsible for Rune Kibsgaard Sjøhelle, discussing strategic oversight and direction related Head of Brand Management to corporate responsibility. The Stakeholder Board, which includes members from senior management of all business areas and group functions, conJorma Timonen, vened four times in 2013. Chief Credit Officer, Head of Group Credit Risk Topics discussed in the Stakeholder Board and GEM in 2013 included the results of the CSR Liisa Jauri, Stakeholder survey, responsible lending, adjustHead of Corporate Social Responsibility ments to the CSR strategy, the CSR report, and development of a group-wide Community Involvement strategy. Lena Höglund-Rosen, CSR Manager * Replaced Hans Christian Riise in September 2013 3rd year in a row: Nordic leader CDP Report 2013 Nordea is acknowledged as a Nordic world’s largest listed companies act in ing, scoring 93 out of 100 possible leader in the financial sector in the response to a changing climate. This points and a B level on a scale of A-E. CDP* Nordic 260 Climate Change is the third year in a row that Nordea *Formerly Carbon Disclosure Project Report 2013, which tracks how the has made the Nordic leader rank13 In focus Relationship banking Customer feedback Accessibility The holistic approach of our relationWe gather customer feedback continuously Our multichannel relationship set-up ship banking model, and the supportand conduct a Customer Satisfaction surmeans the customer chooses where, how ing processes and tools, help us make vey annually. In 2013, we have also started and when to bank with Nordea responsible decisions in the customer’s to solicit feedback after individual customer best interest. meetings. 14 CSR Report 2013 Sustainability in core business Creating great customer experiences Everything we do at Nordea has one related advice. In response we have developed our advisory services and want to discuss retirement plans and purpose only: to create great customer savings with our customers as early as possible and help them prepare for the future. experiences. We start by understanding The regulatory environment has become very complex our customers’ needs and future in recent years. We have placed particular focus on aspirations. As we say, “We don’t developing tools and processes to simplify complexity and support financial planning in a responsible manner. advise you before we know you.” It is important that compliance is embedded in our daily operations to ensure that we give the right kind of advice based on the customer’s needs and plans. We continue by making sure that our customers understand the options available and provide solutions that The importance of small and medium-sized enterprises will meet their needs and aspirations. And we con(SMEs) to economic growth is substantial and we have stantly work towards reaching a consistent customer placed particular focus on our offering and our relationexperience across all our channels. ships with these companies. We know that trust has to be earned and we believe our Relationship banking approach increases trust in Nordea, helping us form longIn the 2013 CSR stakeholder survey, the main expecterm relationships and partnerships with our customers. tations on Nordea in terms of customer relationships were securing engagement with customers, and ensurChanging demands create opportunities ing accessibility to products and services. Our stakeBanking business is facing a variety of substantial holders expect us to show our values in our everyday changes in the societies where we operate: Customers’ work and simplify our communications with them. preferences on how to interact with banks have changed, the ageing population needs solutions to Meetings with customers are at the heart of how we prepare for long retirement, increasing regulation drives build customer relationships. In 2013 we held almost complexity and while at the same time customers 2 million customer meetings. During the same period we deserve individual and simple services, financial crisis exceeded 1.3 million active mobile banking users – and and instability have curbed economic growth. each of these customers uses the mobile bank more frequently. In 2013 we had close to 355 million log-ons We have witnessed fast changes in how our customto our Private Netbank. Our service agents handled an ers’ prefer to do their banking. They wish to take care increasing number of calls in the Contact Centres and our of their banking whenever and wherever. In response customers used their cards more than 1,234 million times. our multichannel relationship strategy will expand our Approximately 1,8 billion touch points constitute an enorservices, including financial advice, through multiple mous number of opportunities for providing our customers channels and at any time of day. with great customer experiences. Demographic changes and prolonged life expectancy We are proud of our skilled and dedicated employees, have created demand for more savings and savings our competences, and the tools and processes we have ” Embedding compliance into our daily operations ensures quality and also helps us contribute to a fair, safe and healthy society.” Lennart Jacobsen, Head of Retail Banking Responsible banking advice Training and continuous development Simulate Propose Verify Listen scenarios and confirm Knowing Understanding Understanding Presenting the the customer customer’s needs customer’s Budget most suitable •• Confimation •• Longand shortfinancial situation tool solution of identity term investments •• Income •• Daily services •• Defining needs for •• Finance for e.g. a •• Expences •• Finance banking services house, car etc •• Liabilities •• Investments •• Knowledge of finan•• Changes in •• Assets •• Retirement planning Credit cial instruments life situation •• Credit scoring •• Insurance tool •• Credit history •• Future plans •• Documentation Making sure the of information customer understands the proposed soluFinancial tions by documenting planning tool proposals, meeting minutes, following up on action points developed which enable us to support our customers Responsible investment advice in managing personal finances and planning for a finanIndividual financial plans are created to support our cially secure future. customers in realising their savings and investment goals. The financial planning starts with the customDuring a customer meeting, our financial adviser has a er’s needs, wishes and dreams, and translates them dialogue with the customer to understand his/her curinto financial goals. These goals are unique to each rent situation, needs, plans for the future, as well as the individual customer and can be of both short-term risk and return profile. The outcome of the meeting is (e.g. financing a holiday, car purchase or similar) or a an individual solution tailored for that customer. more long-term nature (e.g. quality of life during retirement). The advice we provide takes the customer’s Responsible credit decisions entire financial situation into account. Financial assets We want to make responsible lending decisions, be it are optimised based on a proven asset allocation for families needing a mortgage or businesses wanting concept, in which the customer’s risk propensity and financing. Responsibility entails that our service process time horizon are important parameters. Our advisors is designed to ensure the customer’s ability to repay the use financial planning tools that ensure high quality, loan, that we have support mechanisms when customconsistency as well as compliance with local and EU ers face difficulties and our marketing practices are regulations. responsible. In cases where customers face financial stress, we work proactively together with them to find a The investment advice process has proven successful, plan to cope with the situation. We also apply compliance and we have given an all-time-high number of close to procedures to our product marketing to ensure that our 800,000 advisory sessions on savings and investments customers have all the relevant information available in 2013. when making financial decisions. ” Our assets under management as well as the number of advisory sessions are at an all-time high, for which a prerequisite is the trust earned through responsible business practices. This makes us proud and humble.” Gunn Waersted, Head of Wealth Management CSR Report 2013 Sustainability in core business Silke Schøttler, Personal banking advisor, Hillerod and Stinna Gjedsted Jensen, Investment and pensions specialist, Sjælland Nord region Advice done right Q Silke, what do you like best about working Q What’s the most challenging part of your job? directly with customers? The best part is speakThe amount of new information we need to absorb and ing with them face to face and seeing their reactions. convey to our customers. When that happens, I can tell whether the customer has genuinely understood what we’re offering. Q Stinna? I would agree: the amount of new information we need to work with can sometimes be Q We know it’s important for a banking advisor to challenging. get to know their customer. How do you do that? The more I listen, the more I get to know the customer, Q And Stinna, how do you fit in to all this? and the more we talk, the more the customer trusts me. Well I support banking advisors with specialist penThen it’s much easier to advise them. sions and investment advice. When we have new systems or new legislation, I make sure the banking Q What are the real tangible benefits for a cusadvisors like Silke have the information they need to tomer of you getting to know them? The better I advise our customers in the best possible way. I might know the customer, the more targeted and accurate be in the customer meeting with them, but mostly I advice I can give. support them in preparing for those meetings and provide training on how to work with customers according Q With all of the rules and regulations we have to to the Nordea way. follow, you sometimes need to obtain certain information from customers, which could appear intruQ Does that work well for you Silke? Absolutely. If sive. How do you make sure customers understand I’m in a customer meeting and I have a technical questhat you’re asking for information to help them? I tion, I can call Stinna and she’ll guide me through the believe it’s important for banks to behave with integrity, process, and together we can deliver a great customer and I’m proud to work for a bank where this is considexperience. ered very important. When we explain why it’s important for us to behave responsibly, customers generally underQ And Stinna? I agree. Being able to help customers stand why we ask all the questions we do. Of course, I by working together as a team is the best thing about need to make sure I have asked the right questions! working at Nordea. There are lots of questions we need to ask to give Q Silke, what do you especially like about worksound investment advice. Some customers get frusing for Nordea? I like working with a large organisatrated because of all the time it takes. I explain that tion that takes compliance seriously. I also like being I have to know them and understand their financial part of a good bank that does things ethically for the circumstances before, for example, we can grant them customer’s benefit. And it’s great to have the support a loan. When we take the time to explain, it goes much available as well. more smoothly and customers are very understanding. 17 Feedback is essential Customer Compliance department, which was founded in 2008. The feedback serves as important informaRegular and ad-hoc feedback ➔ Customer feedtion for management in each country to constantly help back is valuable to developing our services. We wish to improve our services. receive it in all forms – through annual surveys, continuously through customer ombudsmen and ad-hoc after The main subjects for customer complaints through a customer meeting. As we aim to constantly improve Customer Ombudsmen in 2013 were the Netbank, our interactions with our customers across channels, we cards and availability of services. The total amount of offer the same channels for their feedback too. customer feedback in 2013 compared to 2012 has slightly decreased. We conduct a customer satisfaction survey annually and customers from all customer segments – Corporate, In 2013 we had nine substantiated complaints regardHousehold and Private Banking – are invited to particiing breaches of customer privacy or losses of customer pate in the annual survey. Customer satisfaction results data. We did not receive any fines for non-compliance are analysed in detail by customer segment and also at with laws or regulations relating to the provision or use region and in some customer groups on branch level. of our products and services. Follow-ups and action plans are mandatory. Individual service to In 2013, 95,000 customers responded and 22,000 of support business growth our competitors' customers responded mainly to the We have developed a specialised offering for small same questions. In 2013 we measured our ability to entrepreneur customers: one banking advisor covering deliver great customer experiences and our performance both the private and company parts of the customer compared with our peers. In addition to customer satrelationship. isfaction and loyalty measures, focus was on customer perception of the service in different channels. Small and medium sized enterprises are important for economic growth in the Nordic countries, and during At an overall level, our results in 2013 are on the same the second half of 2013 Retail Banking in Nordea grew level as in 2012. We marginally improved our position its lending to corporates by 1%. above the average scores of our Nordic peers. Large corporations and institutions also play an imporWe also solicit feedback after individual customer tant role in the development of Nordic economies, interaction. From spring 2013 we have measured our employment and prosperity, and we are committed to customers’ experiences of the service they received from supporting their economic activity. Together with our corour Contact Centre service agents in Denmark, Finland porate and institutional customers, we have been part of and Norway. The service agents and managers use the developing and growing the Nordic financial and capital results to learn about the successes and understand market, and driving market innovations by creating new where to improve. This data is collected with short autofinancial instruments. Among these is the corporate bond mated call-back surveys which take place within seconds market, where the variety of issuers and instruments after the customer’s call to the Contact Centre ends. In has expanded in recent years. We make it possible for general results have been positive and stable in all three our customers to choose between fixed income market countries. The plan is to use this method of gathering financing and traditional bank financing by providing customer feedback in branch offices as well in 2014. advice based on the best interest of the client. Customer Ombudsmen ➔ Our Customer In 2013, a new holistic customer service model was Ombudsmen in all Nordic countries gather customer created for our largest corporate customers. The main feedback registered in our customer management sysaim of this model is to fully support long-term customer tem. They forward this to the relevant business units on relationships, providing them with a high degree of a monthly basis, together with suggestions for improvepredictability for their business. To achieve this goal, a ments. In 2013, Estonia and Latvia had designated dedicated customer team with a wide range of knowlindividuals in charge of handling customer complaints. edge and competencies works together to understand In Lithuania, a Customer Complaints Committee fulfilled a customer’s strategy and business, shaping a customthis same function. In Russia, this role falls to the er plan that supports long-term predictability. ” Our relationship banking model helps us really understand our customer’s business so we can design a financing solution for their long-term success.” Casper von Koskull, Head of Wholesale Banking CSR Report 2013 Sustainability in core business Multichannel Nordea offers customers easy access to competent advice combined with easy to use self-service options. This multichannel relationship set-up means the customer chooses relationship where, how and when to interact with Nordea. We are developing our services and accessibility to further support the relationship with our customers in all channels. We want to offer our customers a true multichanbanking nel relationship bank expanding the concept of personal banking beyond the branch. Some highlights from 2013: Mobile: The extent of bank Contact Centres: Contact Chat: Norwegian customers services available via smart centre advisors are trained were able to chat with the phones, including the most to handle more and more Contact Centre. Personnel important daily services, complex financial matters solved around 70% of the continues to increase. The that used to require a branch issues directly in the chat. number of mobile logons has visit. During 2013 the Contact increased to over 180 million Centre opening hours were logons, by 117% from last year. upgraded to 24/7 in all Nordic countries. High quality remote Cash: We increased access to Faster automated meetings: We piloted and automated solutions for basic processes: We can now collected experiences on how cash services like foreign provide customers with quicker to conduct high quality remote exchange and deposits in responses. More than 70% of meetings that support more ADMs (Automated Deposit loan promise applications in complex advice and provide a Machines). In 2013 we Sweden were provided with better customer experience. installed 391 new ADMs. an instant credit decision. Experiences show that 9 out of 10 customers would like to meet remotely again. 19 In focus Our values Leadership Diversity Nordea’s values are incorporated into all The final programme in our leadership A number of initiatives were launched durour people processes, our training and pipeline was implemented. All leaders take ing the course of 2013 to ensure that more everyday leadership. Our values also form part in leadership training when they move female talents are motivated to seek leadthe basis for our leadership qualifications. from one leadership level to another. ing positions and are enabled to continue along the leadership career track. 20 CSR Report 2013 Sustainability in core business People make Nordea great As a relationship bank, it is our Great leadership creates purpose Great leadership at Nordea is the ability to engage and skilled and dedicated employees motivate people to reach out for our vision and the ability to create the right team to make that happen. and their ability to deliver great Leadership was a specific focus area in 2013, as we customer experiences that distinguish implemented the final programme in our leadership us from our competitors. Attracting, pipeline. In 2013, close to 30% of leaders at Nordea took part in leadership pipeline training. From now on, developing and maintaining all leaders will take part in leadership training when they move from one leadership level to another. The highly motivated people are leadership pipeline programmes support managers when stepping into a new management role, and leadamong our highest priorities. ership competence programmes support managers in developing specific competences in their current role. Demands from our employees and potential employees are changing as ways of life transform and new posOur leaders are assessed on their leadership comsibilities for ways of working emerge. Today, employees petences on a yearly basis through our employee expect flexibility and independence, and presence satisfaction survey and as part of the leaders’ individual is no longer as important as performance. Increased personal development discussion. In 2013, we saw an regulatory requirements and complexity in the financial increase in all leadership competences. industry create the need for continuous learning. Our values guide our work Nordea’s values are the basis of our People strategy. People strategy at Nordea They are incorporated in all our people processes, our Our People strategy is based on our values, training and everyday leadership. Our values are also Great customer experiences, It’s all form the basis for our leadership competences. about people and One Nordea team, and the needs from our business to achieve the Success in implementing the values is assessed in ambitious goals to build the future relationship the annual Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI). The bank. The strategy has three elements, results are used as an indication of how well we live encompassing all our key people processes: the values, and enable employees and managers to discuss the values, keep them alive, and use them as a •• Great leadership and talent management guide in reaching our business goals. Living the values is also part of the individual assessment in the yearly •• Strong performance culture Performance and Development Dialogue between •• Operational excellence every employee and his/her manager. ” Continuously developing our people is fundamental for us to stay ahead and deliver great customer experiences.” Henrik Priergaard, Head of Group HR Leadership competences are based on Nordea’s values Reach out Create ambition, clarity and purpose Great customer experiences It’s all about people One Nordea team ”Great leadership at Add Value Unfold potential Connect Nordea is the ability Direct focus Coach and give Team up and to engage and motivate towards customers feedback work together people to reach out for our vision and the ability to create the right team to make it happen” Foundation: Profit orientation and prudent cost, risk and capital management Make it happen Drive to achieve Continuous development This is why the discussion about development that is critical for our business takes place at the Performance & Development We recognise the importance of strengthening our Dialogue (PDD) is particularly important to help our talent management to make sure we have a continuous employees achieve their full potential. In 2013, 94% of flow of people moving into key positions that are critical Nordea’s employees took part in a PDD. to Nordea’s ability to deliver on its business goals. In 2013, we initiated an analysis to further improve the The foundation for successful performance is to way we work with talent management, and the impleunderstand the expectations and responsibilities of mentation of the findings will start in 2014. one’s work. To this end, an extensive project renewing all job descriptions has been carried through to clarify At Nordea, we believe that performance provides the expectations and responsibilities related to each posiopportunity to learn, and learning provides the capability tion at Nordea. to perform. A large part of talent development happens on the job, either through feedback and coaching Listening to employees from one’s manager, or through job experiences, tasks The topics raised by our employees are of major imporand problem-solving in one’s everyday work. Nordea’s tance to the success of Nordea’s business, and are employees received an average of 1,5 days of training, at the core of our People strategy; we have therefore including e-learning and classroom training in 2013. focused on them in the report. Solid development in leadership competences ESI results 2011 2012 2013 Reach out 77 76 77 Make it happen 76 76 77 Add value 77 77 78 Unfold potential 75 75 76 Connect 75 75 76 22 CSR Report 2013 Sustainability in core business Continuous improvement in employee feedback ESI results 2011 2012 2013 Satisfaction and motivation 72 72 72 Development 71 73 73 Considered a good workplace 74 74 77 Proud to tell others where I work 76 77 79 Recommend others to start working at Nordea 72 72 74 Living the values 78 79 79 Great Customer Experiences 80 81 82 It’s all about People 75 75 76 One Nordea team 79 79 80 CSR stakeholder survey ➔ Responses from over Well-being is feeling good at work 1,600 employees When people feel good at work, a culture of better performance is created. We wish to ensure the profThe main expectation brought up in the 2013 CSR stakeitability of our business by investing in our people’s holder survey of Nordea as an employer (see p. 11-12 for well-being at work. more information) was to ensure that our values are present in our daily work and in leadership. Diversity among We track the well-being and satisfaction of our senior management and the well-being of our employees employees as part of our annual employee survey, were also considered important. where the score on “Talking about stress and welfare is natural,” remained at 73 in 2013. Employee satisfaction survey ➔ Responses from over 31,000 employees (94%) Although the well-being of our employees is already an important element of daily work in all of our counThe overall results of our employee satisfaction surtries of operation, we are now looking into the need vey show that the Satisfaction and Motivation Index for a common structure for the group. In 2013, we remained unchanged, while employees’ commitment piloted a new well-being framework and follow-up stayed at index rate 81, the same level as last year, structure in Finland. Once the experiences from the exceeding the external benchmark by five points. pilot have been analysed, the decision will be made about whether to implement a similar structure in all The perception of Nordea as a good workplace has countries. risen by three points since 2012. The score of how proud employees are to tell others where they work has As a responsible employer, Nordea seeks to provide increased by two points, and the score of how likely a healthy working environment. Health and safety they are to recommend seeking employment at Nordea legislation in the Nordic countries is comprehensive has gone up by two points, both exceeding the external but varies. In Denmark, we provide our employees with benchmark. health insurance. In Finland, Norway and Sweden, occupational health care is closely regulated. In Estonia, Satisfaction with immediate managers remained at an Latvia, Lithuania, and Russia, the scope of occupational index rate of 79, confirming that Nordea’s managers health care services provided varies depending on local are above the industry average. legislation. In some cases, the collective bargaining agreements stipulate the content of Nordea’s health While the Development score remained the same, with and safety services. Our ambition is to support well-beNordea six points above the industry average, this is ing by preventive measures promoting health and considered an area to prioritise in the coming year. supporting active ageing. 23 ” The initiatives aim to change the culture of Nordea, so that in the future we will have many more women in executive positions.” Christian Clausen, President and Group CEO Continuing to pave the way Co-operation with employees for female leaders In the Nordic countries more than 70% of employees Given the fact that close to 60% of Nordea’s employare members of a union. Nordea seeks to have a good ees are women, the small amount of women in leading and constructive cooperation with union representapositions remains to be a challenge. In order to prevent tives at all levels. Representatives are elected among Nordea from missing out on talent among existing employees for local levels and for Business Area employees, which inevitably has spill-over effects on Consultative Committees that deal with change initiaNordea’s financial results, and to attract the best talents tives. The Group Council is a high-level collaborative in the industry, a number of new initiatives have been body that raises strategic issues and collects feedback launched in the end of 2013 to motivate more female from employee representatives. talents to seek leading positions and enable them to continue along the leadership career track. In 2013, talks began between Nordea and employee representatives in the Nordea Operations Centre in To understand the challenges specific to Nordea, Group Poland to structure a collective agreement. Executive Management initiated an analysis to identify the barriers to increasing the percentage of women in Responsible restructuring leading positions. A plan was created to ensure equal Nordea did not carry out any group-wide restructuring opportunities for women to achieve higher level manin 2013, however, due to continuous focus on cost agement positions. efficiency, some unit-level restructuring processes were implemented. Nordea divested its Polish banking, Initiatives to improve gender balance in 2013 include financing and life insurance operations to the largest setting requirements for the improvement of gender Polish bank, PKO Bank Polski. This change affected balance, supporting leaders to make the change hap1,970 employees who consequently became part of the pen in practice and developing support for dual career leading Polish bank. families. In cases of operational changes, terms are handled To supplement the ongoing initiative, a group policy to according to set collaboration procedures and local promote gender balance was approved by the Nordea legal requirements. Terms of notice range from one to Board in June. six months. CSR Report 2013 Sustainability in core business Cathrine Bognäs, Head of Branch Region, Stockholm City Private I wanted to become a leader because of good role models Q What is it like to be a manager in Nordea? we use them to structure our work. It is important I’m constantly developing even though I’ve been a to make the values concrete and it is easily done by manager for ten years. No matter which job or office adding “How” and taking responsibility for it. How will I’ve been in, I’ve always had good managers who have I ensure a great customer experience today? acknowledged me. These role models inspired me to become a leader too and help others grow. I appreciQ How do you see your workplace ate what I’ve received and want to pay it forward. compared to that of your friends or family? Nordea is a modern bank, a traditional business in a Q Why do you think that you are modern shape. It’s a young brand that’s fun to help a good manager? build. It’s also great to have management that’s preNordea offers really good training and leadership pared to listen, and to be able to contribute ideas. programmes. Plus, I really like people, and I’m driven The environment is open, perceptive and there is a by helping others grow. If I can help every person in will to change as an organisation that some think my team develop, even just a bit, it makes a differonly exists in smaller companies. It is about believence. It’s my job to lead the way, but it takes a team ing in the strategy, the values and, not least, the to reach our goals. No person can be on top 52 week ethics. weeks of the year, but a team can. Q What could be better? Q Where does your inspiration come from? I wish that reaching a gender balance on the manaFrom our values – they’re always present. I always gerial level would not take so long. Ideally of course use our values as a theme at staff meetings, and we should mirror society at large in all respects. Nordea Unlimited: Work is not a place, it is something we do During 2013-2016, approximately 10,000 requirements for leaders and employees – support the new way of working. We fully people at our Nordic headquarters will leadership and performance management believe that we will become an even more move to new or renovated buildings. are fundamental to working in this way. attractive workplace for both existing Nordea will leverage this opportunity “With Nordea Unlimited, the working and future employees,” says Ove Hygum, to implement a new activity-based environment will be more dynamic, there Head of Group Workplace Management. work concept which has been tested is more individual flexibility, and colFor the environmental effects of in Stockholm with good results. laboration opportunities are increased. Nordea Unlimited, see p. 44. This new way of working leads to new The flexibility and tools of the office will 25 A future for youth Improving financial literacy, enhancing entrepreneurship and employment possibilities for young people are at the core of Nordea’s groupwide community involvement. We can use our skills to address these challenges and make a difference to the communities in which we work and live. Entering into partnerships with organisations that share the same goals, we build strong relationships with individuals and groups along the way. The Nordea people who get involved in volunteer projects gain insight, energy and increased commitment to the community and to Nordea. In 2013, there was a clear correlation with the satisfaction and motivation of those employees who shared their competencies with the community. Some activities are the result of our employees’ responding to a need they see in the community. Nordea engaged in numerous activities to address the specific challenges in local communities. To read more, visit www.nordea.com/csr. Teaching about personal finance Our financial literacy programme began in 2010. It runs in all four Nordic countries and engaged 400 employees in 2013. Nordea’s private economists in each country lead the programmes locally and each branch region has an ambassador who coordinates the programme with schools. Banking advisors visit classes with students aged 13-18, and hold hands-on classes in personal finances. In 2013, we visited 664 classes spending approximately 1,665 hours. We were able to reach approximately 15,000 students and help them to better handle their personal finances. View from Ingela Gabrielsson, Private Economist Young people are our future and we have savings, spending and debt. If we don’t, it a duty to prepare them for the challenges will cost society a lot of money in the end. they will face. We can do that by educatI really enjoy developing content for the ing teenagers about personal finances. programme. I think we can all be very We need to empower the next generation proud of it and we should be talking so they make informed decisions about about it throughout the whole bank! 26 CSR Report 2013 Sustainability in core business Understanding how society works Me & MyCity is a miniature city built with mobile walls with room for 15 enterprises. The children, sixth-graders aged 12-13, spend a day at MyCity and role-play with scripts provided free of charge to the schools. Prior to the visit, they have ten classroom lessons on what it takes for society to function well. This has proved to be popular with children and teachers alike, as children get to try out future professions. MyCity has reached 25,000 sixth-graders and over 1,000 teachers. During the 2013-2014 school year, 50% of all the sixth-graders in Finland will undergo the study module. Me & MyCity was recognised by the European Enterprise Promotion Awards 2013 as a winner in promoting entrepreneurial spirit. Choosing your own future In 2013 employees at Nordea Markets continued as menEmpowering young people to take responsibility for their life tors in the organisation My Dream Now that helps 8th graders as a member of society can support them when facing the in schools located in underprivileged areas to set goals and challenges of adulthood. By utilising our competences, for plan how to reach them. example in participating in mentoring programmes, and supWith Jobs and Society, Nordea’s managers continue to porting organisations working to enhance these skills, we hope coach and support entrepreneurs in getting started in more to support young people in finding employment and lower the than 40 cities, as they have done for nearly 15 years. Jobs and threshold of considering entrepeneurship as a profession. Society is a non-profit foundation that works to support and coach people who want to become entrepreneurs. Examples of some activities & partnerships: Estonia ➔ Nordea organises Financial Wisdom Day, where Denmark ➔ Nordea’s advisors in Denmark help people who employees visit schools and discuss economics with students. need to get their personal finances back on track, organised by the Financial Supervisory Authority. Latvia ➔ Nordea Money School is open to customers and Nordea has partnered with Young Enterprise, an organithe public. The school is run together with parties including sation dedicated to developing the creativity, entrepreneurStockholm School of Economics in Riga. ship and self-esteem of children and youth through school Nordea’s staff dedicate a lot of energy to the Nordea competitions. Business School which takes entrepreneurs-to-be through a six-month free training course covering everything from having Finland ➔ Nordea participates in the President’s economic an idea to a meeting with an investor. skills programme for troubled youths, led by President Sauli Nordea also organises ‘speed dating’ twice a year – face Niinistö, to prevent social exclusion of children and youths by to face meetings with bank experts to talk about the specifics increasing their financial skills. of the profession and the bank’s work in general. The goal is to In 2013, Nordea in Finland partnered with Me & MyCity, promote trainee positions and potential working opportunities an award-winning organisation based on the Finnish school for young students. curriculum that promotes entrepreneurship early in life, giving children an understanding of the different roles and functions Lithuania ➔ Nordea runs Leaders’ School where Nordea in society. Nordea employees have been involved in giving employees engage with the best high school students and presentations for the 6th grade teachers during the teachers’ discuss leadership skills. The best performing 11th graders get kick-off days. the opportunity to get together and exchange ideas as well as to meet business leaders. Norway ➔ Nordea has partnered with Young Enterprise, an Nordea Lithuania also runs a Summer Camp Project organisation dedicated to developing the creativity, entretogether with Rotary for children from orphanages and poor preneurship and self-esteem of children and youths through families. school competitions. Nordea supports the education of talented children within different areas as well as the Lithuanian Honour Awards where Sweden ➔ In 2013 Nordea joined forces with Teach for particular talents are recognised and their education sponsored. Sweden, part of the global Teach For All organisation, which strives to provide quality education in lower socio-economic Russia ➔ Nordea employees visited high schools to boost areas. Nordea sponsors university graduates who spend two economic understanding as part of a national programme to years teaching middle school in disadvantaged areas to add raise financial awareness, run together with the Institute for inspiration. Development of Financial Markets. 27 Responsible returns In 2007, we were the first Nordic •• The United Nations Global Compact’s ten principles: -The Universal Declaration of Human Rights bank to sign the Principles for (Principles 1-2) -The International Labour Organisation’s DeclaraResponsible Investment (PRI). We tion on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (Principles 3-6) had already earlier begun to integrate -Rio Declaration on Environment and Development responsible investment principles into (Principles 7-9) -The United Nations Convention Against Corruption our own policies and procedures. (Principle 10) •• OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises •• Convention on Cluster Munitions Our responsible investment process In 2013, we continued to improve our responsible investInitially, Nordea’s Asset Management formalised ments process to ensure better returns. Highlights included: negative environmental, social and governance (ESG) screening of all our investments. This involved identi•• Continuing good performance of the Star funds fying companies breaching international norms, and based on positive ESG screening engaging with them to encourage positive change. •• Beginning full ESG integration into our investment The approach was then broadened to include positive management process screening, actively searching for companies that have •• Launching www.esg.nordea.com ESG aspects as part of their actual business. In 2011, we introduced our first investment product to include Star funds positive screening. Nordea Asset Management now has two funds, Swedish Stars and Emerging Stars, which invest in companies that International norms and conventions we take into combine financial returns with strong ESG performance. account include: The performance of these funds has been solid. How we work with responsible investments Knowledge Understanding Information Continuous awareness Gather perceptions of sustainCore of analysis is in-house, and research of sustainability from stakeholders e.g. clients, information bought from partners: ability development investors, NGOs, unions, media •• Norm based screening by Ethix •• Ratings by MSCI available for all fund managers In focus in 2013: In focus in 2013: Companies’ tax contribuSystematic meetings with tens of In focus in 2013: tion: met with 5 experts and representatives of stakeholders in Nordea’s analysts met interviewed 2 companies our home markets and globally with 50 companies 28 CSR Report 2013 Sustainability in core business Integration is key to managing risk As of 31 December, 2013, 23 companies are excluded Since ESG issues are an increasing source of risk and from all Nordea Asset Management’s investment funds. opportunity, we initiated a process to integrate ESG (See www.esg.nordea.com/engagment for full excludata, both positive and negative, as a factor in assesssion list.) Nordea Investment Management does not ing investments. The ESG data can help control risk in invest in companies that are involved in the production an investment portfolio, and is a potential indicator of of illegal weapons or nuclear weapons. Nordea does better performance. Full ESG integration will strengthen not offer household customers financial products where Nordea’s profile as one of Europe’s leaders in responsibasic food commodities are used as underlying asset. ble investment. Taking sustainable investments mainstream Nordea selected a provider, MSCI ESG Research, to Measuring social return is challenging and not yet conduct the research and integrate the information on mainstream. More guidance and models are needed a platform to which all of Nordea’s portfolio managers to place values on social and environmental outcomes have access. The database consists of more than 5,000 and predict what outcomes an organisation is likely to companies in 200 funds and close to 10,000 securities. achieve. More than 200 governments are also included. All portfolio managers throughout Nordea have been trained Nordea is working to take sustainable investments through workshops arranged by Nordea’s Responsible mainstream. To this end, we launched two new initiatives Investments & Governance (RIG) Team. in 2013: Engaging to drive change •• Nordea Life & Pension initiated research to come up We engage with companies that are alleged to have with models and workable templates for reporting violated international norms, and we conduct proactive non-financial outcomes of investments. The internaengagement dialogues with companies for which we tional project is run by the University of Cambridge see significant room for improvement in respect to ESG and supported by 11 international investors. issues. We also conduct thematic engagements, based on •• Nordea and CDP* produced a guide for investors to themes deemed to be increasingly important in the future. clarify the opportunities of the climate change investment case. The guide identifies more than 14,000 risks During the year, the RIG team conducted field visits measured and 8,000 opportunities, and is available free to four continents to review environmental and social of charge on Nordea’s and CDP’s websites. issues in business operations to better understand the challenges and opportunities that companies face. * Formerly known as Carbon Disclosure Project Application Engagement Adjustment Use the gathered information to Use the owner’s responsilibity Implement the findings assess portfolios to map out risks and and right to conduct systematic by concrete decisions for opportunities in companies & industries engagement when needed the investor’s benefit In focus in 2013: In focus in 2013: In focus in 2013: Conducted pilot project to establish Three norm-based engagements Made several divestments carbon footprint for investment portfolios concluded successfully for responsible investment reasons from various portfolios 29 Responsible lending Our customers trust Nordea to be a •• Commercial Real Estate •• Energy responsible citizen. One of the most •• Institutions •• Shipping, Oil and Offshore important ways we achieve this is •• Leverage Buy Out (LBO) Industry policy by being a responsible lender. Industry credit principles are established for industries where the two latter criteria above are fulfilled. Industry Our general credit framework builds on the Nordea Credit Principles are approved by the Group Credit Sustainability Policy. The framework includes two Committee of Wholesale Banking and confirmed by high level Group Directives adopted by the Board of the Executive Credit Committee. Nordea currently has Directors: Credit Policy and Strategy for the Nordea Industry Credit Principles for the following industries: Group, and Credit Instructions for the Nordea Group. •• Forestry The first directive establishes the overall principles. •• Telecom, Media and IT 1 For example, the granting of credit within the Group is always based on sound banking practice and high ethiThe industry policies and principles contain instructions cal standards. It also states that the Group should in no pertaining to specific issues, including a sustainability secway compromise generally accepted ethical and legal tion that covers relevant environmental, social and governprinciples, nor have dealings with counterparts that we ance (ESG) risks of the industry, and how to approach and suspect to be of questionable morality. manage the ESG risk assessment within lending. For household customers, this means that our processRisk assessment tools and processes es ensure their ability to repay loans, we have support At present, Nordea uses two tools to analyse ESG mechanisms for when they face difficulties, and our risks in corporate lending: the Environmental Risk marketing practices are honest and responsible. Assessment tool (ERAT) and the Social and Political Risk Assessment tool (SPRAT). We aim to move Industry policies towards a more risk-based approach to identify and There are specific industry credit policies and principles focus our efforts on potential higher risk cases. in place to define a common strategy for the distribution of our credit portfolio and improve risk management. In 2012, we initiated a project to develop our ESG risk assessment tools and processes. As the project continIndustry credit policies are established for industries ued into 2013, we decided to take a two-fold approach: where at least two of the following criteria are fulfilled: one for small and medium-sized corporate customers in Retail Banking, and another for large corporate custom•• Significant weight in the Nordea loan portfolio ers in Wholesale Banking. •• High cyclicality and/or volatility of the industry •• Special skills and knowledge required In Retail Banking, we are incorporating the ESG analyses as part of the Know Your Customer process. All Industry Credit Policies are updated and approved In Wholesale Banking, we are introducing a new ESG annually by the Executive Credit Committee and conanalyses tool, piloted in 2013. The new ESG tool is firmed by the Board Risk Committee. Nordea currently interactive and fine-tunes the analyses based on cushas Industry Credit Policies for the following Industries: tomer specific data (field of business, location of opera” In 2013 we experienced some real cases highlighting the importance of integrating ESG risk assessment into the business and credit processes.” Jorma Timonen, Chief Credit Officer, Head of Group Credit Risk CSR Report 2013 Sustainability in core business tions and headquarters, etc.) as well as location of supply chain and markets for products and services. The same tools will be used for Retail Banking corporate customers when the initial Know Your Customer process indicates a need for deeper analysis. We aim to finalise the tool in 2014, renew the relevant parts of the credit process, and incorporate the new way of concluding ESG risk assessment as part of credit decision-making. We will roll it out across the group, supported by a web-based interactive process. Renewed Equator principles guidelines The Equator Principles (EP) were launched in 2003 by the World Bank Group’s International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the banking sector, and adopted by Nordea in 2007. The EP is a credit risk management framework for determining, assessing and managing environmental and social risk in project finance transactions. In May 2013, the principles were updated for the second time and extended to include bridge loans, as well as project-related corporate loans. In addition, the EP now specifically addresses climate change. Nordea’s analysts and other relevant personnel have been trained in using the EP’s routines and tools. We hold internal seminars regularly to provide staff with updates and the opportunity for knowledge sharing. Nordea follows the Equator Principles Manual (“the toolkit”) for training and in the decision-making process. The toolkit is updated as the EP develops. Nordea is currently implementing the latest EP updates made in June 2013. The toolkit provides guidance on how to apply the EP in the day-to-day business of project finance deal managers. The ten principles contained in the EP are organised into four workflow steps: 1) initial project review; 2) project appraisal; 3) project negotiation, commitment and monitoring; and 4) external reporting. The steps match the Nordea project finance cycle, and are integrated with the general credit evaluation and decision workflow. Nordea’s EP Advisory Group reviews every project finance case for recommendation and classification. If the group decides on a positive recommendation, it establishes the terms and conditions for participating in the project, including environmental and social representations and covenants. Depending on the type of project, we monitor the performance of all active projects in the portfolio on a quarterly, semi-annual or annual basis, to ensure compliance with environmental, social and other conditions. The borrower provides annual social and environmental monitoring reports, usually verified by an independent expert. In any case of non-compliance, we determine an appropriate course of action together with the other lenders. In 2013 one project-related corporate loan reached financial close. Full EP reporting is available on www.nordea.com. 1 This is currently a draft and in the decision-making process Working with suppliers Nordea actively works to establish core principles (see p. 41). The Guidelines’ objective is to encourage and assist suppliers in adhering and nurture long-term relationships to Nordea’s principles for identifying, assessing and managing sustainability opportunities and risks, and to with suppliers with the aim of constant ensure constant improvements. improvement for all parties concerned. Our supplier management process includes tools for working with suppliers, and on-spot reviews to In 2012, we implemented a new corporate social analyse how our requirements are being followed. responsibility (CSR) supplier management process to The requirements are legally binding, thus enforcing ensure clarity around our sustainability requirements on their effect. our suppliers. On-spot reviews in 2013 In 2013, we conducted six on-spot reviews to make The six on-spot reviews we performed in 2013 were sure we are on the right track. We will continue the based on risk analyses. We took into account factors journey in 2014 by developing a long-term responsible including the supplier’s strategic relevance to Nordea, sourcing strategy, and embed this work with our supplithe total annual spend, and the supplier’s field of busiers into our day-to-day business. ness. Generally, we review the suppliers with which we have the most substantial relationships, and also Reasonable expectations include smaller suppliers that have topical sustainability We believe in reasonable and balanced expectations. We elements in their field of business. understand that the way of implementing the required principles varies depending on the supplier’s size, geoOn-spot reviews take two days, using the United graphical location and field of business. We expect that Nations Global Compact Management Model to large suppliers have documented internal policies and analyse the supplier’s compliance with Nordea’s management systems in place, whereas a lighter implerequirements. We meet with representatives from the mentation level is acceptable for smaller companies. management, relevant business areas, employees and union representatives. Depending on the supplier’s Clear requirements industry, we discuss topical issues and address risks The Nordea CSR Supplier Guidelines explains our areas and common opportunities between Nordea and expectations, based on the UN Global Compact’s ten the supplier. Summary of the main findings from on spot reviews in 2013 Material nonIndustry Challenges Opportunities Actions compliance Facility Management Working permits, high turnover First entry to labour market Develop benchmark and None for non-natives. Improve improve environmental goals energy efficiency and reduce CO2 emissions Telecommunications Data security, network Consider full life cycle Further develop management None availability impact on products systems and potential supply chain risks Furniture production Transparency in supply chain Refurbishment/ reuse and Developing the supply None recycling of furniture chain management and streamlining processes Cleaning Use of detergents, Translating work processes Further develop management None transportation, working to common languages among systems. Formulate process permits, high turnover the workforce. Continue for handling illegal workers to focus of minimising environmental impact Transportation CO2 emissions, safety, Continue to focus Focus on reducing None labour rights on minimising joint sick-leave and improve ecological footprint employee satisfaction Manufacturing Labour rights, chemicals in Jointly work on reducing Improve supply chain None production, CO2 emissions environmental impact of transparency and develop in transportation marketing material management systems 32 On spot reviews 2013 CSR Report 2013 Sustainability in core business TDC: “Demanding and thorough” TDC is a telecommunications provider and communications to improve stakeholder is Nordea’s supplier of mobile subscriptions awareness in these areas. in Denmark and Sweden, and mobiles and mobile accessories in Denmark, Finland and Benjamin Alberti, Head of CSR at TDC: Sweden. The Nordea review team visited TDC in ”This is the first time we’ve received a Copenhagen on 7 and 8 November. request for a CSR Review process of this TDC is a critical supplier to Nordea, proportion from a client. While it was a expected to provide telecommunication demanding process, it was also positive services that are constantly available, to experience such genuine interest in our stable and secure. Therefore one of the approach to CSR. focal discussion points at the review was The scope of the review was quite broad, the recent network supply contract signed which made the process demanding and with Huawei in China. During the review, thorough. The review process made it clear the Nordea Review Team were satisfied to us that there are a number of areas in that appropriate actions had been taken. which we perform quite well – but about For instance, TDC had visited the supplier which we haven’t communicated much in numerous times, and workers in Denmark the past. Understanding what’s important to are covered by the Danish collective our stakeholders is vital to our work, and in agreements. In general the review proved that sense the review process has given us that TDC has a strong commitment in a better idea of where to focus our energy.” many areas, but is encouraged to increase SAG: “Good chance for improvement” SAG (Special Ad Group) is a long-time were produced under fair working condiThomas Davidsson, CEO, Wackes: supplier of promotional items (Jalmar tions. The visits at Wackes and Logonet “This was very positive. We have been piggy-bank etc.) for Nordea. The group demonstrated strong intentions and doing a lot of things by ourselves internally consists of four companies in the high ambitions, but also revealed that, for a long time. Now we realise that we Nordics: Logonet Promotion (Finland), to ensure full transparency, there should have to communicate what we are doing Baxx Promotion (Denmark), Wackes be more back-up with more detailed to our clients.” (Sweden) and Strömmes (Norway). SAG documentation of processes. SAG was selected because Nordea wants to also gave the feedback to ensure that product safety is not comproNordea that they wish to mised in the customer giveaways. be involved earlier in Two representatives from the Nordea the planning process. CSR review team visited Wackes in Doing so will enable Sweden and Logonet in Finland on 2 and SAG to use sea 3 December. transport instead A few of the items SAG procures for of air transport Nordea are produced in the Far East, of the prodand it was therefore of vital importance ucts, leading to ensure the safety of these products to lower total as well as gaining satisfaction that they emissions. ” Engagement and co-operation encourages our suppliers to improve their performance, which ultimately benefits all of Nordea’s stakeholders.” Erik Gjötterberg, Head of Group Processes, Nordea In focus Compliance in everyday business Awareness training Ethical behaviour Making sure that we carry out all necesEfficient e-learning modules on compliAn internal audit in 2013 examined the extent sary steps to secure compliance in every ance and Know Your Customer issues are to which Nordea has adapted relevant policustomer interaction is the only possible directed to all employees, and participation cies, and set targets in the management sysway to ensure strong relationships. is monitored. tem to ensure that ethical behaviour principles are known throughout the organisation. 34 CSR Report 2013 Responsible operations Compliance for a safer society Ethical business conduct and overall risk management approach, including risk profiles, control framework and assessment of material compliance with applicable laws and risk issues. regulations are fundamental aspects Managers are responsible for day-to-day oversight of compliance risks. Supported by the Group’s operational of Nordea’s corporate culture. Risk and Compliance function, they identify, assess and mitigate compliance risks. The most significant risks We look at compliance not just as something we have reported from all parts of the Group are consolidated to do to earn and retain our “licence to operate,” but as into a Group Risk Map presented to Group Executive something we want to do, because ultimately, it builds Management, the Board Risk Committee and the Board trust with our customers and makes society safer. of Directors. Risk governance Anti-money laundering Operational risk management and compliance are While knowing our customers helps us to provide them an integral part of everyday business at Nordea. The with better service, it’s also part of our responsibility as substantial amount of new directives and regulations a member of the global banking community. Nordea’s aimed at securing banks’ stability and customer protecanti-money laundering (AML) work is based on internation demonstrate how vital strong and well-functioning tional regulations with the ultimate goal of ensuring that banks are to society. For us, making sure that we carry funds from illegal sources cannot be laundered through out all necessary steps to secure compliance in every the banking system or used to finance terrorism or customer interaction is the only possible way to ensure illegal operations of any kind. The purpose of AML is to strong relationships. protect not only the financial system and our customers, but society at large. Ensuring the content and implications of all new requirements demands a gap analysis and potential Preventing money laundering was one of our main adjustments each time. In 2013, this work demanded focus areas in 2013. In April 2013, the Swedish vast resources throughout the organisation, espeFinancial Supervisory Authority issued a remark and a cially from the Operational Risk and Compliance penalty of 3.5 million euros to Nordea Bank AB for lack Organisation and Group Legal. The work has attenof sufficient governance and internal control relating to tion from the top, with direct lines to Group Executive anti-money laundering regulation. We share the view Management and ultimately the Board of Directors. that governance and control of procedures and routines relating to AML legislation are important and need to The Board of Directors of Nordea Bank AB bears the be prioritised. In 2013, Nordea changed AML governultimate responsibility for the Group’s compliance with ance from a national to business area focus to improve laws and regulations, with the Board Risk Committee governance, and established a group-wide programme overseeing the management and control of these to track, coordinate, and report on AML-related activirisks. The Committee regularly reviews the bank’s ties across the bank. ” Risk management and compliance are more important in the financial industry than ever before. For us, they are also part of building genuine relationships with our customers.” Ari Kaperi, Group Chief Risk Officer Group Operational Risk and Compliance facilitates the Training – from front line programme, and each business area is responsible for to Board of Directors execution. Group executive management representaThe operational risk and compliance training protives from each business area are engaged to ensure gramme targets all employees from front line to the relevant group-wide issues are addressed and decided Board of Directors. Nordea has efficient e-learning upon. Each business area has carried out a number modules on compliance and Know Your Customer of AML-related activities including gap analyses, risk issues that are directed at all employees, and particiassessments and ongoing development of IT solutions pation is monitored. Modules completed in 2013 were to support the AML work. The work is now focused on anti-money laundering and bribery and corruption creating long-term solutions to further integrate AML prevention. Both modules had participation of approx. into the processes and procedures of our daily business. 90 per cent. Next in line are modules on operational risk and integrity combining Nordea’s Code of Conduct A major delivery in 2013 was to issue more detailed and Sustainability Policy. Know Your Customer (KYC) instructions, which provide the framework for ensuring proper knowledge of who The work on a Compliance Awareness Programme we are doing business with, where their money comes for Senior Management continued in 2013. Several from, and the purpose of the transactions. The gap modules have been updated, and a module on analysis between the old and new KYC guidelines is Business Continuity Management and on Recovery and on-going across all business areas. Implementation Resolution Planning were released. The Programme will start in and continue through 2014, with priority on has been rolled out to all relevant Nordea Boards. thoroughness, ensuring solid integration into business, and proper training of staff. Through this constant Nordea’s compliance officers keep watch process, risk assessments in the AML and KYC areas All Nordea employees are responsible for keeping will identify potential needs for on-going updates of the Nordea compliant on a daily basis. 160 Risk and AML framework and processes in the bank. Compliance Officers support them and help them understand, manage and mitigate compliance risks. We recognise that customers react differently to They are there to ensure that colleagues have received questions about the origin of cash and the purpose of adequate training on the necessary procedures and their business activities. Still, we firmly believe in the processes, and that the information about products and importance of requesting such information, and after services is accurate and understandable. The Risk and explaining this to customers, the vast majority are more Compliance Officers report on progress and recomthan happy to cooperate. When difficult situations do mend improvements when necessary, working alongarise, branch managers hold debriefing sessions. side, but independently from, the bank’s business units. Awareness training in 2013 Name of training Goal Target group Anti-money laundering •• Create a common level of awareness All employees about AML challenges •• Raise the importance of sound KYC practices •• Underline the obligation to follow mandatory rules Preventing bribery and corruption •• Raise awareness about how to conduct All employees business with customers, suppliers and service providers according to the high ethical standards described in Nordea’s Code of conduct and Nordea’s Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy and external regulations Business continuity management •• Raise awareness about what Senior managers and Board of Directors to know and do in case of operational disruptions Recovery and resolution planning •• Raise awareness about what Senior managers and Board of Directors to know and do in relation to recovery and resolution planning 36 CSR Report 2013 Responsible operations ” Nordea believes that ethical behaviour correlates with positive returns. Our 2013 audit focus has assessed the implementation of the CSR framework into ethical business processes.” Eva-Lotta Rosenqvist, Group Chief Audit Executive The Risk and Compliance Officers also have a key role Internal audit 2013: Ethical behaviour in the risk assessment and product approval process. The scope of Nordea’s internal audit function includes All of Nordea’s new or changed products go through all internal processes and procedures. The audit an extensive Quality and Risk Analysis process. This team is independent and reports directly to the Board covers the products’ marketing materials as well as the of Directors. In 2013, the team focused on ethical products themselves. behaviour. Their audit examined the extent to which Nordea has adapted relevant policies and set targets Whistleblowing in the management system to ensure that ethical In 2012, Nordea introduced a group-wide whistleblowbehaviour principles are known throughout the organing system called Raise Your Concern whereby isation. The audit also noted that Nordea reports on employees can report concerns anonymously and be non-compliance, carries out systematic follow up, and safe from retaliation. In 2013, ten cases were reportdelivers open and reliable reporting. ed and investigated. One case remains open but will be closed in 2014. Whistleblowing cases are handled according to instructions ensuring that Group Security follows Nordea’s processes for Internal Crimes. Interactive test ensures learning In 2013, approx. 90% of Nordea employgreat that you can do it when it suits you, ees completed two e-learning modules: within the given time frame of course. I like one on anti-money laundering and the that there’s a test at the end that makes second on preventing bribery and corrupsure that you understand the information tion. Here is one employee’s experience. that you need. If you respond incorrectly, it explains why your answer was wrong. Then Morten Olimb works with Nordic you can keep trying until you get it right, so Corporate Business Development in Retail you learn as you go. I think that adds value. Banking. He lives and works in Oslo, Norway and joined Nordea in 2012. Q What do you think could be better? An advanced level Q What do you think about the e-learnwith more challenging questions ing modules? It’s a really good way to get would be a good continuation. the information you need with relative ease. Q Do you feel that the e-learning Q Was it easy to take in the inforwas relevant for your work? Definitely. mation? Yes. The modules provide a I work with sales processes, so it’s really good overview and explain why this is important to understand all these aspects. important and how we need to think and act. The visuals and voice make it Nordea initiated e-learning within easy to take in a lot of information. Operational Risk and Compliance in 2012, and will continue in 2014 with a module Q What do you particularly like on integrity covering Nordea’s Code of about the e-learning modules? It’s Conduct and Sustainability Policy. 37 What we do and how: banking made simple Customers’ and others’ needs Bank’s core business The what NORDEA BUSINESS FLOW Customer deposits, all money Customers held on bank accounts = depositing money Bank’s liability to the customer Bank acquires additional Investors capital from capital markets = in capital markets Liability to investors Customers Bank grants loans to customers = needing loans Bank’s assets Bank invests excess capital Investors in the capital markets = in capital markets Bank’s assets Sender of an invoice Bank processes transactions Payer of an invoice Customers’ savings Bank invests savings in funds and securities Funds and securities Services Bank advises and provides and advice additional services The howENSURING WE OPERATE PRUDENTLY Main guidelines affecting in general the behaviour of employees: •• Code of Conduct -Guide to sound business relationships -Raising your concern instructions •• Sustainability Policy •• Conflicts of Interest Policy •• Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy -Instructions on gifts, benefits and events (see p. 34-37) 38 CSR Report 2013 Responsible operations Sources of income Money used for Bank’s profit Net interest income Operating bank’s = bank earns when services and Taxes the interest of loans IT systems granted is higher than interest of deposits Customers State and community Bank earns fees Salaries Equity accrual Employees Shareholders Other expenses like rents, purchases, services, investments Dividends Bank earns fees Companies offering goods and services Shareholders Main guidelines affecting Main guidelines: Main guidelines: work performed: •• Remuneration Policy •• Tax Policy (see p. 53) •• Customer Identification process (see AR p. 73) •• Capital Policy (see AR p. 13) •• Policy for Anti-Money Laundering and •• Sourcing Policy Counter-Terrorist Financing risk management •• CSR Supplier Guidelines -Instructions on sound Know Your (see p. 32-33) Customer procedures •• Data security guidelines and processes •• Credit related policies and guidelines (see p. 30-31) •• Responsible Investment strategy •• Responsible investment process (see p. 28-29) 39 Corporate governance Strong corporate governance No Board member elected by the General Meeting is employed by or works in an operative capacity in the balances the various stakeholder Company. All Board members and the deputy Board members appointed by the employees are employed interests and ascertains that Nordea by the Group and therefore not independent of the Company. The Board adopts written work procedures is both well governed and well governing its work (“the Charter”) annually. The Charter managed. In Nordea, in addition to is an internal document that sets forth the Board's and the Chairman's areas of responsibility, documentation the traditional corporate governance and quorum as well as the frequency of meetings. It also contains rules regarding conflict of interest framework, the implementation of and confidentiality. For further details, please see the Annual Report (pages 66-72 and 212). our international commitments is also All employees part of good corporate governance. The Board adopts directives for the operations of the Group, such as the Code of Conduct2 and the Nordea Sustainability Policy3. All employees and business activities need to comply with the standards of The Board of Directors integrity and fair business ethics as stated in the Code Nordea complies with applicable rules regarding the of Conduct, including those regarding conflicts of independence of its Board. The Nomination Committee interest: considers all members elected by the shareholders to be independent of the Company and its executive •• Conflicts of interest between Nordea and its custommanagement. ers are identified and prevented or managed so that customers are justly treated. All Board members elected by the shareholders, apart •• Employees do not participate in business transacfrom Björn Wahlroos and Kari Stadigh, are independtions where a conflict of interest could arise with their ent in relation to the Company’s major shareholders. own economic standing or with a third party where a Björn Wahlroos is board chairman of Sampo plc and close relationship exists. Kari Stadigh is managing director and CEO of Sampo plc, which owns more than 10%1 of all shares and Following international commitments votes in Nordea Bank AB (publ). Thus, the number of through internal policies Board members who are independent in relation to the The Code of Conduct and the Nordea Sustainability Company and its executive management as well as Policy are the core CSR policies. The Code of Conduct is independent in relation to the Company’s major sharebased on the ten principles of the United Nation’s Global holders exceeds the minimum requirements. Compact. The Nordea Sustainability Policy spells out the 1 According to the Code of Conduct, a mem2 http://www.nordea.com/sitemod/upload/ 3 http://www.nordea.com/sitemod/upload/ ber of the board, who is employed by or is root/www.nordea.com%20-%20uk/ root/www.nordea.com%20-%20uk/ a board member of a company which is a aboutnordea/csr/CodeOfConduct_uk.pdf aboutnordea/csr/SustainabilityPolicy.pdf major shareholder, is not to be regarded as independent. In this context, a major shareholder is defined as controlling at least 10% of the shares or votes in the company. As of end 2013 Sampo plc represented 21.4% of the shares and voting rights in Nordea. 40 CSR Report 2013 Responsible operations Group’s values and commitments to ethical business. Please see www.nordea.com/csr for further details. Both apply to all personnel and all who work on behalf of Nordea. The main policies and international commitments In addition to the conventions in the table below, are supported by specific and concrete policies to ensure Nordea follows the United Nations’ Universal compliance in everyday business. Examples are the Declaration of Human Rights, ILO-conventions and the human resources policies, the anti-corruption policies, and OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises in our several investment and credit policies. operations and business. International Commitments Objectives Implementation in Nordea United Nations Environment The UNEP FI is a global partnership Nordea signed the UNEP FI in 2001 Programme Finance Initiative between UNEP and the financial sector. UNEP FI: Institutions, including banks, insurers and fund •• guides us in how to take environmental UNEP FI managers, work with UNEP to understand and social considerations into account the impacts of environmental and social in our own operations and business considerations on financial performance. decisions, especially in lending •• is one of the commitments forming the basis for the Nordea Sustainability Policy. UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy Nordea signed the UNGC in 2002 initiative for businesses that are committed UNGC: UNGC to aligning their operations and strategies •• guides us in how to take environmental, with ten universally accepted principles in the social and governance considerations areas of human rights, labour, environment into account in our own operations and and anti-corruption. By doing so, businesses business decisions, especially in lending can help ensure that markets, commerce, •• forms the basis of Nordea’s technology and finance advance in ways that Code of Conduct benefit economies and societies everywhere. •• is one of the commitments forming the basis for the Nordea Sustainability Policy •• forms the basis for our requirements towards suppliers expressed in Nordea’s Supplier Guidelines. Equator Principles The Equator Principles is a credit risk Nordea signed the EP in 2007 management framework for determining, EP: EP assessing and managing environmental and •• is used in project financing and have been social risk in project finance transactions. incorporated into Nordea EP Manual Project finance is often used to fund the that is utilized in preparing the cases, the development and construction of major decision-making process and training infrastructure and industrial projects. •• is one of the commitments forming the basis for the Nordea Sustainability Policy. Principles for Responsible The UN-backed Principles for Responsible Nordea signed the PRI in 2007 Investment Investment is an initiative in partnership PRI: with UNEP FI and UNGC. PRI consist of •• is the basis for Nordea’s responsible PRI six principles and reflects the view that investment strategy environmental, social and corporate governance •• is one of the commitments forming the (ESG) issues can affect the performance of basis for the Nordea Sustainability Policy. investment portfolios and therefore must be given appropriate consideration by investors. 41 Overview of corporate governance structure Auditors Shareholders in General Meetings The auditors are elected by the General Meeting The General Meeting is the Company’s highest decision-making body, where the for examination of the company’s annual report shareholders exercise their voting rights. They are held in Sweden where Nordea is and accounts and the administration of the legally registered. At General Meetings, each shareholder is entitled to vote for the Board and the managing director. The auditor’s full number of shares that he or she owns or represents. Nordea is not entitled to work follows an annual audit plan based on vote for its own shares at General Meetings. Each shareholder also has the right to a comprehensive risk assessment. Auditors have items included in the agenda providing a request has been submitted to the present the reports to the shareholders at the Board in due time for the item to be included in the notice of meeting. The General AGM in their audit report. They also provide Meeting also provides all shareholders with an opportunity to express their opinions assurance on the CSR Report. in regards to our CSR work. SHAREHOLDERS IN AUDITORS NOMINATION COMMITTEE GENERAL MEETING BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT RISK REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GROUP INTERNAL GROUP AUDIT COMPLIANCE PRESIDENT AND GROUP CEO GROUP RISK Elected/appointed by MANAGEMENT (CSR) Reporting to/informing EXTERNAL FRAMEWORK INTERNAL FRAMEWORK Legalisation, regulation, the Swedish Corp. Articles of Association, the Charter, instructions for the CEO, policies, Governance Code, stock exchange rules instructions, guidelines and Nordea’s values External CSR Framework Group Internal Audit (GIA) Group Compliance international commitments GIA is an independent function Continuously reviews The international treaties we have signed guide commissioned by the Board. The and monitors the Group’s us and help us live up to Nordea’s over-riding purpose of GIA ’s assurance activity adherence to laws and commitments. Nordea is committed to the: is to add value to the organisation by regulations. Group • UN Global Compact assuring the quality of the governance, Compliance is a part of the • UN Principles for Responsible Investments risk management and control Group Risk Management • UN Environmental Programme Finance Initiative processes as well as promoting organisation. • Equator Principles. continuous improvement. Group Risk Management Exposure to risk is inherent in providing Nordea has clearly defined risk, liquidity and CSR Secretariat The CSR Secretariat is financial services, and Nordea assumes capital management frameworks, including responsible for coordinating the CSR work a variety of risks in its ordinary business policies and instructions for different risk types within the Group, proposing overall policies, activities, the most significant being credit and for the capital structure. strategies, and goals, as well as presenting the risk related to lending. The maintaining of risk results to GEM. awareness in the organisation is incorporated Group Risk Management is a Group Function in Nordea’s business strategies. headed by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) of the Group. The CRO has CSR as his area of responsibility. 42 CSR Report 2013 Responsible operations Nomination Committee In accordance with the Code, Nordea has in Nordea at a set date shall be entitled to giving the background and the considerations a nomination committee representing the appoint one member each. The committee of its proposals. The Statement is published on shareholders, which is established by the prepares the decisions on appointments, and Nordea’s homepage. In the process of drawing AGM. The committee shall consist of the remunerations to be taken by the shareholders up propositions of Board members, knowledge chairman of the Board and four other members. at the AGM. The committee issues a Statement of CSR issues is one of the parameters to be Shareholders with the four largest shareholdings on the proposal regarding the board of directors taken into considerations by the committee. Board of Directors Composition of the Board. The Board Committees. In accordance The Board Remuneration Board currently consists of nine members with the external framework and in order to Committee (BRC). Prepares and presents elected by the General Meeting. In addition increase the effectiveness of the its work, proposals to the Board on remuneration three members and one deputy member the Board has established separate working issues. When preparing such proposals, are appointed by the employees. Employees committees to assist the Board in preparing BRC shall take into account the long term are entitled under Swedish legislation to matters belonging to the competence of the interests of shareholders, investors and other be represented in the Board. The CEO of Board and to decide in matters delegated stakeholders in Nordea. Nordea is not a member of the Board. The by the Board. The duties of the Board appointment of the employee representatives Committees, as well as working procedures, The CSR work of the Board. Nordea is to ensure a full process of informing are defined in the Charter. Each Committee does not have a specific CSR committee. The and consulting employees about working regularly reports on its work to the Board. The governance and of the CSR work is performed relationships. Further, according to the Articles minutes are communicated to the Board. by the Board as a whole. The Board is the of Association the aim shall be that the highest governing body responsible for the Board, as a whole, for the purpose of its work, The Board Audit Committee (BAC). Group’s CSR performance. The Board assesses possesses the requisite knowledge of and Assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight our sustainability performance whenever experience in the social, business and cultural responsibilities by, for instance, monitoring the needed, however at a minimum once a year. conditions of the regions and markets in which Nordea Group’s financial reporting process Part of this evaluation is to ensure sufficient the main activities of the Group are carried out. and, in relation thereto, this the effectiveness knowledge of CSR issues of the Board as a of the internal control and risk management whole as well as for individual Board members. The Chairman. The Chairman of the Board systems, established by the Board, the CEO is elected by the shareholders at the General and GEM, as well as the effectiveness of GIA. Evaluation of the Board. The Board of Meeting. According to the Charter, the Chairman Directors annually conducts a self-evaluation is to ensure that the Board's work is conducted The Board Risk Committee (BRIC). process, through which the performance efficiently and that the Board fulfils its duties. The Assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight and the work of the Board is evaluated and Chairman is to, among other duties, organise and responsibilities concerning the management discussed by the Board. The evaluation lead the Board’s work, maintain regular contact and control of risks, risk frameworks, controls is based on a methodology that includes with the CEO, ensure that the Board receives and processes associated with the Group’s questionnaires to evaluate the Board as a sufficient information and documentation and operations, including credit, market, liquidity, whole, the Chairman and individual Board ensure that the work of the Board is evaluated business, life and operational risk. members. annually and that the Nomination Committee is informed of the result of the evaluation. President and Group CEO Nordea’s President and CEO is charged with The CEO is accountable to the Board for the CEO. These meetings are chaired by the the day-to-day management of Nordea Bank the management of the Nordea Group’s CEO, who reaches decisions after consulting and the Nordea Group’s affairs in accordance operations and is also responsible for with the other members of GEM. Notes of with the external and internal framework. The developing and maintaining effective systems meetings, verified by the CEO, are kept. internal framework regulates the division of for internal control within the Group. The CEO responsibilities and the interaction between works together with executive officers within GEM is the highest operational body the CEO and the Board. The CEO works the Group in Group Executive Management responsible for the Group’s CSR work. The closely with the Chairman of the Board with (GEM). Presently GEM consists of six CRO is a member of GEM, hence ensuring planning of Board meetings. members and the CEO. GEM meets regularly continuous communication between GEM and and whenever necessary upon request by the CSR Secretariat. Internal CSR framework Internal policies We have committed ourselves to good The Nordea Sustainability Policy serves as the Policies we have developed are e.g.: citizenship in Nordea, which means that we are main standard of our role in society. •• Nordea Sustainability Policy a responsible and active member of society. •• Code of Conduct •• Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy 43 Environmental impact As part of our commitment to building already started to see how it improves our ability to identify improvement areas. trust with our customers, Nordea New opportunities to increase respects the environmental laws, energy efficiency The planning and construction of new head offices regulations and norms of the countries in Sweden and Denmark, as well as complete renowhere we operate and do business. vations in Finland and Norway, provide an excellent opportunity to reduce energy and water consumption in our new facilities. We can also facilitate better waste We participate in the UN Global Compact, have signed handling and implement office areas that will encourthe UNEP Banking Principles, and are a signatory to age our employees to work in more environmentally the Equator Principles. We work to reduce negative friendly ways. Shared workplaces will result in a clean and increase positive environmental impacts from our desk policy which will reduce paper consumption, and business activities and own operations. well-placed recycling stations will encourage reuse and recycling. However, due to employees moving in In 2013 there were two highlights which will have a and out of various buildings during the construction major effect on our environmental impact in the long phase, we expect the energy consumption to be highly term, as well as the quantity and quality of our future unstable until 2016. environmental reporting: our new environmental data management system and our new and renovated head The Nordea Unlimited concept will introduce activity office buildings. based workplaces for most employees in the headquarters in the Nordic region. This will reduce the number Credit360 – improved quality and quantity of workplaces and allow for more efficient use of office In 2013 we implemented a new environmental data space, so we expect to reduce our total energy conmanagement system, Credit360. The goal was to sumption as a consequence. (Please read more about improve the quality and quantity of environmental the Nordea Unlimited project on p.25). data collected and reported. The newly implemented system provides better flexibility in reporting, We have incorporated environmental requirements in along with good analytical tools to better target our our sourcing processes and have chosen suppliers that activities. We will use the system to more effectively have provided ‘greener’ solutions. The requirements will collect data and eliminate any obvious mistakes, to vary from case to case. In some sourcing processes, run reports used for the continuous monitoring of our the key issue is energy consumption of the product in indicators, to run calculations to compensate for any question, while in others it could be input materials or missing data, to convert energy and travel to CO2 and natural resources consumed in the production process. to execute all reporting tasks, internal and external. We try to take a lifecycle perspective and include the We started using the system in Q4 of 2013 and have requirements that are relevant in each case. Recycling office furniture In 2013, Nordea entered into an agreement office furniture is either refurbished and for the supply of office furniture with Martela, then reused in our new premises, sold in a company that creates interior solutions for the Martela Outlet as second-hand office working environments and public spaces. furniture, dismantled and sorted when the The agreement gives us several opporcomponents can be reused, or used as tunities to minimise the environmental effect raw material or as a source of energy. of renewing office furniture in the long-term, Martela’s furniture recycling and Outlet and more urgently in our new headquarconcept has been in use in Finland for ters in all of the Nordic countries. This 10 years. There are plans to establish starts with the new offices in Lindhagen, the concept in Sweden also after enterSweden in 2014 where almost 900 office ing into the agreement with Nordea. desks will have their metal frames and legs In other large furnishing projects in reused with new desk tops. Also, the metal Copenhagen, Helsinki, Malmö and Oslo, legs of 372 meeting room chairs will be similar refurbishing and recycling princireused with new seats and upholstering. ples will be applied, and suitable furniture The agreement guarantees that our used will be reused in the new premises. 44 CSR Report 2013 Responsible operations Nordea ecofootprint programme Focus area Purpose Target Status Energy management* Reduce energy and water Energy consumption in Nordic On track. KWh/FTE has consumed in Nordea’s head head offices and branches: 15% decreased 7,7% from 2008. offices and branches. (kWh / FTE) 2008 – 2016. Total energy consumption (MWh) has decreased by 15,5% from 2008, but decreasing FTE figures have negatively impacted the kWh/FTE intensity figure. Internal paper* Reduce the amount of copy Paper used in the Nordic head Behind schedule. Kg/FTE paper used in Nordic head offices and branches: has decreased 17,7% from offices and branches. Eliminate 50% (kg / FTE) 2008 – 2016 2008. Total internal paper unnecessary print, increase use (kg) has decreased by 24,8% of double-sided print, introduce from 2008. New projects will more electronic forms. contribute to future reductions. Customer paper* Reduce the amount of paper that Paper sent to Nordic Target reached ahead of time. we send to our customers. Eliminate customers: 50% (grams / We reached our target in 2013 unnecessary print and offer customer) 2008 – 2016. with grams/customer down electronic products and services. 55,7% from 2008. We will define a new target during 2014. Green IT Minimize Nordea’s environmental No official KPI. Focus in 2013 has been footprint through effective on identification of smart technology solutions. print solutions to reduce Reduce energy consumed paper consumption. by computer equipment. Communications Two way communication with No official KPI. Participated in Earth Hour 2013. employees and other stakeholders. Published various intranet Provide transparent information, articles related to promote inspire to positive behavioral change environmental awareness. and openness to new ideas. Facility management Minimize use of natural resources No official KPI. Nordic waste volumes have by reducing waste. Use eco labelled However, waste types and volumes decreased 3,2% from 2012. detergent in the cleaning of our are measured, analyzed and Improved processes for sorting offices. Increase amount of organic reported. We strive to reduce total waste have increased the food served in our canteens. waste volumes and increase % of percentage of recycled or waste that is reused or recycled. composted waste to 61,8% in 2013 (from 46,7% in 2012). Procurement* Develop and implement a Environmental criteria included On track. framework for including in all new contracts. 6 supplier CSR reviews environmental (and other CSR) All suppliers to comply with conducted in 2013. requirements in procurement Nordea’s CSR principles. processes and contracts. CSR reviews of selected suppliers. Travel & virtual Reduce air travel by introducing Internal trips: 30% Behind schedule. Trips/FTE collaboration* alternative virtual collaboration tools (number of non-customer related in 2013 was 14,8% higher and promoting behavioral change. trips / FTE) 2008 2016 than in 2008. Total number of trips has increased by 5,1% from 2008. Decrease in FTEs has negatively affected the trips / FTE intensity figure. *KPI’s 45 GRI index GRI content index Pages We have self-declared our reporting to be Application 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS & ENGAGEMENT Level B+ (Self-declared). Our auditors have checked GOVERNANCE our reporting and have confirmed it to be Application Level B+ (Third-party-checked). 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation 40-43 ■ 4.2 Independence of the Chairman of the Board 40 ■ The index below includes degree of reporting and 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board members 40 ■ page reference to the relevant indicators in this 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 40-43 ■ report. In some instances reference is made to the recommendations to the board Nordea Annual Report 2013 (AR). All core indicators 4.5 Principles for compensation to senior executives AR 73-76 ■ are included in the table, together with the additional 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interests in the board 40, AR 67 ■ indicators Nordea has found relevant, and a selected 4.7 Processes for determining the qualifications 43, AR 67 ■ number of indicators from the GRI Financial Services of board members Sector. 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. 4-5, 21-22, 36, ■ 38-39 4.9 The board’s monitoring of the sustainability work 13, 42-43 ■ ■ Fully reported ■ Partly reported 4.10 Processes for evaluating the board’s own performance 43, AR 68 ■ COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES 4.11 Explanation of how the precautionary principle is applied 34-37 ■ 4.12 Endorsement of external voluntary codes, principles, etc 28-33 ■ GRI content index Pages 4.13 Memberships in associations 41 ■ STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 1. STRATEGY & ANALYSIS 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 12, 54 ■ 1.1 CEO statement 4-5, AR 8-9 ■ 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with 10-13, 54 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 4-5, 10-13, AR ■ ■ whom to engage 6-7, 55-65 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 10-13, 18, 22-24 ■ 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 10-13, 18, 22-24, 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE ■ stakeholder engagement 32-33 2.1 Name of the organisation 6 ■ 2.2 Primary brands, products and services 6, AR 10-12 ■ 5. ECONOMIC INDICATORS 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation 6, AR 12 ■ DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters 6 ■ 4-5, 6-7, 8-9, AR Economic performance ■ 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates 7 ■ 2-5, 22, 30, 38 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 6-7 ■ Market presence 6-7, AR 21 ■ 2.7 Markets 7 ■ Indirect economic impacts 4-5, 8-9, 38-39 ■ 2.8 Scale of the organisation 6-7, AR 2 ■ The economic performance of Nordea is managed by the CEO and the CFO and their related organisations and due care is taken to secure that sustainability aspects are 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 6, 24, 54 ■ integrated where necessary. This is for example governed in the Nordea Sustainability Policy and the Nordea CoC and followed up as part of our risk management processes. 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period 6 ■ ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 3. REPORT PARAMETERS EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 8-9 ■ REPORT PROFILE EC2 Risks and opportunities due to climate change 5, 13, 44-45 ■ 3.1 Reporting period 54 ■ EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined AR 107-108, ■ benefit plan obligations Note 22 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 54 ■ EC4 Financial assistance received from government 6 ■ 3.3 Reporting cycle 54 ■ 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 ■ 6. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH 3.5 Process for defining report content 10-13, 54 ■ 3.6 Boundary of the report 6-7, 54 ■ Goals and performance 42, 44-45, 50-52 ■ 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the 54 Organisational responsibility 42-43 ■ ■ report Training and awareness 28-29, 30-31 ■ 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc 54 ■ Monitoring and follow-up 44-45, 50-52, 54 ■ 3.9 Data measurement techniques and calculation principles 54 ■ MATERIALS 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of 54 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 52 ■ ■ information provided in earlier reports EN2 Percentage of recycled input materials 52 ■ 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 54 ■ ENERGY 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures 46-47 ■ in the report EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 52 ■ 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking 54, 55 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy 44-45, 50 ■ ■ external assurance for the report based products/services 46 CSR Report 2013 Performance data GRI content index Pages GRI content index Pages WATER SO3 Employees trained in the organisation's 36-37 ■ anticorruption policies and procedures EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 51 ■ SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 34-37 ■ EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS & WASTE SO5 Public policy development and lobbying 5 ■ EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 50 ■ PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 50 ■ DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 44-45 ■ reductions achieved Goals and performance 14-19 ■ EN22 Waste by type and disposal method 51 ■ Policy 10-13, 40-41 ■ PRODUCTS & SERVICES Organisational responsibility 14-19 ■ EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products 28-31 Training and awareness 21-23 ■ ■ and services PR3 Type of products and service information required by 28-31 TRANSPORT procedures, and percentage of products subject to ■ such information requirements EN29 Environmental impact of transports 51 ■ PR5 Results related to customer satisfaction, including results 18 ■ of surveys 7. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary 15-16 ■ codes for marketing communications DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding 18 20-25, 40-41, breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer ■ Goals, performance and policy ■ data 48-49 Organisational responsibility AR 215 ■ FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR SUPPLEMENT INDICATORS Training and awareness 20-25 ■ FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social 14-31 ■ components applied to business lines 20-25, 32-33, Monitoring and follow-up ■ FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental 14-31 AR 18-19 ■ and social risks in business lines A group level HR unit is responsible for Nordea’s HR policies and processes. These are implemented by (and when necessary adapted to the local regulatory framework) FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and 14-31 and followed up by local HR units in all countries where Nordea is operating. compliance with environmental and social requirements ■ included in agreements or transactions EMPLOYMENT FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement 28-31 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, contract and region 48-49 ■ the environmental and social policies and procedures as ■ applied to the business lines LA2 Rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and 48-49 ■ region FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners 28-33 regarding environmental and social risks and ■ LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective 48-49 opportunities ■ bargaining agreements FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by 6-7, AR 50-52 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 24 ■ ■ specific region, size and by sector LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 48-49 FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the 28-29 ■ work related fatalities institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organisation ■ has interacted on environmental or social issues LA8 Education, training, prevention and risk-control programs 20-25 ■ in place FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative 28-29 ■ environmental or social screening LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal 23-24 ■ agreements with trade unions FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products 36 ■ and service LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee 22 ■ FS16 Initiative to enhance financial literacy by type of 26-27 LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and career 22, 12, 13 ■ ■ beneficiary development reviews LA13 Composition of governance bodies and employees AR 48, AR 17, according to diversity indicatores 212-213 ■ Report Application Levels HUMAN RIGHTS Mandatory Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Self Human Right issues can be direct and indirect for Nordea. In the direct case these issues declared are governed by the UN Global Compact, the Nordea Sustainability Policy and the Nordea CoC, and are the responsibility of the Human Resource organisation. The compliance function (second line of defence) and IA functions (third line of defence) are also available to secure Third party Optional compliance but the overarching principle is a decentralised responsibility for the operating checked organisation, see 11, 36. In the indirect case this is mainly a responsibility for the credit organisation and the investment organisation, see 18-25. GRI checked HR1 Investment agreements that include human 28-33 2011 C C+ B B+ A A+ rights clauses ■ SOCIETY DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Goals and performance 34-37 ■ Policy 34-37, 40 ■ Organisational responsibility 34-37 ■ Training and awareness 34-37 ■ 47 Social data Data including excel tables also on www.nordea.com/csr Total workforce in Nordea Group by region & gender LA 1 Nordea Group’s workforce consists of 57 per cent women and 43 per cent men, a decrease of 1 per cent women compared to 2012. The data is based on average FTE for 2013. Denmark 55% 45% 8 250 Finland 26% 74% 7 116 Sweden 45% 55% 6 881 Norway 54% 46% 3 280 Russia 32% 68% 1 454 Estonia 467 22% 78% Poland, NOC* 448 33% 67% Latvia 443 30% 70% Luxemburg 424 62% 38% Lithuania 340 30% 70% United States 113 49% 51% United Kingdom 69 65% 35% Singapore 67 28% 72% Germany 49 42% 58% China 24 36% 64% Brazil 3 67% 33% 0 1 000 2 000 3 000 4 000 5 000 6 000 7 000 8 000 9 000 *In 2013, Nordea divested its Polish banking, financing and life insurance operations, except for Nordea Operations Centre (NOC). This effected 1,970 employees. Total workforce by employment type: Total workforce by employment type: Permanent/temporary employees LA 1 Full-time/part-time employees LA 1 Figures based on NOE (number of employees) numbers in Nordea Group. Figures based on NOE (number of employees) numbers in Nordea Group. 3% 8% YEAR Permanent YEAR Full-time 2013 Temporary 2013 Part-time 97% 92% Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements LA 4 Managers and specialists having individual contracts in Denmark (12%), Finland (7%) and Norway (26%) are always, at a mimimum, covered by terms in the local collective agreements and additionally holding, to various extent, more favourable terms. In Poland, Nordea’s Operation Center (NOC) has in some elements been covered by the agreement made with Nordea Bank Polska. 100% 93% 88% 74% 56% 5% 0% Sweden Finland Denmark Norway Luxemburg Poland, NOC* Other countries 48 CSR Report 2013 Performance data Rate of employee turnover  LA 2 Employee turnover by age in Nordic countries Employee turnover as a percentage of total number of employees was 3.95%. In 2012 this figure was 6.4%. 100% Over 50 28 13 29 48 years of age 80% 30-50 Employee turnover by region in Nordea Group years of age 60% 94 82 118 223 Under 30 40% years of age Poland, NOC* 20% 62 72 28 Estonia 59 0% Latvia Denmark Finland Norway Sweden Russia Lithuania Employee turnover by gender in Nordic countries Norway 100% Female United Kingdom Male 80% 53 116 154 Finland 125 60% Luxembourg 40% Denmark 122 70 157 20% Sweden 59 0% 0% 2% 4% 6% 8% 10% 12% 14% Denmark Finland Norway Sweden Work related injuries and illnesses, robberies, Absenteeism because of sick fatalities and accidents while commuting to leave in Nordea Group by region LA 7 work in Nordea Group by region LA 7 The average sick leave per employee in 2013 was 9 days, Information in this table refer to the number of employees affected. In Finland and Sweden also injuries that compared to 8 days in 2012. occur when commuting to/from work are seen as work related injuries. Work related illness is not registered in Denmark. Sickdays per employee Work Accidents Work Robbery Denmark 7 Country related while Fatalities related cases Injuries commuting illnesses Finland 11 Denmark 34 43 0 0 Norway 15 Finland 73 3 91 0 0 Sweden 9 Norway 6 0 1 0 0 Luxemburg 3 Sweden 10 15 26 0 0 United Kingdom 2 Estonia 0 0 2 0 0 Estonia 3 Latvia 2 0 0 0 0 Latvia 6 Lithuania 0 0 0 0 0 Lithuania 2 Poland, NOC* 0 0 3 0 0 Poland, NOC* 5 Russia 0 0 0 0 0 Russia 9 TOTAL 125 61 123 0 0 AVERAGE 9 Educational background of employees in Nordea Group Age Structure in Nordea Group 7% 5% Attended primary school Graduated from secondary school 16% 5% 4% 24% 18-24 25-34 43.5 AVERAGE AGE YEARS YEAR 31% YEAR 35-44 16.8 37% Lower university degree 2013 2013 45-54 Higher university degree 29% 55-60 Other 22% 20% 61AVERAGE LENGHT OF SERVICE YEARS 49 Environmental data The reporting of emissions, water and waste •• Nordic energy and water reporting includes actual include data from the Nordic countries, the Baltic and estimated data for head offices and branches. countries, Russia and the Nordea Operations Centre in The 2011 and 2012 data also include estimated Poland. Nordea Bank Polska is not included in 2013 as consumption for other types of space, like ATMs. The it has been divested, but it is included in the figures for total Nordic square meters included in the reporting 2012 and 2011. Nordea Bank Polska constituted the has therefore been reduced (by less than 2%) largest unit in the reporting for Baltics, Poland and Russia (B,P & R) in 2012, both in terms of employee numbers •• emission factors have been updated for 2013, using and indicator volumes so the changed reporting scope actual factors where available (primarily Nordic has a significant impact on the reporting for B, P & R. district heating and cooling) and international standards for everything else (such as GHG Protocol for The reporting of Nordea's environmental KPIs (flight electricity and Defra for air travel) travel, paper and energy) only include the Nordic countries as the KPIs were set before B, P & R were •• all estimations are done by the system, based on included in Nordea's reporting. averages of actual data. Estimations are only made for electricity, district heating and water consumption. The full-time equivalent (FTE) employee figures used in the environmental data refer to full-time equivalents at •• air travel is divided into short-, medium-, and longyear end including temporary staff and external consulthaul based on distance, with a different emissions ants working in Nordea's premises. factor for each segment. This has reduced the reported emissions. The implementation of a new environmental management system has triggered some improvements in the New emissions factors have been applied to data for all reporting process, the most important ones being the years, so emissions for 2011 and 2012 will not match following: what was reported in last year's report. Data covering the Nordic countries and B, P&R Data covering the Nordic countries Total CO2 emissions  EN16 60 2 Total CO2 emissions is the sum of our energy and travel emissions in the 50 Nordic region, the Baltic region, Russia 1,5 and the Nordea Operations Centre in 40 Poland. 45% of our total emissions in 2013 30 1 derived from energy consumption. Total emissions decreased by 33% from 1 000 tonnes tonnes / FTE 20 2012. The largest reduction is due to 0,5 B, P&R Nordea Bank Polska being divested and 2011 2012 2013 10 not part of 2013 figures. Nordic 0 0 CO2 / FTE 50 CSR Report 2013 Performance data CO2 emissions from energy consumption EN04 30 900 Nordea has purchased Guarantees of 800 Origin to offset electricity consumption 25 in the Nordic premises since 1.7.2009. 700 Nordic emissions therefore only include 20 600 heating & cooling. CO2 emissions include estimated energy consumption 500 15 where actual data is unavailble. The 400 large reduction in 2013 is primarily a result of the divestment of Nordea Bank 1 000 tonnes kg CO2/FTE 10 300 B, P & R energy Polska, but also reflects energy efficiency 200 projects and a reduction of space in the 2011 2012 2013 5 Nordic heating and 100 cooling Nordic region. 0 0 CO2 / FTE CO2 emissions from travel EN17 EN29 25 800 Air travel includes trips by all 700 employees in Nordics and B, P & R. 20 Nordic rail only includes travel in 600 Sweden. Rail and car travel for B, P & R does not include data from the NOC 15 500 in 2013. Air travel kms have increased, 400 but new methodology for emissions 10 B, P & R all travel calculations result in lower emissions. 300 1 000 tonnes Nordic car travel kg CO2/FTE 200 Nordic rail travel 2011 2012 2013 5 100 Nordic air travel 0 0 CO2 per FTE Water consumption EN8 500 15 Total water consumption has 450 decreased. However, FTE numbers have 14,5 decreased more, which is why water/ 400 FTE has increased slightly. Water data 350 14 covers HQs and branches in the Nordic 300 region, the Baltic region, Russia and the 250 2011 2012 2013 13,5 NOC in Poland. 61% is estimated based 200 on actual data mostly from head offices. 13 All water is withdrawn from municipal 150 water supplies. 1 000 m3 100 B, P&R 12,5 50 Nordic m3 0 12 Water per FTE Waste management EN02 EN22 5,0 140 Nordic data covers actual waste 4,5 volumes for head offices. Q3 in Sweden 120 4,0 is an estimate. In 2011 B, P&R included B, P&R Nordea Bank Polska in Poland and 3,5 100 Special treatment * in 2012 also Nordea Operations 3,0 Centre (NOC) and waste volumes 80 Landfills * 2,5 were estimated where actual data was 2,0 60 Incinerated * missing. In 2013 Poland is no longer included because of the divestment of 1 000 tonnes Composted * 1,5 40 Nordea Bank Polska, and no estimates kg / FTE Recycled * have been made for NOC. The reduced 2011 2012 2013 1,0 20 kg / FTE waste in B, P&R is therefore primarily 0,5 * Nordic countries due to this. 0 0 51 Flight travel EN29 7 The number of flights/FTE increased by 3% from 2012. Flight data captures 6 air travel by all Nordic employees. As a Nordic company with eight home 5 markets and international operations we currently find it challenging to achieve 4 the desired reduction in air travel activity. New activities to replace travel with virtual meetings are planned for 2014. Flights / FTE 2 2011 2012 2013 1 0 Internal paper consumption EN01 40 Internal paper (in kg/FTE) is down 35 13% from 2012. Internal printing covers printing in Nordea's Nordic head offices 30 and branches. Due to an error in the 25 reporting from a supplier, the 2012 volume was overreported by 8% in 20 last year's report. This has now been corrected. Copy paper used in the 15 Nordic region is 100% virgin fibre and 10 FSC certified. 5 Kg / FTE 2011 2012 2013 0 Customer paper consumption EN01 250 Customer paper is print produced by industrial printing partners and sent 200 to our customers. Grams/customer decreased 18% in 2013 from 2012 as products, services and communication 150 is increasingly being conducted in electronic format. 100 g / customer 2011 2012 2013 50 0 Energy consumption EN04 10 000 Total Nordic kWh/FTE is down 7% from 9 000 2012. Total energy consumption covers all 8 000 Nordic head offices and branches. 33% of 7 000 the total energy consumption is estimated due to actual data being unavailable. 6 000 Heating of our branches is the largest part 5 000 of the estimated energy consumption. 4 000 Estimates are based on actual kWh/m2 for nearby premises. Reductions have been 3 000 kWh / FTE achieved by energy efficiency measures, 2011 2012 2013 2 000 but are also a result of Nordea closing 1 000 branches and head office buildings being closed due to renovations. 0 52 CSR Report 2013 Performance data Taxation data Nordea pays taxes where we do business Nordea’s policy is to pay taxes in accordance with the local regulation in all countries where we operate. We manage tax cost and risks with due considerations and by paying and reporting taxes in due time and aim to preserve a good local tax reputation. Corporate income tax in Nordea Group 2011-2013  Corporate income tax includes current taxes booked as cost for the year and adjustments to the previous year’s current taxes NORWAY 126M€ 271M€ FINLAND 89M€ 2011 2012 2013 148M€ 201M€ 2011 2012 2013 199M€ SWEDEN 274M€ DENMARK 169M€ 275M€ 2011 2012 2013 138M€ 242M€ 171M€ 2011 2012 2013 TOTAL YEAR ESTONIA LATVIA LITHUANIA LUXEMBOURG POLAND RUSSIA OTHER NORDEA *2013 10M€ 1M€ 2M€ 36M€ 1M€ 17M€ 37M€ 927M€ 2012 10M€ 4M€ 1M€ 26M€ 20M€ 24M€ 32M€ 1000M€ 2011 2M€ 1M€ 1M€ 18M€ 24M€ 15M€ 51M€ 709M€ * continued operations 53 About this report This is the sixth edition of the fore Poland, except for the Nordea Assurance Nordea CSR Report covering the Operations Centre (NOC) which This CSR report has been reviewed by calendar year 2013. Our previous CSR remains part of Nordea, is not covered external auditors, and the review report Report was published in February 2013. in this report. performed by Nordea auditors, KPMG, During the period 2002-2007, Nordea Our environmental indicators is shown on page 55. produced an annual environmental cover operations in Denmark, Estonia, report, the Nordea Environmental Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway, Abbreviations Footprint (NEF). Poland (changed scope), Russia and ADM Automated Deposit Machine Our materiality analysis and the Sweden, unless otherwise stated. Our AGM Annual General Meeting dialogues that we have conducted with international network is excluded from AML Anti-Money Laundering customers, employees, shareholders, the environmental indicators as it is not CEO Chief Executive Officer analysts, suppliers, NGOs and govmaterial in this respect. When indicaCDP Carbon Disclosure Project ernmental authorities have guided the tors are related to our premises we content of this report. Our strategy to cover only the ones that are occupied CO2 Carbon Dioxide embed CSR into business is based on by Nordea. In some cases environCRO Chief Risk Officer the views of stakeholders. The business mental data also includes consultants CSI Customer Satisfaction Index sections therefore have top priority. working for Nordea. CSR Corporate Social Responsibility We start by giving an overview The environmental data is calcuEBF European Banking Federation of Nordea, how we work with CSR lated in accordance with the GHG EP Equator Principles and how we impact society. Next we Protocol’s guidelines for emissions ERAT Environmental Risk explore how we integrate sustainability calculation, a corporate accounting Assessment Tool and responsibility into our core busiand reporting standard by the World ESG Environmental, Social ness – our customer relationships, our Resources Institute and the World and Governance people, and our products and processBusiness Council for Sustainable ESI Employee Satisfaction Survey es. Finally, we look at the way we operDevelopment. EUR Euro ate internally, with regard to risk and compliance, corporate governance and Relationship with guidelines FTE Full-Time Employee environmental impact. More in-depth and reporting requirements GIA Group Internal Audit information is available on our website: This report is produced according to GRI Global Reporting Initiative www.nordea.com. the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GEM Group Executive Management G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines GHG Greenhouse Gases Scope of the report and the Financial Services Sector HR Human Resources This report covers CSR initiatives Supplement (FSSS) Final Version IFC The World Bank Group’s and activities in 2013 concerning the (2008). Information is gathered from International Finance Corporation Nordea Group in the Nordic region our reporting systems as well as manuILO International Labour Organisation (Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden), ally. In accordance with Nordea’s CSR KYC Knowing Your Customer Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland strategy business areas and group (changed scope), Russia and in our functions provide the content related to LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design international locations. Nordea’s CSR their areas. We are reporting on a B+ NGO Non-Governmental Organisation reporting cycle is annual. Some posilevel. The GRI indicator index is shown tions and initiatives described in the on pages 46-47. NOC Nordea Operations Centre in Poland report may only apply to selected Nordea is a signatory to the UN OECD Organisation for Economic units or parts of the organisation, and Global Compact (UNGC), and this Co-operation and Development where relevant, the units concerned are report serves as Nordea’s annual PDD Personal Development Discussion identified. Communication on Progress (COP) PRI Principles for Responsible Our employment-related indicators report to the UNGC for the operating Investments cover Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Latvia, year 2013. Nordea has adopted the SME Small and MediumLithuania, Norway, Poland (changed Equator Principles (EP). This report sized Enterprises scope), Russia and Sweden, unless partly fulfils the annual reporting requireSPRAT Social and Political Risk otherwise stated. In June 2013, Nordea ments of the EP and serves as Nordea’s Assessment Tool announced that it had decided to EP status report for the operating year UNEP FI Environmental Programme divest its Polish banking, financing and 2013. Detailed EP statistical information Finance Initiative life insurance operations and thereis available at www.nordea.com/csr. UNGC United Nations Global Compact Layout Grapina Graphics Oy | Print Åtta.45 54 Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Nordea’s CSR Report To the readers of Nordea’s CSR Report Introduction responsible for the preparation of the CSR Report and We have been engaged by Nordea’s Group Executive applying analytical and other limited assurance proceManagement to undertake a limited assurance engagedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance ment of Nordea’s CSR Report 2013. engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conductThe Board of Directors and the ed in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing Group Executive Management’s and Quality Control and other generally accepted auditresponsibility for the CSR Report ing standards in Sweden. The procedures performed The Board of Directors and the Group Executive consequently do not enable us to obtain assurance that Management are responsible for ongoing activities we would become aware of all significant matters that regarding sustainable development and for the preparamight be identified in an audit. Accordingly, we do not tion and presentation of the CSR Report in accordance express a reasonable assurance opinion. with the applicable criteria, explained on page 54 in the CSR Report, and are the parts of the Sustainability The criteria on which our procedures are based are Reporting Guidelines G3, published by The Global the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the G3, published by The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), CSR Report, as well as the accounting and calculation which are applicable to the CSR Report, as well as the principles that Nordea has developed and disclosed. accounting and calculation principles that Nordea has developed and disclosed. These criteria are presented Our responsibility on pages 48-54. We consider these criteria suitable for Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conthe preparation of the CSR Report. clusion on the CSR Report, based on the procedures we have performed. Limited assurance conclusion Based on the limited assurance procedures we have We conducted our limited assurance engagement in performed, nothing has come to our attention that accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability causes us to believe that Nordea’s CSR Report is not Reports issued by FAR. A limited assurance engageprepared, in all material respects, in accordance with ment consists of making inquiries, primarily to persons the above stated criteria. Stockholm, February 12, 2014 KPMG AB Hans Åkervall Åse Bäckström Authorized Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR Nordea Bank AB (publ) | Corporate registration no. 516406-0120 | Smålandsgatan 17 | SE-105 71 Stockholm | Tel +46 8 614 78 00 | Fax +46 8 10 50 69 | www.nordea.com
