Issue 2014 Balance Key data on sustainability within the Lufthansa Group About this report // 01 The present sustainability report Balance informs stakeholders and the interested public about the goals, activities, and advances of the Lufthansa Group in the areas of business, social responsibility, environment, and corporate citizenship. The data presented in this report pertain to the ﬁnancial year 2013. Corporate responsibility as understood in Publication dates of this report may not entirely, if at all, conﬁrm, it is the Lufthansa Group has the following Balance, the Sustainability Report of the possible that the Group’s actual results ﬁve dimensions: Lufthansa Group, is published once a and the course of its development may year in a German and an English edition. differ substantially from those forecast. Economic sustainability The previous edition was published on Lufthansa makes a point of checking and Social responsibility June 6, 2013. updating the information it publishes. It Climate and environmental cannot, however, assume any obligation responsibility Additional information on the Internet to adjust statements referring to the Corporate governance and In addition to this report, Lufthansa profuture in light of events or developments compliance vides a source of information about its that may occur at some later date. Corporate citizenship activities in the area of sustainability at Accordingly, it neither expressly nor this Internet address: implicitly accepts liability, nor does it give The Corporate governance and compliwww.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility any guarantee for the topicality, accuance dimension is considered in the racy, or completeness of these data or chapter “Sustainable Business Practice”. Disclaimer in respect of forwardinformation. ß A new chapter, “Product Responsibility”, looking statements appears for the ﬁrst time in the present The data included in this report have edition of this report. been collected and processed with the utmost care. Nevertheless, errors in Scope of consolidation and transmission cannot be ruled out entirely. comparability Information published in this report that Explanatory notes on the scope of conrelates to the future development of the solidation, comparability of data, and the Lufthansa Group and its subsidiaries methodology employed to calculate the consists purely of forecasts and assessÞ absolute and speciﬁc consumption of ments and not of deﬁnitive historical 1 Taken from the Annual Report 2013 of the Lufthansa resources by the Lufthansa Group are to facts. It is intended for informational Group. 2 For the reporting year 2013, the following companies have been included in Balance: Lufthansa be found on page 125. Changes in our purposes only and is qualiﬁed by the use (including Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti, Eurowings, portfolio in recent years limit the extent to of such cautionary verbs as believe, Augsburg Airways), Germanwings, Lufthansa Cargo, Swiss (including Edelweiss Air) and Austrian Airlines. which the personnel ﬁgures and environexpect, forecast, intend, project, plan, Excluding the services of third parties as Lufthansa mental data presented in this report are estimate, count on, and endeavor. These can inﬂuence neither performance nor the equipment comparable to those reported for previforward-looking statements are based on operated (see also table Share of third parties on page 52). 3 Types of ﬂights taken into account: all ous years. The cooperative arrangement all discernible information, facts, and scheduled and charter ﬂights. 4 See also table Fuel between Lufthansa and the regional expectations available to us at this time. consumption on page 52. 5 Value corrected due to calculation error. 6 Balance: segments (operational airline Contact Air, to cite one example, They can, therefore, only claim validity perspective); Annual Report: Distance (customer ended in September 2012. This report up to the date of their publication. Since perspective). One distance can include several segalso differs from the 2013 Annual Report forward-looking statements are by nature ments, e.g. in the event of stops en route. 7 Balance: on the basis of all passengers aboard; Annual Report: in the approaches it takes to passenger subject to uncertainties and imponderon the basis of all revenue passengers. 8 Companies numbers and the indicators derived from able risk factors—such as changes in referred to as in 2, but including the services of third parties, as these contribute to the Group’s results. them (see the explanatory notes to the underlying economic conditions—and Types of ﬂights as in 3, but including ferry ﬂights, as table At a glance on page 02). rest on assumptions that future events these represent costs. At a glance // 02 Business performance data 1 2013 2012 Change Revenue million € 30,028 30,135 – 0.4% of which trafﬁc revenue million € 24,565 24,793 – 0.9% Operating result million € 697 839 – 16.9% Proﬁt/loss from operating activities million € 849 1,622 – 47.7% Net proﬁt/loss for the period million € 313 1,228 – 74.5% Total assets million € 29,084 28,559 + 1.8% Cash ﬂow from operating activities million € 3,290 2,842 + 15.8% Capital expenditure million € 2,499 2,359 + 5.9% Equity ratio percent 21.0 16.9 + 4.1PP Personnel data 2013 2012 Change Number of employees (on December 31, respectively) 118,214 116,957 + 1.1% of these, in Germany 66,795 67,620 – 1.2% of these, outside Germany 51,419 49,337 + 4.2% Staff costs million € 7,350 6,741 + 9.0% Revenue/employee thousand € 256 257 – 0.4% Staff costs/revenue percent 24.5 22.4 + 2.1PP Average age years 41.9 41.3 + 0.6 years Part-time ratio, absolute percent 28.1 27.9 + 0.2PP Part-time ratio, men percent 14.1 13.7 + 0.4PP Part-time ratio, women percent 45.6 45.3 + 0.3PP Share of women in management (Germany) percent 16.7 15.5 + 1.2PP Share of women in management (worldwide) percent 14.5 13.6 + 0.9PP Environmental data 2, 3 2013 2012 Change Resource consumption Fuel consumption 4 tonnes 8,764,774 8,878,926 – 1.3% Fuel consumption, speciﬁc, passenger transportation l /100 pkm 3.91 4.06 – 3.8% Fuel consumption, speciﬁc, freight transport g / tkm 223 230 – 3.0% Emissions Carbon dioxide emissions tonnes 27,609,039 27,968,627 – 1.3% Carbon dioxide emissions, speciﬁc, passenger transportation kg /100 pkm 9.84 10.24 – 3.8% Nitrogen oxide emissions tonnes 131,091 132,651 5 – 1.2% Nitrogen oxide emissions, speciﬁc, passenger transportation g /100 pkm 46.7 48.4 5 – 3.5% Carbon monoxide emissions tonnes 18,976 19,512 5 – 2.8% Carbon monoxide emissions, speciﬁc, passenger transportation g /100 pkm 7.4 7.8 – 5.5% Unburned hydrocarbons tonnes 1,990.8 2,098.0 5 – 5.1% Unburned hydrocarbons, speciﬁc, passenger transportation g /100 pkm 0.7 0.8 – 7.3% Transport performance data 2013 Balance 2, 3 ± 2012 Annual Report 8 ± 2012 Flights 6 968,428 – 3.5% 1,028,260 – 3.7% Passengers carried 7 102,693,589 + 1.7% 104,587,418 + 1.0% Freight and mail carried tonnes 1,962,764 – 0.5% 1,965,330 – 0.9% Seat kilometers offered, SKO million pkm 259,593 + 1.2% 262,682 + 1.0% Freight tonne kilometers offered, FTKO million tkm 14,564 + 0.7% 14,893 + 1.0% Tonne kilometers offered, TKO million tkm 40,212 + 1.0% 41,218 + 0.7% Passenger kilometers transported, PKT 7 million pkm 213,475 + 2.8% 209,649 + 2.3% Freight tonne kilometers transported (incl. third-party performance), FTKT million tkm 9,395 + 1.4% 10,285 + 0.4% Tonne kilometers transported, TKT million tkm 30,817 + 2.3% 30,879 + 1.5% A day in the Lufthansa Group 2,800 takeoffs / landings a day Passenger Airline Group flight destinations * 286,000 Europe Africa 8,917 weekly 203 weekly frequencies to frequencies to passengers a day 5,400 158 destinations in 44 destinations in 41 countries 33 countries North Atlantic Central and tonnes of freight a day 307 weekly South America 1.45 frequencies to 59 weekly frequen21 destinations in cies to 9 destinations 2 countries in 7 countries million meals a day 32,000 Middle East Asia / Paciﬁc 172 weekly 241 weekly frequencies to frequencies to calls a day 15 destinations in 27 destinations in 1,700 to the Customer Service Network 11 countries 12 countries * Frequencies per week by Lufthansa, Swiss, aircraft are maintained by us every day Austrian Airlines, and Brussels Airlines. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // ­Lufthansa Group // 03 Dear Readers, “Aircraft today are 80% In 2013, as in previous years, the companies of the L­ ufthansa Group and their employees have quieter than 60 years “maintained the balance.” Even in economically demanding times, we have never lost sight of how important sustainable management of our company is for our long-term success. We have ago.” underscored this principle with our membership in the UN Global Compact, the world’s largest Carsten Spohr initiative for responsible business management, which we joined back in 2002. I am pleased to present to you the 20th edition of our sustainability report, Balance. As the largest aviation company in Europe, we are obligated to a large number of interest groups. We embrace this responsibility. Economic sustainability is fundamental to shaping the important dimensions of our responsibility to society, the climate, and the environment in a manner that is geared towards the future. Our corporate program, SCORE, which we have reported on in Balance and other publications since the program began in 2012, has an important role to play in this regard. SCORE is making a key contribution as we consolidate our financial strength and finance our investments in new aircraft and innovative products and services. In financial year 2013 alone we put 31 new aircraft into service. With the Airbus A350-900 and Boeing 777-9X long-haul aircraft we have on order, we are making a quantum leap—not only where the travel experience of our customers is concerned, but also in respect of noise and fuel efficiency. You can learn about our commitment to active noise protection in our special chapter “More quietly into the future,” included in this report. Aircraft today are 80% quieter than 60 years ago. We are not only quieter as we travel the skies, but also more sparing in our use of kerosene. In the last year the airlines of the L­ ufthansa Group once again achieved a further increase in their fuel efficiency. In 2013, average consumption stood at 3.91 liters of kerosene per passenger per 100 kilometers. That is 3.8% less than in the previous year—another record, this one taking us below the four-liter limit. And for the second time in a row, absolute fuel consumption has decreased. The Group consumed 114,152 fewer tonnes of fuel as compared to 2012, sparing the environment the potential burden of more than 350,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide. This equates approximately to the emissions produced by oil-burning furnaces in 50,000 single-family homes in one year. The changes that have been taking place in our company, to which SCORE has given new impetus, will be continuing. They are also seen from “outside” as an important element in the future viability of the ­Lufthansa Group. This makes us even more attractive as an employer, as does our focus on promoting women to management positions. The percentage of women at all levels—in management, on the Executive Board, and on the Supervisory Board—increased further during the reporting year. As compared to the other DAX 30 companies, we have the highest percentage of women on the Executive Board (40%). And with women occupying 35% of the positions on the Supervisory Board, we are in a top position on the Women on Board index. For a more in-depth look at our fascinating company and the world of air travel, I recommend that you read our latest Balance report. Enjoy! Carsten Spohr Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO Deutsche L­ ufthansa AG www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility Contents 01 About this report 02 At a glance 06 Company profile / 08 More quietly into the future 1/ 22 Sustainable Business Practice 24 Embodying corporate responsibility 28 Corporate governance and compliance 30 Stakeholder dialogue 35 Fleet development 38 Sustainability in the procurement process 40 Local value creation 22 Sustainable 2/ 44 Climate and Environmental Responsibility Business Practice 46 Strategy and management 49 Fuel consumption and emissions 60 Energy and resource management 66 Involvement in science 3/ 68 Product Responsibility 70 Our fundamental focus 72 Customer satisfaction 74 Flight safety and health protection 76 Data protection and data security 78 CO2 compensation 4/ 80 Social Responsibility 82 A new personnel strategy for the L­ ufthansa Group 85 Diversity and equality of opportunity 90 Employment policy based on partnership 97 Training and continuing education 100 Employee safety and health protection 5/ 102 Corporate Citizenship 105 Humanitarian emergency aid 106 Social commitment 110 Environmental sponsorship 112 Cultural commitment 114 Sports sponsorship 44 Climate and Environ6/ 116 Service and Information mental Responsibility 118 Glossary 124 Editorial information and contact persons 125 Notes on the scope of consolidation and methodology of calculations 126 Most stringent noise standards for the Lufthansa Group’s fleet 127 The operating fleet of the ­Lufthansa Group 129 Prizes and awards 102 Corporate Citizenship 80 Social Responsibility 116 Service and Information 68 Product Responsibility 06 // Company profile The ­Lufthansa Group Europe’s largest aviation company The ­Lufthansa Group is a globally operating aviation company with approximately 500 subsidiaries and associated companies. It operates in five business segments: Passenger Airline Group, Logistics, MRO (maintenance, repair, overhaul), Catering, and IT Services. The Group is one of the global market leaders in all of these business segments. www.lufthansagroup.com Ú > 104.5 million passengers in 2013 Ú > 1.9 million tonnes of freight /mail in 2013 Ú 118,214 Ú 622 employees* aircraft in the fleet* Ú 151 nationalities* Corporate head­quarters in Ú Cologne Ú Frankfurt a. M., Munich, Zurich, Ú 301 destinations in Vienna, and 102 countries route network of the passenger airlines Brussels according to the 2014 summer flight hubs schedule * As of December 31, 2013. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // ­Lufthansa Group // 07 The five business segments of the ­Lufthansa Group Passenger Airline Group The Passenger Airline Group constitutes the largest business segment carriers. In 2013 the airline group was able to assert its market leaderand is the nucleus of the L­ ufthansa Group. The airlines of the L­ ufthansa ship in Europe and once again achieve the highest passenger and Group have positioned themselves in their various segments as quality sales numbers of all European airlines. ­Lufthansa Germanwings Swiss Austrian Airlines www.LH.com www.germanwings.com www.swiss.com www.austrian.com Brussels Airlines SunExpress jetBlue Airways (equity interest: 45%) (equity interest: 50%) (equity interest: 15.85%) www.brusselsairlines.com www.sunexpress.com www.jetblue.com Logistics Catering ­Lufthansa Cargo is one of the global market leaders in the internaLSG Sky Chefs is the world’s largest provider of services in the field of tional air freight business. The company offers an extensive network airline catering and inflight management. In 2013 the company proof routes to roughly 300 destinations in more than 100 countries. duced 532 million inflight meals for more than 300 airlines throughout ­Lufthansa Cargo AG has its headquarters in Frankfurt am Main. the world. The parent group, LSG L­ ufthansa Service Holding AG, has www.lufthansa-cargo.com its headquarters in Neu-Isenburg near Frankfurt am Main. www.lsgskychefs.com ­Lufthansa Cargo AG AeroLogic (equity interest: 50%) MRO IT Services ­Lufthansa Technik is a world market leader in maintenance, repair, L ­ ufthansa Systems is a major global provider of IT services for and overhaul (MRO) of commercial aircraft. The company serves the airline and aviation industry. More than 300 airlines and some more than 770 customers worldwide. L­ ufthansa Technik AG has its 150 companies worldwide rely on the company’s expertise. headquarters in Hamburg. ­Lufthansa Systems AG has its headquarters in Kelsterbach near www.lufthansa-technik.com Frankfurt am Main. www.LHsystems.com 08 // More quietly into the future More quietly into the future The ­Lufthansa Group is setting standards in its approach to active noise abatement Over the course of the 20th and 21st centuries, mobility became an ordinary aspect of everyday life. The world became a village. Nowadays it is a fundamental condition for economic or social community. In 2013, for the first time, more than three billion people traveled by air. Mobility can also give rise to conflict, however. It not only provides benefits but also has an impact on the environment, one source of which is noise emissions. This is true of all modes of transportation. It is as true of freight trains as it is for trucks, cars, and airplanes. The airlines of the ­Lufthansa Group have been setting standards worldwide for responsible mobility. And that includes our commitment to active noise abatement. Understanding the causes of noise in detail and finding ways to continually reduce them are formidable tasks. We are working on them with leading scientists and experts. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // ­Lufthansa Group // 09 quiet 10 // More quietly into the future Interview with Professor Dr. Brigitte Schulte-Fortkamp Expert on psychoacoustics and noise effects, ­Institute of Fluid Mechanics and Engineering Prof. Dr. Brigitte Schulte-Fortkamp Acoustics at the Technische Universität Berlin. How loud you want your music depends on this development, which, in Western your own mood or what type of music it is. ­societies at least, is very widespread? This explains why your neighbor may feel People are of course only too happy to use bothered by it. When sounds disrupt convermodern innovations, including freeways and sation, interfere with sleep, or are inappropriairports, for their own convenience. The quesate to a situation, then they become noise. tion is, however, would one really like to live The more often this happens, the more near a freeway or airport and put up with the annoyed one feels and the greater the danassociated stresses? Probably not! We prefer ger of falling into a cycle of irritation, stress, to leave that to “others.” and illness. It is not always the volume of a sound that matters; quite often it is its signifiWhat can one do about noise, actively cance. Softer sounds that resemble the or passively? pattern of unwelcome sounds can be perThere is a lot one can do about noise, both ceived as noise as well. actively and passively. Noise can be actively reduced at the source. One can begin by Prof. Schulte-Fortkamp, the issue of What makes noise different from other avoiding noise oneself, which is partly a matnoise is becoming increasingly prominent emissions such as the toxic substances or ter of social conduct. We’re all familiar with on the agenda of public debate. We could radiation levels we are exposed to in our them, those people on the train, in the waiting sum up the expectation of many people as highly developed, mobile society? lounge at the airport, or on the neighbor’s follows: “The world must get quieter.” But One can always reduce or even prevent balcony who are forever talking on their to achieve this objective, we need to come noise, whether by “turning it down” by techniphones. By the same token, you don’t have to a shared understanding of the causes cal means at the source or, for the sake of to rev up your motorcycle or sports car in a and effects of noise as well as possible social compatibility, by social convention. By populated area or insist that the entire neighsolutions. What is noise? that I mean not only that rules and regulations borhood enjoy your latest CD at full volume. Noise is sound that is unpleasant, disturbing, for noise prevention should be complied with. It is the technological sources that matter and/or harmful to health (DIN 1320). The Rather, noise is not just physically present or the most. Manufacturing-based solutions adverse effects of unpleasant or disturbing technically generated but socially generated can reduce noise generation at the source, sounds may be psychological, physical, as well. It is, in other words, also a matter of as in the case of low-noise road and rail social, or economic. The important thing to individual, and therefore social, behavior. vehicles and aircraft. Given the burden of remember is that noise cannot be measured Furthermore, even though the harmful effects ­environmental noise, it is absolutely vital to on a gauge. Noise is one’s reaction to sounds, of noise are well known, often they cannot be use passive sound insulation for one’s living which may be experienced as irritation, anger, observed directly, and this is why noise can area. But that means it also has to be made stress, or even illness. affect people in a dangerous matter. ­available. ß Why is it that one person may find loud We all want to be mobile. Even the exotic music pleasant while his or her neighbor fruits on display in the supermarket are is disturbed by it? Or to put the question expected to be fresh. But airports and another way, what turns a sound into freeways, like cell phone towers, are connoise? sidered undesirable. How do you explain Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 11 Volume of various noises compared All values in dB(A) Motor saw 7m 120 dB(A) Pneumatic hammer 7m 100 dB(A) Freight train 100 km / h 25 m 90 dB(A) Heavy goods vehicle 75 km / h 7.5 m 90 dB(A) Boeing 747-400 300 m 90 dB(A) ICE train 250 km / h 25 m 80 dB(A) Bus 60 km / h 25 m 80 dB(A) Airbus A 319 300 m 80 dB(A) Car 60 km / h 25 m 70 dB(A) Airbus A 319 1,000 m 70 dB(A) Normal conversation 1m 60 dB(A) Airbus A 319 2,000 m 60 dB(A) Quiet radio 1m 50 dB(A) 30 Ticking alarm clock 1m dB(A) 20 Dripping faucet 1m dB(A) Sources: SRU, EMPA, MIL, HLUG, UBA, Armbruster 12 // More quietly into the future More quietly into the future The dimensions of our commitment ­Lufthansa Boeing 747-8 The chevron nozzle reduces jet noise; for more details see page 14 01 / Investments in the most advanced aircraft We always put a premium on having the most advanced technologies. 261 new aircraft will be delivered to us between 2014 and 2025. 03 / Active involvement We buy the quietest engines available on the market. in noise research We are thereby considerably reducing the noise burden on ­people living in the vicinity of airports. We are conducting research for quieter flying. We are identifying noise sources and deriving options for action from what we find. 02 / Retrofitting the existing We are participating in studies on the effects fleet in order to reduce of noise. noise We have been involved in the Quiet Traffic research network for 15 years. We are retrofitting our fleet with new noise-reducing technologies. 157 aircraft in the existing fleet are getting vortex generators, which lower the noise level of an aircraft during its landing approach by up to four decibels. All L­ ufthansa B 737 aircraft stationed in Frankfurt have been equipped with noise mufflers. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 13 05 / Dialogue with persons living in proximity to airports and other stakeholders We take an active part in dialogue forums. We provide extensive information about our activities. 04 / Joint development of noisereducing landing approach and takeoff procedures with our ­system partners Our flight operations are tied into the measures for noise abatement in numerous ways. Under certain weather conditions the angle of approach to the northwest runway in Frankfurt is increased. At the Frankfurt hub the scheduled rotation of different runways for takeoffs leads to real noise breaks. 14 // More quietly into the future The chevron nozzle, as shown in the photograph [Ú 03], considerably reduces pressure fluctuations and, consequently, the jet noise emitted by the engines. The sawtooth concept is applied also to the outer trailing edge. There, too, it reduces noise emissions. In 2001, L­ ufthansa and the German Aerospace Center together used overfly measurements to demonstrate that chevrons on the exhaust Ú nozzle reduce the exhaust noise of an Airbus 01/ A319 engine by about 1 dB(A). Noise contours compared In addition to the A320neo shortand (B 747-400 vs. B 747-8 medium-haul aircraft ordered in 2011 and and B 777-9X) [Ú 02] 2013, 59 state-of-the-art aircraft—34 Boeing 777-9X and 25 Airbus A350-900—will join the For each of the contours shown, the intensity of ­Lufthansa Group’s long-haul fleet in the future sound at takeoff is 85 decibels. ß Investments in the most [Ú 01]. Delivery of the A350-900 will begin 10 km advanced aircraft as early as 2016. By 2025 they will have replaced the older Boeing 747-400 and – 30% ­Airbus A340-300 aircraft. The new models Ideally, active noise abatement would either will have a considerably smaller noise foot8 km prevent noise from occurring in the first place print than today’s aircraft [Ú 02]. ß or substantially reduce it by using the most advanced technologies. We therefore invest www.lufthansagroup.com/fleet_development – 40% continually in state-of-the-art aircraft. 6 km By 2025 the L­ ufthansa Group will take delivery of 261 aircraft of the latest generation at a list 4 km value of EUR 32 billion. It is clear from the example of the new Boeing 747-8—the legNew long-haul aircraft endary jumbo jet—that modern commercial (A350-900 and Boeing 777-9X) [Ú 01] aircraft are becoming quieter all the time. 2 km As compared to its predecessor model the ­Boeing 747-400, the noise footprint of the Boeing 747-8 is 30% smaller [Ú 02]. Start On May 1, 2014 the ­Lufthansa Group received Airbus A350-900 the 13th of the 19 Boeing 747-8 aircraft it has Boeing Boeing Boeing on order. This aircraft is powered by thor747-400 747-8 777-9X oughly redesigned, considerably quieter, and MTOW 395 t 442 t 351 t highly fuel-efficient engines. The most striking First flight 1989 2012 ~ 2020 of the numerous technological innovations is Boeing 777-9X the chevron, a sawtooth pattern on the trailing The noise footprint of a Boeing 747-8 on takeoff is, edge of the engine’s exhaust nozzle. This despite its 10% higher maximum takeoff weight, about results in a better mixing of the turbulent shear More quietly into the future: The new long-haul aircraft 30% smaller than that of the Boeing 747-400. The Boeing will be powered by exceptionally quiet and fuel-efficient 777-9X ordered by L ­ ufthansa will have a noise footprint layer, the stratum of air between the hot, fast engines: the Airbus A350-900 by Rolls Royce Trent XWB that is about 40% smaller than that of the Boeing 747-400, exhaust jet from the engine’s turbine and the 84 engines and the Boeing 777-9X by the GE-9X engines according to the manufacturer’s specifications. The chart manufactured by General Electric. The noise footprint shows the 85 dB maximum level contours for a takeoff cold bypass stream that flows around or of both models will be considerably smaller than that of according to standard L ­ ufthansa takeoff procedures envelops the engine’s core. today’s aircraft. (modATA) and with the takeoff weights as shown. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // ­Lufthansa Group // 15 [Ú 03] 261 Between 2014 and 2025 the ­Lufthansa Group will be taking delivery of a total of 261 low-noise and highly fuel-efficient aircraft. 03 The L­ ufthansa Boeing 747-8 is powered by thoroughly redesigned, considerably quieter, and highly fuel-efficient engines. The most striking of the numerous technological innovations is the chevron, a sawtooth pattern on the trailing edge of the engine’s exhaust nozzle. 16 // More quietly into the future Silencers for the Boeing 737 Ú The ­Lufthansa Group retrofitted all of its [Ú 04] 02 / ­Boeing 737 aircraft stationed in Frankfurt with new silencers in 2011 to bridge the period until new, quieter aircraft are delivered and to bring relief earlier to those living in the vicinity of the airport. The last Boeing 737 is to be taken out of service in 2015. ß Retrofitting the existing fleet in order to reduce Ú 03 / noise 04 The L­ ufthansa Group is also retrofitting older Research for quieter flying: Lufthansa aircraft in its fleet with noise-reducing techTechnik’s soundproof hangar at Hamburg Airport. nologies. In this connection the Group is working closely with the German Aerospace Center (DLR) and the various aircraft manuActive involvement in facturers. Some of the research findings resulting from this cooperation have already noise research been incorporated into the manufacturing process. The task of making air traffic ever quieter is a complex one. It requires the cooperative L ­ ufthansa is retrofitting more than 200 efforts of multiple actors. For this reason, the aircraft with vortex generators so that ­Lufthansa Group is working closely with they will fly more quietly in the future partners in industry, government, academia, In February 2014 ­Lufthansa became the first and major research institutions. We have paign, the noise researchers used the DLR’s airline in the world to take delivery of an Airbeen actively involved with the Quiet Traffic A320-ATRA research aircraft for a series of bus A320 equipped with vortex generators. A research network since 1999. This initiative, static engine tests. The test runs were carried total of 157 aircraft in the existing fleet will be which is led by the DLR, relies on the interdisout in ­Lufthansa Technik’s soundproof hangar equipped with the new noise-reducing comciplinary cooperation of industry, research at Hamburg Airport. ­Lufthansa Technik and ponent, so that, when the expected new institutions, and transport operators. It investiHamburg Airport supported the multidiscideliveries are added in, more than 200 A320 gates specific problems related to noise from plinary research project. Never before had the aircraft in total will be flying more quietly. road, rail, and air traffic. mounted engines of a commercial aircraft These will be used on shortand mediumbeen studied with the simultaneous use of a haul routes in Germany and Europe. Project MODAL: Identifying noise sources large number of microphones and laser-optic and improving noise abatement measures metrology techniques while in operation. The The vortex generator technology [Ú 06] is The ­Lufthansa Group is spearheading the objective of the project is to locate the zones based on the results of the research conproject MODAL (Models and Data for the within the engine flow where large, turbulent ducted by the ­Lufthansa Group and the DLR. Development of Active Noise-Abatement fluctuations in velocity and density produce Overfly measurements revealed that the Measures in Aviation) as part of the Aeronaunoise. Once the project is completed, the vortex generators are able to eliminate two tics Research Program of the German Minisresearchers intend to deliver improved simulaunpleasant tones. Initial measurements of the try of Economics. The project is aimed at tions of jet engines and their noise-producing new aircraft with vortex generators have achieving a better understanding of the noise flow structures. shown that the aircraft’s total noise level on emissions produced by different types of approach falls by up to four decibels at disaircraft. Another aim is to improve the analyNORAH: A new noise study tances between 17 and 10 kilometers from sis of active noise abatement measures The NORAH (Noise-Related Annoyance, the runway. Thus the ­Lufthansa Group has through more precise calculations. Cognition, and Health) study concerns the realized a key objective of the Alliance for effects of noise produced by road, rail, and air More Noise Protection, a joint initiative of the Project SAMURAI: The cornerstone traffic on the health and quality of life of the ­Lufthansa Group, Fraport, the airline associafor ­quieter jet engines resident population of affected areas. Publication BARIG, DFS, the Airport and Region From September 23 to 28, 2013, DLR sciention of the NORAH report is expected someForum (FFR), and the government of the State tists used laser technology and microphones time in the middle of 2015. The ­Lufthansa of Hesse. This measure brings relief particufor the first time to analyze noise generation Group supports the study because of its broad larly to neighbors of the major hubs serving inside jet engines and on the main fan. In this scope and sound scientific basis. ß Frankfurt and Munich. elaborate and sophisticated measuring camwww.norah-studie.de Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 17 “Before every takeoff “Low noise and conwe consider what the sumption values are the optimum procedure two crucial environmental is to keep noise to a parameters when selectminimum.” ing new aircraft.” Nico Buchholz, Capt. Oliver Cantele, Executive Vice President, Ops Efficiency Program Manager, Austrian Airlines Deutsche Lufthansa AG “There is an audible “We have been actively reduction in the noise involved for years in burden on residents of noise research so that we areas near our major can fly more quietly.” hubs.” Markus Pauly, Director, Commercials Dr. Gerd Saueressig, Manager, Group Environmental Frankfurt Hub, Issues, Deutsche Lufthansa AG Deutsche Lufthansa AG 18 // More quietly into the future Flight noise portal Extensive information on the airline industry’s commitment to noise abatement can be found also on the new website of the German Aviation Association (BDL). Major progress for freight transport 05 Boeing 777-F: The three numbers and one letter stand for the world’s quietest and most environmentally friendly freighter. In June 2014 L­ ufthansa Cargo put into service the fourth of the five aircraft of this type it had ordered. It meets the standards of what is currently the most rigorous noise protection class in civil aviation. [Ú 05] [Ú 06] Fewer people affected by noise from aviation  [Ú 07] Fewer and fewer people consider themselves extremely or moderately affected by noise from aviation. 17% Neighbors 15% Rail traffic 6% Air traffic ’00 ’02 ’04 ’06 ’08 ’10 2012 Source: BMU, Umweltbewusstsein in Deutschland (Environmental awareness in Germany) 2000 – 2012 07 Those who question the benefits of mobility for persons or for the transport of goods are entering into a Quieter thanks to sophisticated discussion with implications for society as a whole. Some of these implications are health-related, as technology mass transportation produces noise. For those who are affected the most, aircraft noise is a source of 06 stress. On the whole, however, the adverse effect air ­Lufthansa is retrofitting more than 200 aircraft with vortex generators traffic has on people is small in comparison to other so that they will fly even more quietly in the future. They are based modes of transportation. Moreover, the proportion of on the results of research conducted by the L­ ufthansa Group and people who consider their exposure to aircraft noise the DLR. Overfly measurements revealed that the vortex generators to be strong to moderate has declined by more than are able to eliminate two unpleasant tones and thereby lower the airhalf since 2000. craft’s total noise level on approach by up to four decibels. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 19 [Ú 08] Bombardier CSeries at Swiss: Audible reduction in the noise burden on residents of areas near airports 08 Swiss will be taking delivery of 30 CSeries aircraft from Bombardier, which will replace the Avro RJ100 regional aircraft currently in operation. The advent of this new generation of aircraft will bring a clearly audible improvement to the lives of those living near airports. The new aircraft, which are destined for service on European routes beginning sometime in 2015, are on average 10 to 15 decibels quieter than an Avro RJ100. According to the manufacturer information, the 60 dB maximum level contour of the CSeries has been reduced by 75% in comparison with its predecessor. Where noises are generated on an aircraft [Ú 09] Control surfaces Engines The sound of an aircraft taking off is dominated by the noises produced by Slats Turbine fan the engines. These emit noise both ­forwards and backwards. Airframe noise Flaps Jet is caused by landing gear and control surfaces such as slats and flaps. These are important starting points for any ­project to develop new, quieter aircraft. Landing gear [Ú 10] Yet more of the substantially quieter Airbus A320neo aircraft for ­Lufthansa 10 The ­Lufthansa Group ordered 30 aircraft in the A320neo family on March 16, 2011 and another 70 such aircraft on March 13, 2013. 60 of these aircraft are equipped with PW1100G engines built by Pratt & Whitney, 40 others with LEAP-1A engines built by CFM International. These two engines are comparable in their flight performance and environmental compatibility values. For example, they reduce by half, according to their manufacturers’ specifications, the usual noise footprint produced by an aircraft when taking off or landing. This is a substantial reduction in the noise burden on ­residents of areas close to airports. 20 // More quietly into the future Ú 04 / Joint development of and work intensively to introduce new noisenoise-reducing landing reducing takeoff and landing approach procedures. One measure already implemented in approach and takeoff Frankfurt is the scheduled alternation of differFinancial incenprocedures with our ent takeoff runways referred to as dedicated tive systems for ­system partners runway operations. This results in predictable, genuine breaks from noise. airlines. Did you know In its efforts to fly more quietly, the Lufthansa In addition, the angle of approach to the new that … Ú Group has been having successful results for a long time with new flight procedures such northwest runway in Frankfurt has been increased for certain weather conditions from Since 2001, aircraft that take as continuous descent operations, steeper 3.0 to 3.2 degrees, which results in higher off or land in Frankfurt are clasapproaches, and changes in flight routes. overfly altitudes. This is one of the few means sified according to the aircraft Such noise-reducing takeoff and landing available to afford people living in proximity type’s noise level as actually procedures are another focus of our active to the airport and directly below the final measured in Frankfurt? Louder types of aircraft bear a heavier noise abatement measures, such as those approach path at least some mild relief from fee burden. The Frankfurt developed and implemented in the Airport the noise [Ú 11]. Airport is an international pioand Region Forum (FFR) in Frankfurt. Our neer with its noise-based fee flight operations are tied into these measures structure. in numerous ways. Source: Fraport, B ­ ericht über Schallschutz am Noise reduction at the Frankfurt hub: Relief Flughafen Frankfurt (Report for those affected the most on noise abatement at Particularly in Frankfurt, our biggest German Frankfurt Airport), ­October 2012 – March 2013 hub, representatives of the flight operators regularly take part in a roundtable of experts Flying higher for longer [Ú 11] Since the middle of October 2012, the angle of approach to the northwest runway has been increased by almost 7%. 929 m 602 m New angle of approach 3.2 ° 3.0 ° 870 m 292 m Previous angle 565 m of approach 275 m Mainz Hochheim Flörsheim Frankfurt Airport A steep angle of approach contributes to noise abatement. The illustration above uses the approach to Frankfurt Airport’s northwest runway as an example. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 21 Ú [Ú 13] 80% quieter as a result of technical innovations Aircraft today are 80% quieter than they were 60 years ago. This progress has been based primarily on developments in engine technology; see [Ú 12]. Aircraft are improving aerodynamically all the time. They produce smaller vortices and therefore less noise. With each new generation of aircraft there is a reduction in noise emissions as compared to the previous models. In addition, industry and science are working hand-in-hand to reduce noise emissions ever further, so that an aircraft’s noise contours [Ú 02] are being increasingly limited to the airport premises. This also reduces the burden of aircraft noise on the local population. Furthermore, guidelines such as those for noise certification by the United Nations’ Ú 05 / International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) are having an impact. These specify the level of permissible noise emissions from new aircraft models. Many older and louder aircraft are no longer allowed at European airports at all. Exceptions are made for relief supply flights and vintage airplanes. ß Dialogue with ­persons living in proximity to airports and other stakeholders Reducing noise at the source [Ú 12] The ­Lufthansa Group has been engaged for cooperation among the airport, its users, and years in a neighborly dialogue with politiits neighbors. ß Less noise as the result of modern engine cians, experts, and residents of areas near t­echnology. Investments in the billions that airports. Maintaining this exchange is a key have paid off: 80% quieter in 60 years. concern for us. One example that may serve dB as a visible expression of our efforts in this regard is the Information Center of the EnviJet engines ronment and Community House (UNH) in – 25 dB Kelsterbach near Frankfurt am Main, which opened in April 2013 [Ú 13]. Together with 1st generation – 80% other system partners, the Lufthansa Group of bypass engines provides the project with material support and content. The UNH contains interactive 13 exhibition spaces dedicated to topics such as View of the interior of the Information 2nd generation noise and sound, aviation and the environCenter of the Environment and Comof bypass engines munity House in Kelsterbach near ment, and the importance of the airport to Frankfurt, which opened in April 2013. 1950 1980 2010 the economy and the labor market. Its most Together with other system partners, the important goal is to bring about lasting and ­Lufthansa Group provides material supSource: Airbus continual improvement in communication and port and content for the project. Sustainable Business Practice Sustainable business practice is the basis of our success. Together with our stakeholders we shape the future. 697 261 3,200 20 operating result for new aircraft that we SCORE projects years of continuous 2013 in million euros will receive between implemented reporting on our 2014 and 2025 sustainability performance 24 // Sustainable Business Practice Embodying corporate responsibility Sustainable business practice is an important influencing factor on our ability to ensure the future viability of the Lufthansa Group. Responsible entrepreneurial practice is firmly embedded in our corporate strategy. Its guiding principle is shaping the future together. The Lufthansa Group is committed to pursusociety. Through its contribution to our earnThe focus of our attention is our customers ing sustainable and responsible management ings, our corporate program SCORE, which and their mobility needs. Our efforts towards practices in all of its business segments. In we instituted in 2012, creates an important continual improvement are based on longparticular, our extensive investments in a new, prerequisite and the necessary scope of term value creation, prudent management of even quieter and more fuel-efficient fleet action for sustainable business practice. opportunities and risks, rigorous management constitute an important step towards making of our supply chains, and constructive diapresent and future means of human mobility logue with our stakeholders. environmentally compatible. The cash value added (CVA) approach to measuring comThe Lufthansa Group is Assuming corporate responsibility in the pany performance under a value-based management regime integrates valueand steadfast in its pursuit Lufthansa Group encompasses matters of economic, ecological, and social sustainfuture-oriented thinking into all decisionof sustainable business ability together with corporate governance making processes. practice. and compliance as well as corporate citizenship. Our five-dimensional model makes The Lufthansa Group’s business operations sustainable corporate management in all its and its sustainability agenda are influenced by facets intelligible for our many and varied many different social developments. Current This creates positive prospects for our comstakeholders [Ú 01]. global megatrends and future challenges panies, our employees, our shareholders, and include, in addition to population growth and our customers. The individual chapters and subchapters of increasing human mobility, demographic the present report provide detailed information changes, the trend towards a service econThe Lufthansa Group is pursuing four strategic about the various areas on which our commitomy, and growing access to the Internet. At goals: ments are focused. In addition, we include the same time, there is a mounting need for for the first time a separate chapter devoted security, and environmental protection is Increase the company’s value. entirely to a report on product responsibility. taking on ever greater importance in light of Expand the leading market position of our impending climate change and dwindling airlines and service companies by actively resources. shaping the aviation industry. Continuously increase customer Confronting these challenges is what we satisfaction. mean by acting “sustainably.” Our aim is to Conduct economically, ecologically, and create, with innovative services and products, socially balanced and sustainable business. long-term positive value for our shareholders, customers, employees, and the good of Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 25 The dimensions Ú of our corporate responsibility  [Ú 01] Jointly defining the key issues Climate and Social environmental responsibility As 2014 began, the Lufthansa Group once responsibility again conducted an expert survey among representatives of their stakeholders. Its Economic ­purpose was to compare areas of practical sustainability importance for their sustainability policies, as seen from the standpoint of our stakeholders and of the company, and to work the results accordingly into the topics as presented in the present Sustainability Report and into our Corporate governance Corporate strategic corporate deliberations. and compliance citizenship Among the participants in the survey were representatives of nongovernmental organizations, system partners, politicians, investors, customers, employees, suppliers, and sustainability experts. Altogether, 21 interviews were conducted by telephone and in person. We asked our stakeholders to prioritize the items on our sustainability agenda (by field of action) and to evaluate our sustainability performance. The results of the survey provided us with valuable stimuli for the future development of our sustainability agenda. Ú Actively shaping the future with SCORE The Lufthansa Group achieved an operating result of EUR 697 million in 2013. Given this economic development, the Executive Board no longer believes that the earnings target for 2015 of EUR 2.65 billion, which was set as part of the SCORE program, can be achieved, SCORE now comprises more than 4,200 implementation, and performance assessdespite the substantial contributions to earnindividual projects, some 3,200 of which we ment. The SCORE tracker keeps those ings made by SCORE. The Executive Board have already implemented. The Lufthansa involved informed of the status of the various now expects an operating result of around Group is thereby creating the conditions that projects. This Group-wide program also has EUR 2 billion for 2015. The company nonethewill allow us to actively shape the future and long-term corporate cultural significance. less intends to substantially increase its operatmanage the company on a sustainable basis. Our goals are entrepreneurship and flexibility ing profit compared with the current year. The along with optimal cooperation within the current development underlines the imporThe SCORE program is organized on three Lufthansa Group. These require motivation tance of SCORE for the Lufthansa Group. levels. It comprises Group-wide projects, joint and a strong sense of commitment on the part projects of the airlines in the Lufthansa Group, of our employees. The goal of the SCORE program is to exploit and projects within individual companies. synergies within the Group, lower costs, Each project passes through five phases: increase revenues, and optimize processes. conception, evaluation, planning in detail, 26 // Sustainable Business Practice Ú Demonstrating responsibility with an extensive fleet modernization In 2013 the Lufthansa Group more than doubly fulfilled the airline industry’s annual target of increasing fuel efficiency in flight operations by 02 1.5%. For the first time in the Group’s history, The E-PORT AN electro-mobility initiative, the Group fleet’s specific fuel consumption in which the Lufthansa (measured in liters of kerosene per passenger Group is a participant, per 100 kilometers) fell to less than four liters. received the rating For the second year in a row, we were able Leuchtturm Elektromobilität (“Electroalso to reduce kerosene consumption in Mobility Beacon”) from absolute terms. We are flying more economithe German federal [Ú 02] cally while at the same time reducing our government. impact on the environment. Detailed information on the subject of fuel efficiency may be found in the chapter “Climate and EnvironThe FTSE4Good index was introduced in making an important contribution towards mental Responsibility” beginning on page 44. 2001 by FTSE, a wholly owned subsidiary of economic and ecological sustainability. the London Stock Exchange. It lists only those The Lufthansa Group is currently implementcompanies that meet the internationally In addition, the E-PORT AN electro-mobility ing the largest fleet modernization program in accepted standards of corporate responsibility initiative at Frankfurt Airport, a joint initiative of the company’s history. There are now 261 in the following dimensions: environmental the Lufthansa Group, Fraport AG, the State of aircraft on order for delivery by the end of management, climate change, human and Hesse, and the Rhine-Main Model Electro2025, representing an investment volume of labor rights along the supply chain, corporate Mobility Region, won the prestigious GreenEUR 32 billion at list prices (as of Decemgovernance, and anti-corruption efforts. Tec Award in May 2014 in the aviation catber 31, 2013). The Lufthansa Group invested egory. This prize is regarded as the most EUR 2.5 billion during the reporting period. Of important of all European environmental and that, EUR 2.1 billion was invested in modernbusiness management-related awards. The izing and maintaining the fleet. The Lufthansa joint initiative had already received the rating Group also maintains a focus on active noise Leuchtturm Elektromobilität (“Electro-Mobility protection efforts. We are continually working Beacon”) from the German federal governto further reduce the noise burden on resiment in 2013. A list of selected prizes and dents of the areas surrounding our major awards can be found on page 129. airport hubs. This year’s focus topic, “More quietly into the future”, offers an overview of Through its participation in the Carbon Disthese efforts beginning on page 08. closure Project (CDP), the Lufthansa Group Ú scored yet another improvement in its assessment as compared to the previous Organizationally Ú year. The goal of this independent investor embedded corporate initiative, which is global in its scope, is to Awards for commitment induce companies to disclose not only their responsibility to sustainability CO2 emissions, but also their strategies to further reduce them. The Corporate Responsibility Council (CRC) is responsible for coordinating and further develOutside experts and agencies regularly evaluDuring the reporting year the Lufthansa Group oping all activities and initiatives within the ate the Lufthansa Group’s commitment to once again received numerous awards and Lufthansa Group related to issues of sustainresponsible action. In 2013 the Group was prizes. In the category of corporate responsiability. This interdisciplinary and interdepartonce again included in the FTSE4Good and bility, for example, we were awarded the mental body at the upper management level Ethibel Excellence Investment Register susAirline Business Technology Award by Airline is managed by the head of Group Strategy. tainability indices and in two indices compiled Business magazine. The jury commended in The CRC’s members also include the heads by the well-known ECPI rating agency, which particular the technical capabilities and innoof Political Issues, Environmental Issues, specializes in sustainability. vativeness of Lufthansa Technik, which is Human Resources, Legal Affairs, CommuniSustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 27 cations, Investor Relations, Controlling, and it is based. Further information on the subject The right to equal pay for equal work, the Corporate Sourcing departments. The CRC of corporate governance and compliance right to form trade unions reports directly to the Executive Board of the begins on page 28. The right to rest and leisure and regular Lufthansa Group. In addition, a working group paid vacations established within the Group and comprising Particularly in the social sphere, our scope of The right to a standard of living adequate representatives from all sustainability-related action is defined not only by current laws but for health departments meets regularly to discuss curalso by the Lufthansa Group’s own commitThe right to an education and to freely rent topics and questions relating to corporate ments. These include our membership in the choose the form of one’s education ß responsibility. This working group reports to UN Global Compact, the largest initiative in the CRC. the world for responsible business management. In 2002 Lufthansa became the first aviation company to join the initiative, which had Ú been launched two years earlier by then UN Secretary General Kofi Annan. The participatLinking corporate ing companies have agreed to align their responsibility to business activities and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles concerning financial incentives human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption measures. The Executive Board members and managers Lufthansa Group supports the principles of the receive their variable remuneration in part on UN Global Compact with numerous programs the basis of cash value added and such and activities. sustainability parameters as fuel efficiency The 10 principles and CO2 emissions, but also on the basis of customer and employee satisfaction. The The Lufthansa Group is committed to fostering a culture of diversity within the company of the UN Global ­Lufthansa Group ensures its economic sucand—with its membership in the UN Global Compact Ú cess by regularly studying the critical opportuCompact, the International Chamber of ComHuman rights nities and risks facing the company and merce, Transparency International, the GerBusinesses should support and respect factoring the results into its corporate manman Business Ethics Network, and institutions the protection of international human agement decisions. This prepares us for both devoted to particular aspects of human rights within their sphere of influence and positive and negative influences and enables rights—expressly embraces compliance with make sure their own corporations are not us to respond to them with flexibility. Detailed the various applicable standards and, ultiindirectly linked to human rights abuses. information on how we manage risks and mately, the cause of human rights. In 1951 Labor opportunities may be found in the 2013 Lufthansa’s home country, Germany, signed a Businesses should uphold the freedom Annual Report, beginning on page 97 in the commitment to comply with the ILO stanof association and the effective recogni“Opportunities Report” chapter, and begindards, whose rules—which for our Group are tion of the right to collective bargaining; ning on page 102 in the “Risk Report” c ­ hapter. a matter of course—are therefore binding on eliminate all forms of forced and compulLufthansa as well. sory labor; effectively abolish child labor; and Ú In countries where acceptance of human eliminate any discrimination in respect rights cannot be taken for granted, we make of employment and occupation. For us, compliance every effort to encourage positive developEnvironment with the law goes ment by setting an example through our conduct towards our own employees. Businesses should support a precau­without saying Although realization of the human rights tionary approach to environmental challenges; formulated in the UN Charter is a matter of undertake initiatives to promote greater The Lufthansa Group defines corporate governational, and hence country-specific, stanenvironmental responsibility; and nance first and foremost as corporate mandards, Lufthansa is nevertheless making a encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly agement and control that is informed by an contribution towards securing the following technologies. awareness of the company’s responsibilities rights through its exemplary treatment of its and aimed towards sustainable value creemployees: Anti-corruption ation. It meets high international standards Businesses should work against corrupand is crucial for maintaining transparency The right to freedom of assembly and tion in all forms, including extortion and towards shareholders and trust in the combribery. association pany’s management. The German Stock The right to social security www.unglobalcompact.org Corporation Act and the German Corporate The right to work, to free choice of employGovernance Code are key elements on which ment, and to just conditions of work 28 // Sustainable Business Practice Corporate governance and compliance For the Lufthansa Group, corporate governance is expressed in practice as corporate management and control that is informed by an awareness of the company’s responsibilities and aimed towards sustainable value creation. It meets high international standards and is of central importance in our efforts to maintain transparency towards the shareholders and continually increase trust in the company’s management. The German Stock Corporation Act and the intended to keep employees from violating entail personal liability. The Lufthansa CompliGerman Corporate Governance Code are key the law and to train them in the application ance Program currently comprises modules elements on which it is based. Our declaration and interpretation of legal norms. As an relating to competition, capital market, integof conformity pursuant to the German Corpoaviation company with global operations, the rity, embargo, and corporate compliance rate Governance Code may be found on page ­Lufthansa Group advocates fair competition, matters. 17 of the 2013 Annual Report. integrity, and responsible action. The compliance guidelines are in unison with the Competition Compliance Lufthansa is also registered in the voluntary ­Lufthansa Group’s existing guidelines, proThe Competition Compliance module familiartransparency register of the European Comgrams, and work rules. izes employees with the relevant provisions of mission and European Parliament. The goal of antitrust legislation to minimize or exclude the this public register, which was set up in June Organization of the Compliance Program risks Lufthansa faces under antitrust law. All 2011, is to increase the transparency of deciThe Compliance Office, which was estabemployees who are exposed to matters in sion-making processes within the EU and to lished on October 1, 2007 within the central which antitrust law is of relevance are trained ensure that interactions between EU institulegal department, is responsible for implein the fundamental provisions of European tions and organizations, associations and menting, developing, and communicating the and national antitrust legislation. companies are in conformity with current law Lufthansa Compliance Program. In addition, and are conducted on the basis of ethical the various Group companies have appointed Capital Market Compliance principles. Compliance Commissioners and Compliance The Capital Market Compliance module gives Managers. The Compliance Office coordiemployees an overview of the applicable nates investigations into circumstances surprovisions of capital market law, such as Ú rounding compliance issues and serves as a those concerning insider trading or ad hoc contact point for antitrust and investigative publicity. In this way, and with an accompanyThe Lufthansa Compliauthorities, to which Lufthansa gives its full ing training program, all employees and ance Program ensures cooperation. The compliance guidelines constitute a core component of the Lufthansa company bodies concerned receive an indepth understanding of the provisions of the compliance with appliCompliance Program. These internal regulaGerman Securities Trading Act (Wertpapiercable law tions mark out for employees the limits of handelsgesetz). proper practice to ensure that conduct conCompliance refers to all measures taken to forms to a uniform and legally compliant Integrity Compliance ensure that companies, their executive bodstandard. The company is not willing to tolerWith the Integrity Compliance module, ies, and their employees observe the law in ate any violations of law by its employees. ­Lufthansa documents its fundamental their conduct. The Lufthansa Compliance Culpability for violations of law has legal approach to legal compliance in its business Program, which was established in 2004, is consequences under labor law and may also dealings. The duty to conduct oneself in a Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 29 manner that is free of corruption and ethically Regular training in matters of compliance correct flows naturally from current law, interAutomated IT processes ensure that all Ombudsman nal compliance guidelines, and the commitments Lufthansa has made through its employees and executive bodies at Lufthansa participate once a year in the web-based ­system Ú ­membership in the relevant national and training courses (e-learning courses) that are Another fundamental element in international organizations. Examples include relevant to what they do. Employees of the the Lufthansa Compliance Program the Lufthansa Group’s commitment to the subsidiaries also have access to these is the ombudsman system, a program of proven effectiveness that principles of the UN Global Compact and its e-learning courses and are to some extent has been implemented worldwide. membership in Transparency International. already included in the automated mailing list. Introduced on December 1, 2007, The Integrity Compliance guidelines and The Compliance Office regularly offers faceit serves as an additional preventive checklist provide guidance on how to handle to-face training courses as well. Compliance measure against white-collar crime. An ombudsman outside the cominvitations, gifts, and other c ­ onsiderations. training is an integral part of leadership semipany can receive information from nars, management courses, and other internal employees or third parties by teleCorporate Compliance continuing education events and conferences. phone, in writing, or in person. The The Corporate Compliance module bundles office of ombudsman is performed those internal regulations that are of key Monitoring and reporting by Dr. Rainer Buchert, a Frankfurt lawyer who is subject in full to the importance for the Lufthansa Group from a Self-audits and external audits ensure that legal duty of professional secrecy legal standpoint and makes them transparent the Compliance Program is implemented and who also has the right to for employees. effectively in light of the current requirerefuse to give evidence to governments under the Accounting Law Modernment investigative authorities. The ombudsman refers all information Embargo Compliance ization Act (Bilanzmodernisierungsgesetz). given to him to Lufthansa without The Embargo Compliance module serves to In addition, the Supervisory Board’s Audit disclosing the names or identities ensure compliance by the Lufthansa Group, Committee is informed twice a year of curof his informants. Disclosure of an as a globally operating group of companies, rent compliance-related developments informant’s identity to Lufthansa or third parties without the informant’s with the provisions of foreign trade sanctions within the Group and the current state of the consent is prohibited. imposed against specific countries or perprogram’s implementation. ß sons. The Embargo Compliance guidelines mark out for the employees concerned the limits of proper practice. The Lufthansa Compliance Program Competition Capital Market Integrity Embargo Corporate Program consisting of five modules The Compliance Office is responsible for implementation, development, and communication 30 // Sustainable Business Practice Stakeholder dialogue The Lufthansa Group actively seeks constructive and critical exchange with all of its stakeholders. We maintain this dialogue at the various levels and work what we learn from it into what we do so that together we can shape a sustainable future. Openness, clarity, and continuity are essential steering the dialogue towards reconciliation of media and other channels, relating to the for preserving and further developing trust in varying interests. topic of corporate responsibility. our company among our stakeholders. Understanding the expectations, interests, Balance, as the title of our sustainability and information needs of our stakeholders is Ú report, illustrates our sense of responsibility for important for us in many respects. Apart from a strategy of balance between the multifarious the continual exchange of knowledge, it helps Our sustainability interests of the Group and its stakeholders. us promote mutual trust and understanding for both sides. report, Balance, also We regard the inclusion of our stakeholders in our corporate decision-making processes as contributes towards an ongoing process. An all-embracing dialogue with our stakeholdtransparency ers, moreover, clears the way for new forms of cooperation and collaboration with them. We The sustainability report Balance keeps our Ú are constantly getting our stakeholders stakeholders informed of various points of involved in processes of development and emphasis and the progress being made in our Recognizing what innovation. This includes, for example, the development of new seats, or other innovasustainability strategy. We began in 1994 initially with an environmental report but now the key sustainability tions associated with flight as a product, along cover all relevant aspects of corporate issues are with regular customer surveys. We look conresponsibility. The sustainability report is the structively for joint solutions to social problems comprehensive basis for our dialogue with our In February 2014 we made adjustments, and seek to improve social conditions. An stakeholders. In addition, we use various based on a survey conducted among our example of this is our involvement in the media to communicate sustainability-related stakeholders, to the key areas of action in our Airport and Region forum and in the Environinformational content intended for specific sustainability strategy and to the focus of our ment and Community House at Frankfurt target groups, content that we are continually communication on sustainability issues. Airport. developing. Among the participants in the survey were representatives of nongovernmental organizaA fundamental challenge in this dialogue with Since January 2013, for example, the tions, system partners, politicians, investors, stakeholders in different regions of the world ­Lufthansa Group’s corporate communications customers, employees, suppliers, and susis their variety as reflected in differences in service has been offering, with its information tainability experts. their expectations. The various subsidiaries service Corporate Responsibility – Stichwort and our worldwide business operations are der Woche (“Key phrase of the week”), a other factors. All this calls for great skill in weekly source of information, through social Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 31 The diverse stakeholders of the Lufthansa Group Ú Our dialogue with individual stakeholders Suppliers Customers Capital market Contractual partners Consumers Investors LOHAS (Lifestyle Shareholders Shaping the future together expresses the of Health and Analysts guiding principle behind our approach to Sustainability) Rating agencies corporate management and its pursuit of sustainability. It is entirely in keeping with this spirit that we attach great value to maintaining, in a spirit of trust, an ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders. Employees Governments Passengers/customers Employee Lufthansa Legislators Customers are always at the center of the ­representatives Group Politicians Lufthansa Group’s attention. Their satisfaction Authorities is an important concern for us. For more than a decade Lufthansa has therefore systematically gauged the level of our passengers’ satisfaction using, for example, the CPI (Customer Profile Index). This index reflects customer evaluations all along the service chain. Science Nongovernmental Neighbors In 2013 the CPI once again rose in compariResearch organizations Local communities son to the previous year—from 7,733 to 7,804 Education (NGOs) Society points. This represents a roughly 1% increase Organizations Publicity in our passengers’ level of satisfaction. In Consortia Social networks addition, the Lufthansa Group is continually seeking dialogue with its customers, and it has designed a new feedback process with its customer advisory boards (see “Customer satisfaction,” page 72). Our customers and other stakeholders may also receive and exchange extensive information about the Lufthansa Group through the Discover Lufthansa visitor service at our Frankfurt and Hamburg locations. This service is intended specifically for top German and international customers from various industries as well as for students, university or college graduates, persons living in the vicinity of airports, and representatives of various associations and research institutes. [Ú 03] In 2013, 4,645 interested persons availed themselves of the opportunities offered in Frankfurt for dialogue on various topics, including topics relating to sustainability, by taking part in 485 expert-guided tours and other events. Roughly 40% of the events were for corporate or sales customers. Research institutes and institutes such as the Max 03 Planck Institute, the Fraunhofer Institute, For the first time the visitor Deutsche Flugsicherung (DFS), and the service organized bicycle tours for Schmalenbach Gesellschaft accounted for employees in conjunction with a tour 16%, the second highest share, of visitors. of Lufthansa’s flagship A380. 32 // Sustainable Business Practice In the reporting year there were also numerLufthansa German Airlines, and the transfer of discussion”) events. In 2013 the company ous events geared towards students and held our decentralized services to Germanwings also continued its Dialogue Cockpit events as part of information days for schoolchildren. were each explained in two additional events and established the new Purser Forum 2013 In August and September 2013 the visitor in June and October. German private invesseries of events. service organized for the first time bicycle tors were another special focus. Representatours for employees in conjunction with a tour tives of Investor Relations gave presentations Neighbors, municipalities, and politics of Lufthansa’s A380 wide-body airliner, thus in 2013 at four forums tailored specifically to We want to do our part to create a competitive combining physical exercise and information private investors. These events were completransportation infrastructure for the German in an innovative fashion. mented by Shareholder Information, which economy. For this reason we use regional and was published twice in 2013. As well as the national forums to highlight for opinion-makThe range of activities that the Group is regular annual and quarterly reports, the ers and political decision-makers the role of involved in is wide. The Lufthansa Group’s Lufthansa Group publishes Investor Info on a global aviation in an intermodal transportation participation in the Kunst privat! (“Private art!”) monthly basis to inform the capital markets of scheme. One example of this was the first project, for example, offered those interested trends in the airlines’ traffic figures and current German Mobility Conference in Frankfurt am in art or architecture an opportunity to topics from across the Group. In addition, Main, in which we participated in 2013. become familiar with the Lufthansa Aviation bondholders and providers of outside capital Center at Frankfurt Airport on June 8 and 9, received the publication Creditor Info, which The Lufthansa Group has long maintained an 2013. The Tag der Luftfahrt (“Air Travel Day”) contains information relevant to their interests, extensive dialogue with representatives of took place on the same weekend. Its highseveral times a year on request. All publicaGermany’s federal and state governments. light: the A380. By the end of the first day, tions, financial reports, presentations, backWe bring our practical knowledge to bear in more than 1,000 visitors had already taken ground information, talks, and current news various projects and undertakings. At the advantage of the opportunity afforded by a are available also, to anyone who is intersame time, we work at the international level raffle to experience Lufthansa’s flagship up ested, on the Lufthansa Group’s homepage to make our position clear in regard to legal close. on the World Wide Web. and regulatory requirements. One of our most www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations important joint efforts concerns, for example, Visitor services are operated also by the the planned uniform airspace over Europe. Lufthansa Group airlines Lufthansa Cargo (at Employees Frankfurt Airport), Swiss (at Zurich Airport), After the Lufthansa Group introduced numerWe also maintain a vigorous dialogue with and Austrian Airlines (at Vienna Airport). ous new dialogue formats for its employees at mayors and public authorities in the comhome and abroad in 2012 (see also Balance munities surrounding our most important Investors 2013, page 28), these were continued and company locations. Since 2008 we have, for In the financial year 2013 the Lufthansa Group further developed in 2013. Another focus was example, taken an active part in the Airport provided its investors with timely, comprehenthe formats used for the Executive Board’s and Region forum in Frankfurt for the purpose sive, and objective information as usual. We dialogue with managers. The reporting year of developing, in cooperation with participatmake every effort to earn and maintain the saw an increase in the use of Web-based ing partners, effective measures for protection trust of our shareholders by giving them an formats, which aim to guarantee maximum against noise. up-to-date and transparent picture of the accessibility and make personal exchange of Group and its prospects. Members of the information with top management possible. At At Lufthansa Cargo’s third Cargo Climate Executive Board and employees of the Investhe same time, the established Town meetings Care environmental conference on April 24, tor Relations department were on hand at the at various Lufthansa Group locations once 2013, numerous industry experts reported on quarterly conferences, 38 road shows, and again provided a platform for exchange and discussed megatrends in logistics and nine investors’ conferences to take questions between management and employees of the the environmental requirements arising from and provide information about the Lufthansa Group companies. Numerous business segthem. This took place partly on the basis of a Group’s performance. They used these occaments within the Lufthansa Group also implestudy that considered various future scenarios sions also to conduct more than 300 indimented dialogue formats of their own, includfor the logistics industry. ß vidual and group discussions. Our corporate ing, for example, Lufthansa Technik with its program SCORE, the performance of new series of MITeinanderREDEN (“Join the Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 33 [Ú 04] [Ú 05] [Ú 06] [Ú 07] 06 The Lufthansa Group opened 04 the Lufthansa Aviation Center Lufthansa Cargo’s third Cargo at Frankfurt Airport as part Climate Care conference at of the Kunst privat! (“Private the prestigious Senckenberg art!”) campaign. Museum in Frankfurt am Main. 07 05 The web conference is an upThe Lufthansa Group took part to-date medium for dialogue in the first German ­Mobility which the Lufthansa Group Conference in Frankfurt am uses to reach a broad target Main in 2013. group quickly. 34 // Sustainable Business Practice [Ú 08] 08 09 / 10 [Ú 09] Thanks to sharklets, the In 2013 the Lufthansa Group ­Lufthansa A320 is always ordered highly fuel-efficient more fuel-efficient in flight, Boeing 777-9X [Ú09] and with fuel savings of up to 4%. A350-900 [Ú10] aircraft, making its entry into the 2-liter class. [Ú 10] 25% less fuel 20% reduction in unit costs Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 35 Fleet development We turn visions into reality: 2.9 liters of kerosene per 100 passenger kilometers The greatest contributor to more efficient flight operations is investment in technological progress. That is why the Lufthansa Group buys the most ­advanced and environmentally friendly aircraft. Currently the Group is ­engaged in the largest fleet renewal program in its history. As 2013 came to a close, there were 261 A340-300 aircraft. This most recent order aircraft on our list of orders Group-wide that represents an investment of EUR 14 billion at Ú were scheduled for delivery by the end of list prices and is the largest single private 2025. This represents an investment of EUR investment in German industrial history. In Lufthansa’s last 32 billion at list prices. The new aircraft are extremely fuel-efficient and offer ultimate macroeconomic terms, this investment will secure some 13,000 jobs within the Lufthansa ­propeller flight passenger comfort. In addition, the power and Group alone, added to which will be positive efficiency of the new machines are such that effects on employment among our partners in October 26, 2013 marked the end of an era the noise burden on people living in the vicinthe aviation industry and other suppliers. for Lufthansa. On that date, Lufthansa’s ity of the major hubs is markedly reduced. regional subsidiary Air Dolomiti completed its The aircraft on order have a considerably The A350-900 and Boeing 777-9X aircraft will last flight with a propeller plane, an ATR smaller noise footprint in comparison to their fly more fuel-efficiently in terms of kerosene 72-500. The decommissioning of older propredecessors (see also our focus topic “More consumption per passenger per 100 kilomepeller aircraft is a further step in the process of quietly into the future,” page 08). A modern ters than any other comparable type of airmodernizing and consolidating the European and well-structured fleet is the basis for ecocraft. The 59 new aircraft will consume on fleet. In the future, Lufthansa’s regional fleet nomic success. It ensures that we retain our average a mere 2.9 liters of kerosene. That is will be limited exclusively to Embraer 190/195 advantage in a highly competitive market about 25% less than the figure for the aircraft and Bombardier CRJ700/900 jet aircraft, environment. available today. This will have an equally which can seat 70 or more passengers. positive effect on the atmospheric CO2 balWithin the Lufthansa Group, only Austrian ance. The unit costs are roughly 20% less Airlines still has propeller aircraft in service, Ú than for previous models. The harmony of the modern DHC 8 turboprops in their newest ecological and economic goals is especially version, the Q400. By the end of 2015, LufEntry into the two-liter striking in this case. This order underscores thansa will also take its remaining Boeing 737 class on long-haul flights the company’s wish to invest in the newest technology for the sake of the environment. aircraft out of service. In September 2013 the Lufthansa Group ordered 59 state-of-the-art aircraft: 34 Boeing 777-9X and 25 Airbus A350-900 aircraft will be joining the Lufthansa Group’s long-haul fleet. Delivery of the aircraft is set to begin as early as 2016. By 2025 they will have replaced older Boeing 747-400 and Airbus 36 // Sustainable Business Practice cargo airline AeroLogic, in which Lufthansa Ú Cargo holds a 50% interest, also has a fleet of Ú state-of-the-art and efficient Boeing 777 cargo Low-noise and highly aircraft. A fleet of 622 aircraft as fuel-efficient engines of December 31, 2013 for the A320neo family Further investments of The Lufthansa Group put 31 new aircraft into Over the past few years the Lufthansa Group has ordered a total of 100 aircraft in the Airbus other Group airlines service in 2013. As of December 31, 2013, the Group owned 622 aircraft. The Lufthansa A320neo family (“neo” stands for “new engine Group’s fleet comprises the aircraft belonging option”). Sixty aircraft of this type are equipped to Lufthansa (including Germanwings and with PW1100G engines from Pratt & Whitney, 40 others with LEAP-1A engines from CFM Ú regional partners), Swiss, Austrian Airlines, and Lufthansa Cargo. All Lufthansa Group International. These two engines are compaSwiss: Quieter and more aircraft are continually being optimized to rable in their flight performance and environmental compatibility values, delivering, for fuel-efficient travel with reduce noise emissions and fuel consumption. The average age of the aircraft in the example, yet another marked improvement in the CSeries beginning Group’s fleet (operating fleet) was 11 years as fuel efficiency. In comparison to their predein 2015 of the end of 2013. cessors, they need roughly 15% less fuel and emit less carbon dioxide accordingly. Beginning in 2015, Swiss International Air Lines will take delivery of 30 CSeries aircraft Ú The Group will receive delivery of a total of 23 from Bombardier, which will replace the Avro aircraft of the latest generation yet this year: RJ100 regional aircraft currently in operation. Uniform basic standards six Boeing 747-8 long-haul aircraft, two Airbus A380s, two Boeing 777-Fs, an A330, and 12 in the cabin bring cost planes in the A320 family. Ú benefits Germanwings The Lufthansa Group has adopted uniform Ú basic standards for its airlines when it comes Germanwings, the Lufthansa Group’s quality to equipping the aircraft and their cabins. Lufthansa Cargo takes provider in the low-cost segment, operates a Bundling interests and pooling purchasing off with the Boeing 777 fleet of Airbus A319/A320 aircraft. In 2013 the airline received four new aircraft in this series. power in this way leads to cost benefits when ordering aircraft and replacement parts, for freighter Two more aircraft of this type will be added to example. In addition, it allows maintenance the fleet in 2014. procedures to be standardized. The basic In November 2013, 41 years after the legendversion of an aircraft as agreed within the ary jumbo freighter first took to the skies, Group provides the airlines with a basis for Lufthansa once again launched a new era in Ú individual detail specifications. These specifiair freight service with a flight to New York. On cations should differ across airlines as little that day, the first Boeing 777 freighter operAustrian Airlines as possible in the interests of flexibility. ß ated by Lufthansa Cargo took off in scheduled service. Lufthansa Cargo ordered a total of Austrian Airlines stepped up its efforts to five of the new twin-engine freighters from create a more homogeneous European fleet American aircraft manufacturer Boeing, two of of aircraft in the Airbus A320 family. In 2013 which were put into service in the reporting the airline removed the Boeing B737 from year. The specific CO2 emissions from the service entirely. Beginning with the summer Boeing 777-F are nearly 20% less than those flight schedule for 2014, another Boeing of the MD-11 cargo aircraft that Lufthansa 777-200 was added to the fleet for long-haul Cargo also operates. The Triple Seven is routes. considered the most modern, efficient, and quietest freight aircraft in its class. According to the manufacturer, it offers greater efficiency and capacity than any other twin-engine freighter, especially on long-haul flights. The Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 37 The Lufthansa Group fleet As of December 31, 2013 (changes compared to 2012) In possession 1 Age 1 In operation 2 Age 2 Lufthansa 360 (± 0) 10.5 (– 0.3) 273 (– 3) 11.6 (– 0.6) Lufthansa CityLine 30 (– 4) 9.8 (+ 0.5) 61 (+ 1) 6.1 (+ 0.5) Air Dolomiti 5 (– 1) 11.9 (+ 0.7) 10 (– 6) 2.9 (– 5.4) Augsburg Airways 3 0 (± 0) 0 (– 14) Contact Air 4 0 (± 0) 0 (– 2) Eurowings 0 (– 1) 23 (± 0) 3.7 (+ 1.0) Germanwings 36 (+ 4) 7.2 (+ 0.2) 44 (+ 12) 9.5 (+ 2.5) Swiss (including Edelweiss Air) 94 (+ 2) 12.3 (+ 0.6) 92 (+ 1) 12.3 (+ 0.5) Austrian Airlines 77 (– 7) 14.7 (+ 1.2) 74 (– 4) 14.6 (+ 1.0) Passenger Airline Group business segment 602 (– 7) 577 (– 15) Lufthansa Cargo 20 (+ 2) 14.1 (– 0.6) 19 (+ 1) 13.8 (– 0.9) Logistics business segment 20 19 Lufthansa Group 622 (– 5) 11.2 (+ 0.1) 596 (– 14) 11.0 (± 0.0) 1 Aircraft in the Group’s possession. 3 Augsburg Airways flew on behalf of Lufthansa until the end of the summer timetable 2013. 2 Aircraft operated by the Group. 4 The cooperation with Contact Air ended in September 2012. 38 // Sustainable Business Practice Sustainability in the procurement process As a globally operating aviation company, the Lufthansa Group stands for fair competition, integrity, and responsible action. The Group is unreservedly committed to compliance with all applicable laws, directives, and regulations. The Lufthansa Group expects this not only from its employees, but from its suppliers and competitors as well. Lufthansa assumes corporate responsibility by Compliance with the 10 principles of the By including these commitments in contracts, integrating sustainability into the procurement UN Global Compact. The principles range the Group ensures that the issue of sustainprocess. At the same time, we minimize risks from respect for human rights through ability is taken seriously and that sustainability and thereby avert potential damage to the commitments to labor standards and envibecomes a way of life across the supply company. For us as a globally operating ronmental protection to working against chain. To familiarize our purchasers with the Group with nearly 500 subsidiaries and corruption. In 2002 Deutsche Lufthansa Group purchasing guidelines, we train them affiliated companies, this is a challenging AG became the first aviation company to in our Procurement Academy, which protask. join this strategic United Nations initiative vides continuing education opportunities for for companies, thereby agreeing to uphold employees from throughout the Group. ß the 10 principles formulated by it (see the Ú Global Compact overview on page 27). Group purchasing Compliance with the International Labour ­guidelines approved Organization’s (ILO) four fundamental principles for labor. These concern freedom of association, the right to collective bargainIn May 2013 the Executive Board approved ing, the elimination of forced labor and Group purchasing guidelines requiring supplichild labor, and prohibition of discrimination ers to enter into a commitment to social and in respect of employment and occupation. ecological responsibility. The guidelines are meant as an umbrella directive for all of the Consent to announced and unannounced Group companies’ purchasing guidelines. audits of the supplier by companies of the They also serve as a manual for purchasers Lufthansa Group. and all employees with contacts in the procurement market. They are regularly updated Recognition of Lufthansa’s right to termiand adjusted. nate the contractual relationship in the event of a breach of the aforementioned The guidelines prescribe, among other things, agreements. Suppliers must also observe that the following duties be included in conthe Lufthansa Group’s Environmental Protracts with suppliers: tection Guidelines. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 39 40 // Sustainable Business Practice Local value creation The major German air travel hubs are of immense macroeconomic importance to all of Germany, where aviation plays a major economic role, and to its regions. Frankfurt Airport in particular, one of the world’s leading passenger and cargo hubs, is very important to the export-oriented German economy and the entire German logistics industry by virtue of its central location. Moreover, the Lufthansa Group’s other hubs—Munich, Zurich, Vienna, and ­Brussels—each make an important contribution to local value creation. The airlines in the Lufthansa Group ensure It is all the more important, then, that Frankjobs for tens of thousands of people in their Ú furt—the most important export and logistics home countries and are an important factor location in Germany—not be further curtailed. in the gross domestic product (GDP). They Local value creation This applies especially to restrictions on hours are a basic necessity for these countries’ export companies in particular. In Germany, as exemplified by our of operation. As global competition becomes ever more intense, the companies of the for example, more than 73% of industrial Frankfurt hub Lufthansa Group depend on competitive companies ascribe an important or very operating hours at their hubs. Frankfurt is important role to aviation, according to a Some 78,000 workers are employed at already subject to the most severe operating survey conducted by the ifo Institute in March Frankfurt Airport, making it one of Germany’s restrictions of any major airport worldwide. 2013 in which more than 7,000 companies largest local workplaces. Frankfurt is also the Additional restrictions could further strengthen were asked about the relative importance of home airport of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, foreign competitors to the detriment of domesaviation. The results are representative of the which, with more than 36,000 employees, is tic airlines and, ultimately, to local economic German economy. Of particular interest is the Hesse’s largest employer. Further jobs have value creation. If Frankfurt is to remain among fact that those sectors that have been experibeen created at Frankfurt Airport thanks to the world’s most important hubs, the airport encing above-average growth in Germany— the openings of the northwest runway on needs long-term, internationally competitive such as mechanical engineering, the pharOctober 21, 2011, and the new Terminal prospects. maceutical industry, and the automotive A-Plus. Thus expansion of Frankfurt Airport industry—are precisely those that attach the has been a source of further economic greatest importance to having a first-class growth. It also enhances the location’s attractransportation link to the air travel system. tiveness to international companies and The carrier is therefore of particular imporimproves the local economy’s links to the tance to those economic sectors that have international division of labor. With more than contributed substantially to growth and pros58 million passengers and more than 2 perity in recent years. Industry’s gross value million tonnes of cargo passing through it added amounts to approximately 23% of total annually, Frankfurt Airport is a central hub for value added in this country and around 15% people and goods. in the EU as a whole. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 41 [Ú 11] Strengthening the region region, further along the value chain (“indirect In 2013 Deutsche Lufthansa AG and Fraport effects”). This is equivalent to 2.9% of the total AG once again awarded numerous contracts employment figure for Hesse. The value to companies in the Rhine-Main region. The added arising from these employment effects regional contract volume for the two compaamounts to EUR 9.1 billion, or 3.4% of the nies came to more than EUR 2 billion. These entire Hessian economy. Currently, every expenditures create jobs and contribute to 30th euro in Hesse is exchanged directly at or local value creation. Lufthansa in particular because of Frankfurt Airport. Moreover, the contributes to securing employment and value airport has contributed to the creation of some creation in the Rhine-Main region with its 59,000 further jobs through the consumption more than EUR 1.5 billion in expenditures for patterns of those with disposable income regional suppliers and services. Numerous derived from employment with airport busicompanies in different industries in the Rhinenesses and suppliers. Some 175,000 people Main metropolitan region profit in everything therefore benefit from the positive economic from the security equipment at the airport to effects of aviation in Frankfurt. the locally cultivated cuisine and wine on the on-board menu. The great macroeconomic importance to the region of Frankfurt as an international hub was recently confirmed by a report commissioned by Fraport AG from the independent Swiss consulting and research firm Infras. According to this report, Germany’s largest aviation hub secures roughly 116,000 jobs with businesses and companies on the airport’s premises 11 (“direct effects”) and with suppliers and serTerminal A-Plus at Frankfurt vice providers, including those outside the Airport. 42 // Sustainable Business Practice [Ú 12] At Munich Airport, the possibilities for further tion, read our focus topic “More quietly into Ú development in terms of capacity are reachthe future” (see page 08). ing their limits because of limitations imposed Lufthansa ensures susby the current two-runway system. The BavarWith more than 10,000 employees, Deutsche tainable and forwardian Administrative Court (Verwaltungsgerichtshof), with its judgment of February 19, 2014 Lufthansa AG is the largest employer at Munich Airport and an engine of value crelooking investments approving plans for a third runway at Munich ation for the region. Numerous contracts were in infrastructure at the Airport, has made an important decision for awarded in 2012 to companies in the immediMunich location the aviation industry in Germany and for development of the region. This judicial goate vicinity of the airport. Altogether, the regional contract volume for all companies of ahead for one of the most important infrathe Lufthansa Group based at Munich Airport The largest expansion project currently understructure projects in Germany clears the way and for purchases of goods and services way with Lufthansa participation is the confor further development of Munich as a base directly from other companies at the airport struction of the satellite terminal at Munich for air travel on a scale commensurate with amounted to more than EUR 1 billion. These Airport, which in the first phase of expansion is demand. The third runway is key to the future expenditures secure jobs and value creation designed for 11 million passengers per year. viability of the airport and of Lufthansa at its in the region. The satellite terminal has been conceived as a Munich location. It lays the cornerstone for green satellite. The ambitious target set for the long-term and sustainable growth. This will When the administration of Lufthansa CityLine building is a 40% reduction in CO2 emissions result in a better competitive position in the moves in the second half of 2014, some as compared to the two existing terminals. international market, and it is above all the 300 high-skill jobs will be relocated from The new satellite building, like the existing basis for securing existing jobs and creating Cologne to Munich, further strengthening the Terminal 2, is being built, financed, and opernew ones. A third runway in Munich is the only Munich location. It will also better serve the ated by Flughafen München GmbH and way to bring about real capacity expansions in airline’s focus on continental feeder flights to Deutsche Lufthansa AG in a ratio of 60 to 40, Germany’s aviation infrastructure. ­Lufthansa’s Frankfurt and Munich hubs, respectively, between their contributions. The especially those to the Munich hub. rod-shaped satellite terminal will have a total The Lufthansa Group recognizes that people of 52 gates on three passenger levels and living in proximity to airports require peace allow passengers convenient access to the and quiet, particularly at night, and it takes aircraft with 27 aircraft parking positions near this requirement very seriously. The company the building. Construction of the building is has been working for years to reduce noise scheduled to be completed in 2015. emissions from air traffic over areas around airports and is continually investing in active noise protection measures. For more informaSustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 43 [Ú 13] Ú Zurich hub ensures value creation Swiss aviation and the businesses that supply it employ approximately 180,000 people. The resulting value added amounts to 30 billion Swiss francs, the greater part of which is attributable to operations at Zurich Airport. In 2012 Flughafen Zürich AG commissioned a study on the macroeconomic importance of Zurich Airport from Arbeitsgemeinschaft Infras/BAK Basel. In addition to an analysis of Zurich Airport’s direct and indirect effects on employment, which have already been men[Ú 14] tioned, its contribution to value creation, its relevance to tourism, air cargo transport, the export trade, and the factor of location, accessibility also came under consideration. The study provides evidence for the great economic importance of this air travel hub for Switzerland. Ú Hamburg Aviation cluster The Hamburg metropolitan region is, along with Seattle, Washington, and Toulouse, France, one of the aviation industry’s most important centers worldwide. With 40,000 employees, more than 9,000 of whom work for various companies of the Lufthansa Group, aviation is the largest industrial sector in the region. One of the crucial factors in the success of the aviation industry in Hamburg is the level of cooperation across companies. Altogether, some 300 aviation companies, institutes of higher learning, and public authorities cooperate within the Hamburg Aviation industry cluster alongside the three giants of the 12 14 industry: Airbus, Lufthansa Technik, and the Lufthansa’s Munich hub. Hamburg Airport: The largest base of operaairport. Lufthansa Technik devotes substantial 13 tions and the headresources to research and development along Zurich: An important quarters of Lufthansa with training and continuing education. ß hub for Swiss. Technik AG. Climate and Environmental Responsibility Climate and environmental responsibility is paramount in our value-based corporate management. Progress is a success factor in economically and environmentally. 3.91 114,152 1,000 20 liters of kerosene confewer tonnes of fuel ideas and projects to years of involvement in sumed per passenger consumed than in 2012 increase fuel efficiency climate research per 100 kilometers 46 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Strategy and management Furthering mobility responsibly The L­ ufthansa Group’s corporate management practices are guided by values, and central to those practices is a sense of responsibility for the climate and environment. To achieve steady reductions in the effects our business ­operations have on the environment, we make as efficient use of the resources we need as possible. The core business of the L­ ufthansa Group is the transportation of our passengers. The Energy efficiency in most significant effects on the environment therefore result from our flight operations. For flight operations is of our flights we need kerosene, combustion of considerable relevance which produces carbon dioxide (CO2) and to our corporate sucother emissions (such as nitrogen oxides and unburned hydrocarbons). For every tonne of cess in terms of ecokerosene that we conserve, 3.15 fewer tonnes nomic and ecological of CO2 are released into the environment. criteria. Accordingly, we have been directing our environmental protection efforts towards continual improvement in fuel efficiency and, The ­Lufthansa Group is committed to making ultimately, a reduction in the size of our CO2 mobility, now and in the future, as environfootprint. Management of energy and mentally compatible for its customers as resources on the ground and in our catering, possible. We see the constant growth in the our involvement in research, and active noise need for mobility worldwide as a particular protection are important areas where we can challenge to this commitment. This trend is apply these efforts. being intensified mainly by the increasing need for mobility in the newly industrialized Energy efficiency in flight operations is of countries. considerable relevance to our success in terms of economic and ecological criteria. According to a prognosis made by the InterFuel costs across the Group as a whole now national Air Transport Association (IATA) in account for more than 22% of our operating December 2013 (Airline Industry Forecast costs and therefore constitute an important 2013–2017), passenger volume will increase cost factor for the L­ ufthansa Group. Successby 31% worldwide by 2017. The number of fully implemented measures to lower fuel passengers, accordingly, is expected to consumption therefore have an especially increase from 2.98 billion in 2012 to 3.91 positive effect on our corporate success while billion in 2017. This is equivalent to an annual at the same time improving both our results growth rate of 5.4%. During the period from and our environmental balance sheet. 2012 to 2013, the number of passengers Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 47 Environmental management systems Strategic environmental program for 2020 in the Group companies Ú The L­ ufthansa Group has set itself the goal of continually improving environmental The ­Lufthansa Group has set itself ambitious goals for climate and environmental management in the companies and at the responsibility. In 2008 we launched a strategic environmental program with which we Group level. Below is an overview of the status hope to achieve further progress in climate and environmental responsibility by 2020. quo of the environmental management sysThe ­Lufthansa Group has successful outcomes to show for its work in every field of tems in the Group companies: the environmental program. These include, apart from billions invested in modern and quieter aircraft, our pioneering accomplishment in the world’s first long-term testing of alternative fuels (biokerosene) in 2011. In addition, we are investing in optimized flight ­Lufthansa Technik has had its locations in procedures and ground processes, ecological building, and expansion of the environGermany certified to the international envimental management systems in the Group companies. Since the strategic environmenronmental standard ISO 14001 since 1999. tal program was implemented in 2008, we have been able to increase fuel efficiency in our flight operations by more than 7%, and by as much as 36.2% as compared to Since then it has also had an occupational when measurements began in 1991. If the ­Lufthansa Group were still flying today with safety management system that has been the aircraft it had in its fleet in 1991, it would have consumed roughly five million more validated according to the OHSAS 18001 tonnes of kerosene in 2013, thereby emitting roughly 16 million more tonnes of CO2. occupation safety specifications. At the This would be 60% more than today. end of 2013 the audit for recertification in the quality, environment, and occupational safety categories was completed successgrew by 5.2%. This is in line with the average current issues and take advantage of synerfully. All ­Lufthansa Technik locations will be rate of increase over the last 30 years. gistic effects. In February 2014 the L­ ufthansa certified by the end of 2015 under a worldGroup initiated an internal energy forum in wide program. The ISO 14001 international For this reason, airlines are also faced with the addition. Experts from all divisions of the environmental management standard sets challenge of further increasing the environcompany take part in the knowledge transfer globally accepted standards and requiremental compatibility of flying despite steady and best practice exchange so that we can ments for an environmental management growth in transport performance. Despite achieve further increases in efficiency on the system. The emphasis is on a process significant growth rates, aviation’s share of ground in addition to our environmental goals of continual improvement with the aim of worldwide CO2 emissions from the combusin the airspace. achieving an organization’s defined envition of fossil fuels has been declining for ronmental goals. years. In 2010 this share was just under We have teams of experts working on fuel 2.45%, according to the last publication of the efficiency and alternative fuels. In recognition At the local level L­ ufthansa Technik is workInternational Energy Agency (IEA) in 2012. of the importance of the issue of fuel efficiency ing in the field of environmental manageand CO2 emissions, the L­ ufthansa Group has ment with various organizations. Since the had its own Fuel Efficiency department since initiative began in 2003, L­ ufthansa Technik Ú 2013. Experts from various Group companies has been active in the Environmental Partare working continuously to develop and nership in Hamburg. The coalition of indusOrganization of climate implement measures to reduce fuel consumptry, politics, and administration is working to and environmental tion. Closely associated with the subject of fuel efficiency is the testing and use of alternaencourage companies to take responsibility for environmental protection. ­Lufthansa management tive fuels in flight operations. The L­ ufthansa Technik is a member of corresponding Group is currently involved in various projects associations in Hesse and Brandenburg The climateand environment-related goals, for the future in this area. as well. strategies, and measures across the Group are coordinated by the Group Environmental Group-wide standards and guidelines ­Lufthansa Cargo was certified at its Issues department, which is part of the CorThe Executive Board approved as early as Frankfurt location to the ISO 14001 environporate International and Government Affairs 1996 guidelines for environmental protection mental standard for the first time in 2008. staff department. There is regular exchange that applied all across the Group. This made The ­Lufthansa Group’s logistics specialist with Corporate Strategy. In addition, all of the the ­Lufthansa Group a trailblazer in the aviawas certified at all German locations in larger companies of relevance to environmention industry. The guidelines, which are bind2010. The certification of the environmental tal matters have their own environmental ing on all employees and at all locations, management system was reconfirmed by departments, an environmental commissioner, ensure that all companies rigorously pursue external auditors in 2013 in the course of a or a coordinator. the common goal of environmental protection supervisory audit. and continually improve environmental care. The ­Lufthansa Group’s Environmental Forum meets twice a year to give the company’s experts in this area the opportunity to discuss 48 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility ­Lufthansa CityLine has had ISO 14001As the L­ ufthansa Group’s catering specialist, certified environmental management sysÚ LSG Sky Chefs focuses its attention mainly on tems at its company locations since as the issues of waste and water and energy long ago as 1999. In 2012 the airline also Key areas of action consumption. Using various key performance received, for the fifth time in a row, the certificate of compliance with the European in climate and environindicators, the ­Lufthansa Group subsidiary is continually reviewing and controlling its coneco-audit regulation EMAS. Both environmental protection sumption of these resources and its progress mental management systems were certified towards its goals. by the supervisory audit in 2013. Fuel consumption and emissions In carrying out our environmental strategy, we Research activities LSG Sky Chefs has a management system rigorously follow the established four-pillar Progress needs research. The L­ ufthansa that is based on the ISO 14001 standard strategy of the air travel industry (see illustraGroup therefore regards this as one of its key and is the industry leader in aviation catertion on page 54). This comprises various areas of activity. Together with our system and ing. This system enables the company to measures aimed at reducing both kerosene project partners, we have been actively continually make improvements within its consumption and CO2 emissions. These involved for years not only in noise research worldwide network. However, there are no measures range from technical progress but also in research into alternative fuels. plans at present to have the system certithrough an improved infrastructure and opera­Lufthansa Technik also has been investing fied. LSG Sky Chefs is working on numertional measures to economic instruments. As more in research work and the development ous energy-relevant measures that will an innovation driver in the aviation industry, of product innovations with which to cultivate enable it to implement in its six international we are involved also in numerous pathbreaknew markets and customers. ­Lufthansa Techmanagement regions by 2015 the environing initiatives and research projects that will nik is always focused on preparing for new mental program passed by the Executive permanently improve the environmental comaircraft types and technologies. New materials Board in 2013. patibility of flying. and technologies offer great opportunities for making the L­ ufthansa Group’s services even LZ-Catering is participating in the Ökoprofit Our biggest successes are achieved by using more ecologically efficient, cost-effective, and (“Eco-Profit”) project in both Hamburg and modern aircraft. They make use of new attractive to customers. The previously menFrankfurt. Its primary aim is to systematiengine technologies, improved aerodynamics, tioned research project at Frankfurt Airport is cally implement cost-reducing environmenand greater use of composite materials to devoted to testing electro-mobile propulsion tal measures in the LZ-Catering facilities. reduce weight. The amount of kerosene concepts for ground travel (see page 61). For this purpose, various resources, such consumed depends primarily on the weight of as water, energy, and even waste materials, the aircraft. In the past several years aircraft For more than two decades the ­Lufthansa are analyzed in order to optimize or reduce manufacturers have succeeded in building Group has been involved also in climate their consumption or production. The comsignificantly lighter and aerodynamically research, and it has been helping scientists pany is working also on building an envioptimized aircraft. By continually investing in evaluate and refine their climate models (see ronmental management system that meets new aircraft, the L­ ufthansa Group ensures that page 66). the requirements of ISO 14001 and is it always has the most efficient airplanes designed to ensure a systematic approach available on the market. Active noise protection to all matters of environmental protection. The ­Lufthansa Group is involved in active Energy and resource management noise protection in a variety of ways and Linking responsibility to on the ground and in catering makes sure that the Group’s fleet significantly financial incentives In addition to our efforts to reduce environexceeds the most stringent standards worldThe L­ ufthansa Group’s Executive Board and mental effects in the air, we also want to work wide. This year we are devoting a special managers receive their variable remuneration as efficiently as possible on the ground. In this chapter to this topic in the present report. It partly on the basis of sustainability paramconnection we focus on developing and offers a summary of the numerous measures eters. These include environmental criteria testing electronic propulsion technologies for we have taken to reduce aircraft noise. ß such as fuel efficiency and CO2 emissions. aircraft taxiing and towing on the ground. You can read more on this in the chapter “More ­Lufthansa Technik and the subsidiary quietly into the future” from page 08 onwards. ­Lufthansa LEOS are especially active in this area. Apart from this focus, we are also pursuing the goal of continually reducing energy consumption on our real estate. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 49 Fuel consumption and emissions The ­Lufthansa Group reduces fuel consumption and sets another fuel efficiency record The ­Lufthansa Group is doing its utmost to keep the impact of its business operations on the environment as low as possible. We are investing billions in modern and fuel-efficient aircraft and promoting innovative processes, methods, and technologies. This allows us to save on fuel and avoid emissions that pollute the environment. For the ­Lufthansa Group, fuel efficiency in an international statement of commitment flight operations is a key success factor in Ú in 2008 [Ú 01]: both an economic and ecological sense. Our continued dedication to fuel efficiency will Increasing fuel An increase of 1.5% per year in energy ensure our long-term corporate success. At the same time, we are living up to our respon­efficiency and ­efficiency until 2020 CO2-neutral growth from 2020 sibility as a globally operating company by reducing emissions A 50% reduction in net CO2 emissions by keeping the effects of our business activities 2050 as compared to 2005 on the environment as low as possible. This is The ­Lufthansa Group has set itself ambitious a commitment that we have defined also in goals for fuel efficiency and reductions in In 2013 the ­Lufthansa Group made further our corporate strategy: “economically, ecoemissions. We aim to lower our specific fuel progress in reducing fuel consumption and logically and socially balanced and sustainconsumption and associated CO2 emissions emissions and has some impressive figures able business.” by 25% as compared to 2006. In addition, to prove it. the ­Lufthansa Group supports the ambitious Our basis for further increases in efficiency goals of the air travel industry as set forth in is the industry’s accepted four-pillar strategy for environmental protection (cf. illustration on page 54). This strategy agenda covers the Measures to achieve CO2 reduction targets [Ú 01] entire spectrum of feasible measures. Reduction due to investments in Replacement of the customary kerosene with existing technology operations alternative fuels also creates great potential for 1.5% s infrastructure improving the environmental balance sheet. ure increase in m eas ­efficiency new technologies, No At the same time, this presents the L­ ufthansa per year alternative fuels, Group with several challenges. Among them 2012 and propulsion systems are the availability of alternative fuels in ade100% CO2-neutral quate quantities, non-existent supply chains, a growth competitive price, and lengthy, as yet uncom(in the EU since 2005) pleted approval processes. Market-based – 50% systems 2005 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 Source: BDL, based on industry strategy 50 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility 3.9 L* Our most significant successes Ú #greenefﬁciency Less fuel consumption More Lightweight Higher Efﬁciency Better AeroLower Fuel and fewer CO2 emissions Design dynamics Consumption again in 2013 Less CO2 Despite an increase in transport performance of 2.3%, we reduced absolute fuel consump* Fuel consumption in liters per 100 passenger kilometers. tion for the second year in a row, with 1.3% Average value for the airlines of the Lufthansa Group in 2013. less fuel consumed in 2013 than in 2012. In absolute terms, the Group consumed 114,152 fewer tonnes of fuel as compared to the previous year, thereby reducing the amount of airlines of the ­Lufthansa Group is illustrated in capital goods purchased from third parties carbon dioxide (CO2) released into the envithe pie charts [Ú 02]. In the case of freight (such as aircraft), products and services, ronment by more than 350,000 tonnes. This transport, we were likewise able to reduce and the commuting activities of employees. equates to approximately the quantity of CO2 specific consumption and associated CO2 Added to this are emissions from the proemitted annually by roughly 50,000 singleemissions in the logistics segment. Fuel conduction and transport of fuels and energy. family homes with oil-fired heating. This is a sumption fell from 0.29 l per freight tonne clear sign that our measures to increase kilometer in 2012 to 0.28 l in 2013. We were We calculate the direct emissions that are efficiency are working and the overall impact able to achieve this by consistently adhering covered by the European Emissions of the ­Lufthansa Group’s flight operations on to environmentally friendly measures and ­Trading System (EU-ETS) according to its the environment is diminishing. We have making optimum use of payload space. requirements. successfully continued our decoupling of transport performance from fuel consumption. The CO2 footprint results make it easier to The ­Lufthansa Group’s transport performance Ú assess the company’s own contribution to grew by 339% from 1991, while kerosene climate change, however. Hence the CO2 consumption increased by only 180% [Ú 03]. Calculating the footprint can provide ideas for internal CO2 balance improvement processes. Ú The ­Lufthansa Group measures its CO2 emisÚ New efficiency record: sions according to the categories of the Airlines in the ­Lufthansa Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol). A new Fuel Efficiency Group make it below the This calls for dividing emissions into three main categories (called scopes): department four-liter mark Scope 1: Direct emissions from combustion On May 1, 2013 the L­ ufthansa Group estabFor the first time, the L­ ufthansa Group made it of fuels in one’s own facilities and transport lished the new Fuel Efficiency department below the four-liter mark with 3.91 liters of means under the management of Senior First Officer kerosene consumed per passenger per Scope 2: Indirect emissions from the conJens Ritter. Its job is to coordinate the various 100 kilometers (l/100 pkm), a 3.8% improvesumption of purchased energy (electricity, measures we take to reduce the L­ ufthansa ment over the previous year. This means that heat, cooling) Group’s fuel consumption. The team also the industry target of 1.5% per year until 2020 Scope 3: Indirect emissions, for example assumes responsibility for auditing the fuel for increased efficiency was surpassed by from the transport-related activities of our efficiency units. It directs all of the activities more than double and exceeded by a more subcontractors and suppliers. This category undertaken to improve the fuel efficiency of substantial amount than even a year earlier. includes other indirect emissions resultthe airlines in the ­Lufthansa Group and of The specific consumption of the individual ing, for example, from the manufacture of ­Lufthansa Technik. In addition, the department Specific fuel consumption Passenger transportation [Ú 02] Active fleet in 2013, in liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l /100 pkm) Definitions of traffic areas Long-haul more than 3,000 km Medium-haul 800 to 3,000 km Short-haul less than 800 km Group fleet ­Lufthansa Germanwings Long-haul Average specific fuel conLong-haul (58%) sumption in l /100 pkm (cen(64%) 3.47 l /100 pkm ter of the circle) and propor3.63 l /100 pkm tion of the entire passenger fuel consumption of the Medium-haul Medium-haul Medium-haul 3.91 active fleet contributed by each traffic area (segments (23%) 4.17 l /100 pkm 3.98 l /100 pkm (99%) 4.22 l /100 pkm 4.22 l /100 pkm (30%) l /100 pkm of circle) in 2013 4.20 l /100 pkm Short-haul Short-haul (13%) (1%) 6.67 l /100 pkm 4.09 l /100 pkm Short-haul (12%) 6.83 l /100 pkm Swiss Austrian Airlines Long-haul Long-haul Specific fuel consumption (61%) (34%) of passenger transportation compared 3.05 l /100 pkm 2.91 l /100 pkm Medium-haul Medium-haul in liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l /100 pkm) (26%) 3.54 (54%) 3.93 4.02 l /100 pkm l /100 pkm 4.47 l /100 pkm l /100 pkm 2013 2012 Changes in % Short-haul Short-haul Group fleet 3.91 4.06 – 3.8 (13%) (12%) ­Lufthansa 3.98 4.16 – 4.2 7.67 l /100 pkm 6.84 l /100 pkm Swiss 3.54 3.64 – 2.7 Austrian Airlines 3.93 3.98 – 1.3 Germanwings 4.22 4.55 – 7.1 Specific CO2 emissions of passenger transportation Fuel dumps Active fleet in 2013, 2013 in kilograms per 100 passenger kilometers (kg /100 pkm) Overall Changes compared Long-haul Medium-haul Short-haul average 2013 to 2012 Group fleet 8.75 10.58 17.20 9.84 Events, total 31 + 14 ­Lufthansa 9.14 10.50 16.81 10.03 thereof medical reasons 13 +2 Swiss 7.68 10.14 19.32 8.92 technical reasons 15 + 11 Austrian Airlines 7.34 11.26 17.25 9.91 other reasons 3 +1 Germanwings 10.64 10.31 10.64 Quantity, total 937 t + 110.8% Decoupling of transport performance and fuel consumption [Ú 03] Change compared to 1991 in percent, values for the fleet of the Lufthansa Group 340 + 339% 320 300 280 Û 260 Efficiency gain 240 Transport performance 220 Ü 200 180 160 + 180% 140 120 100 80 60 40 Fuel consumption 20 0 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Fuel consumption 1 Passenger transportation 2013, in tonnes CO2 emissions NOX emissions in kilograms/100 passenger kilometers in grams /100 passenger kilometers Passengers Freight Total Share 2013 9.84 2013 46.7 Scheduled flights 2, 3 2012 10.24 2012 9 48.4 ­Lufthansa 4,756,889 1,630,188 6,387,076 72.0% Germanwings 276,464 0 276,464 3.1% 2011 10.53 2011 49.4 Swiss 1,079,405 383,781 1,463,186 16.5% 2010 10.58 2010 48.8 Austrian Airlines 559,066 78,981 638,047 7.2% 2009 10.84 2009 50.0 8,764,774 98.8% Third parties 4 87,401 1,903 89,304 1.0% 2008 10.93 2008 50.6 2007 10.88 2007 49.8 Other flights 5 14,375 0.2% 2006 11.05 2006 50.5 All flights 8,868,453 100.0% 2005 11.07 2005 50.8 2004 11.00 2004 50.6 Emissions 3, 6 CO emissions UHC emissions in grams /100 passenger kilometers in grams /100 passenger kilometers 2013, in tonnes 2013 7.4 2013 0.74 Passengers ± 2012 Freight ± 2012 Total ± 2012 2012 7.8 2012 0.80 CO2 21,016,246 – 1.2% 6,592,793 – 1.6% 27,609,039 – 1.3% 2011 8.2 2011 0.87 NOX 99,782 – 0.8% 31,309 – 2.3% 131,091 – 1.2% 2010 8.4 2010 0.87 CO 15,787 – 2.9% 3,189 – 1.9% 18,976 – 2.8% 2009 8.5 2009 0.91 UHC 1,584 – 4.7% 407 – 6.5% 1,991 – 5.1% 2008 8.5 2008 0.96 2007 8.6 2007 0.99 2006 8.4 2006 0.96 Share of third parties 4 2005 8.4 2005 0.97 2004 8.5 2004 1.00 2013 Flights 2.7% Freight transportation 8 Passengers 1.6% Tonne kilometers transported, TKT 7 (tkm) 0.6% CO2 emissions NOX emissions Fuel consumption (tonnes) 1.0% in kilograms/ tonne kilometers in grams/tonne kilometers CO2 emissions (tonnes) 1.0% 2013 0.70 2013 3.3 2012 0.72 2012 9 3.5 Specific fuel consumption 2011 0.73 2011 3.5 Passenger transportation 2010 0.73 2010 3.5 2009 0.77 2009 3.7 in liters /100 passenger kilometers 2008 0.74 2008 3.6 4.36 4.39 4.38 4.32 4.34 4.30 4.20 4.18 4.06 3.91 2007 0.72 2007 3.4 2006 0.58 2006 2.6 2005 0.58 2005 2.6 2004 0.59 2004 2.9 CO emissions UHC emissions 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 in grams/tonne kilometers in grams/tonne kilometers 2013 0.3 2013 0.04 2012 9 0.4 2012 0.05 Specific fuel consumption 2011 0.4 2011 0.05 Freight transportation 8 2010 0.4 2010 0.05 2009 0.4 2009 0.06 in liters / tonne kilometers 2008 0.4 2008 0.06 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.29 0.30 0.30 0.29 0.29 0.29 0.28 2007 0.4 2007 0.06 2006 0.3 2006 0.05 2005 0.3 2005 0.05 2004 0.4 2004 0.10 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1 Actual fuel consumption in tonnes from flight operations, based on all flight events. 5 Ferry flights, special flights, training flights, test flights, aborted flights. Recorded are consumption values from gate to gate, i.e. including taxiing on the ground, 6 Absolute emissions in tonnes resulting from flight operations (all scheduled and charter holding patterns, and detours in the air. flights). Recorded are consumption values from gate to gate, i.e. including taxiing on the 2 Scheduled flights, charter flights. ground, holding patterns, and detours in the air (see notes on page 125). 3 For the reporting year 2013, the following companies have been included in Balance: 7 Excludes road feeder service and partial capacity chartered by Lufthansa Cargo, as no fuel Lufthansa (incl. Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti, Eurowings, and Augsburg Airways), consumption and emissions values are available for this performance. Germanwings, Swiss (incl. Edelweiss Air), Austrian Airlines, and Lufthansa Cargo. 8 On the basis of freight tonne kilometers (FTKT), transported on both cargo and passenger Excluding the services of third parties as the company can influence neither their aircraft. performance nor the equipment operated (see table Share of third parties). 9 Value corrected due to calculation error. 4 Includes flights operated by airlines that do not belong to the Group, which carry out services on Lufthansa’s behalf at short notice, e.g. in the event of capacity bottlenecks. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 53 [Ú 04] is responsible for introducing valid key perfordata are to be recorded in a central reporting mance indicators and mandatory reporting system. All of the Group’s fuel efficiency standards throughout the Group, and it conexperts are networked together through an tinues to develop them further. It is also estabinternal exchange of knowledge in the regulishing a Group-wide innovation management larly occurring Fuel Efficiency Group (FEG) program for fuel efficiency. Experts from all conference. To date the Fuel Efficiency Team the various segments of the ­Lufthansa Group has developed some 1,000 ideas and projare working at full speed to develop measures ects. In addition, it has already implemented to make the use of fuel as efficient as possible 130 of the 280 measures contained in and thereby achieve an even greater dissociaSCORE, our corporate program for the future tion between fuel consumption and transport (for details about SCORE see the chapter performance. In addition to the ecological “Sustainable Business Practice,” page 25). benefits, this will produce economic gains for For 2014 we made a decision to defer our us. The goal is to make a positive contribution search for creative ideas on how to further of EUR 196 million to the Group’s bottom line increase fuel efficiency in favor of implementby 2015 with the fuel efficiency measures. ing the SCORE measures. Furthermore, a code of conduct passed in early 2014 provides that the projects to 04 reduce fuel consumption are to be set up SCORE poster on the subject of uniformly across the Group and that their joint fuel purchasing. 54 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Four pillars for climate protection [Ú 05] 1 2 Technological Innovation in aircraft and Improved Improved use of airspace progress engine technologies infrastructure Airport infrastructures Alternative fuels adapted to needs 3 4 Operational More efficient aircraft sizes Economic A global, sensibly designed, measures Optimal flight routes and speeds measures market-based system for reducing emissions Optimized processes on to complement the other the ground three pillars N 3 33 6 30 E W 12 24 15 21 S Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 55 [Ú 06] Research into alternative fuels Ú Alternative fuels with a substantially lower net CO2 output are a crucial component in all Technological progress future efforts to permanently reduce emissions. The use of alternative fuels in flight Innovations in aircraft and operations is therefore an important cornerengine ­technologies stone of technical progress according to the The most powerful lever for increasing four-pillar strategy. The L­ ufthansa Group did ­efficiency is continual investment in the pioneering work in 2011 by running a long­newest technologies, i.e. in modernizing the term trial of biofuel in regular scheduled flight 05 ­Lufthansa Group’s fleet of aircraft (see “Fleet operations and demonstrated that biofuels can Four pillars for climate protection: The development,” page 35). In September 2013 be used for that purpose without any problem. ­Lufthansa Group is constantly increasing we ordered 59 ultra-modern long-haul, fuel efficiency with the aforementioned four-pillar strategy for climate protection. next-generation aircraft. This represented a With its continued involvement in numerous It comprises, in addition to technical capital investment of EUR 14 billion at list future-oriented projects focusing on alternative progress such as the investment in the prices, the largest single private investment in fuels, the L­ ufthansa Group is further consolinewest generation of fuel-efficient airGerman industrial history to date. dating its role as a trailblazer in this area. It craft, testing and use of alternative fuels in flight operations. To this are added applies its expertise to the assessment and infrastructure improvements, such as The new aircraft will be delivered gradually analysis of potential alternative fuels, for optimum use of airspace and optimized beginning in 2016. This will enable the example, lending its support to their developairport infrastructure. Operational ­Lufthansa Group to make a quantum leap in ment until they are ready for the market. measures such as using more efficient aircraft sizes, introducing improvements efficiency and enter the 2-liter class. to procedures on the ground, making In 2013 we conducted a rig test at ­Lufthansa better use of aircraft capacity, and flying The A350-900 and Boeing 777-9X aircraft on Technik in Hamburg. This test is part of the EU optimum routes are also being taken to order will fly more fuel-efficiently per pasBlending Study project, for which Deutsche increase fuel efficiency in flight operations. As well as the three pillars already senger per 100 kilometers than any other ­Lufthansa AG is the consortium leader. mentioned, economic instruments comparable type of aircraft. On average, this Experts involved in this project have been are used. newest generation of aircraft will consume examining the possible impact on aircraft only 2.9 l/100 pkm. emissions and engine performance of blend06 ing farnesane, a new biokerosene component Lufthansa Technik conducted a ­farnesane rig test in Hamburg as part of made from biomass sugars, with conventional the EU’s Blending Study project. kerosene. 56 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility In the Blending Study, furthermore, the Strict criteria for ­Lufthansa Group is also working with a speÚ alternative fuels cialty supplier that produces renewable fuels. The American company Gevo has provided Improving Ú the ­Lufthansa Group with its innovative alcohol-to-jet fuel (ATJ kerosene). With these infrastructure Gradually establishing an alternative fuel supply system is a step towards realizing samples we will be studying, in cooperation the aviation industry’s climate protecwith the German armed forces’ Bundeswehr Improving the potential for emissions tion goals. The ­Lufthansa Group sets the highest standards for the use of alternaResearch Institute for Materials, Fuels and reductions with the Single European tive fuels, however. Before we use plantLubricants, the blending behavior of convenSky initiative derived fuel, for example, we must make tional kerosene mixed with ATJ kerosene. One climate protection project of central politisure that cultivation of the energy plants cal importance in Europe is the creation of a in question never ends up in competition with food production. An indispensable Research into and laboratory testing of altercommon European airspace. Current flight criterion for selecting suppliers is that native fuels are vital for advancing their comroutes over Europe, which are dictated by their fuel must be produced in sustainable mercial use in the airline industry. We aim to national interests, force aircraft to fly detours ways and certified accordingly. We accept obtain approval for the innovative ATJ fuel this averaging 42 kilometers per flight. The Single certifications based on the International Sustainability and Carbon Certification year. European Sky (SES) would enable the (ISCC) or Roundtable on Sustainable ­Lufthansa Group alone to reduce its kerosene Biofuels (RSB) standards. ISCC is the first While biosynthetic fuel derived from plant oil consumption by about 270,000 tonnes per government-recognized global certificaand animal fat was used in our long-term trial year. This equates to a quantity of fuel suftion system for sustainability and greenin 2011, in the alcohol-to-jet process the plant ficient to fly a L­ ufthansa Airbus A380 from house gas emissions. The RSB standard places nearly the same requirements on wastes are fermented to produce isobutanol. Frankfurt to San Francisco and back about biokerosene production, while its criteria This is then dehydrated and converted into 1,000 times. Airlines would be able to reduce are in part even stricter. Other conditions kerosene using standard refinery processes. their CO2 emissions by 10% and save roughly include a proven environmental benefit There is a wide range of suitable feedstocks. EUR 5 billion per year. and adequate availability at an acceptable price. This makes the method as versatile as the Fischer-Tropsch process that is already In an effort to make the Single European Sky approved, but it requires a much lower initial a reality by 2020, the EU Commission and the investment. European flight safety authority Eurocontrol launched the Single European Sky ATM A larger proportion of alternative fuels results Research (SESAR) Program back in 2008. in a smaller carbon footprint in aviation. CurThe aim was to standardize European air System partners for rently the maximum blend of renewable and traffic management with the aid of new techfuel from alternative conventional kerosene is 50% for each engine. This will probably be the case for ATJ nologies, procedures, and standards. At present, the ­Lufthansa Group is actively sources Ú kerosene as well, which is another reason involved in more than 50 SESAR projects. We are involved in several initiatives to why it is important to conduct research into Specialists from the various airlines contribute help advance the development of alternathe optimal blend ratio. the expertise they have gained in diverse tive fuels and ensure their sustainability. areas ranging from route planning, operations The ­Lufthansa Group is a member of the Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group control, and training to information technol(SAFUG) and the Aviation Initiative for ogy and financial management. Free Route Renewable Energy in Germany (aireg e.V.). Airspace Maastricht & Karlsruhe (­FRAMaK), With Group company Swiss as intermedifor example, which is a SESAR Flight Trials ary, the ­Lufthansa Group also participates in the Roundtable on Sustainable Biofuels and Demonstration project, has resulted (RSB, Lausanne). Moreover, ­Lufthansa since December 2012 in distance reductions is active in the Flight Path 2020 initiative, on routes in the upper airspace over Gerwhose goal is to produce 2 million tonnes many, the Benelux countries, and parts of the of sustainable aviation fuel in Europe by 2020. North Sea. This has enabled airlines to realize permanent fuel savings and avoid CO2 emissions. Since the middle of 2013, 199 shorter Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 57 07 Fuel savings through weight reduction: Successful campaign to weigh all loose objects in a Lufthansa Cargo MD-11F. [Ú 07] direct routes have been available, which are ducing new flight procedures, optimizing part of its Clear Out project. The results of used by an average of 229 ­Lufthansa flights engine performance and aircraft aerodynamthe project are being applied to the entire per day. ics, and developing intelligent software tools. fleet of Austrian Airlines and the ­Lufthansa Group. This, too, will result in savings in keroNevertheless, the Single European Sky (SES) Potential savings through sene. The mentioned weighing initiatives is making only slow progress. All the necessystematic weighing make us more acutely aware of the impact of sary tools, technologies, and procedures have In a weighing initiative carried out on an A340weight on fuel consumption. That has a posilong since been in place, yet the EU member 300 wide-body aircraft last year, we identified tive impact on our profitability while also states remain insistent on protecting their own potential weight savings of about 100 kilomaking an important contribution to our national interests, including their national air grams per long-haul aircraft. Items weighing a efforts to steadily improve our ecological traffic control systems and the revenue they total of 70 kilograms have already been perbalance. Other weight-reducing measures generate from fees. The L­ ufthansa Group and manently removed from the aircraft. This will are also being put in place. They include other airlines have repeatedly pointed out allow the ­Lufthansa Group to save more than equipping the entire long-haul fleet with lighter such hurdles in the SES legal framework, and 1,000 tonnes of kerosene annually on its catering trolleys and ­Lufthansa Cargo’s they continue to offer their services as conintercontinental passenger flights. That replacement of its freight containers with structive partners in the quest for an expediequates to the fuel consumption of 14 A340lighter models. In the middle of May 2014 tious solution. 300 flights from Frankfurt to Rio de Janeiro. ­Lufthansa Cargo successfully completed the We will thereby reduce our annual fuel costs replacement of all of its more than 5,500 in future by more than EUR 900,000 and standard aluminum freight containers with the Ú reduce CO2 emissions by 3,606 tonnes per nearly 14-kilogram lighter versions made from year. composite materials. Operational measures L­ ufthansa Cargo’s freighter fleet also will be operating more efficiently in the future. Every Optimum flight routes and speeds The ­Lufthansa Group plans to use a new single one of the MD11-F aircraft was able to software application that will save fuel by The Fuel Efficiency department has developed shed 35 kilograms. Experts have already optimizing the flight profile and speed of numerous projects with great potential for identified potential weight savings of about aircraft during flight operations. During a flight, savings, projects the airlines in the ­Lufthansa 70 kilograms per aircraft. The measures are the program processes the latest aircraft and Group will be implementing in the future. due to be implemented in 2014. Austrian weather data to calculate in real time the most They include programs to achieve permanent Airlines also has weighed and documented economical flight curve for the remainder of weight reductions on board, testing and introall of the loose parts in an Airbus A320 as the flight. A first prototype went into trial 58 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility [Ú 08] 08 Lufthansa Technik’s Project Cyclean 2.0: Clean engines operate with greater thermal efficiency and consume less kerosene. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 59 operation in 2013 and will be tested initially international flights from EU airports. This on ­Lufthansa’s long-haul fleet. A similar verÚ would once again make international conflicts sion of the application, which has been develinevitable, which would not be to the detrioped by the Berlin-based software producer Economic ment of European airlines alone. PACE, is already being used successfully by ­Lufthansa CityLine. measures One thing should be clear here: Climate protection is a joint, worldwide responsibility. Engine cleaning to reduce The fourth pillar of the four-pillar model aims Only on that basis can an acceptable solution kerosene consumption to bring about systems and measures that be found, particularly when the share of traffic Clean engines are more thermally efficient operate on the basis of economic incentives. taking place outside European airspace is and consume less kerosene. To maintain The ­Lufthansa Group supports the institution growing rapidly. performance, we regularly clean our aircraft of a globally valid, market-based, and compeengines to remove contaminants such as tition-neutral system of climate change Besides emissions trading, the national aviadust, pollen, or salt. Under the Cyclean 2.0 ­taxation. tion tax, which was introduced in Germany in program, experts from L­ ufthansa Technik and 2011, continues to be a burden, costing the the Darmstadt University of Applied Sciences In October 2013 the UN International Civil ­Lufthansa Group more than EUR 353 million are investigating how the cleaning process Aviation Organisation (ICAO) took the decision in 2013. This makes the tax nearly one and a can be made even more economical and to develop a globally valid system for climate half times as much as the net income from environmentally friendly. They have come up change levies by 2016. This system is schedoperations of L­ ufthansa and Germanwings with a promising idea: Instead of using water, uled to enter into force in 2020—an outcome combined (EUR 265 million). This is a considengine washing could be accomplished in the that countries and the industry had been erable sum, one that we are not able to invest near future by using CO2 dry ice pellets. This working together to achieve for years. Thus in modern aircraft or new, environmentally innovative method would also save large the aviation industry has been a pioneer in the compatible technologies. It is time for policyquantities of water, and it could be used even movement towards a global convention on makers to devise a regime of competitive and in the winter. climate change. fair terms for the industry. A new index helps save costs Not long after the ICAO decision, however, The Strategic Cost Index is a successful the European Commission launched yet Ú example of a measure designed to increase another competition-distorting solution, fuel efficiency. This index indicates the overall planned for the period from 2013 to 2020, Continuing to optimize costs incurred for each flight taking into account the load, speed, and item costs for with a decision to limit emissions trading for air travel to flights within European airspace processes in the future crew, MRO, and engines. By using the “new” until 2016. While this has averted an internaStrategic Cost Index, flight crews are able to tional conflict for the time being, the EU has In the future, a new flight data analysis tool calculate this value on a significantly more thereby locked in place competitive disadvancalled OMEGA (Ops Monitor and Efficiency precise basis. This is because the calculations tages for European Airlines. L­ ufthansa, Air Gap Analyzer), which is currently under develnow include not only time costs (crew and France, and British Airways must continue opment, will enable the L­ ufthansa Group to MRO) but also current fuel costs. paying for emissions trading for their intraanalyze current fuel consumption with even European feeder flights, while competitors greater accuracy and use the results of the with hubs outside the EU, such as Istanbul, analysis to identify further ways in which to Doha, Abu Dhabi, and Dubai, are able to optimize processes. transport travelers from Europe without incurring additional costs. The L­ ufthansa Group’s The aim is to establish the use of a software costs for intra-European emissions trading are application during flight operations that comin the mid-eight-figure range every year. pares planned, actual, and optimum values during the various phases of flight. OMEGA Should the ICAO fail to propose a solution for will enable the airlines to improve the effia global system by 2016, the EU will once ciency of future flights using the data thus again be expanding emissions trading to all gathered during flight operations. ß 60 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Energy and resource management The ­Lufthansa Group is investing in Group-wide environmental measures and innovations The ­Lufthansa Group is constantly working to increase the efficiency of its use of energy and resources at all levels. Our systematic approach to waste management in catering, our efficient use of resources in building management, and our environmentally friendly ground services at the airports are making important contributions to that end. Energy and resource management helps us commitment to 0.5 million tonnes in savings save costs and conserve the environment at per year that it undertook in 2007. This new, the same time. The L­ ufthansa Group aims to second phase in the company’s commitment leverage its energy and resource manageis becoming considerably more challenging ment to realize further potential savings. At the for the locations involved, because numerous same time, keeping track of industry-specific, measures that are effective in avoiding CO2 regional, and national regulatory regimes for with little use of resources have already been energy, emissions, and waste disposal is a implemented. “This renewed voluntary comcomplex task. In 2013 the companies of the mitment underscores the relative importance ­Lufthansa Group set themselves numerous that sustainable management practice has at new targets and put into practice a large ­Lufthansa Technik,” according to Ralf Wunnumber of measures to conserve resources. derlich, Head of Environmental Management This is demonstrated inter alia by the examat ­Lufthansa Technik. ples below. L­ ufthansa Technik also set its subsidiaries the goal of reducing CO2 emissions by 30% by Ú 2018. For this reason we are working vigorously to bring to bear across the entire ­Lufthansa Technik: 30% ­Lufthansa Technik Group the personal knowlless CO2 by 2018 edge and experience already available to us in this area. On March 27, 2013, ­Lufthansa Technik signed The ­Lufthansa Group seeks to keep emissions an agreement to further reduce CO2 emisand noise to a minimum on the ground as sions. Under the terms of the agreement, the well. For this reason, we are maintaining a ­Lufthansa Group’s MRO specialist agrees to focus on developing and testing electric further lower energy consumption and thereby propulsion technologies for taxiing aircraft. reduce CO2 emissions by 30% by 2018. With the use of electrically powered vehicles From 2019, the company plans to work for aircraft handling and taxiing procedures together with 14 other Hamburg-based we can reduce noise and exhaust gases in ­companies to reduce at a minimum a the immediate vicinity of airports. ­further 150,000 tonnes of CO2 per year. This will continue and increase the voluntary Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 61 [Ú 09] Electromobility at Frankfurt Airport ity concepts for future application in vehicles passenger aircraft with a maximum takeoff Ú used for aircraft taxiing and towing on the weight of 600 tonnes and is unique in its apron at Frankfurt Airport. The long-term goal performance class. The first prototype of the E-PORT AN: is that aircraft will no longer taxi to a runway, vehicle is scheduled for delivery to ­Lufthansa Into the future with parking position, or hangar under the power of their engines but with the use of an electriLEOS at the end of 2014. In the medium term the eSchlepper will be replacing the dieselelectro-mobility cally powered aircraft tower or an electrical powered tow-bar-based aircraft tugs currently propulsion system integrated into the aircraft in use. The eSchlepper will be more environFrankfurt Airport is Germany’s largest comitself. mentally friendly and economical owing to its mercial airport and one of the most important innovative electric motor. The all-wheel-drive hubs for air travel in the world. It is also where eTaxi: Electrically powered landing electric vehicle will be powered by lithium-ion we are currently working with our project gear for taxiing batteries and externally charged from the partners to advance the E-Port AN electroIn the eTaxi project we are studying the use electricity grid. When necessary, the batteries mobility initiative. The objective is to use and technical integration of an electric motor can be charged during operation with the use electrically powered vehicles for aircraft in the main gear of shortand medium-range of a fully integrated diesel motor. handling to reduce emissions generated aircraft for all taxiing maneuvers on the apron. during ground maneuvering. The ­Lufthansa The system’s electrical power is generated Group, Fraport AG, the State of Hesse, and and stored by the aircraft’s auxiliary power the Rhine-Main Model Electro-mobility Region unit. are partners in the initiative. The future-oriented electro-mobility project is being subsieSchlepper: A hybrid electrically dized by the German Federal Ministry of powered aircraft tug Transport, Building and Urban Development This sub-project involves a hybrid (diesel/ with scientific support from the Technical electric) electrically powered aircraft tug withUniversity of Darmstadt. On June 10, 2013, it out a tow bar. The eSchlepper was developed received the “Electro-Mobility Beacon” disby ­Lufthansa LEOS, a subsidiary of ­Lufthansa tinction from the German federal government. Technik, in collaboration with the Swedish This award is reserved for innovations that company Kalmar Motor AB. ­Lufthansa LEOS make a significant contribution to progress in plans to use the eSchleppers for repositioning 09 the field of electro-mobility. and towing heavy long-haul aircraft over Heading for green aircraft handling: In distances of up to seven kilometers between the future, Lufthansa LEOS would like to The ­Lufthansa Group’s eTaxi, eSchlepper, and the gates and hangars (on-base tows). use an eSchlepper to reposition and tow TaxiBot projects involve various electro-mobilThe eSchlepper can move even the largest heavy long-haul aircraft. 62 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility [Ú 10] TaxiBot driver temporarily turns control of the truck over to the pilot in the cockpit, who then operates the truck remotely in pilot control mode (PCM). Once the aircraft reaches the disconnect position, the TaxiBot driver resumes control and separates the tow truck from the aircraft. Only then are the aircraft’s engines started. The third TaxiBot vehicle was [Ú 11] delivered to L­ ufthansa LEOS at the end of March 2014. Testing for certification by the German Federal Aviation Office (LBA) and other authorities is currently underway. The testing program will also assess the pilots’ workload when starting the engines during the TaxiBot towing. eLift: Catering lift truck of the future The aim of the eLift project, as part of the E-PORT AN initiative, is to develop the catering lift truck of the future—one that is electrically powered. The project, which is being managed by ­Lufthansa subsidiary LSG Sky Chefs, is a collaborative effort with the companies Doll Fahrzeugbau and Euro Engineering along with the Technical University of Kaiserslautern. Various concepts for the electrification of the lift truck’s individual components, such as its lifting mechanism and its propulsion system, are being considered. The basis for the new vehicle is an electrically driven truck chassis. The box body is to fulfil the same functions with elecTaxiBot: Diesel-electric-powered tric drives as a conventional lift truck. In aircraft tow truck addition, the use of electric propulsion will The TaxiBot subproject, whose focus is a result in a substantial and lasting reduction in diesel-electric-powered aircraft tow truck, is all types of emissions, particularly noise and already at a far advanced stage. It, too, can CO2 emissions. The catering lift truck of the taxi commercial aircraft to the runway with future will incorporate a design that separates their engines off (dispatch towing). This prothe truck chassis mechanically and energeticess is based on a technology patented by cally from the box body, the lifting system Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI) and develbeing powered separately. The vehicle itself oped jointly with L­ ufthansa LEOS. Unlike the will be able to undergo future development 10 /11 eTaxi, this system requires no or only minimal independently as a result. TaxiBot tow truck tested in operation. At the end of March 2014, Lufthansa LEOS modifications to the aircraft. Once the aircraft www.e-port-an.com received its third TaxiBot vehicle. has been pushed back from the gate, the Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 63 Fly Greener Ú “To meet our social responsibility, we aim Ú to become the first airline caterer to achieve Cabin Crew Manager zero waste to landfill in the US,” says Dale Rebecca Emmerling from LSG Sky Chefs: Easdon, LSG Sky Chefs’ Senior Vice PresiMunich is currently promoting the Fly Greener initiative in the Avoiding waste and dent Operations, North America. The company produces 532 million meals a year, cabin area. Our aim here is conserving resources 160 million of them in the US. to heighten flight attendants’ environmental awareness. Measures include information stands on the theme of recyLSG Sky Chefs is the world’s largest provider SIMBA: Environmentally friendly operation cling and increased coverage of airline catering and management services of dishwashing lines in internal media. Planning for all inflight processes. LSG Sky Chefs has LSG Sky Chefs also developed an environis also underway for a team developed a comprehensive system of key mentally friendly method for operating its of Fly Greener ambassadors. Participants will actively comperformance indicators. These are used to dishwashing lines, a tool called SIMBA (a municate the theme of recymeasure and continually optimize the outGerman acronym that translates to dishwashcling on board. come of all measures taken to reduce waste ing information management tool including quantities and conserve resources. They operations analysis and alarm system). Since include the indicator waste per meal in grams, April 2010 when the pilot project began, we which the company aims to lower worldwide have been able to reduce water consumption play an important role for us (see Balance by another 2% in the next three years. Other in the dishwashing process by 30% and 2013, page 84). indicators are water consumption per meal, energy consumption by 24% at the Frankfurt energy per square meter of operating surface, base alone. SIMBA is currently in use at 65 LSG Sky Chefs in Frankfurt gets its own energy per meal, and recycled waste as a LSG Sky Chefs locations worldwide. For its combined heat and power plant percentage of total waste. commitment to conserving resources, LSG Since October 2013 the Frankfurt location of Sky Chefs received the Fraport Energy Award LSG Sky Chefs has been producing much of Ambitious goal: 100% recycling in the USA in the Highest Savings category in August the energy it needs on its own. A combined LSG Sky Chefs has set itself the goal of having 2012. heat and power plant was installed in the as much of its waste materials recycled as basement of the facility. This plant uses natupossible and to steadily reduce the quantity of Recycling on board ral gas to generate the necessary electricity its waste. Since 2008 the ­Lufthansa Group’s Limited stowing capacity and short service along with heat and hot water. By producing catering specialist has been keeping a record periods are crucial factors that affect the its own electricity, heat, and hot water, the of all the waste produced by all of the compachoice of foods and beverages that are location is reducing its annual carbon dioxide nies throughout the world that are wholly offered on board. They also have a direct emissions by roughly 3,000 tonnes, thereby owned by the Group. The data that are coleffect on waste management. Incorrect sorthelping to protect the environment and clilected in this way provide the basis on which ing of recyclable wastes cannot always be mate. The cost of electricity and gas has risen the company calculates the recycling rate for avoided, for example. Nevertheless, we aim steadily over the last several years, and, given each location, each country, and the entire to conserve valuable resources and avoid the volume and production growth that is to Group. increased disposal costs. For this reason, be expected at the Frankfurt location, conairline catering is subject to specific sorting sumption and, ultimately, costs are going to LSG Sky Chefs set itself the goal of recycling criteria. Flight attendants are urged to stow all be rising even further. By having its own 100% of its recyclable waste at all 41 of its items in the places from which they took combined heat and power plant, the comlocations in the USA by 2015. Since the Zero them. While we dispose of open foodstuffs in pany is therefore able to save costs in the Waste to Landfill program began in February waste boxes or with clean-up trolleys, empty long term. 2013, nine locations have introduced the new beverage containers are returned to the procedures and were thus able to successbeverage trolleys. National disposal rules also fully recycle some 6,500 tonnes of waste. 64 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility 7,500 sheets of DIN A4 paper per week. It also Ú Ú reduces the burden on the environment and saves printing costs. L­ ufthansa Cargo has ­Lufthansa Systems: ­Lufthansa Cargo: awarded the company’s internal environmental Saving electricity ­Electro-mobility-based prize to those of its employees who were involved in the project’s d­ evelopment. intelligently aircraft handling L­ ufthansa Systems, the ­Lufthansa Group’s IT At the ­Lufthansa Cargo Center, L­ ufthansa Ú subsidiary, is working to steadily optimize its Cargo’s largest base of operations, 40 electriconsumption of energy. The IT specialist’s cally powered vehicles were replaced by the Resource efficiency in largest computing center covers 6,600 square meters in Kelsterbach, a town located on the latest generation of energy efficient models: 31 new electric fork trucks and nine electric building management outskirts of Frankfurt am Main. It contains tractors. The new industrial trucks consume more than 2,000 servers, which are spread about 14% less energy for the same power as In our efforts to reduce energy consumption out over four data centers. Because of the their predecessors. They operate much more while improving the efficiency with which we huge amount of hot air that is generated, an efficiently and can be used for a longer period use resources, we are also setting similar intelligent air-conditioning solution is a key before their batteries must be recharged. standards for the company’s buildings. In its component of any approach to further reducHence they are responsible for a considerable key points, the L­ ufthansa Group’s strategic ing the computing center’s electricity conincrease in efficiency at the Frankfurt hub. In environmental program requires that the sumption. 280,000 cubic meters of air are total, ­Lufthansa Cargo has more than 120 of planning, construction, and redevelopment of moved every hour in each computing center. these industrial trucks. With the exception of buildings take account of the latest energyKeeping hot and cold airstreams separate one that carries especially heavy loads of nine saving and resource-conserving options that from one another is a highly important factor in to 12 tonnes, all are electrically powered. are available. the energy balance. The server cabinets, which are referred to as racks, are positioned eFreight: Off to a paperless future The ­Lufthansa Aviation Center (LAC) at Frankrelative to one another in such a way that with ­Lufthansa Cargo furt Airport was honored by the European escaping warm air is collected in one aisle ­Lufthansa Cargo has been expanding its Union for its energy efficiency as far back as while cold air is fed into a parallel aisle. The air international paperless air freight transport 2009. The LAC is one of the first buildings in streams are thus kept separate from one services (eFreight) since as early as 2007 with Germany to earn the privilege of calling itself another, and cold and warm aisles are crethe aim of completely digitalizing the transport a Green Building. Thanks to an innovative ated. The cold air can be used specifically and chain. Nowadays up to 30 different paper structure consisting of thermally-active fairwithout loss to cool the servers. Another comdocuments are needed for every single air faced concrete ceilings, a sensitive autoponent involves harnessing the outside temfreight shipment, regardless of its size. This mated shading system, and a highly insulated perature. In the winter especially, the outside imposes high costs every day and prolongs façade, it needs only about one-third of the air provides 100% of the needed cooling. transport times. By converting to eFreight, heating energy of a conventional office Thanks to these and other green IT measures, therefore, the air freight industry will experi­building. As a result, the heating energy ­Lufthansa Systems was able to reduce its ence a simplification of procedures, a reducconsumed by the LAC is 56% below the consumption of electricity by about 5% in tion in complexity, and the elimination of an guidelines of the German Energy Saving 2013 as compared to the previous year. environmental burden. The potential savings Regulation currently in effect. In the case of for the air freight industry as a whole—7,800 electricity consumption it is 17% less. Owing In 2013 ­Lufthansa Systems also built an outtonnes of paper per year—are considerable. to the building’s low-energy design, door, fully operational back-up cooling unit in This quantity of paper documents piled one ­Lufthansa is able to relieve the Rhine-Main Frankfurt that is connected to the computing atop the other would be 20 times the height of region of about 12,000 tonnes of CO2 each center. In addition, an improvement in the Mount Everest. L­ ufthansa Cargo aims to have year. Further examples of sustainable concoefficient of performance (CoP) value was 100% of its transport documentation handled struction for which the ­Lufthansa Group is achieved with a series of other measures, electronically beginning in 2020. responsible include the L­ ufthansa Training & including installation of state-of-the-art heat Conference Center in Seeheim, which is exchangers in the ventilating stations. This By using SmartPads for transport order mansupplied with energy from deep underground value provides information about the energy agement, ­Lufthansa Cargo has already made by a geothermal energy system, and the new efficiency of cooling and ventilation systems. paperless document management a reality. building satellite currently under construction In 2014 the IT specialist aims to achieve furInstead of processing transport orders on at Munich Airport. This building is designed ther improvement in the CoP by replacing the paper, this process has been completely elecaccording to the principles of sustainable cooling stations with refrigerating machines. tronic since 2013. This saves approximately construction, which improves its CO2 balance Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 65 by 40% as compared to the two existing terminals. The planned construction of L­ ufthansa Cargo’s new logistics center at Frankfurt Airport, LCCneo, will satisfy the exacting requirements of the Gold Standard of the German Association for Sustainable Construction (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Nachhaltiges Bauen). The categories covered by the extensive certification process are ecology, economy, technology, processes, location, and socio-cultural and functional aspects. Thanks to its up-todate technical infrastructure and automated storage logistics, the new cargo hub will allow faster turnaround times at significantly reduced unit costs while at the same time increasing the quality of service for L­ ufthansa Cargo customers. Ú Outlook To achieve further successful outcomes, the ­Lufthansa Group launched an internal energy forum in February 2014. The aim is to establish a system for managing electricity and energy conservation that encompasses the Group as a whole. We are therefore exploring the applicability of best-practice examples to the entire L­ ufthansa Group and working on uniform key performance indicators. ß [Ú 12] 12 View inside the Lufthansa Aviation ­Center, which has been recognized as a Green Building for five years. 66 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Involvement in science Twenty years of climate research on scheduled flights Global climate change constitutes one of the greatest challenges that humanity is faced with. Reliable forecasts of future climate trends are therefore of key importance. To improve the climate models needed for such forecasts, constant comparisons between the model and reality are necessary. For the past 20 years the ­Lufthansa Group has been helping to observe the condition of the Earth’s atmosphere. With more than 300 destinations all around [Ú 13] the world, our route network offers ideal Ú opportunities to lend assistance to climate research. Aside from its involvement in cliMOZAIC: More than mate research, the L­ ufthansa Group is active in numerous other research projects. These 24,000 measuring flights include noise research, the testing of alternaserve to increase the tive fuels, the development of alternative accuracy of climate propulsion technologies for land-based transportation means, and projects to develop models technical innovations for use in commercial aircraft maintenance. We began our involvement in climate research as far back as 1993. Under the MOZAIC [Ú 14] In these areas and in our climate research project (Measurement of Ozone, Water Vapor, projects we have been able to score signifiCarbon Monoxide, and Nitrogen Oxides cant successes over the past several years. aboard Airbus In-Service Aircraft), more than Our contribution to science and research has 24,000 flights conducted for measuring purbeen especially multifarious in the field of poses were completed over a period of 20 climate research. Our involvement has also years following a one-year development made it possible to achieve greater accuracy phase for the measuring instruments we in weather forecasts and climate predictions helped develop for the project. This enabled and to gather more precise information on the us to gather extensive data on the ozone, composition of our air quality. water vapor, carbon monoxide, and nitrogen content of the atmosphere. On the basis of [Ú 15] the data collected aboard two ­Lufthansa Airbus A340-300 long-haul aircraft, scientists were able to increase the accuracy of climate models and improve weather forecasting models. The measuring flights also allowed us to gather a globally unique data source for water vapor and ozone. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 67 addition to the measurements on board, 116 Ú air samples are taken per mission for further Why are commercial analysis in European laboratories. The objecaircraft particularly AMDAR: Further tive of the project is, among other things, to suited to this? Ú improvement in weather investigate the processes taking place in the boundary layer between the troposphere and forecasts the stratosphere, a layer of the atmosphere Civil aviation is suited to the study and observation of the atmosphere for that is of particular interest to scientists. Neiseveral reasons: Since the end of 1999, L­ ufthansa aircraft have ther satellites nor ground-based equipment The Earth’s atmosphere can be observed been equipped with software that gathers can measure climatically relevant parameters by satellites as well as from the ground. current meteorological data in flight. The in nearly the same quantity or with nearly the Both are remote sensing measurements. However, they have a relatively poor ­Lufthansa Group is thus helping to improve same accuracy. Measurements taken with the spatial resolution. Direct measurements the accuracy of weather forecasts. Taking the flying CARIBIC laboratory have recently made on board aircraft, on the other hand, data measured by aircraft into account can an important contribution to proving the presprovide a much higher spatial resolution. increase the accuracy of weather forecasts for ence of three previously undetected chloroCommercial aircraft, therefore, bridge the gap between observation satelthe next 24 hours by 5–7%. Aircraft Meteorofluorocarbons (CFC). One of them, CFC-113a, lite measurements and ground-based logical Data Relay (AMDAR) is the term used has been increasing rapidly of late. The next measurements. to describe this system for collecting weather step is to find out where these gases are Aircraft fly at a higher level (tropopause), data in flight. No additional weather sensors being produced and what the reasons are for which is of particular importance for clior on-board hardware are needed to record their increase. Only when we have done so mate research. AMDAR data. Since pilots in the cockpit also will successful countermeasures be possible, Aircraft fly worldwide, and so can observe the entirety of the Earth’s need information such as barometric altitude, as they have been in the case of previously atmosphere. air temperature, and wind speed, aircraft are known CFCs, of which there have been only Scheduled flights provide a high level already equipped with the appropriate measeven so far. They are considered as the main of continuity and mean that long-term suring devices. The special software, which cause of the ozone hole. This is true also of observations can be made that would was developed in collaboration with L­ ufthansa the likewise newly detected CFC replacement, not be possible with the individual flights Systems, is needed only for transmission of hydro-chloro-fluoro-carbon (HCFC). made by special research aircraft, which are also much more expensive. the weather data by data link. Ú Ú IAGOS: A new measuremajor research projects top priority under its CARIBIC: Important disment infrastructure for overall research policy. covery for the protection climate research The first IAGOS system has been in service of the ozone layer since July 2011 on the Viersen, a L­ ufthansa The climate research project IAGOS (InAirbus A340-300. Other systems have since The ­Lufthansa Group has supported the service Aircraft for a Global Observing Sysbeen installed on three A340-300 aircraft CARIBIC (Civil Aircraft for the Regular Investitem), in which ­Lufthansa is likewise a particialong with an A330-300 operated by other gation of the Atmosphere Based on an Instrupant, was begun in 2013 as one of three airlines. After each landing, these data are ment Container) project since 2004. The aim major research projects in the Roadmap for sent by means of a GSM modem directly to of this project is to obtain detailed analyses of Research Infrastructures of the German the CNRS research center in Toulouse, where the atmosphere in particular regions. For this Federal Ministry of Education and Research the IAGOS database has its home. From there purpose the Leverkusen, a L­ ufthansa Airbus (BMBF). As a successor to MOZAIC, IAGOS the data are made available for use by numerA340-600, was equipped with a globally also uses commercial aircraft as a platform for ous other research institutions around the unique, 1.5-tonne measuring container, turncollecting global and continuous atmospheric world in addition to our IAGOS partner. The ing the aircraft into a flying climate research data on scheduled flights. The IAGOS meapackage of instruments specially developed laboratory. Ten research institutes in five suring equipment is constantly being for the project is robust and requires virtually European countries jointly developed and improved by the participating research instino maintenance. In addition to the routine equipped the automated measuring container tutes so that more, and more precise, data on capture of atmospheric trace substances, it under the supervision of the Mainz-based Max trace substances in the atmosphere can be will be measuring aerosols and cloud Planck Institute for Chemistry. The container is collected. According to the scientific panel ­particles. installed once a month for several days and appointed by the BMBF to oversee the projmeasures data relating to 50 different gases ect, this will close an important knowledge and particulate compounds simultaneously. It gap, resulting in more accurate climate fore13 / 14 / 15 has now covered more than two million kilocasts. The BMBF has given the selected Measuring sensors on Lufthansa aircraft meters in the service of climate research. In used for climate research in flight. Product Responsibility The satisfaction of our customers is a measure of what we do. Safety and service are our top ­priority. They are the principles that guide our entire value chain. 5 4 7,804 14,000 star service is what pillars for our customer points on the Customer tonnes of CO2 volunwe wish to offer our feedback management Profile Index tarily offset by customcustomers ers through our online offers 70 // Product Responsibility Our fundamental focus safety, health, satisfaction The companies of the ­Lufthansa Group continually review and improve their products along the entire service chain. This ranks high in importance for our business success. Our goal is to achieve a steady increase in Large volumes of data are processed every customer satisfaction. We have made our day in the ­Lufthansa Group. Current social commitment to this goal one of the four corand technical trends are making people all nerstones of our corporate strategy. A key over the world acutely aware of the need for concern for us is that we maintain a strong data security. The topic of data protection emphasis on accommodating the diversity and data security therefore continues to of our international customer base. We gain in importance for the L­ ufthansa Group design our services accordingly—with onas well. board meal and entertainment choices that are appropriate to specific target groups, We aim to live up to our responsibility to assistance for children traveling alone, keep the impact of our flight operations on and assistance for travelers with restricted the environment as low as possible. Many mobility, to mention just a few examples. In customers share this concern and wish to addition, we are constantly improving our offset the CO2 emissions resulting from their feedback management procedures. air travel. We have developed appropriate options in this respect too as part of our The safety and health of our passengers, product and service chain. ß crews, and employees are of key importance to us. Swiss, for example, was certified in 2014 as the world’s first allergy01 / 02 / 03 / 04 / 05 friendly airline and is a pioneer in that Service excellence: For the airlines of respect among the L­ ufthansa Group. the Lufthansa Group, maintaining a focus on the customer is a key concern. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 71 [Ú 01] [Ú 02] [Ú 03] [Ú 04] [Ú 05] 72 // Product Responsibility Customer satisfaction Achieving a constant rise in the level of customer satisfaction is one of our key concerns. It is a cornerstone of our corporate strategy. We are therefore continually optimizing the quality of our portfolio of products and services and introducing innovations. And we maintain a focus on personal d ­ ialogue with our customers as we do so. In what follows, we wish to introduce L­ ufthansa’s activities in this regard by way of illustration. L­ ufthansa is committed to being a 5-STAR booking portal at LH.com. We issue compreairline. An important aspect of this commithensive, user-specific reports on a monthly ment is how we manage our customer relabasis for and to departments responsible for tions. Our goal is to offer the best possible delivering these services. Management is also service to each passenger—even when we regularly informed of the status quo of cusreceive negative feedback. Such feedback tomer satisfaction. can be a source of valuable suggestions as to how we might further improve our service. To Our passengers’ reviews are consolidated in us, 5 STAR means providing what our custhe Customer Profile Index (CPI), which protomers expect of us when it comes to accesvides a weighted average assessment of our sibility and rapid problem-solving on a more services from our passengers’ standpoint. The personal level. The standard we strive to CPI rose from 7,733 in 2012 to 7,804 in 2013. uphold is based on the prestigious Skytrax This improvement is reflected also in the Airline Rating System. numerous prestigious awards that ­Lufthansa and numerous other Group companies Our journey to top marks We regularly conduct online surveys to gauge received in 2013 (see “Prizes and Awards” on page 129). 5 STAR is ... customer satisfaction. Service variables relating to the entire passenger experience and service chain are measured. They range from We aim not only to measure customer satispreflight information and booking procedures faction but also to continually improve it. Many through the actual flight experience and such areas are assigned passenger satisfaction aspects as waiting times for luggage to the targets. Satisfaction figures are used also to completion of the journey at the destination. identify weak spots in our past performance and as basis for initiating measures to rectify To measure customer satisfaction, we use them. satisfaction scales that show which services our customers are especially satisfied with or, A key success factor for the L­ ufthansa Group as the case may be, less satisfied with. In is the manner in which the Group organizes addition, L­ ufthansa collects data on the level its management of customer feedback and of customer satisfaction with the Miles & More applies it in dialogue with passengers. What services and our direct sale services, such as customers report back to us provides a cruthose offered at our service centers and our cial starting point from which to work towards Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 73 Lufthansa is ­ committed to being a 5-STAR airline. an increase in customer satisfaction, which Speed: has a substantial effect on the L­ ufthansa Particularly in these days of Web 2.0, Key measures in our Group’s image. L­ ufthansa receives on average 200,000 valuable feedback messages speed is crucial to our success in customer relationship management. Short efforts to achieve a from customers per year through every sort response times are highly important, continual rise in the of channel. particularly when there are short-term level of customer increases in the volume of customer feedback owing to strikes, airspace closures, ­satisfaction Ú Ú or the effects of winter weather. More personal attention in the services we provide. Best in class ­dialogue Problem-solving: Upgrading the quality of our service and for and with our Our paramount goal is to understand each passenger’s feedback and to deal hospitality. Greater differentiation of check-in areas passengers with it in as personal a way as possible according to booking class at the major hubs in Frankfurt and Munich. without adversely affecting the factor of Optimization of the services provided to In 2013 the L­ ufthansa Group launched the speed. assist arriving passengers and passenPassenger Dialogue Services program. It is gers in transit in Frankfurt and Munich. based on four cornerstones: Learning from feedback: Improving the amenity kits (toiletry bags With the Passenger Feedback Cycle, with convenience items) in First and Accessibility: feedback is clustered and analyzed as a Business Class. ­Lufthansa is committed to enabling paspotential source of improvements to our Upgrading the inflight entertainment program in all classes. sengers to reach us from wherever it is products and services. Providing more sophisticated meal convenient for them to do so, regardless of and beverage options in the business which channels they use to contact us. For This program has given our feedback manlounges. this reason L­ ufthansa installed a Feedback agement system a new fundamental focus Offering a fast lane for status custombutton right on the homepage at LH.com, with the goal of being best in class. ß ers and First Class and Business Class for example, while also providing an e-mail passengers at all intercontinental address and a telephone number for those destinations. who prefer to call us directly. In addition A new option on long-haul ­Lufthansa flights: A new product, a Premium to these feedback options, passengers ­Economy service class, will become can contact us even while in flight through available in December 2014, initially ­Lufthansa’s Flynet product. Our experts on all flights aboard the new Boeing have not forgotten the social media chan747-8. This new product will close the gap between our high-end ­Business nels either. L­ ufthansa’s Facebook presence Class segment and the traditional gives the customer direct access to our Economy Class. All long-haul ­Lufthansa feedback form, and we are represented in aircraft will be furnished with the new dialogue in other relevant forums as well. class by the summer of 2015. 74 // Product Responsibility Flight safety and health protection are the ­Lufthansa Group’s highest priority For the ­Lufthansa Group, the safety and health of passengers, crew members, and employees always come first. It is the duty of the management and all employees of the L­ ufthansa Group to monitor flight safety risks and achieve a constant rise in the level of safety. For the sake of flight safety, all airlines of the ­Lufthansa Group have safety management Ú systems (SMS) that follow the requirements of the International Civil Aviation Organization The IOSA audit—a com(ICAO). The purpose of these systems is to determine the safety level of flight operations, prehensive standard for detect and measure risks in advance, and aviation safety lower the risk of accidents through suitable countermeasures. L­ ufthansa has developed An independent review of the safety standards for this purpose new and accredited proof the airlines in the L­ ufthansa Group takes cesses for systematic risk analysis and place every two years with the IATA Operaassessment. In addition, L­ ufthansa heads a tional Safety Audit (IOSA). The IOSA is interconsortium of various university professors nationally the most widely-accepted standard and research institutions whose goal is to for aviation safety. All airlines in the L­ ufthansa develop meaningful parameters for measuring Group fully satisfy the IATA safety standards. flight safety. Such safety performance indica­Lufthansa Cargo was the first IOSA-registered tors enable us to control accident risk more cargo airline in the world. With its first suceffectively. But L­ ufthansa is setting standards cessful completion of an intensive audit in in matters of safety with traditional measures 2007, the L­ ufthansa Group’s cargo specialist too, such as its heavy investments in aircraft has been a trailblazer for flight safety stanequipment and a pilot training program withdards as they apply to cargo airlines. out equal in the industry. In 2014 L­ ufthansa also became the first airline Within the L­ ufthansa Group, independent in the L­ ufthansa Group to be audited accorddepartments monitor compliance with flight ing to the new Enhanced IOSA Standard, rules and procedures. In addition, the experts which becomes mandatory in September make safety recommendations and advise 2015. the airline on all matters of relevance to flight www.iata.org/iosa safety. The Group Safety Pilot department coordinates the cooperative efforts in safety matters among the companies of the ­Lufthansa Group. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 75 presented for the first time a complete model ECARF we would now like to take concrete Ú of a newly developed unit for transporting steps to address this need so that we can patients in passenger and VIP planes. The make traveling as pleasant and painless as Medical health services system has a modular structure and can be possible,” explained Frank Maier, Head of further expanded adapted to personal requirements. The first deliveries of the system are scheduled for as Products & Services at Swiss. early as September 2014. The ­Lufthansa Group has seen a further Ú increase in the importance of medical health L­ ufthansa is also constantly expanding its services for its passengers. Demographic bonus program Doctor on board, which it A measuring kit for trends have played a role in this development, as people are living longer and therefore developed in 2006. Under this program, previously registered physicians make themanalyzing cabin air remaining mobile longer. The increasing need selves available on board for immediate in flight for clarification of medical issues presented by medical assistance in the event of a medical passengers and the growing demand for emergency. When physicians register for the L­ ufthansa is the world leader in cabin air medical transports led to the establishment of program, information about their medical quality research, to which it has a particularly the Passenger Medical Care division in 2009 specializations is stored with their frequent strong commitment. This work is taking place as an addition to the ­Lufthansa Group’s Mediflyer miles information under the Miles & More in cooperation with unions, staff representacal Service. Requests for transport services program so that flight attendants are able to tives, trade associations, industrial federations, specifically for sitting or recumbent passenapproach them directly, discreetly, and withand aircraft and engine manufacturers. It also gers with limited mobility, for example, or even out making an onboard announcement in a includes developing technical solutions in the for intensive-care transports with the ­Lufthansa medical emergency situation. ­Lufthansa form of special sensors and filters. Patient Transportation Compartment (PTC), further expanded the Doctor on board proare becoming ever more frequent. And then gram in July 2013. Since then, a special One special feature is the measuring kit that there are the medical emergencies that occur website on our homepage provides informawe have been using since April 2013 to anaon board. The central advisory unit is the tion on the program for doctors who wish to lyze cabin air. A partner in its development Medical Operation Center (MOC). It coordiregister. is the reputable Hanover Medical School. nates all transports of medical patients aboard ­Altogether, a minimum of 50 tours with the the ­Lufthansa fleet. Since July 2010 the MOC Airbus A380 are planned for tests. Using the has also been managing, with its Special Ú measuring kit on selected flights, L­ ufthansa Service Team, the procedures for accomwill attempt to record changes in the compomodating passengers with limited mobility Swiss—The first sition of the cabin air during a smell event. according to legal requirements and operational necessities. ­allergy-friendly airline Preliminary results have indicated no noticeable chemical pollution, even during smell events. Neurotoxic ortho-tricresyl phosphates With its PTC, L­ ufthansa is the only airline in In May 2014, to improve the travel experience (o-TCP), in particular, were not detectable. “All the world to offer a flying intensive-care unit for passengers with allergies, Swiss introin all, only a small concentration of organothat provides patients with return transport and duced anti-allergenic products on the ground phosphates was detectable,” summarize the all-around medical care. In addition to the and in the air. Adjustments were made to the researchers. L­ ufthansa wants to identify and MOC, ­Lufthansa Technik also plays an imporcabin, and lactoseand gluten-free products quantify substances that are potentially prestant role. As the technical specialist in the were added to the foods and beverages ent in the cabin air and to optimize the objec­Lufthansa Group, it is able to quickly convert already on the menu. This earned Swiss tive assessment of such events. ß seating in an aircraft when necessary to allow certification by ECARF (European Centre for installation of the PTC. During flight, intensiveAllergy Research Foundation) as the world’s care patients receive medical care from a first allergy-friendly airline, putting Swiss in the physician and a specially trained PTC Medical role of trailblazer for the ­Lufthansa Group. Crew Member. “Our customers’ need for an anti-allergenic In April 2014 L­ ufthansa Technik, together with travel environment has increased steadily in its partner company Aerolite Max Bucher AG, past years. In cooperation with the foundation 76 // Product Responsibility Data protection and data security Careful and secure handling of personal data is the basis for trust in a business relationship. Protecting data protects the ­Lufthansa Group’s customers, employees, shareholders, and suppliers from violation of their personality rights through improper use of their personal data. The L­ ufthansa Group protects and secures data according to the highest standards. The Corporate Data Protection department subject to German data protection law. Neverdata disclosure requests and customer feedensures that the German Data Protection Act theless, the airlines must also observe rules of back. When necessary, we instituted changes (Bundesdatenschutzgesetz, BDSG) is applied entry and security provisions in the various in procedures or behavior. across the L­ ufthansa Group. It acquaints our destination countries. ­Lufthansa always employees with the relevant provisions of the attempts to avoid such data disclosures for as Training in the protection of data law and conducts data protection audits. In long as possible. This problem can be definiOne of the main issues on which the Group’s addition, the Group’s data protection experts tively resolved only at the political level data protection experts gave advice in the advise the departments when new systems through workable international agreements reporting year was the use of customer data are introduced or procedures are designed or that are compatible with data protection law. for sales purposes in compliance with data altered. This makes it possible to coordinate protection requirements. Training courses and data protection and economic concerns early Mandatory guidelines ensure measures to disseminate information on data on. The crucial first step is to make employees data protection protection for employees and managers will and managers sensitive to the risks to data The Data Protection Guidelines establish the be further stepped up in 2014. They are an protection so that they are able to detect and framework for data protection in the L­ ufthansa essential requirement for detecting and manavoid them. Group. They are based on laws such as the aging risks to data protection. The Web-based BDSG and accepted principles of data protraining course (WBT) The fundamentals of For a service company such as the L­ ufthansa tection. The Guidelines spell out the duties of data protection is mandatory for much of our Group, the protection of personal data also compliance with data protection law. They workforce. has special economic importance. Such also set forth rules intended to ensure conduct information is invaluable to the companies in in conformity with data protection law throughData protection audits their efforts to deliver the best quality of serout the Group, to make risks to data protecThe experts in Corporate Data Protection also vices possible. The more personal the options tion transparent, and to safeguard against conduct their own audits of selected proceor services are, the more important knowlsuch risks. Data protection is the responsibility dures and systems used to process personal edge of the preferences of individual customof the Executive Board and the management data. As a rule, the reliability, security, and ers becomes. of various companies. They are assisted in the regularity of the audit projects are checked. ß discharge of this responsibility by the CorpoIn recent years a particularly troublesome area rate Data Protection department under the of legal conflict has developed over the use of direction of Dr. Barbara Kirchberg-Lennartz. personal data as foreign authorities have come to demand, with ever greater frequency, In 2013, as in 2012, the L­ ufthansa Group information on passengers as contained in recorded no significant risks to or sanctiontheir passports or flight reservations. As a able violations of personal data protection. German company, Deutsche L­ ufthansa AG is As a rule, we were able to respond quickly to Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 77 [Ú 06] [Ú 07] 06 / 07 The Lufthansa Group protects and secures data according to the highest standards. 78 // Product Responsibility CO2 compensation The ­Lufthansa Group goes to great lengths to avoid and reduce emissions. To ensure that we use the necessary kerosene as efficiently as possible and realize sustainable savings in its consumption, we invest in the most advanced aircraft and introduce innovative processes, procedures, and technologies. But as long as air travel continues to depend on the use of kerosene, a fossil energy source, CO2 emissions cannot be avoided entirely. For this reason, the ­Lufthansa Group airlines L­ ufthansa, Swiss, and Austrian Airlines, along with AirPlus, one of the largest providers of management solutions for business travel, offer all customers programs that enable them to voluntarily offset the unavoidable emissions their flights produce. After booking a flight, any passenger can use Here is an example of an emissions calculator to calculate his/her a project that we have actual CO2 emissions for the route to be flown and offset them accordingly. The personal supported with the aid of our CO2 compensation option we offer our cus­environmentally conscious tomers is part of our 2020 environmental ­customers Ú strategy and the aviation industry’s four-pillar climate protection strategy (cf. page 54). In Solar lamps in rural Ethiopia 2013 passengers of L­ ufthansa Group airlines Photovoltaic cells on rooftops give families access to electricity and made contributions to offset more than 14,000 light. For people living in rural regions of Ethiopia, this constitutes a tonnes of CO2 resulting from air travel. This is substantial improvement in living conditions. Replacing petroleum lamps with solar-powered lighting also has a positive effect on their the equivalent of about 320 flights from Frankhealth while at the same time reducing greenhouse gas emissions. furt to New York with a ­Lufthansa Airbus A330-300 and an increase of 18.5% as compared to the previous year. The airlines L­ ufthansa and Swiss work closely with the well-known Swiss non-profit organization myclimate (www.myclimate.org) to offer the opportunity to make voluntary donations to climate protection. myclimate is obligated to contribute at least 80% of the CO2 compensation money paid in by customers to climate protection projects that meet the highest Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 79 standards. In addition to reducing greenhouse CO2 compensation for private and business customers gases, the projects have been shown to contribute to sustainable development. The climate protection projects offered are registered with the Gold Standard. This independently maintained label is a mark of distinction for qualitatively superior climate protection projCO2 CO2 ects and the emissions reduction certificates resulting from them. The emphasis is on the integrity of these projects in terms of their Customer Company environmental balance and social compatCO2 compensation CO2 compensation Emissions ibility. Our cooperating partner myclimate report issues to private persons from Germany and Switzerland tax-approved receipts for their donations to offset CO2 emissions. Passengers are therefore able to deduct their CO2 compensation donations from their taxable income. Austrian Airlines is cooperating with ­Climate Austria on CO2 compensation Climate Austria myclimate AirPlus (www.climateaustria.at). When a customer books a flight online, a CO2 calculator calculates the flight’s CO2 emissions. Climate Austria collects the donations and uses them to support high-quality Austrian and international climate protection projects. Climate Austria Climate protection always selects projects according to rigorous projects standards. These projects promote energy efficiency and renewable energies such as hydro-, biomass, wind, or solar energy. The AirPlus Green Company Account develAirPlus also sets great store by its collaboraClimate-neutral business travel with AirPlus oped by AirPlus in 2012 is the world’s first tion with the prestigious climate protection AirPlus is a company of the L­ ufthansa Group completely CO2-neutral central bill account. foundation myclimate. and an international provider of payment and Available on the German market since early billing solutions for business travel. AirPlus 2014, this product enables companies to L­ ufthansa, Swiss, and Austrian Airlines calcunow offers three green product solutions: organize their business travel even more late CO2 emissions for individual accounts on sustainably. In addition, the AirPlus Green the basis of real flight events. Kerosene conCarbon Offset (since 2009) Company Account dispenses with cumbersumption is calculated per flight passenger Green Reports (since 2011) some paper-based processes involving from gate to gate, taking into account meteoAirPlus Green Company Account extensive forms or invoices. Customers are rological conditions (such as winds), taxiing (since 2014 also in Germany) therefore able to save CO2 emissions even procedures on the ground, and holding patwhile making travel arrangements. AirPlus terns and detours in the air. An emissions AirPlus Carbon Offset enables companies to compensates for any unavoidable CO2 emiscalculator operated by myclimate or Climate automatically settle and offset the emissions sions resulting from its internal processes and Austria can allocate accordingly the CO2 generated by business travel through their the use of the Green Company Account by emissions resulting on average from the flight AirPlus customer accounts. supporting a reforestation project in Nicarain question. Since the seating class (Economy, gua managed by myclimate. This project is Business, First) can be selected in advance, AirPlus Green Reports gives customers improving the basic living conditions of the the emissions can be weighted according to clearly structured and detailed analyses of the local population, protecting the local flora and the amount of space required for a seat. ß CO2 emissions generated by their business fauna, and helping to counteract the effects of http://lufthansa.myclimate.org travel. These analyses are based on four climate change over the long term. By using http://swiss.myclimate.org www.climateaustria.at internationally accepted methods of calculatthe AirPlus Green Company Account, our www.airplus.com ing CO2 emissions, among them the reporting business customers take responsibility for standard established by the German Associathe climate and contribute directly to its tion of Travel Management for business travel. ­protection. They can be imported into the customer’s own emissions accounts. Social Responsibility Our dedicated and qualified employees are always at the service of our customers. Being an attractive and responsible employer is key to ­ensuring that this remains the case. 14.5 15 151 136 percent of managers years of cross-company nationalities are repremillion euros spent on are female mentoring sented in the ­Lufthansa internal educational Group worldwide measures 82 // Social Responsibility A new personnel strategy for the ­Lufthansa Group On course with Forward with HR The ­Lufthansa Group’s productivity and ability to innovate depend in large measure on making optimal use of highly qualified employees. Also of central importance are motivation and passion, because only enthusiastic employees can generate enthusiasm among our customers. Social change exposes companies to formifundamentally new direction being taken in dable challenges. Demographic trends are We position ­ourselves the strategic areas for action: already exacerbating a shortage of skilled workers and managers. We are grappling with as an attractive, modern, We—the L­ ufthansa Group—position ourselves as an attractive, modern, and responsible this problem as much as we are with technoand responsible employer for which our employees work with logical change and social trends, including employer for which our passion and enthusiasm. digitalization, globalization, and the diversification of models for balancing hours on and off employees work with In our pursuit of value-oriented corporate the job. Our personnel management staff is passion and enthusiasm. management, our employees are of central responding to these challenges as the times importance. The ­Lufthansa Group is known for demand. Hence we consider work-life integraits outstanding services and is already considtion, home office options, and flexible workered a highly attractive employer among the space models when formulating our strateworkforce. For years now, the L­ ufthansa gies. We expect that future generations will Group has emerged as one of the favorite clearly articulate their expectations to their employers in various rankings by employees. employers. In the Trendence Graduate Barometer 2014, always compatible with social policy. In this for instance, university graduates with degrees regard, SCORE had a significant impact in in economics put the aviation company in Ú 2013 on the work of our HR managers. fourth place in the top employer rankings. The ­Lufthansa Group also placed among GerEnsuring lasting But also required are a forward-looking many’s top 10 employers in the Universum competitiveness approach to personnel management and efforts to increase our attractiveness as an Student Survey 2014, just as it had done in 2013. employer. Our aim is to stay ahead of the We want to preserve and further consolidate general trends so that we remain able to our competitiveness in the future as well. To attract the right talent to the L­ ufthansa Group do so we developed our corporate program over the long term. To that end we are conSCORE in 2012. One of the consequences of tinually improving our personnel manageSCORE is around 3,500 job cuts, which are ment. The new personnel strategy we are taking place with the full involvement of the implementing now was formulated in 2013 for ­Lufthansa Group’s various personnel departthis reason. The following statement of how ments. These cuts are mainly being made the ­Lufthansa Group would like to position through voluntary measures and they are itself in the future serves as the basis for the Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 83 Increase the organization’s productivity: Focusing on further enhancing the ­Lufthansa Group’s productivity with the means of HR management. Preserve and strengthen our attractiveness as an employer: Ensuring attractive yet competitive terms of employment and pay. Increase employee commitment: EncourÚ aging employee commitment by giving employees an active voice in the direction Key areas for action in of the ­Lufthansa Group. personnel matters Promote sustainable social responsibility: 1. Driving Business I shall do all I can for our lasting success. Fulfilling our internal and external social 2. Leading Change We wish to work to preserve and strengthen responsibilities and further developing them I shall take a proactive approach to my our stature as an employer particularly in light to lasting effect. area of responsibilities. of demographic trends. Our Personnel depart3. Creating Spirit ment’s future goals are therefore based on We have already set in motion comprehensive For me it is the human element that makes and consistent with the Group’s corporate measures to create the conditions for innovaall the difference. strategy: tive personnel work. As the first step in their 4. Fostering Talent implementation, the Personnel department I shall help each employee develop his or has set its focus on capturing synergies, her full potential. standardizing processes, and developing 5. Mastering Complexity ­Lufthansa Group managers and the management culture. I shall be at once courageous and careful goals Ú Effective as of financial year 2014, the Executive Board also approved a comprehensive in my decisions and actions. Increase the company’s value. reorientation of the instruments of benefits These five Leadership Principles will guide the Expand the leading market position of management and variable compensation. future actions of our managers. Their influour airlines and service companies by We are convinced that this will further improve ence will also be felt in numerous personnel actively shaping the aviation industry. team performance in the L­ ufthansa Group. processes, such as those associated with Continuously increase customer compensation or the search for employees satisfaction. and their selection and development. Conduct economically, ecologically, and socially balanced and sustainable Ú The ­Lufthansa Group began to base its perbusiness. The five principles of sonal performance assessments on these our new management principles in 2014. This has shifted the Personnel departemphasis to aspects that allow finer distincculture ment goals Ú tions to be made. We do not judge performance merely by the results; rather, we take a Increase the organization’s productivity. A mainstay of our position as an attractive broader view that takes into account the path Preserve and strengthen our attractiveemployer is a modern, feedback-oriented leading to those results. Part of the process is ness as an employer. management style that inspires enthusiasm to give precise feedback in which perforIncrease employee commitment. and loyalty towards the L­ ufthansa Group mance differences are clearly identified. At Promote sustainable social responsibility. among its employees and enables them to the same time, we allow our managers achieve their best. Moreover, the ability of greater discretionary leeway to give monetary management to cope with impending prorewards for individual performance. The key cesses of change is becoming ever more instrument for assessing individual perforThe ­Lufthansa Group is unwavering in its important. The future will see an even greater mance is the corporate management grading pursuit of these goals. To realize them, the need for managers to think and act entrepresystem newly redesigned under the name Personnel department has developed the neurially. This involves a willingness to make PROFILE (potential and performance assessstrategic program Forward with HR. This courageous decisions, seize opportunities, ment of management personnel). ß program gives concrete expression to the four and strike out on new paths, all with the firm goals derived from the Group’s corporate support of employees. The ­Lufthansa Group’s strategy and defines the measures that will management guidelines consist of our five point the way for the next several years: Leadership Principles: 84 // Social Responsibility Interview with Dr. Dorothee Warnke Director of Corporate HR Strategy and Organizational Development, Deutsche Lufthansa AG Dr. Dorothee Warnke Personnel department provide optimal supLast year you set up COMPASS, a proport for the strategic corporate goals. gram for the professional reorientation of employees. Has it been successful? To ensure that it continues to do so in the COMPASS helps employees and managers future, we will maintain our practice of conto successfully reorient themselves profestinuously analyzing the internal and external sionally. We are working closely with wellenvironments for relevant influences and known, internationally active personnel condevelopments and readjust our personnel sulting firms. The program is designed for planning, processes, and instruments as those employees whose jobs are at risk as needed. It is important to us that we design well as for employees and management staff efficient, effective, and economical structures who are interested in a new professional that enjoy a high level of acceptance among challenge. employees and are at the same time highly beneficial for the departments. COMPASS offers consultation in a protected space. Employees may, for example, avail Why do you want to improve the themselves of up to five separate hours of ­ ufthansa Group’s management culture, L professional consultation at no charge without and how do you propose to do so? having to reveal their identity. With their supeThe ­Lufthansa Group is undergoing a sweeprior’s approval they can then book, if needed, ing process of transformation aimed at ensura semiannual consultation package, also free ing the company’s future viability. This process of charge. Approximately 700 employees are will succeed only if all of us remain prepared currently taking advantage of the consultation for and open to fundamental changes and offer. We have already successfully placed continually pursue these. Action is required more than 160 applicants. ß from management staff especially: They need to initiate changes, question the status quo, The L­ ufthansa Group has introduced a make innovative but also difficult decisions, new personnel strategy. What further steps and inspire employees for a common cause. are planned? With the Cultural & Leadership Transition The ­Lufthansa Group’s personnel strategy project we are supporting the company and aims to consolidate our position as an attracour executives in this process through various tive, modern, and responsible employer for Group-wide measures. With the Executive which our employees are inspired to work Board in Dialogue format, for example, we with passion and enthusiasm. And we have have initiated a company-wide series of devised certain key measures that are events in which the Group’s Executive Board designed to achieve that aim. My colleagues responds directly to all questions posed by in Human Resources are working with the management staff and employees in a kind of departments at full steam to implement these. road show. Our newly developed manageThe focus here is as much on improving our ment principles, which fully inform all relevant management culture as it is on developing personnel processes, are the core element in social activities. The objective is implementaall of the change initiatives. Even if the necestion as quickly as possible so that our present sary cultural transformation takes time in a and future employees will experience us as large company, the new Leadership Principles the ideal employer and continue to do so for offer all management staff clear practical as long as possible. Only in this way can the guidance. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 85 Diversity and equality of opportunity Differences are as valuable as what we have in common A culture based on diversity and equality of opportunity enhances our ability to innovate and adapt to market forces, a crucial factor in our ability to remain competitive. Diversity within a company also fosters creativity and makes our corporate culture more receptive to different values, outlooks, and life experiences. We regard this as the basis of our modern service culture and the responsiveness to customers that goes with it. The ­Lufthansa Group’s employees come from [Ú 01] literally all over the world. They hail from very different cultures and ethnic groups, belong to a range of age groups, and bring to their jobs an enormous variety of skills and outlooks. Such abundant diversity in human resources is crucial to our ability to ensure the long-term endurance of our strong competitive position. We regard this very diversity as a source of great opportunities for our company. The L­ ufthansa Group has been committed to systematic diversity management for many years. It aims to achieve a form of understanding that respects differences and encourages results in a spirit of mutual respect. Our management approach is subject to continual development in response to conditions in an ever-changing environment. Furthermore, we have instituted programs designed to improve career opportunities for women, programs that also make it easier, for men and women alike, to reconcile career demands with family life. In this regard, our Personnel departments are working with our equality-of-opportunity representatives to develop concepts and measures. 01 Flight crews of the Lufthansa Group’s airlines. Part-time employment Average age 2 ­Lufthansa Group, in percent ­Lufthansa Group, in percent Female employees Male employees Total Female employees Male employees Total 50 45 40 30 40 20 10 35 40.3 41.1 42.6 43.8 42.7 42.7 43.9 44.2 45.3 45.6 40.6 41.1 41.3 41.4 41.5 41.5 41.8 41.9 42.4 42.7 24.6 24.6 25.7 26.8 26.5 26.9 26.9 27.1 27.9 28.1 39.6 40.1 40.2 40.3 40.4 40.3 40.7 40.8 41.3 41.9 13.9 13.0 13.7 14.3 14.0 14.0 13.6 13.3 13.7 14.1 38.3 38.8 38.9 39.0 39.1 39.0 39.5 39.6 40.2 40.9 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Part-time work by Group companies Age structure at the Lufthansa Group 2 2013, in percent 2013, in percent Passenger Airline Group 45 60 and older 3.5 Logistics 18 55 – 59 7.8 MRO 8 50 – 54 13.8 IT Services 21 45 – 49 19.1 Catering 14 40 – 44 15.0 Service & Finance 23 35 – 39 13.9 Total 28 30 – 34 12.6 25 – 29 9.5 20 – 24 4.1 18 – 19 0.5 under 18 0.1 Share of women in management positions 1 Share of women with staff responsibility 1 ­Lufthansa Group, in percent ­Lufthansa Group, in percent 20 50 15 40 10 30 5 20 13.3 12.7 12.9 15.0 14.6 14.7 13.1 13.6 13.6 14.5 32.0 32.5 34.7 35.8 38.0 41.5 36.8 35.5 34.5 34.1 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1 Scope of consolidation without LSG outside Germany, SWISS Aviation Training, Edelweiss 2 Scope of consolidation partially without LSG outside Germany, Lufthansa Malta Holding Air AG, SWISS European Airlines, SWISS Aviation Software, Traviaustria, LH Malta Holding Ltd., Lufthansa Malta Aircraft Leasing Ltd., Lufthansa Technik Philippines Inc., Shannon Ltd., LH Malta Aircraft Leasing Ltd., Shannon Aerospace Ltd., LH Technik Malta Ltd., Aerospace Ltd., Lufthansa Technik Malta Ltd., Lufthansa Technik Airmotive Ltd., Lufthansa LH Technik Airmotive Ireland Ltd., LH Technik Budapest Repülögeb, Hawker Pacific Technik Budapest Repülögeb, Hawker Pacific Aerospace Inc. (US), BizJet International Sales Aerospace Inc. (US), LH Technik Landing Gear Services UK Ltd., BizJet Int. Sales & Support & Support Inc., AirLiance Materials LLC, Lufthansa Technik North America Holding Corp., Inc., LH Technik North America Holding Corp., LH Systems Americas Inc., AirPlus Air Travel Lufthansa Malta Finance Ltd., Lufthansa Technik Landing Gear Services UK Ltd. (formerly Card Vertriebsges. mbH, LH Flight Training Berlin GmbH, AirPlus International Ltd., AirPlus Hawker Pacific Aerospace Ltd., UK). International S.r.I., AirPlus Payment Management Co. Ltd., AirPlus International AG, AirPlus International Inc., LH Malta Finance Ltd., LH Technik Component Services LLC. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 87 the current study (as of January 14, 2014). one year by a male or female mentor from Ú Two of the five members making up the Execone of the other companies. In confidential utive Board team are women (40%). Women conversations with their mentors, the mentees Women in management accounted for 30% of the Supervisory Board consider questions and approaches relating positions in the reporting year. Indeed, with the appointment of Monika Ribar to the Supervisory to career matters, the demands of balancing career and family, and positioning themselves Board, that figure has stood at 35% since within the company. In this exchange the At almost 45%, the ­Lufthansa Group as a May 2014. candidate benefits from the experience and whole currently has a high proportion of network of her mentor. But the latter may also female employees. Indeed, the workforce question his/her own management role and is dominated by women in service areas. Ú gain access to the mentee’s company. What We would like to further increase the ratio makes cross-company mentoring special is of women to men in technical areas. The 15 years of cross-­ the network of female talent and experienced ­Lufthansa Group has also set itself the goal of increasing the percentage of women among company mentoring managers across company boundaries. This enables both to look beyond familiar territory its managers by 30% by 2020 as compared into another corporate culture and observe its to 2010. In the reporting year, this figure Mentoring is an established method the rules of the game. Currently the Group is was 14.5% for the entire L­ ufthansa Group ­Lufthansa Group uses to promote equality of running the program in cooperation with Axel worldwide (PY: 13.6%), 16.7% in Germany opportunity for women and men as part of its Springer, Robert Bosch, Commerzbank, (PY: 15.5%). personnel development program. In SeptemDeutsche Bank, Fraport, Hewlett-Packard, ber 2013, the cross-mentoring program we Merck, and Sanofi Deutschland. At present In addition, we aim to increase the represeninitiated back in 1998 entered its 15th generathe L­ ufthansa Group is participating with 10 tation of women in the cockpit. This stood tion. The target group is women with serious mentees and as many mentors in this double at 5.4% in the reporting year (PY: 5.3%). career ambitions who are beginning a manexchange of perspectives. Female pilots have been a familiar sight agement career. They receive guidance for at L­ ufthansa for 25 years now. At the end of 2013 we employed 8,973 pilots, 486 of whom were female pilots and more than [Ú 02] 100 of whom were female flight captains. Ú The ­Lufthansa Group occupies fourth place in the Women on Board index The Women on Board index is compiled annually by the Frauen in die Aufsichtsräte (“Women on Supervisory Boards”) initiative. It provides information on the proportion of women on the executive and supervisory boards of a total of 160 German companies, including the DAX 30 companies. The ­Lufthansa Group occupies fourth place in 02 Dr. Bettina Volkens, Chief Officer Corporate Human Resources and Legal Affairs of the ­Lufthansa Group, was a speaker in 2013 in the event series Women for Technology, hosted by Lufthansa Technik AG in Hamburg. 88 // Social Responsibility [Ú 03] [Ú 04] [Ú 05] [Ú 06] 03 / 04 / 05 Work-life integration: With the Luftikusse (“The happy-go-lucky ones”) program and the Lufthansa Family Conference, the ­Lufthansa Group aims to further promote the compatibility of career and family life. 06 LH New Workspace: The office of the future in the Lufthansa Aviation Center. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 89 is growing—including among our own of the project both activity-oriented work and Ú employees. We therefore further developed the use of home office days. our cooperation with Väter gGmbH, and we Further increasing the offer fathers an opportunity to take part in varicompatibility of career ous events centered around the subject of Ú fatherhood and work-life integration. With the and family life exception of a contribution from participants Encouraging cultural towards the costs of a father-child weekend, the ­Lufthansa Group assumes the costs for all dialogue The ­Lufthansa Group has been assisting its employees for many years with customized events in which employees wish to take part. options for the care of their children. These Meeting and working with people of very include a choice of flexible work-time and Our employees are not left on their own even different cultural backgrounds is a daily expeworkspace models along with childcare spots when it comes to providing care for other rience in the L­ ufthansa Group. It is a source of and emergency or vacation childcare spots in family members. Under the Elder Care profascination for employees and lends the external institutions. Our goal is to further gram they receive help from the external ­Lufthansa brand its international flair. Direct develop our childcare infrastructure with a service provider pme Familienservice, which communication conveys knowledge of the focus on providing our employees with maxisince 1992 has provided employees with cultural backgrounds of colleagues and cusmum compatibility between the demands of childcare assistance as well. tomers. At our major hub in Frankfurt, for career and family during the various phases of example, there is constant cultural dialogue family life. With our in-house vacation childrelating to information on current occasions or care program Die Luftikusse—Kinder erobern Ú events associated with religious festivals, die L­ ufthansa Welt (“The happy-go-lucky traditions, or exhibitions. And let us not forget ones: Children conquer the ­Lufthansa world”), LH New Workspace— the flight crews. In the Kulturraum (“Cultural the ­Lufthansa Group took another step in financial year 2013 towards better work-life Innovative forms of Space”) continuing education events for pursers and flight attendants which are held integration during summer vacations. In administrative work are over a period of several days, intercultural response to the vigorous demand for such designed to improve knowledge is amplified with service-specific services, there will be a varied vacation program for our employees’ children at the work-life integration aspects and understanding of specific national features is fostered. ß Frankfurt location during the 2014 summer vacation. Work-life integration, home office options, and flexible workspace models are topics that During the reporting year we gave a great modern personnel management must deal deal of thought to the question of where our with. We are responding to these challenges employees might need even more help in by, among other things, introducing the innobalancing the demands of career and family. vative programs described along with new For this purpose we established the ­Lufthansa work-time models. A parallel change is taking At a glance Family Conference dialogue format. The ideas workshop took place in early March 2014 in place in infrastructure requirements, e.g. in offices. For this reason we conducted tests Ú our Training & Conference Center in Seeheim. from October 2013 to April 2014, as part of Of our 118,214 employees, At the invitation of Dr. Bettina Volkens, the our LH New Workspace pilot project, to get an Ú 44.6% are women. ­Lufthansa Group’s Chief Officer for Corporate idea of what the workspace of the future might They represent Human Resources and Legal Affairs, roughly look like in administrative departments. Two Ú 34.1% of all employees with 70 employees from all areas of the L­ ufthansa large work areas in the L­ ufthansa Aviation ­responsibility for other staff, Group discussed questions, ideas, and conCenter (LAC) at Frankfurt Airport were comÚ 14.5% of all managers, cerns relating to the topic of childcare. Participletely redesigned for the test run. Employees Ú and 5.4% of all pilots. pants in the family conference specified which from various departments subjected the new Ú 151 nationalities are represented of the company’s options were useful, which design to a practical test. With the working in the ­Lufthansa Group worldwide. should be expanded or improved, and what world becoming increasingly mobile, the new options should be offered. We derived focus has shifted to the problem of how to The average age is courses of action from the insights gained at permit greater flexibility. Some 60 standard Ú 41.9 years. the conference. One idea, a parents’ network, workspaces and various work modules, such The percentage of employees in was championed by the association L­ ufthansa as small conference rooms, video conferenc­Germany with disabilities is employees established in February. ing capabilities, think tanks, etc., were proÚ 4.1%. vided for the 90 employees involved in the test The number of fathers who want a more run, as we wanted to encourage for purposes As per December 31, 2013 active role in family-related work 90 // Social Responsibility Employment policy based on partnership Creating viable conditions for the future The ­Lufthansa Group’s success depends greatly on the ideas, enthusiasm and commitment of its employees. Therefore, the aviation company attaches the greatest importance to providing its employees with an attractive work environment and appropriate salaries. Likewise, it is an established tradition always to balance the economic interests of the company with the expectations and needs of its employees. It is tried-and-tested company policy to settle presents with an array of increasingly chalLSG Sky Chefs: Structural reform for the clashes of interests between company manlenging conditions. German regional companies agement and the bodies representing A structural reform was negotiated in February employees in a transparent manner. A fair Pay negotiations with ver.di for ground staff 2013 between ver.di, the AGVL, and LSG Sky approach to coexistence in all areas creates On May 1, 2013, the air traffic employers’ Chefs for the employees of the German the balance needed to advance the L­ ufthansa association Arbeitgeberverband Luftverkehr regional companies of LSG Sky Chefs. In this Group’s position in the market. The growing e.V. (AGVL) and the trade union ver.di agreed agreement, cost reductions were defined for plurality of opinions and opinion leaderships, in the fourth round of negotiations on a wage existing employees, while adjusted pay terms much like developments in society as a settlement for the roughly 33,000 workers were defined for new hires. At the same time, whole, is increasingly a challenge for all whom the ­Lufthansa Group employs in Gera promise of long-term job security was parties concerned. The guiding principles for many as ground staff. This agreement is the made. Owing to this solution, it was agreed joint efforts are flexibility and responsiveness. first to make distinctions among the various that the companies included in this structural business segments based on differences in reform would not fully participate in the 2013 their economic performance. The wage round of Group-wide collective bargaining. Ú agreement is valid for a period of 26 months, from February 1, 2013, to March 31, 2015. New agreement for Germanwings Partnership in collective The introduction of differentiated wage scale cabin staff agreements increases in combination with long terms for collective wage agreements marks an imporGermanwings and the representatives of the flight attendants’ union UFO reached agreetant change of course for future wage policy. ment in June 2013 in the wage negotiations L­ ufthansa employs its staff under conditions Since the pay increases also do not go into for cabin personnel. that guarantee them social and material effect until later, beginning in February 2013 security not only during but also after their the employees made a contribution, with the For ­Lufthansa cabin crews, an agreement was working years. These are established on the delay of several months in their wage made in the reporting year to implement the basis of collective agreements that the comincreases, to the L­ ufthansa Group’s meamediated settlement with the UFO from 2012. pany negotiates with its union partners Versures to safeguard profitability. In return, the A noteworthy feature is the collective agreeeinte Dienstleistungsgewerkschaft (ver.di), ­Lufthansa Group promised the employees ment on annual working hours, which Vereinigung Cockpit (VC), and Unabhängige job security until 2015. The agreement was improves the ability of the company in GerFlugbegleiter Organisation e.V. (UFO). The preceded by several widespread warning many to cover seasonal demand and thereby goal is to treat all employee groups within the strikes in Germany. lighten peak workload demands on cabin company fairly and justly—a desideratum that crew members while the summer flight schedthe multiplicity of unions within the company ule is in effect. For the transition from the decentralized services of L­ ufthansa to Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 91 Germanwings, furthermore, solutions that are Austrian Airlines significantly overhauled its defines these agreements in cooperation with compatible with social policy were found for collective bargaining agreement in 2013 and internal labor committees and employees. The the employees. adapted it to future requirements. An agreecompany is a party to collective wage barment was reached with unions and employgaining with employees in 24 countries. In all Negotiations with cockpit staff ees on the largest package of reforms for countries where ­Lufthansa acts unilaterally, The negotiations for collective bargaining ground crews to date. It contains radical the company uses benchmarks and macroagreements with cockpit personnel employed changes in salary ranges, entry-level wages, economic data such as inflation figures to by ­Lufthansa German Airlines, Germanwings, pay increases, company pensions, anniverreview salaries at least once a year on the and ­Lufthansa Cargo have resumed with sary bonuses, and severance pay. In basis of market and competitiveness criteria. intensity. The discussions proved difficult exchange, employees will have a share in In countries with very high rates of inflation, because of the complexity of the issues and future profits. The employees approved the this assessment is performed more often, the wide disparity of positions. The dispute new provision with an overwhelming majority given the circumstances, and usually leads to came to a head with the three-day strike by of roughly 75%. pay increases. In this way the L­ ufthansa cockpit personnel in April 2014. ­Lufthansa Group offers continual review and adjustment and the union Vereinigung Cockpit subseof working conditions for its locally employed quently reached a constructive agreement on Ú staff. the next steps towards resolving the issues of pay and carry-over benefits. Since then the Active pay and social As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, negotiations have continued. policy abroad ­Lufthansa has documented its support for freedom of association and the right to collecSwiss was engaged in trilateral negotiations tive bargaining for all of its employees worldwith the cockpit unions Aeropers and IPG for Internationalization and globalization offer a wide. Employees in any country where an amalgamation of the two cockpit corps. broad range of opportunities for the Group’s ­Lufthansa companies are active are free to The talks were brought to a successful conbusiness and personnel processes. As a lawfully organize themselves and become clusion. The agreement submitted to the company with international operations, involved in defining their working conditions union members for a vote was rejected in ­Lufthansa’s pay and social policies are guided (see page 27). early 2014 by the long-haul pilots (Aeropers), by conditions in the various countries. The who were being asked at the same time to focus is on long-term definition of the condiincrease their productivity. Negotiations are tions of employment, which depend on the ongoing for collective bargaining agreements needs of the employees, operational requirewith cabin and ground personnel. ments, and the local labor market—with the inclusion of compensation rules, working conditions, and pension schemes. L­ ufthansa 92 // Social Responsibility Lufthansa Group: Distribution of employees Employees as of December 31, 2013 2013 2012 Change Group employees 118,214 116,957 + 1.1 % of which Passenger Airline Group 54,702 55,236 – 1.0 % of which Logistics 4,589 4,606 – 0.4 % of which MRO 19,917 20,282 – 1.8 % of which IT Services 2,718 2,766 – 1.7 % of which Catering 32,307 30,088 + 7.4 % of which Service & Finance 3,981 3,979 + 0.1% Lufthansa Group: Jobs throughout the world in 2013 Employees as of December 31, 2013 Frankfurt am Main 36,257 Hamburg 9,552 Munich 10,408 Cologne 2,585 Berlin 1,456 Rest of Germany 6,537 Total in Germany Rest of Europe 23,345 66,795 Ú thereof Vienna 5,309 Retirement benefits thereof Zurich 7,621 Africa / Middle East 2,145 are to be provided on a North / Central America 14,433 more sustainable basis South America 3,497 Asia / Pacific 7,999 Providing employees and managers with Group total 118,214 retirement benefits ranks high in importance for the L­ ufthansa Group. And we have every intention of keeping it that way. The L­ ufthansa Lufthansa Group: Group is cognizant of its responsibility for Employees by group and gender managers, employees, and the company and seeks to ensure that financing for company Employees as of December 31, 2013, in percent retirement benefits for present and future Female employees Male employees employees remains secure for the long term. The goal is to offer a modern system of benFemale efits that has more flexibility and is based on 44.6 52,709 Male developments in the capital markets. 55.4 65,505 Apprentices 28.6 When L­ ufthansa’s company pension scheme 1,403 71.4 was introduced in 1994, the employer pension Ground 1 38.0 contributions accrued interest at a rate of 82,245 62.0 6–7%. In today’s interest rate environment, Flight 2 61.0 however, such yields are expected to remain 34,566 39.0 unachievable for the foreseeable future. This Cockpit 5.4 means that the costs of providing benefits are 8,973 94.6 significantly higher for the L­ ufthansa Group Cabin 80.5 25,593 19.5 today than the two sides to the negotiations jointly assumed when the model was implemented in 1994. Moreover, the underlying 1 Without apprentices. economic and demographic conditions have 2 Consists of cockpit and cabin. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 93 Verbesserung Unternehmen Lufthansa Unzufriedenheit [Ú 07] Einsparung EFM Veränderung Programm Führungskräfte Passagemagazin negativ Führung Medien Management Germanwings gut Bord Sicherheit Team Wirgefühl verschlechtern Kosten Information Kunden stark Kritik Feedback Kommunikation Gehalt Arbeitsklima Mitarbeiter Markt Cockpit Airline Ziele Maßnahmen teuer Firstclass Unternehmensklutur Wertschätzung positiv Konkurrenz Kündigung Vorstand Warum Motivation Bodenmitarbeiter Umgang Verbundenheit Entscheidung Dialog Crew Qualität Passage Engagement Verantwortung Geld Kapitän ID sorgen Verhalten Kollegen 07 Zukunft Marke Vertrauen Personal Tag cloud showing 3,790 open Altersvorsorge Tarifverhandlungen Angst Stimmung comments. The font sizes repreBusinessclass Problem schlecht Menschlichkeit sent the frequency with which the words were used. (Example of Konzern zufrieden Weiterentwicklung employee feedback in Germany.) changed as well. The Group therefore gave The COMPASS program comprises mainly the Ú notice in September 2013 that it was terminatfollowing package of services: a confidential ing the collective agreements governing initial interview, comprehensive career change Employee satisfaction ­Lufthansa’s company pension scheme so that advice, and a company-related job market it could work with the unions to convert its based on current contacts in the ­Lufthansa With its Employee Feedback Management retirement benefits to a more sustainable Group and available exclusively to program (EFM) program, the L­ ufthansa Group has model. Existing entitlements to retirement participants. To date, more than 7,000 created an efficient process designed to benefits are guaranteed and remain unafemployees have consulted the job listings. maintain a continual dialogue between manfected. Two out of three applications submitted agers and employees company-wide. In through the job listings have led to invitations 2013, under the mottos Your voice counts to a job interview from a partner company. and Take part, the Group conducted its ninth Ú worldwide EFM employee survey at ­Lufthansa Contact with the COMPASS office is voluntary German Airlines and in the Group functions. Managing change in a and is treated confidentially. Employees and More than 36,000 employees were called socially responsible way managers wishing to avail themselves of the program incur no costs. The placement serupon to take part in the survey, which contained questions concerning employee comvice is offered for up to six months and commitment, their identification with the company, The ­Lufthansa Group takes responsibility for its prises, in addition to the personal and profesand aspects of employee satisfaction. While employees even in times when major changes sional location-matching assessment, an the total participation rate of 51% was nine are afoot. The COMPASS program launched analysis of the applicant’s strengths and percentage points lower than in 2012 (60%), it by the Group in January 2013 is an expression opportunities. Furthermore, the experts idendid reflect a relatively high level of participaof this long-term personnel policy. It helps tify the available options and assist COMPASS tion, especially for a survey conducted in employees and managers successfully reposiparticipants through all phases of the applicaeconomically difficult times. The decline may tion themselves professionally. For this purtion process. be attributable also to the fact that, for the first pose, Deutsche L­ ufthansa AG works closely time, the only way to submit responses was with prominent, internationally active personnel The COMPASS program is making an imporonline. Paper questionnaires were no longer consulting firms. COMPASS is designed not tant contribution to our efforts to make the available, which made participation more only for employees and managers whose jobs adjustments necessary under our current difficult for certain categories of employees are at risk, but also for those looking for a new program for the future compatible with social lacking a fixed workplace with a network career challenge. This may be a desire either policy. connection. for a change within the Group or for employment outside the company. 94 // Social Responsibility Employee Feedback Management (EFM) allows us to give greater consideration to employees’ opinions in our corporate management. Employee Feedback Management (EFM) administrative offices. Using the standardized allows us to give greater consideration to Employee Commitment Index (ECI), an interemployees’ opinions in our corporate mannal benchmark can be established Groupagement. The 2013 EFM was conducted as a wide. The ECI is employer-independent and brief interview for the purpose of enhancing calculated on the basis of four questions the sustainability of the measures derived which must be a constituent part of every from the 2012 EFM and bringing transparemployee survey. Encouraged by the positive ency to their implementation. The company response to the employee feedback, the uses the EFM survey to measure, in particular, ­Lufthansa Group also plans to implement a levels of employee attachment to the comuniform survey process across all business pany, employee satisfaction, and employee segments in the coming years. “We have commitment. The results reflect challenges received word from nearly 90% of EFM particithat are being driven by the changes currently pants that they are familiar with the EFM taking place. Attachment to the company results for 2012 and have even been discussimproved by 2 percentage points in the ing them with their managers. Nearly half of reporting year, while satisfaction reached the those surveyed also reported that there had same level as in the previous year. been an improvement as a result of the EFM,” says Lars Ottmer, Vice President for Personnel The written comments received from 3,790 of Development at Lufthansa German Airlines. the employees surveyed have provided the management with an additional source of The EFM results are naturally of relevance to valuable information and suggestions. the Executive Board as well. “The Executive Board has discussed them in depth, and we A special plus point for the EFM in the reporthave agreed to seek further improvement in ing year: For every questionnaire that was 2014 in the following three areas where action filled in, the company is donating one euro to is needed: communication, attachment, and the charitable aid initiative help alliance, which leadership,” comments Dr. Bettina Volkens, is supported by employees of the L­ ufthansa the ­Lufthansa Group’s Chief Officer for CorpoGroup (see page 106). rate Human Resources and Legal Affairs. The Group assigned the analysis of the survey While discussions do not automatically transto an external institute. The results for 2013 late into change, it is evident that concrete are available as 1,430 individual reports. In action towards change is most likely to sucthe interests of maintaining an open and ceed when employees are involved. That is constructive dialogue and making improveprecisely what the EFM is all about, and what ments, employees and their superiors also makes the survey sustainable. ß 08 met for talks to review the results. Employee Employee Feedback Management: In surveys are conducted in the other divisions 2013 the Lufthansa Group once again of the ­Lufthansa Group as well, not just at used attractive posters to encourage Lufthansa German Airlines or in the participation in the employee survey. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 95 [Ú 08] 96 // Social Responsibility 09 Training and continuing education traditionally have high priority at [Ú 09] the L­ ufthansa Group. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 97 Training and continuing education Employees make the crucial difference The ­Lufthansa Group is one of Germany’s most fascinating and multifaceted employers. We are convinced that our investments in training and continuing education for our employees and managers will pay off handsomely. Our company stands for open communication, attractive working conditions, and ideal opportunities for further development. The more qualified an individual is, the greater his or her contribution towards enhancing the innovativeness and competitiveness of the ­Lufthansa Group. In 2013 we once again invested heavily in for the first time Group-wide. In addition, training and continuing education. This was Ú Swiss has offered the one-year trainee proan acknowledgment of our role as a socially gram Swiss Experience since 2013. This responsible employer. In the reporting year we Identifying talents—­ program is designed for BA graduates speoffered 65 different job entry possibilities for students with an interest in working for the fostering potentials cializing in avionics and aviation. ­Lufthansa Group. In addition, the ­Lufthansa The English-language trainee program InterGroup once again offered traditional training The ­Lufthansa Group is constantly on the national Airline Professional (IAP) is intended in 36 occupational subject areas. 62 trainees lookout for highly qualified recruitment prosspecifically for international applicants who began a dual course of studies with the help pects and maintains close ties with universities are trained for later deployment in their home of the ­Lufthansa Group. In addition to the tradiand other institutions of higher learning. For countries. In this custom-designed program, tional training courses, the aviation company this reason, the Group regularly visits training young persons of talent become acquainted also offers entry-level positions in flight crews. and job fairs and presents a broad portfolio of over the course of 18 months with a broad In 2013 we qualified 313 new employees for opportunities for entry into employment with range of departments in the company at cabin crew work. In addition, we hired 29 new the Group. For example, L­ ufthansa Technik various locations. The IAP program is curpilot trainees, 6.8% of whom were women. was represented in the reporting year with an rently undergoing revision and therefore will Student pilots will be “ready for takeoff” again information stand at the Women in Technology not be offered next year. in 2015 as they begin their training at our flight career fair for the purpose of getting more training academy in Bremen. A joint training women interested in the wide variety of career We once again enabled participants in the platform for flight operators in the ­Lufthansa options offered by the L­ ufthansa Group’s st.i.p (study and intensive practice) program to Group was launched as early as 2012. The maintenance specialist. combine their studies with structured interngoal is to harmonize training standards and ships in the L­ ufthansa Group. The ­Lufthansa approaches for cockpit and cabin crew In addition, the L­ ufthansa Group has a variety Group received 10,700 applications in all for among the Group’s companies, for example of programs designed to attract talented the various trainee programs. by having flight operators in the ­Lufthansa prospects with academic degrees to the Group develop future training programs jointly company. The ProTeam General Management In addition to the trainee programs already and exchange training personnel among trainee program, for example, allows univermentioned, individual companies in the themselves. sity graduates to form a comprehensive pic­Lufthansa Group have other, likewise extremely ture of their professional prospects in the successful programs that are specific to par­Lufthansa Group over the course of a twoticular business segments. On May 21, 2014, year program that includes, among other for example, ­Lufthansa Cargo’s StartCargo things, project assignments in Germany and trainee program became the first in the Group abroad. In 2013 we filled this trainee program to receive a prestigious stamp of approval from 98 // Social Responsibility the Absolventa job portal. It is the first and only Those interested can also find information on stamp of its kind and is the mark of a careercareer prospects through Facebook, Twitter, Ú promoting and fair trainee program. YouTube, and, since December 2012, our new career blog, Be ­Lufthansa. In the career ­Lufthansa School of blog, interns, trainees, students, and employBusiness: Germany’s Ú ees from different occupational categories report on their work environments. We know first corporate university Keen interest: 120,000 from the numerous dialogues on our Faceapplications in 2013 book portal that the content and information we provide are highly valued. And we regard With the ­Lufthansa School of Business (LHSB), the ­Lufthansa Group is operating Germany’s ­Facebook, with our now more than 45,000 first corporate university. The focus of the The ­Lufthansa Group received in all more than fans, as a dialog box for our career portal LHSB and the programs it offers are aligned 120,000 applications in response to its job www.Be-­Lufthansa.com where we also offer a with t­he Lufthansa Group strategy. As advertisements. This shows that interest in the career orientation game providing an exciting instructed by the Executive Board, the LHSB ­Lufthansa Group as an employer remains and innovative means by which to find the actively assists in the further cultural develophigh. In 2002 L­ ufthansa launched the online right position within the company. The goal is ment of the company through various networkcareer portal www.Be-­Lufthansa.com, which to explore one’s own strengths by playing a ing and dialogue platforms for employees and has since been used by the majority of job game and to find suitable training options managers. In addition, the LHSB offers all applicants for their first contact with the within the Group. Use of the game is free of employees a large variety of target group­Lufthansa Group. The Group-wide portal charge and anonymous. The Web Excellence compatible and hierarchy-transcending semioffers an overview of the broad variety of Forum, in its Career Fanpage Monitor 2013 nar options and management programs. And positions within the aviation company. What study, ranked our career fan page on Faceever greater use is being made of blended our various occupational groups have in book first among all DAX 30 companies in the learning concepts (face-to-face events comcommon is a fascination with both flight and category of dialogue quality. bined with e-learning). The training institution the possibilities for connecting countries, cooperates with selected international organicultures, ideas, people, and sources of trade. zations, business schools, and academic institutions. It has received multiple awards for the worldwide standards it has set for the development and training of professionals and managers. In 2013 the internal business [Ú 10] volume for continuing education and development programs in the L­ ufthansa Group amounted to EUR 136 million, 6 percentage points below the previous year’s figure. Nevertheless, the number of participant days increased slightly to 771,000. 10 The Lufthansa Group is an attractive employer and offers a broad range of training opportunities. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 99 Ú Top placements in employer rankings Ú The Training & Conference Center in Seeheim The most recent employer rankings have confirmed the powerful attractiveness of the ­Lufthansa Group as an employer in Germany. In celebrates its 40th the Trendence Graduate Barometer 2014, for instance, university gradanniversary uates with degrees in economics put the aviation company in fourth place in the top employer rankings. This reflects an improvement by five places in comparison to its ranking for 2013. Among engineering The ­Lufthansa Training & Conference Center graduates the company is in ninth place in the 2014 rankings (PY: 11th in Seeheim is our seminar and conference place). The ­Lufthansa Group likewise placed among Germany’s top 10 employers in the Universum Student Survey 2014, just as it had done center. Managers, employees, and politicians in 2013. have been assembling here, in a facility equipped with a first-class infrastructure, since 1973. For employees of the L­ ufthansa Group, Seeheim has been an important point of reference from time immemorial. The ­Lufthansa world meets here regularly for “We are pleased to make the acquaintance management conclaves and training sesof talented and motivated young people sions. Even managers and employees from other companies, in the region and beyond, and to work with them to further develop continue their education in Seeheim. The their potential. Investing in training and ­Lufthansa Training & Conference Center is also an important regional employer. Some ­further educating people is a perfectly nat270 employees from 15 countries take care ural thing for us to do. We gladly assume of the services and see to it that everything runs smoothly, including more than 20 career responsibility for it.” entrants who have found in Seeheim a trainee position with ­Lufthansa for a career as, for example, a hotel manager or cook. Careers are promoted in Seeheim. In 2012, for example, Christina Merz was awarded the distinction of being the world’s best young chef by the Concours International des Dr. Bettina Volkens Jeunes Chefs Rôtisseurs 2012. Chief Officer Corporate Human Resources and Legal Affairs Deutsche ­Lufthansa AG Ú ­Lufthansa Flight Training: Success in the market for training and continuing education of basic training for pilots and flight attendants, Aviation Training AG (SAT) are to be merged flight crews simulator training, emergency and service training, and a broad spectrum of e-learning into one company as equal partners. ß products. With a total of 40 cockpit simulators L­ ufthansa Flight Training GmbH (LFT) has in Frankfurt, Berlin, Essen, Munich, and been operating since 1997 as an independent Vienna and flight schools in Bremen, Rostock, provider of training and continuing education and Phoenix, Arizona, the company is one of for flight crews within the ­Lufthansa Group. the largest European training academies for Today its list of clients includes, in addition to pilots and flight attendants. The L­ ufthansa the flight operators in the ­Lufthansa Group, Group plans to concentrate its manpower in more than 200 other airlines from all over the the flight training segment. By July 2015, world. LFT’s portfolio of services includes ­Lufthansa Flight Training GmbH and Swiss 100 // Social Responsibility Employee safety and health protection The healthier and more motivated our employees are, the better they are able to perform. Safe working conditions that are conducive to health and wellbeing are, therefore, an integral element of the ­Lufthansa Group’s job safety and health protection programs. As the business activities of the individual Group companies vary significantly, the requirements for job safety and health management vary as well. So it is only logical that these call for fundamentally decentralized organization. The Medical Service, with its physicians responsibility for the medical supervision and specializing in occupational, aviation, and quality management of all medical transports, tropical medicine, takes care of all healthincluding those that require the use of related concerns that ­Lufthansa Group ­Lufthansa’s globally unique flying intensiveemployees might have. This department care unit, the Patient Transportation Compartworks in close contact with Group Employee ment (PTC) (cf. page 75). Safety, ­Lufthansa’s Social Counseling Service, and the health experts at the various Group companies. The Health working group has Ú established itself as a forum for regular interdepartmental exchange; it meets four Social Counseling times a year. In order to fulfill even more effectively the steadily increasing legal The ­Lufthansa Social Counseling Service has requirements for health care, the Medical served the Group’s employees as a central Service sought and received certification in contact point for private, financial, and family2012 to DIN EN ISO 9001. The certification related problems and workplace conflicts applies to the locations in Frankfurt, Munich, since 1985. Hamburg, and Cologne and covers the following areas: occupational, aviation, and This is offered as a voluntary social service tropical medicine; the Aero Medical Center; by the L­ ufthansa Group and serves an imporadministrative control; Passenger Medical tant function in fulfilling the company’s duty to Care; and the Social Counseling Service. provide for the welfare of its employees for With the goal of securing and further improvpurposes of employee safety and health ing upon the standards already achieved in protection. The Social Counseling Service is quality management (QM), the Medical Serprovided at numerous locations in Germany, vice trains internal QM commissioners. In including Frankfurt, Munich, Cologne, addition, the Medical Service assumes Nuremberg, Hanover, Berlin, Düsseldorf, Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 101 and Stuttgart. Its portfolio of services comwere presented with findings that were often prises five areas: new and surprising to them. Ú Individual psychosocial counseling Networked health Coaching and counseling of managers and Ú management: officeholders Training, workshops, and informational Effective management Passenger Medical Care events of employee safety Team counseling and conflict moderation The services provided by the Passenger Prevention and corporate health Medical Care department expand our work in management The Group Employee Safety department the area of health management. Among other works closely with physicians, social counselthings, Passenger Medical Care works The Social Counseling Service publishes an ors, employee representatives, and respontogether with the Medical Operation Center annual activity report. In addition, it works sible staff in the companies of the L­ ufthansa and our network of panel physicians to care actively for the L­ ufthansa Group’s various Group. Its goal is to ensure and enhance the for acutely ill crew members. This involves health campaigns. long-term health and employability of all coordinating ground processes, medical employees, in particular by regularly identifytransports, and flight operations and making In 2013, numerous campaigns to promote ing and evaluating hazards in the workplace use of the Medical Service’s expertise as well employee health took place again at and implementing measures to achieve a as continually dealing with on-board medical ­Lufthansa’s German locations. The Social lasting reduction in the number of workemergencies in the background. In this way Counseling Service conducted a total of 164 related accidents and illnesses. In addition, we ensure that the medical safety of both seminars, workshops, training courses, and the department’s experts work to identify risk passengers and crew members meets the informational events. The overall score in the factors for work-related illnesses early on and highest international quality requirements. ß customer satisfaction survey stood at 1.86 in ward them off. Their responsibilities also the reporting year. The range of topics include counseling to promote health, trainincluded: ing in safety matters, instructing employees in the noise laboratory, and developing and Resilience—Building strengths (during updating health-related information on the times of change); How do I strengthen my company’s intranet. mental resistance during periods of mounting stress? Healthy management practices Team and conflict management Introduction of the mental health guidelines Substance abuse in the workplace Dealing with stressors in the daily routine Numerous health management of a flight attendant activities Ú Participation again in Germany’s national In 2013 we once again initiated numerous health campaigns at our various company “Alcohol? Less is better!” campaign week locations. For example, ­Lufthansa’s Flight Attendants’ Health Management service, in Under the slogan “Alcohol? Less is better!” cooperation with the Volkshochschule Frankfurt, planned an educational leave program on the topic of Staying healthy on the job and in daily life. The focus of this program was the nationwide week-long campaign launched a holistic approach to health, and it helped the participants identify and take advantage by the association Deutsche Hauptstelle für of the options and resources available to them in their efforts to remain healthy, resilient, Suchtfragen (“German Center for Addiction and productive. At the instigation of the Medical Service in Hamburg, Lufthansa Technik Issues”) took place this year from May 25 to has been participating in the University of Hamburg’s long-term, multicenter scientific study on metabolic syndrome, a complex of symptoms consisting of high blood presJune 2, 2013. Our company was once again sure, obesity, and high blood fat, all of which are particularly significant as risk factors a participant. for secondary illnesses such as heart disease or strokes. The 10-year study has been conducted in phases or legs in the Medical Service. The last leg took place between The ­Lufthansa Group’s Social Counseling November 2013 and January 2014 and again had an excellent response, with over Service conducted informational events and 1,500 subjects taking part in the study. L­ ufthansa’s Hamburg base, meanwhile, held its annual Health Day in cooperation with the Medical Service and with the support of the events relating to addiction prevention all health insurance fund Techniker Krankenkasse. The extensive informational services on across Germany with the support of the offer for ­Lufthansa employees ranged from a cardiovascular check-up and relaxation Group’s Medical Service and some health coaching to nutritional counseling. The ­Lufthansa Group’s Social Counseling Service insurance funds. On the topic of Residual also was present with a market stall. alcohol as a risk factor in particular, visitors Photo shoot of musicians from the Gürzenich Orchestra Cologne in a Lufthansa hangar Corporate Citizenship Corporate citizenship is one of the ways in which we express such values as responsibility, fairness, team spirit, precision, and excellence in performance. These values are fundamental to our core business as well. 30 80 40 15,000 years of ­Lufthansa’s tonnes of relief supplies help alliance projects visitors per year to Festival of Baroque flown to the Philippines providing “help for the Crane Information Music in London self-help” Center 104 // Corporate Citizenship [Ú 01] [Ú 02] [Ú 03] Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 105 Humanitarian emergency aid The ­Lufthansa Group has a long history of organizing aid flights to regions experiencing humanitarian disasters quickly and professionally. Our main role is to provide the logistical support for getting emergency aid to victims, and our aid flights provide quick assistance without bureaucratic delays. Special flights are usually organized in close mission. What followed was an unparalleled Ú cooperation with the German government and action by ­Lufthansa German Airlines, reputable aid organizations. Over the past ­Lufthansa Cargo, and ­Lufthansa Technik in There is no alternative several years we have invested steadily in cooperation with two other organizations, to the use of aircraft humanitarian emergency aid. World Vision e.V. and International Search and Rescue Germany (I.S.A.R.). The Joint Reportto transport supplies L­ ufthansa Cargo is part of a professional ing and Incident Center at the German Fedquickly and safely. network of logistics companies and reputable eral Office of Civil Protection and Disaster German aid organizations. In February 2013 Assistance coordinated the offers of assisthis freight specialist signed an agreement with tance. Those involved in the effort assembled the emergency relief alliance Aktion Deutschthe 25-tonne aid package at the Frankfurt hub land Hilft and its partner World Vision Deutschin less than 36 hours. land. This agreement gives relief organizations direct access to ­Lufthansa Cargo’s logistics L­ ufthansa Cargo began another relief flight capabilities for missions outside of Germany. It bound for the Philippines on November 22, also promises to deliver ad hoc aid even faster 2013. Working with the relief alliance Aktion and more ­professionally. Deutschland, ­Lufthansa Cargo, in cooperation with other companies in the ­Lufthansa L ­ ufthansa and ­Lufthansa Cargo fly Group, once again delivered aid quickly, and more than 80 tonnes of relief supplies without the usual red tape, to a population to the Philippines hard hit by the typhoon. On board the freight Just days after typhoon Haiyan wreaked aircraft were some 60 tonnes of relief supdevastation on the Philippines, the L­ ufthansa plies, including urgently needed food packGroup was already delivering emergency aid. ages, medical equipment, water treatment On November 10, 2013, we flew relief supunits, and tents. We also set up an account plies to Manila in a wide-body Airbus A340with our employee organization help alliance 600. These included 5,400 fleece blankets, for donations. The EUR 120,000 in donations 3,000 large plastic tarpaulins and tents, and that was raised was doubled to EUR 240,000 01 / 02 / 03 medical equipment. On the initiative of a by the ­Lufthansa Group’s Executive Board. Together with the emergency relief ­Lufthansa pilot who had flown the empty This money is going mainly towards rebuildalliance Aktion Deutschland Hilft, aircraft to the Philippines for maintenance, a ing destroyed villages in the Philippines. ß Lufthansa Cargo transported roughly 60 tonnes of relief supplies to the decision was quickly made to seize the Philippines. opportunity to use it for this life-saving 106 // Corporate Citizenship Social commitment The companies of the L­ ufthansa Group and their employees are not l­imiting their humanitarian commitment to emergency aid. A range of initiatives ­founded by Group employees supports numerous long-term aid projects. Ú alliance [Ú 04] help alliance: “Help for self-help” The help alliance, established in 1999 by employees from all segments of the ­Lufthansa Group, is currently supporting some 40 long-term aid projects worldwide. The members of this aid initiative work on these projects on a voluntary basis, are politically and denominationally independent, and collect donations for use in meaningful ways in social aid projects all over the world. Their humanitarian activities are focused on nutritional and health programs, schools and educational institutions, orphanages, and street children projects in Africa, Asia, and progress of its various projects in its Annual competitions, EUR 50 could be donated on South America. In all of its projects, the help Report and on its website. www.betterplace.org, the help alliance’s alliance pursues the objective of helping online fundraising partner. In this way the two victims help themselves, thereby enabling Swimming, cycling, and running extreme athletes succeeded in raising more them to improve their living conditions by for a good cause than EUR 40,000 for a water project in Gamtheir own efforts. Cooperation with experiWhat the two ­Lufthansa A320 pilots Sebastian bia. Managed by the Sabab Lou Foundation, enced partners and regular visits by project Bartel and Lars Heurich accomplished during a help alliance partner, the project aims not managers to the project sites ensure that the the reporting year went far beyond a race for only to provide a source of clean drinking projects maintain a high standard of quality. water in Gambia. Independently of one water by means of solar pump and irrigation The help alliance also provides disaster relief. another, the two came up with the idea of systems, but also to help the inhabitants of (to The ­Lufthansa Group provides the organizataking part in the Ironman and Ultraman date) three villages in Gambia achieve greater tion with financial, logistical, and communicacompetitions in Hawaii for the benefit of a economic self-sufficiency. Greater harvests tion support. The help alliance publishes help alliance aid project. For each one of the thanks to the availability of water mean more detailed information on its activities and the more than 700 kilometers covered in the income for the people—the calculation Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 107 seems simple enough. A ­Lufthansa employee [Ú 05] in Stuttgart has invested heavily of herself in ensuring that it works out in practice as well. Ultraman Lars Heurich, whose most fervent wish from the outset was to be on hand to see the water supply system operate for the first time, was able to confirm first-hand that it does. A new brand presence for the anniversary year To mark its 15th anniversary, the help alliance is rejuvenating itself with a new public image. This includes, in addition to a new website and a new logo—both designed by the agency meerdesguten Brand Identity—an improved system for online donations on the website, and it aims above all to bring the various actors closer together. The new presence is designed to reflect the unique level of commitment demonstrated by ­Lufthansa Group employees and their solidarity with the people they seek to help. At the same time, it makes clear that the help alliance is not a closed initiative within the ­Lufthansa Group. www.helpalliance.org The first non-airline company to partner Small change— On-board collection program with the help alliance Following a trip to Vietnam and a visit to it’s a big help Ú Development of donations the help alliance project Saigon Children’s in EUR 1 To give ­Lufthansa Group passengers the ­Charity, the franchise company L­ ufthansa City opportunity to help build a bridge to a betCenter Reisebüros decided to integrate the ter life for people in need, the help alliance 2013 301,566 launched the on-board collection program help alliance as a partner into its own corpo2012 318,380 Small change—it’s a big help in 2001. This rate responsibility strategy. As a first step, the allows passengers to donate coins and 2011 205,362 company assumed the costs of printing 1.3 banknotes in any currency they may happen 2010 286,184 million donation bags for on-board collecto be returning with on long-haul flights. Small sealable collection bags are provided for this 2009 224,053 tions, a portion of which were retained for use purpose in the seat pockets aboard the air2008 230,433 in its own travel agencies. This year one of the craft. These are collected by flight attendants travel agencies affiliated with the chain and and turned over to the help alliance. Valuable 2007 260,939 located in Schwalbach near Frankfurt will be leftover cash can also be deposited in the 2006 279,575 making the help alliance one of the beneficiadonation pillars located in airport employee areas, the ­Lufthansa Lounges at all German 2005 294,870 ries of its Sports against Poverty campaign. and selected international airports, and in 2004 238,023 Other campaigns are being planned. the public areas of the Frankfurt and Munich 2003 216,539 hubs. Following Condor and Brussels Airlines, Austrian Airlines joined the on-board collec2002 232,692 tion program on July 1, 2012. Since March 2001 207,175 15, 2013, all Germanwings aircraft also have been provided with donation bags. More than 04 EUR 3 million has been collected for the aid October 2002: Start of Condor’s participation Sebastian Bartel (left) ran the Ironman initiative since on-board collection began. September 2011: Start of Brussels Airlines’ in Hawaii to benefit the water project in Swiss also has been collecting leftover cash participation Gambia. Lars Heurich then followed up aboard its flights for many years, and it supJuly 2012: Start of Austrian Airlines’ participation at the Ultraman. ports the aid organization SOS Children’s Villages and the independent employee founda05 tion Swiss Children’s Foundation. 1 As the final figures were not yet available at the Mariama Diba and Edith Lanfer (help close of copy, all figures mentioned for 2013 in alliance) are delighted as the water this article are preliminary. supply system successfully begins operation. 108 // Corporate Citizenship [Ú 06] 06 / 07 Cargo Human Care provides speedy and non-bureaucratic aid for the needy and sick in Nairobi and ­outlying areas. 08 With its support for the Life Ball in Vienna, Austrian Airlines underscores its social commitment in a matter of worldwide relevance. [Ú 07] Ú ­Lufthansa Cargo works with Cargo Human Care to alleviate poverty in Kenya Cargo Human Care (CHC) is an aid organization comprising L­ ufthansa Cargo and German physicians. It provides speedy and nonbureaucratic aid for the needy and sick in Kenya’s capital city, Nairobi, and the areas surrounding it. This charitable association was established in 2007. During the reporting year it broadened its range of medical services, and once a month it offers medical consultations specifically for cervical cancer. This disease has become a common affliction in patients. Since 2008 they have logged some Cargo Social Care—Close cooperation with developing countries in particular. It is curable 1,700 working days on such missions. Every Werkstätten für Behinderte Rhein-Main e.V. if it is detected early and treated with the month approximately 2,000 medical treatFor more than 30 years ­Lufthansa Cargo has proper therapy. ments are performed. ­Lufthansa Cargo promaintained a close cooperative relationship vides the flight tickets for the German physiwith Werkstätten für Behinderte Rhein-Main The consultations and medical examinations cians, in addition to which it has supported e.V., thereby guaranteeing jobs for people with take place at CHC’s Medical Center, where CHC since its inception by making cargo disabilities. Some 280 employees, for examthe association is already offering vaccinacapacity available at no charge. ple, manufacture new restraining straps for tions and prenatal care counseling. The Medisecuring air freight at a rate of more than cal Center devotes much of its resources to Since 2011 CHC has also offered sponsor6,300 units per month. Roughly 11,000 straps treating children living in the neighboring CHC ships for sick, handicapped, and neglected are repaired per month at three locations. All orphanage, Mothers’ Mercy Home, along with children living in proximity to the Mothers’ of the products satisfy L­ ufthansa Cargo’s high people from outlying areas who otherwise Mercy Home orphanage. These cover school quality standards, which follow ISO specificalack access to medical care. fees, medical care, and aid to the parents to tions. Werkstätten für Behinderte Rheinhelp with living costs and other necessities. Main e.V. is a recognized workshop for perA total of 40 German physicians with various Further information can be found at sons with disabilities and is dedicated to specialisms work on a voluntary basis for www.cargohumancare.de bringing them into the workforce and allowing CHC. Three times a month they fly to Kenya them to take part in working life. to spend three days treating impoverished Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 109 Switzerland. During the reporting year, 25 [Ú 08] Japanese children received invitations to Switzerland. Austrian Airlines flies for a good cause and takes off with the Life Ball plane For its social projects, Austrian Airlines works primarily with reputable organizations such as Global 2000 or Hilfe für Kinder aus Weißrussland (“Aid to Children from Belarus”), which organize vacations for children. The airline covers the costs of flying the children and offers their adult escorts flight tickets at reduced rates. In addition, Austrian Airlines assists directly affected persons who must go to Austria for medical treatment or surgical procedures by giving them free flight tickets. With financial support from the Vienna Tourist Board, Austrian Airlines repainted a Boeing 777 with a livery design specially created for As one of Switzerland’s largest employers, the Life Ball 2014 charitable event. The aircraft Ú Swiss has increased its social outreach activihas been flying around the world with this ties at the local level as well. With the coopspecial design since April 1, 2014. On May Social commitment from eration of the Pro Juventute foundation, three 30, 2014, Austrian Airlines used the official Swiss, Austrian Airlines, children’s days were held at Zurich Airport in the summer of 2013 as part of the airline’s Life Ball plane to take famous guests of this charitable event from New York to Vienna. The and Brussels Airlines support program for children and young Life Ball in Vienna is an event organized to people. One hundred school children were benefit people infected with HIV or suffering Swiss—Strengthening the partnership given an opportunity to explore the airport and from AIDS. This support is a demonstration of with SOS Children’s Villages afforded an exciting inside view of its complex the airline’s social commitment in response to Swiss has supported the international aid operations. The program also included a visit an issue of worldwide relevance. organization SOS Children’s Villages for many to a Swiss long-haul Airbus A340. years. One example of such support is the Brussels Airlines—Off-road for a airline’s practice of collecting spare change in Swiss and Edelweiss Air support good cause all currencies from passengers aboard its Wings for Japan Employees of the L­ ufthansa affiliate Brussels flights and donating it to SOS children’s vilThe two Swiss airlines in the ­Lufthansa Airlines who participated in the Bike for Africa lages. In 2013 Swiss further solidified its partGroup, Swiss and Edelweiss Air, are supportcampaign swapped aircraft for bicycles for nership with the aid organization. Swiss is ers of the Wings for Japan aid project. This the 240-kilometer tour. At the end of the tour supporting SOS Children’s Villages with a new project was launched in 2011 by current and through Uganda, which took place in January package of measures comprising communiformer Swiss employees following publication 2014, the cyclists donated about EUR 100,000 cation and flight services along with fundraisof the book Tsunami by the Japanese journalto a Ugandan aid organization and a Belgian ing. More than 150,000 Swiss francs were ist Ken Mori. In this book, some 80 children nongovernmental organization. The money collected on board Swiss aircraft in 2013. between the ages of five and 17 describe, in had been collected in advance through narrative form and in pictures, their experivarious sponsoring activities. Brussels AirIn addition, the airline has committed finanences and fates during and after the environlines contributed to the initiative by taking cial, infrastructural, and logistical support to mental disaster in Fukushima. Wings for charge of logistical matters, which included the independent Swiss Children’s Foundation. Japan set itself the goal of gradually taking all transporting the bicycles. Bike for Africa is a Employees have the option of donating a 80 children for a visit to Switzerland, both to campaign organized by Brussels Airlines’ portion of their salaries on a monthly basis. afford them a positive change from what in b.foundation for Africa, which supports This money, along with the donations from many cases continues to be the harsh reality employees involved in various charitable passengers, is used to finance houses and of their everyday lives and to give them a programs. ß living costs for families in SOS Children’s chance to have fun with Swiss children of the villages, such as the one in Phuket, Thailand. same age. Swiss and Edelweiss Air have In 2013 the Swiss Children’s Foundation supported the project since its inception with donated more than 112,000 Swiss francs to flight services between Japan and SOS Children’s Villages. 110 // Corporate Citizenship Environmental sponsorship A stylized flying crane—a bird that traditionally symbolizes luck—is the trademark of the L­ ufthansa Group. The Group has made a commitment to protecting the crane. At least 10 of the 15 species of crane found in the world today are threatened with extinction as their brooding, roosting, and wintering habitats continue to be destroyed. 70,000 In 1991, to ensure the survival of these majesÚ tic birds, L­ ufthansa established the Kranichschutz Deutschland (“Crane Protection The ­Lufthansa Group ­Germany”) working group in collaboration protects the bird of luck with the Nature Biodiversity Conservation Union (NABU) and WWF Germany. A central element in this project is the Crane InformaUp to 70,000 grey tion Center in Gross Mohrdorf, located in the cranes migrate annuRügen-Bock region of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. With its various exhibitions, ally to the Rügen-Bock events, and guided tours, it serves as an region of Mecklenburginformation center, research facility, and meetWestern Pomerania. ing place for scientists, conservationists, and bird lovers. In 2013 more than 15,000 visitors to the Crane Information Center were able to learn about the activities of those who are to offer positions for voluntary crane rangers working to protect the birds. The center is part in collaboration with ­Lufthansa. The Group is of a pan-European crane protection network. also helping the information center with the Up to 70,000 gray cranes migrate annually to development of modern information channels. the area, which counts as one of the most The new Facebook page Kranichschutz important roosting areas for cranes in Europe. Deutschland is attracting more and more In the information center itself, ­Lufthansa visitors, and the cranes are also acquiring an employees work for several weeks at a time enthusiastic following on Twitter. ß as voluntary crane rangers, investing of themselves in a very practical way in the Further information can be found at preservation of the airline’s heraldic bird. In www.kraniche.de 2014 the Crane Information Center continues www.facebook.com/kranichschutz Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 111 Western European and Baltic migratory routes Roosting area Hibernation area Vaasa Lake Kvismaren Lake Hornborga Lake Tåkern Matsalu Bay Crane Information Center Gross Mohrdorf Linum / Nauen Lake Der-Chantecoq Hortobágy Arjuzanx Gallocanta Lake Extremadura Andalusia 112 // Corporate Citizenship Cultural commitment The ­Lufthansa Group has been supporting outstanding cultural events and institutions in the field of music for many years. The universal language of music functions as an intermediary through which we allow our common bonds to engender understanding. [Ú 09] Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 113 Hall, where it gives some 50 concerts a year. 09 Ú The orchestra also performs in Cologne The concert in Westminster Abbey was Opera productions more than 160 times a again one of the highlights of the 30th The ­Lufthansa ­Festival year. In 2014, under the leadership of Lufthansa Festival of Baroque Music. of Baroque Music Gürzenich music director Markus Stenz, the orchestra, in keeping with the richness of its reaches 30 tradition, boarded a ­Lufthansa plane bound for Hong Kong, Seoul, Shanghai, and Peking. The ­Lufthansa Festival of Baroque Music in Among the items the 130 musicians carried London celebrated its thirty years of existence in their luggage were the parts to Richard in May 2014. With The Year 1714 as its Strauss’s monumental An Alpine ­Symphony, theme, the festival highlighted the historical a fitting choice to mark the composer’s 150th connection between England and Germany. birthday. Cologne’s Gürzenich Orchestra Celebrations are underway in 2014 in both delighted classical music fans from all over England and Germany to mark the 300-year the world during its Asia tour—including the anniversary of the ascension to the British many employees of the L­ ufthansa Group throne of Georg Ludwig, elector of Brunswho seized the opportunity to hear Cologne’s wick-Lüneburg, in 1714. As King George I, most sought-after brand on the concert Georg Ludwig ruled over both Hanover and circuit in the company of top customers Great Britain. George Frideric Handel wielded and partners. to the phönikks foundation and to the Stiftung the musical scepter as director of the court www.guerzenich-orchester.de der Freunde der Hamburger Hochschule für orchestra in Hanover and composer at the Musik und Theater. ß royal court in London. It was therefore fitting that the 30th ­Lufthansa Festival of Baroque Ú Music opened with the majestic strains of Handel’s Coronation Anthems. A traditional New Year’s concert in Berlin The ­Lufthansa Group With Westminster Abbey, St. John’s Smith Square, and St. Peter’s Eaton Square as its supports virtual venues, the festival included 12 concerts, On January 27, 2014, the ­Lufthansa Group research travel and several festival walks, and a lecture. Performtreated more than 1,000 invited guests to its online fundraising Ú ing were The Sixteen, Pierre Hantai, The traditional New Year’s concert in Berlin. On Hilliard Ensemble, Laurence Cummings, the program was a mix of traditional classical The ­Lufthansa Group supports the Lab around the world research project underRachel Podger, La Risonanza, Dorothee Oberworks, big-band selections, and musical taken by the online fundraising platform linger, St. James Baroque and The Choir of comedy numbers performed by various betterplace.org. The goal of the project is to Westminster Abbey. This 30th festival brings artists. Among the performers were the new use digital hotspots all around the world to our involvement to an end, as we will be crop of young musicians in the Junge Philharlink with people who have already successshifting our attention in relation to corporate monie Brandenburg and the Youth Jazz fully mobilized others for action in the realm of civil society. The virtual research travelcitizenship to other issues in the future. Orchestra of Brandenburg. Also taking part ers will ultimately summarize their analyses www.lufthansafestival.org.uk was the music class of a primary school and findings in a global study. It is hoped located in Schulendorf in the vicinity of that this will help the social sector work Schönefeld Airport. more effectively through the Internet. Ú The ­Lufthansa Group’s employee initiative help alliance also uses the digital network for numerous aid projects. And it, too, First Global Partner to Ú works closely with betterplace.org. Cologne’s Gürzenich www.betterplace-lab.org ­Lufthansa Technik’s Orchestra benefit concert for two The ­Lufthansa Group has supported the Hamburg institutions acclaimed Gürzenich Orchestra as a First Global Partner since 2010. The Gürzenich On August 24, 2013, L­ ufthansa Technik AG Orchestra counts as one of Germany’s leadstaged for the 11th time, in hangar 7 in Haming opera orchestras and, like Deutsche burg, the benefit concert billed as Faszination ­Lufthansa AG, it is based in Cologne. Since Musik und Technik (“The Fascination of Music 1986 the ensemble has been one of the and Engineering”). The proceeds, which house orchestras of Cologne’s Philharmonic came to roughly EUR 60,000, were donated 114 // Corporate Citizenship Sports sponsorship L­ ufthansa is the airline of sports and as such has served as a reliable partner to numerous prominent institutions, associations, and clubs. The values of fairness, team spirit, precision, and excellence in performance are not, after all, unique to competitive athletics, but are also a source of motivation for the ­Lufthansa Group and its employees. For this reason, sports sponsorship has been a part of the aviation company’s corporate citizenship for a long time. Since 2007 the L­ ufthansa Group has been a despite outstanding athletic prospects. The Ú national sponsor of the German Sports Aid German Sports Aid Foundation launched the Foundation, which currently supports some Springboard to the Future initiative to keep the The ­Lufthansa Group 3,800 athletes from all Olympic disciplines, two paths mutually compatible. A package of supports the German traditional non-Olympic sports, and sports organized for deaf athletes and athletes with measures has been put together that includes short-term internships lasting four to six weeks Sports Aid Foundadisabilities. More than 90% of all German and a mentoring program, all designed to tion’s Springboard to athletes who participated in the 2014 Olympic eliminate the disadvantages that those who the Future initiative Games and Paralympics in Sochi were sponsored by the German Sports Aid Foundation. pursue an athletic career face when making post-athletic career choices. The L­ ufthansa But no one hoping to make it to first place in Group is leading the way as a positive examinternational competition can avoid making ple and supports Springboard to the Future. A certain sacrifices. Many athletes therefore total of 100 German commercial enterprises decide in favor of a professional career path have already joined the initiative. [Ú 10] Ú ­Lufthansa flies German Olympic and Paralympic teams to Sochi As the official airline of the German Olympic team and the National Paralympic Committee Germany, ­Lufthansa took care of flying the German teams to Sochi. These teams have been flying with L­ ufthansa to athletic venues since 1972. Since the airline does not normally include the city on the Black Sea in its itinerary, we published a special flight schedule just for these international athletic events, one that would allow the athletes to fly directly Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 115 [Ú 11] and with minimal stress. This left them free to devote their energy to preparing for the competitions. But many other nations and fans also availed themselves of this service, so that activity at the specially-marked Sochi gate at the Frankfurt airport and aboard the Airbus A321 used on this route had an atmosphere every bit as international as in the Olympic and Paralympic villages. A special highlight was the Olympic team’s arrival in Munich aboard the special ­Lufthansa flight. German President Joachim Gauck received the athletes right on the ramp and congratulated them on their performance. 10 Participants in the Sochi Olympics arrive in Munich, where they are welcomed by Germany’s President Gauck. Ú 11 European Wheelchair Fanhansa: Lufthansa is the airline of sports and that of sports fans as well. Our planes make this clear during the Basketball Champion2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil. ships in Frankfurt Frankfurt is L­ ufthansa’s main hub. As a partner of the National Paralympic Committee Outlook Ú Germany, it was only natural that L­ ufthansa would also support the European Wheelchair As good corporate citizens, the ­Lufthansa Group and its individual companies are involved in numerous and diverse projects dealing with a broad range of issues. In Basketball Championships in Frankfurt. Our recent years there has been a marked change in the expectations of our stakeholdservice professionals took charge of assisting ers where social commitment is concerned. This change reflects the rapid transforthe teams arriving at the airport en route to mations taking place in our globalized world and the associated issues and problems Frankfurt. We also beat the drum for the encountered across broad segments of our own business environment. How to European Championships, because the approach social commitment with a compelling, intelligible, and goal-oriented plan of action is one that arises with ever greater prominence and urgency. athletes with disabilities accomplish extraordiFor this reason we are working towards a reorientation and consolidation of our nary things and serve as models for all segcommitments. One point of emphasis in this reorientation, apart from more active ments of society. In the final, the German involvement of both executives and employees, will be a thematic focus on social and women’s team, who were Olympic champions humanitarian projects. Our paramount goal has been and continues to be to ensure that our efforts have an enduring impact. With the employee initiatives help alliance, in London, were ultimately forced by the Cargo Human Care, and Swiss Children’s Foundation, we already have in our possesDutch team to admit defeat before more than sion within the Group established and recognized aid organizations. They constitute 3,000 enthusiastic spectators. ß a valuable foundation for further development of the ­Lufthansa Group’s corporate www.lufthansagroup.com/sports ­citizenship commitments. Service and Information Glossary / Editorial information / Contact persons / Methodology of calculations / Overview of the fleet of the ­Lufthansa Group 118 // Service and Information Glossary A depending on season and latitude. They lie strengthen Germany as a business location at altitudes of 16 to 18 kilometers above sea for aviation in general. level at the equator, and at eight to 12 kilowww.bdl.aero à AEA—Association of European Airlines meters above sea level at the poles. The www.aea.be temperature in the tropopause, the transition layer between troposphere and stratosphere, C à Aerosols drops to about minus 60 degrees Celsius. It Aerosols are solid and/or liquid particles that rises again in the stratosphere. The so-called are suspended in the air. They reach the ozone layer is also located in the stratoà Carbon dioxide (CO2) atmosphere by means of natural processes sphere at altitudes of about 25 to 30 kilomeGas resulting in nature from the burning or (wind, desert storms, volcanic eruptions) or ters. Today’s commercial aircraft fly at cruisdecomposition of organic substances (e.g. human activities (combustion of biomass and ing altitudes of between eight and 13 kilometers. plant material) and from human or animal fossil fuels). The most important aerosols are According to the latest research, air traffic respiration. The greenhouse gas CO2 remains mineral dust, sea salt, cellular (biological) emissions do not contribute to the reduction in the atmosphere for about 100 years. Scienparticles, soot, organic compounds, and of the ozone layer. tists attribute the increase in atmospheric CO2 sulfates. From a climatic perspective, aerosols over the last 100 years to the burning of fossil are the opponents of greenhouse gases, as fuels (e.g. coal, oil, natural gas) by humans. they can reflect incident light and thus have a cooling effect. B Per tonne of fuel, 3.15 tonnes of CO2 result from the combustion process. Currently, about 2.5% of the CO2 emissions due to human à aireg e.V.—Aviation Initiative for Renewà B.A.U.M.—Bundesdeutscher Arbeitskreis activities are caused by global air traffic. able Energy in Germany für Umweltbewusstes Management e.V. (Source: International Energy Agency (IEA) aireg is a registered association of leading (Federal Working Group for Environmen2012, 2010 values) German research institutions, L­ ufthansa and tally-Aware Management) other companies in the aviation industry, and B.A.U.M. was founded in 1984 as the first à Carbon monoxide (CO) bioenergy producers. The goal of this initiaindependent environmental initiative of GerChemical compound consisting of one cartive, which was founded in 2011, is to man business. With roughly 550 members, it bon and one oxygen atom, formed in the advance the development and introduction of is the largest of its kind in Europe today. incomplete combustion process of subregenerative aviation fuels in Germany and to ­Lufthansa has been a member of the Working stances containing carbon. For aircraft inform the public at large about this topic. Group since 1997. engines, the level of CO emissions depends www.aireg.de www.baumev.de greatly on the thrust level: The emissions per kilogram of fuel burned are higher at idle à ATM—Air Traffic Management à BDL—Bundesverband der Deutschen settings, while taxiing, and on approach than Air traffic management ensures both the safe Luftverkehrswirtschaft (Federal during the climbing and cruising phases. and efficient movement of aircraft in all Association of the German Air phases of operations. Transport Industry) à CDA—Continuous Descent Approach ­Lufthansa is a founding member of the FedProcedure for a flight’s approach phase that à Atmosphere eral Association of the German Air Transport requires less engine thrust and is therefore The whole mass of air surrounding the Earth. Industry (BDL), which has represented the quieter and more fuel efficient. However, this It is divided into various layers, distinguished interests of the German aviation industry with type of approach is possible only if there are from one another by distinct differences in a single voice since December 2010. Its main no constraints due to heavy air traffic in the vertical bands of temperature. Important for goals are to make politicians and journalists airspace concerned. air traffic are the two lower layers: the tropomore aware of aviation’s economic and sphere and, above it, the stratosphere. The employment-related importance and to troposphere’s upper boundaries vary Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 119 à CDP­—Carbon Disclosure Project à Compliance the softest sound the human ear can perceive The CDP is an independent organization Compliance describes the entirety of all meaand the pain threshold is 1:10 trillion. To working for public welfare, whose members in sures that ensure the lawful conduct of comdepict this enormous range objectively, 2014 comprise more than 760 large-scale panies, their management bodies, and their acoustics uses the logarithmic decibel scale. investors worldwide. The goal of this initiative, employees with regard to legal directives and On this scale, the value “0” is assigned to the which was founded in 2002, is to motivate the interdictions. perception threshold (for a sound of 1,000 Hz) world’s largest publicly quoted companies to and the pain threshold at the value “130”. An make their greenhouse gas emissions transà Corporate responsibility (CR) increase of 10 dB corresponds to a tenfold parent and to bring about lasting reductions in Corporate responsibility expresses the degree increase in sound intensity. For the perceived them. For this purpose, CDP and its partners to which a company assumes accountability volume, a difference of 10 dB corresponds to developed two indexes: the Carbon Disclofor the effects its business activities have on half or double the volume. However, the sure Leadership Index, which lists companies employees, customers, society, and the human ear is not equally sensitive across the that have made their emissions particularly environment. entire range of frequencies. Low and high transparent, and the Carbon Performance sounds are not perceived as being equally Leadership Index, which takes into account à Corporate university loud even at the same intensity. For measureconcrete climate protection performance. Corporate education institution for professionments, this difference is equalized and noted als and managers. See also L ­ ufthansa School accordingly. The best known such notation is à Chapter 4 aircraft of Business (LHSB). the A value, marked by the index dB(A). To Aircraft that comply with the strictest noise measure aircraft noise, the EPNdB (Effective protection standard currently in force—the à CPI—Customer Profile Index Perceived Noise Decibel) unit is used Chapter 4 noise standard. The Environmental ­Lufthansa German Airlines, in cooperation internationally. Committee (CAEP) of the ICAO agreed on this with renowned institutes, continually conducts standard in September 2001. As a result, all worldwide surveys to assess the level of à Diversity aircraft newly certified since 2006 must customer satisfaction. These data are comIn a corporate context, diversity refers to all remain cumulatively below the Chapter 3 piled in the Customer Profile Index, which characteristics that distinguish employees noise levels by 10 decibels or more. The informs the entire company, in the form of a from one another. Diversity management maximum noise emission values for aircraft single figure, of the current status of customer offers approaches for handling human differwere introduced by the ICAO under Annex 16 satisfaction. ences for the benefit of company and employto the Convention on International Civil Aviaees alike. tion. Noise levels depend on the aircraft’s à CVA—Cash Value Added maximum takeoff weight and number of A measure of company performance in terms à DLR—Deutsches Zentrum für Luftund engines. of cash generated through operations. If Raumfahrt (German Aerospace Center) the cash flow generated during a period The DLR serves scientific, economic, and à CO (EBITDAplus) is greater than the minimum social purposes. It maintains 35 institutes and see Carbon monoxide cash flow needed to cover capital costs, then research centers. Its declared goal is to the CVA figure is positive, and value is help—using the means of aviation and space à CO2 created. flight—to secure and shape the future. In its see Carbon dioxide work, the DLR also seeks cooperation and allocation of research tasks among European à Codeshare A codeshare is a flight segment that is sold D partners. www.dlr.de under the flight number of one airline while being operated either partly or entirely by à Decibel (dB) à DNWE—Deutsches Netzwerk another airline. Both companies maintain their Measuring unit for the intensity and pressure Wirtschaftsethik (German Network for independent profiles in the market. of sound. The difference in intensity between Business Ethics) 120 // Service and Information DNWE is a nonprofit organization of which Register and the Ethibel Sustainability Index passenger illness) to decrease the aircraft’s ­Lufthansa has been a member since January (ESI). The ESI offers institutional investors, weight to the maximum permissible landing 1998. DNWE has about 600 current memasset managers, banks, and private investors weight. In the event of a fuel dump, special air bers, including many from German business, a comprehensive overview of the financial space is assigned to the aircraft, if possible politics, religion, and science. At the same results of companies that distinguish themabove uninhabited or thinly populated areas. time, DNWE is a national association of the selves by pursuing sustainable business Fuel is usually dumped at altitudes of 4–8 European Business Ethics Network (EBEN). practices. Since the merger with Vigeo and kilometers. A minimum altitude of 1,500 www.dnwe.de Stock at Stake in 2005, this index has been meters and a minimum speed of 500 km/h part of Vigeo. However, Forum Ethibel continare required. The aircraft may not fly a fully ues to be responsible for the ethical criteria closed circle. The dumped kerosene forms a E and the composition of the ESI. Updates of and calculations for the index are performed fine mist in the turbulence behind the aircraft. Despite the use of highly sensitive methods of by the internationally renowned index provider analysis, no contamination has been detected à econsense—Forum Nachhaltige EntStandard & Poor’s. so far in plant or soil samples after fuel wicklung der Deutschen Wirtschaft e.V. www.ethibel.org dumps. (Forum for Sustainable Development of German Businesses) An association of globally active corporations and organizations in German industry that have F G integrated the guiding principle of sustainable development into their corporate strategies. à Freight performance (FTKO/FTKT) à Global Compact ­Lufthansa is a founding member of this crossAirlines distinguish between freight perforsee UN Global Compact industry network, which was set up in 2000. mance offered (FTKO, freight tonne kilometers www.econsense.de offered) and its sold freight performance à Great-circle distance (FTKT, freight tonne kilometers transported). The shortest distance between two points on à EMAS—Environmental Management See also Tonne kilometers. the Earth’s surface, measured in kilometers and Audit Scheme (great circle kilometers) or nautical miles. The European regulations concerning environà FTSE4Good center of a great circle is the center of the mental management and certification; colThe index was introduced in 2001 by FTSE, a Earth. loquially referred to as EU eco-audit wholly owned subsidiary of the London Stock regulations. Exchange. It lists only those companies that à Greenhouse gases meet the internationally accepted standards Gaseous substances that contribute to the à Equivalent continuous noise level (Leq) for corporate responsibility in the following greenhouse effect and have both natural and The Leq is a measure for the energetic averdimensions: environmental management, human (anthropogenic) causes. The most age of all sound pressure levels over a climate change, human and labor rights along important natural greenhouse gases are water defined period of time. All sound events that the supply chain, corporate governance, and vapor (H2O), carbon dioxide (CO2), and methdiffer in intensity and duration are summarized anti-corruption efforts. L­ ufthansa has been ane (CH4); the most important anthropogenic according to mathematical rules. The resulting listed since 2001. greenhouse gases are carbon dioxide from average value is an accepted and proven www.ftse.com the combustion of fossil fuels and methane, measurement of the noise quantity occurring primarily from agriculture and industrial liveover an observed time interval. à Fuel dump stock farming. Other artificial greenhouse Dumping of fuel in flight due to emergency gases are nitrous oxide (N2O), fluorocarbons à Ethibel—Ethibel Sustainability Index situations. A procedure used on long-haul (FCs and HFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), and The independent Belgian agency Ethibel has aircraft before unscheduled landings (e.g. in chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs). listed ­Lufthansa in its Ethibel Investment the event of technical problems or serious Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 121 discrimination as well as the fundamental right M H of freedom of association for employees. à ISO 14001—International environmental à Mentoring à Hub management system Instrument for targeted support of junior In air transport, a hub is a central traffic point Companies thereby receive an effective instruemployees. Focuses on regular personal or an airline’s transfer airport. Passengers and ment that allows them to take environmental contacts between mentor and mentee. freight are transported from their point of aspects into consideration in decisions relatdeparture to one of the airline’s home airports ing to corporate policies and to continuously à MRO (hub). From there, they are carried to their improve the situation of environmental care in Acronym standing for maintenance, repair, destination by a second flight alongside pasrelation to all daily tasks. and overhaul of aircraft sengers and freight from other departure www.iso.org points, but with the same destination. à MTOW Acronym standing for maximum takeoff K weight of an aircraft I à Kerosene N à IATA—International Air Transport AssoFuel for jet and propeller engines that is ciation chemically similar to petroleum. Like diesel The umbrella organization of international fuel or gasoline, kerosene is produced by à Nitrogen oxides (NOX) commercial aviation. distilling crude oil; unlike these fuels, kerosene Chemical compounds consisting of one www.iata.org does not contain halogenated additives. nitrogen and several oxygen atoms. NOX is defined as the sum of NO and NO2 comà ICAO—International Civil Aviation pounds. Natural sources include lightning and Organization A United Nations agency that develops interL microbes in the soil. Nitrogen oxides are also generated in combustion processes under nationally binding norms for civil aviation. high pressures and temperatures. Both of www.icao.int à LHSB—­Lufthansa School of Business these parameters have been increased in Germany’s first corporate university. It has modern aircraft engines to significantly reduce à ICC—International Chamber of received multiple awards for the worldwide fuel consumption as well as emissions of ­Commerce standards it establishes for the development carbon monoxide and unburned hydrocarThe ICC was founded in 1919 as the World and training of professionals and managers. bons. However, future combustion chambers Business Organization. More than 1,500 The LHSB supports processes of change of an advanced design could help reduce business organizations and over 5,000 corpowithin the Group and promotes a shared NOX emissions by 85%. Depending on the rations are organized in the worldwide framemanagement culture. type of aircraft and operational conditions, this work of the ICC. L­ ufthansa has been a memvalue varies between six and 20 kilograms per ber since 1955. à Low-cost segment tonne of fuel burned. Air traffic contributes www.icc-deutschland.de Airlines offering predominantly low fares, but 2–3% of man-made NOX emissions. Climate featuring reduced or separately charged models show that nitrogen oxides have à ILO standards services on the ground and in the air. Flights increased the concentration of ozone at cruisWork standards of the International Labor are most often operated to/from airports ing altitudes by a few percentage points. Organization, which include, among others, outside of major population centers. the bans on child labor, forced labor, and à NOX see Nitrogen oxides 122 // Service and Information O à Pro Recycling Paper Initiative à SES—Single European Sky Founded in 2000, the initiative unites various Describes the efforts of the European Comindustries and aims at promoting intensive use mission since the late 1990s to restructure à OHSAS 18001—Occupational Health and the acceptance of recycling paper. European airspace for the purpose of optimizand Safety Assessment Series ­Lufthansa is one of the initiative’s founding ing traffic flows and dissolving the airspace’s Job safety management system developed by members. fragmented structure, which is defined by the British Standards Institution in cooperation www.papiernetz.de national borders and interests, by creating a with international certification organizations. limited number of Functional Airspace Blocks (FABs). à Ozone Molecule formed in the stratosphere and R à Slot consisting of three oxygen atoms. The ozone Designated point in time at which an airline layer located in the stratosphere has an à RSB—Roundtable for Sustainable may use an airport’s runway for takeoff or important protective function, as it absorbs Biofuels landing. harmful ultraviolet light. While ozone at higher International initiative to develop a global altitudes is broken down massively by chlorostandardization and certification system for à Stakeholder fluorocarbons (CFCs), it develops close to the agrofuels. Groups or individuals who formulate their ground under the influence of sunlight from demands on a company (e.g. attainment of numerous precursor substances (summer corporate goals) and pursue these either smog) and irritates the mucous membranes. At current levels, nitrogen oxide emissions S personally or through representatives. This includes shareholders, employees, customfrom air traffic at cruising altitudes cause an ers, suppliers, and others. increase in atmospheric ozone, analogous to à SAFUG—Sustainable Aviation Fuel the generation of summer smog, estimated by Users Group à Sustainable development scientists at 3–4% on the heavily-flown North Initiative of airlines, aircraft manufacturers, According to the guiding principle of sustainAtlantic routes. and providers of refinery technology whose able development formulated in 1987 by the goal is to accelerate the development and World Commission for Development and the commercialization of sustainable fuels for the Environment (Brundtland Commission), “susP air transport industry. tainable development is […] a form of development that meets the needs of today’s genà Seat kilometer eration without jeopardizing the abilities of à Passenger kilometers (PKO/PKT) Measure for the transport capacity available future generations to satisfy their own.” For Measure for transport performance in pas(SKO, seat kilometers offered). businesses, this means acting responsibly not senger carriage (number of passengers multionly in economic matters but also in environplied by distance flown). A distinction is made à Seat load factor (SLF) mental and social issues. All three aspects— between available transport performance Passenger-related measure of aircraft capaceconomic, ecological, and social—must be (PKO, passenger kilometers offered, or, synity utilization: the ratio of transport perforkept in balance. onymously, SKO, seat kilometers offered) and mance (PKT, passenger kilometers transactual transport performance (PKT, passenger ported) to capacity (PKO, passenger kilometers transported). kilometers offered). Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 123 T V à Tonne kilometer (TKO/TKT) à VOC—Volatile Organic Compounds Measure of transport performance (payload Volatile organic substances that are characmultiplied by distance). A distinction is made terized by high steam pressure and thus between available transport performance evaporate easily into the atmosphere at room (TKO, tonne kilometers offered) and the actual temperature. VOCs are present in solvents, transport performance (TKT, tonne kilometers cleaning agents, fuels, and other substances. transported). In calculating payloads, pasIn the presence of nitrogen oxides and intense sengers are taken into account by means of a sunlight, VOCs lead to the generation of statistical average weight. ozone. à Town meeting Information event for employees at different locations of a company. W à Transparency International à Water vapor Anti-corruption organization, of which The most important greenhouse gas, even ­Lufthansa has been a member since 1999. ahead of carbon dioxide. Without water vapor www.transparency.de from natural sources, the Earth’s surface would be around 22 degrees Celsius cooler. This makes water vapor responsible for twoU thirds of the natural greenhouse effect (33 degrees Celsius). For each kilogram of kerosene burned, 1.24 kilograms of water vapor à UHC—Unburned hydrocarbons are released. Concerns that air traffic might Organic mixture of carbon and hydrogen that increase the concentration of water vapor in results from the incomplete combustion of the stratosphere and thus change the climate fuels containing hydrocarbons or from the have been refuted by scientific research. The evaporation of fuel. German Aerospace Center (DLR) concluded that even a one hundred-fold increase in the à UN Global Compact quantity of water vapor emitted by air traffic Global network in whose context the United would not result in a detectable climatic Nations cooperates with private-sector corposignal. rations and civil action organizations to advance human rights, labor standards, à Work-life balance environmental protection, and anti-corruption Refers to a healthy equilibrium between work measures. Deutsche L­ ufthansa AG has been and private life. a member since 2002. www.unglobalcompact.org 124 // Editorial information and Contact persons Editorial information Published by Photo credits Deutsche L­ ufthansa AG Matthias Just (title page, pp. 22 / 23, 44 / 45, ­Lufthansa Group Communications 68 / 69) Senior Vice President: Barbara Schädler Christian Schlueter (p. 3) Prof. Dr. Schulte-Fortkamp (p. 10) Concept, text, and editors Jens Görlich / CGI MO CGI GbR (pp. 15, Media Relations ­Lufthansa Group 34 top) Director: Christoph Meier Uwe Schoßig (p. 18 top) DVWG e.V. (p. 33 top right) Bernhard Jung Fraport AG (p. 41) Claudia Walther Flughafen München GmbH (p. 42) Flughafen Zürich / smartmedia (p. 43 top) Design and production Sonja Brüggemann (pp. 58, 87) Strichpunkt, Stuttgart / Berlin myclimate (p. 78) Gregor Schläger (pp. 80 / 81) Copy deadline Jens Görlich (pp. 96, 116 / 117) June 27, 2014 Elisa Lintin (p. 100) Matthias Baus (pp. 102 / 103) Paper Dr. Friedrich Keller-Bauer / Contents: ENVIRO TOP, recycling paper made Stiftung Sabab Lou (p. 107) from 100% recycled paper. Produced without Dr. Günter Nowald (p. 111 background) optical brightening agents or chlorine bleach. betterplace.org (p. 113) Certified with The Blue Angel environmental Others: Lufthansa Group photo archive label—RAL-UZ 14. Cover: Hello Fat Matt (FSC-certified) Reprints, including excerpts, only with written permission from the publisher and by citing Contact persons Deutsche Lufthansa AG as the source (text and images). In this case we ask that you send us a copy or clipping. You can find contact partners in the area of Corporate Responsibility at Printed in the Federal Republic of Germany www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility ISSN 1612-0892 Please note that www.LH.com is the central contact point for all inquiries concerning customer service www.LH.com Under the header Help you will find full information on how to contact Lufthansa. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2014 // Lufthansa Group // 125 Notes on the scope of consolidation and methodology for calculating absolute and specific consumption and emissions Scope of consolidation aircraft/engine combination present in the between freight and passengers and attribute Reporting on transport performance, kerofleet is considered separately, and the associa larger share of fuel consumption to passene consumption, and emissions from flight ated values are calculated with the aid of sengers because of the passenger-specific operations in 2013 is—unless noted othercomputer programs provided by the aircraft infrastructure. Although this method has no wise—based on the following scope of conand engine manufacturers. The annual avereffect on the overall efficiency of a flight, it solidation: age flight profile for each subset of the fleet is changes the apportionment between pasthen fed into these programs. This allows us sengers and freight. There are still diver­Lufthansa (including its regional partners * to determine emissions in relation to flight gences between the two methods (including ­Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti, Eurowaltitude, distance flown, thrust, and load. This from the method used up to now by ings, Augsburg Airways), Germanwings, approach is necessary for nitrogen oxides ­Lufthansa). We would welcome a standardSwiss (including Edelweiss Air), Austrian (NOX), carbon monoxide (CO), and unburned ized, internationally harmonized and Airlines, and L­ ufthansa Cargo. Not hydrocarbons (UHC) in particular. Carbon accepted method. included are services performed by third dioxide (CO2) emissions do not require speparties, as their performance and the cial calculation methods, as they are generEnvironmental management system aircraft they use are beyond our control. ated in a fixed ratio to the quantity of kerosene The ­Lufthansa Group collected the environburned. The combustion of 1 tonne of keromental data used in this report with the aid Types of flight service: all scheduled and sene generates 3.15 tonnes of CO2. of its environmental management system. charter flights. This system also defines how data are veriSpecific consumption and emission values fied and transmitted to the Group EnvironCalculating specific consumption and emismental Issues division. The basis for data Ú sions entails expressing absolute values in collection is ­Lufthansa’s own environmental relation to transport performance. For examdatabase. Methodology of ple, the ratio liters per 100 passenger kilomecalculations ters (l/100 pkm) is calculated on the basis of actual load factors along with the quantity of Accuracy For presentation purposes the figures in the kerosene actually consumed. The distances charts and tables are rounded. Changes from Kerosene in absolute terms used in the calculations are great-circle disthe previous year’s figures and share percentKerosene consumption is calculated on the tances. In combination flights (freight and ages refer in each case to precise figures, basis of actual flight operations (i.e. using passenger transport in one aircraft), fuel however. For this reason it is possible that a actual load factors and flight routings) accordconsumption is attributed on the basis of its reported value may remain the same from one ing to the gate-to-gate principle. This covers share of the total payload to calculate the year to the next even though a relative change all phases of a flight, from taxiing on the passengerand freight-specific figures. is reported. Because of the rounding of share ground to flying detours and holding patterns percentages, it is also possible that the sum of in the air. Since 2013 the DIN EN 16258 standard has their addition may differ from the sum of the provided a guide for standardized calculation unrounded percentages. For example, as a Emissions in absolute terms of greenhouse gas emissions for transport result of rounding, share percentages may not The emissions from flight operations are processes. This guide uses the same estiadd up to 100% even though it would be calculated on the basis of actual transport mates for calculating payload as the logical to expect them to. performance and hence on actual load fac­Lufthansa Group. When traveled distances tors and the actual absolute quantity of keroare calculated, 95 kilometers must be added sene consumed in the reporting year. Transto the great-circle distance according to the port performance is measured in tonne guidelines of the EU emission allowance * Augsburg Airways flew in the service of ­Lufthansa until the kilometers; i.e., payload transported over a trading scheme. The International Air Transend of the 2013 summer flight schedule. The cooperation distance. For passengers and their luggage, port Association (IATA) has separately develwith Contact Air ended in September 2012. Beginning with the 2013 reporting year, therefore, the consumption figures an average of 100 kilograms is the standard oped its own calculation proposals, which for Contact Air are no longer included in the key performance estimate; for freight, it is its scale weight. Each deal with the division of fuel consumption figures. Most stringent noise standards for the Lufthansa Group’s fleet Margins below the noise limit of ICAO Chapter 3 and Chapter 4 Active fleet of the Lufthansa Group on December 31, 2013 in EPNdB 0 – 10.0 * Of the 596 aircraft in the Lufthansa Group’s active fleet, 593 fulfil the strinA330-300 LH – 18.4/– 18.8 gent Chapter 4 noise standard of the A330-300 LX / WK – 18.4 International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). The most important element of A330-200 WK – 14.5 Chapter 4 is the minus 10 EPNdB criteA340-300 LH – 22.6/– 22.9 rion (Effective Perceived Noise dB); see A340-300 LX – 22.1 the vertical broken line in the overview on the left. The limits depend on the A340-600 LH – 23.0 aircraft’s maximum takeoff weight and A380-800 LH – 26.7 number of engines. B747-400 LH – 12.7/– 13.3 The bar chart indicates the sum of the B747-830 LH – 25.6 differences between the measured value B767-300 OS – 16.6/– 16.8 and the threshold value at the three B777-200 OS – 20.4/– 20.6 measuring points by type of aircraft (cumulated margin). Where necesB777F LH – 17.0 sary, the values based on the reduced MD-11F LH – 13.4/– 13.5 maximum takeoff weight prevailing in flight operations are indicated. To A319-100 LH – 15.3/– 19.3 allow a more transparent depiction, an A319-100 LX – 18.2 improved method of analysis was develA319-100 OS – 19.3 oped for the previous issues of Balance, which include the individual noise certifiA319-100 4U – 17.4/– 19.4 cate data of all Group aircraft. Different A320-200 LH – 13.4/– 15.9 versions of an aircraft and its engines by year of construction are thus better A320-200 LX – 13.7/– 15.9 taken into account. While the conservaA320-200 WK – 13.7/– 14.1 tive approach used until reporting year A320-200 OS – 14.1/– 15.3 2008 meant that only the values of the sub-fleet with the lowest cumulated marA320-200 4U – 13.4 gin were reported to describe an aircraft A321-100 LH – 15.5 fleet, the new analytical method used since reporting year 2009 means that A321-100 LX – 10.2/– 10.8 the value ranges from the lowest to the A321-100 OS – 11.5 highest cumulated margin are now indiA321-200 LH – 14.1/– 14.7 cated for many fleets. The analysis also takes into account any modifications A321-200 LX – 14.4 to aircraft or engines that have been A321-200 OS – 9.0 made in the meantime, thereby leading to modified noise data and cumulated B737-300 LH – 13.8 margins in certain cases. In addition, B737-500 LH – 14.3 numerous additions and withdrawals in AVRO RJ-100 LX – 16.4 individual fleets lead to changes in the value ranges reported. CRJ-700 CL – 16.3 CRJ-900 CL – 16.6 CRJ-900 EW – 16.6 Grouping of aircraft types according to DHC8-400 OS – 24.5/– 25.9 MTOW (maximum takeoff weight): less than 50 t 50 to 150 t ERJ-190 CL – 15.1 more than 150 t ERJ-195 CL – 14.9 This division generally corresponds to a ERJ-195 EN – 14.9 grouping of regional, continental, and intercontinental aircraft Fokker F-70 OS – 24.3/– 25.9 4U = Germanwings Fokker F-100 OS – 16.2 CL = ­Lufthansa CityLine EN = Air Dolomiti EW = Eurowings LH = ­Lufthansa, ­Lufthansa Cargo LX = Swiss * New ICAO Chapter 4 limit, which has been effective for new aircraft since 2006: OS = Austrian Airlines – 10 EPNdB when compared to Chapter 3. WK = Edelweiss Air Prizes and awards In 2013 the Lufthansa Group and its subsidiaries once again received numerous prizes and awards. Here is a selection: Lufthansa’s ﬁrst-class service is The German federal government ﬁrst-class services aboard its longawarded ﬁve stars in the 2013 Skytrax awards the Leuchtturm Elektromobilität haul ﬂeet, for its ﬁrst-class terminal in Star Rating. (“Electro-Mobility Beacon”) title to Frankfurt, and for its ﬁrst-class lounge the E-PORT AN electro-mobility at JFK Airport in New York City. Best Brands 2013 brand ranking: initiative at Frankfurt Airport, in which Lufthansa is among the top 10 the Lufthansa Group is a participant. Lufthansa Munich receives the corporate brands. International 5-Star Diamond Award in The portal LH.com receives the 2013. This is the third Lufthansa ﬁrstAustrian Airlines’ Waliclean project Business Traveller Award in the class lounge, after those in Frankfurt receives the city of Vienna’s category Best Internet Page for and New York, to be awarded this prize. environmental prize for a revolutionary Business Travelers. method of cleaning aircraft toilets. Swiss receives the Europe’s Leading The Lufthansa Group receives the 2013 Airline Business Class award in the Lufthansa Cargo is voted Best Airline Business Technology Award. World Travel Awards. International Freight Carrier by the Airforwarders Association in the U.S. For the third time in a row, the Swiss receives the Best Airline in Lufthansa Group is named Europe’s European Air Trafﬁc award in the 2013 MobileTech Award for the Leading Airline in the World Travel Business Traveller Awards (Germany) Lufthansa app. Awards. and the Best Business-Class Lounge award in Frequent Business Traveler’s Lufthansa Technik wins the MRO Lufthansa receives the Skytrax Award GlobeRunner Awards. Company of the Year prize in the 2013 for the Best First-Class Terminal. Air Transport News Awards. Current awards in 2014 Lufthansa wins top honors in the 2013 Lufthansa receives award as an As in previous years, Lufthansa Cargo World Airline Awards in the Best Firstexceptionally sustainable airline: is voted Best European Air Freight Class Airline Lounge, Best Western The Mit gutem Gewissen (“In Good Carrier by Air Cargo Week in the Cargo European Airline, and Best Transatlantic Conscience”) focus study awards Airline of the Year Awards. Airline categories. Lufthansa the Gold Seal. The magazine Business Traveller Middle Lufthansa receives three GlobeRunner The joint E-PORT AN project at East gives Lufthansa the Best European Awards in 2013 from the American Frankfurt Airport wins the prestigious Airline in the Middle East award in 2013. travel magazine Frequent Business GreenTec Award in the aviation Traveler: In the Best First-Class Lounge category. The jury was impressed Lufthansa Technik receives two awards category and, for the second time, with projects of the Lufthansa Group, in publisher UBM Aviation’s Aircraft in the Best Frequent Flyer Program Fraport AG, the State of Hesse and Technology Engineering & Maintenance category with Miles & More. Lufthansa the Rhine-Main Model Electro-Mobility Awards: Best MRO Provider in Europe also receives, on behalf of the Star Region for a green apron. and Best Engine MRO Provider. Alliance, and as one of its founding members, the award for Best Airline StartCargo, the trainee program at For the eighth time in a row, Lufthansa’s Alliance. Lufthansa Cargo AG, receives the Corporate Fuel Management wins the Absolventa job portal’s prestigious Best International Fuel Department International 5-Star Diamond Award seal of quality. This is the ﬁrst and only prize. for Lufthansa’s ﬁrst-class service seal of its kind and stands for careerto New York. Altogether, Lufthansa promoting and fair trainee programs. Services receives three awards from the American Academy of Hospitality Sciences (AAHS): for Lufthansa’s The operating fleet of the Lufthansa Group (as of December 31, 2013) Lufthansa and regional partners Boeing 737-300 LH: 9 aircraft, 140 seats, 2,000 km range Airbus A380-800 LH: 9 aircraft, 526 seats, 12,000 km range Embraer 195 CL: 24 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,450 km range EN: 10 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,450 km range Boeing 747-8 LH: 9 aircraft, 362 seats, 13,100 km range Embraer 190 CL: 9 aircraft, 100 seats, 3,390 km range Boeing 747-400 LH: 18 aircraft, 352 * seats, 12,500 km range CRJ900 CL: 12 aircraft, 90 seats, 2,260 km range EW: 23 aircraft, 90 seats, 2,260 km range Airbus A340-600 LH: 24 aircraft, 306 seats, 12,600 km range CRJ700 CL: 16 aircraft, 70 seats, 2,310 km range Germanwings Airbus A340-300 LH: 21 aircraft, 266 * seats, 11,100 km range Airbus A330-300 LH: 18 aircraft, 221* seats, 10,000 km range Airbus A319-100 4U: 39 aircraft, 150 * seats, 3,500 km range Airbus A321-100 / 200 LH: 62 aircraft, 200 seats, 2,900 /4,350 km range Airbus A320-200 4U: 5 aircraft, 174 seats, 3,020 km range Lufthansa Cargo Airbus A320-200 LH: 57 aircraft, 168 seats, 3,020 km range Airbus A319-100 LH: 32 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,260 km range Boeing MD-11F LH: 17 aircraft, 516 m3/ 89.4 t, 7,000 km range Boeing 737-500 LH: 14 aircraft, 120 seats, 1,950 km range Boeing 777F LH: 2 aircraft, 639.1 m3/102.9 t, 9,045 km range Swiss and Edelweiss Air Austrian Airlines Airbus A340-300 LX: 15 aircraft, 219 seats, 10,500 km range Boeing 777-200 OS: 4 aircraft, 309 * seats, 11,500 km range Airbus A330-300 LX: 14 aircraft, 236 seats, 8,400 km range Boeing 767-300 OS: 6 aircraft, 240 * seats, 9,800 km range Airbus A321-100 / 200 LX: 8 aircraft, 200 * seats, 3,200 km range Airbus A321-100 / 200 OS: 6 aircraft, 200 seats, 2,360 / 3,500 km range Airbus A320-200 LX: 24 aircraft, 168 * seats, 3,650 km range Airbus A320-200 OS: 16 aircraft, 174 * seats, 4,300 km range Airbus A319-100 LX: 5 aircraft, 138 * seats, 3,000 km range Airbus A319-100 OS: 7 aircraft, 138 seats, 4,500 km range Avro RJ100 LX: 20 aircraft, 97 seats, 3,000 km range Fokker 100 OS: 15 aircraft, 100 seats, 2,000 km range Airbus A330-300 WK: 1 aircraft, 332 seats, 10,000 km range Fokker 70 OS: 6 aircraft, 80 seats, 2,085 km range HB-IQZ Airbus A330-200 WK: 1 aircraft, 285 seats, 11,500 km range DHC 8-400 OS: 14 aircraft, 76 seats, 1,630 km range HB-IHX Airbus A320-200 WK: 4 aircraft, 168 * seats, 4,950 km range Range indicated in general with maximum number of passengers or payload, Legend respectively. 4U = Germanwings EW = Eurowings LX = Swiss CL = Lufthansa CityLine LH = Lufthansa, OS = Austrian Airlines EN = Air Dolomiti Lufthansa Cargo WK = Edelweiss Air * Maximum number of seats, different versions in operation 5 years of the strategic environmental program 15 years of involvement in noise research 15 years of cross-company mentoring 15 years of help alliance 20 years of support for climate research 20 years years of reporting on the environment and sustainability— 20 years of Balance Deutsche Lufthansa AG Lufthansa Group Communications Lufthansa Aviation Center 60546 Frankfurt am Main Germany E-mail: lufthansa-group@dlh.de Balance is a registered title. © June 2014 www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility
