RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 GRI G4 (CORE) VERSION OF THE REPORT, VERIFIED BY AN INDEPENDENT AUDITOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2014 GRI G4 (CORE) VERSION OF THE REPORT, VERIFIED BY AN INDEPENDENT AUDITOR Publikację wydrukowano na papierze posiadającym certyfikaty Ecolabel oraz FSC o numerze SGS-COC-003161. GRI G4 (Core), verified 4 | SPIS TREŚCI INDEX 1 Letter from the President of the Management Board page 7 2 Awards and distinctions page 8 3 About us page 10 4 About the report page 20 5 Conditions, occupational health and safety (OHS) page 24 6 Impact on the local environment and biodiversity page 32 GR4 1–56 PR CRE EC BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 5 7 Relations with local page communities 44 8 Prevention of unethical behaviour page and integrity in operations 50 9 Quality and safety page of construction sites 56 10 Rational use of resources and page environmental pollution 60 page Tables and data 11 64 page GRI indicators 12 78 13 Niezależny raport page poświadczający 92 dotyczący Raportu odpowiedzialnego biznesu 2014 Grupy Budimex SO LA HR EN 6 | LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD 1 LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD LADIES AND GENTLEMEN G4-1, G4-2 I am pleased to present you with the new social responsibility report of the Budimex Group. Our social reporting has been evolving for a few years. At the beginning it was a simple report at lowest level of advancement. In 2013, we chose to prepare the report based on the latest version of the GRI G4 guidelines, as one of only two companies in Poland. The report itself also seems to awake interest of our stakeholders. Continuously more advanced social reporting is the most visible proof of responsible business management development in our company. Most of our daily activities are not that visible outside our organisation. Last year we appointed the CSR Committee, over which I have the pleasure to preside. We have also set measurable goals for the CSR Committee in the next few years to come. The CSR Committee is not just a formal body, but a real platform for sharing information and indicating processes that require improvement, so that our business could become more effective from the sustainable point of view. That platform should bear a smaller social and environmental risk, and therefore should be more effective from the shareholders’ point of view. I can see how substantially Budimex has evolved over the last few years and how our employees and counterparties change their understanding of business sustainability. Also the approach to responsible business in our industry and the market as such changes, however quite slowly. I can also remember that a few years ago our company was to be included in the RESPECT Index for the first time. We had initiated a supplier assessment process then, mainly in OHS and environmental areas. BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 7 It was quite a novel approach on the construction market. Still, it was a practice that awoke interest. At that time, in 2010, we made approximately 400 preliminary and approximately 800 final assessments. In 2013, these values raised to 1,589 preliminary and 7,722 final assessments. These are real tools, well accepted by contract managers, not just activities for the sake of appearances. One of the most positive aspects is the commencement of constructive dialogue on subjects connected with social aspects of our business. It is our new dimension of approach to responsible business. In the “Agreement for safety in the construction industry”, the most important companies in the industry decided to implement a common training system and an Attachment to subcontractor agreements regarding health and safety regulations. This standardisation constitutes a transition from individual competition to best practices in social solutions and to effective, common initiatives. Thanks to the scale effect, common activities of the companies involved in the Agreement are beneficiary for both ordering parties and the subcontractors. In this year’s report, bearing the ISO 26000 and new GRI G4 guidelines in mind, we strove to highlight issues connected with the supply chain. We also wanted to demonstrate that we aim to have a real influence on our suppliers’ approach to key responsible business dimensions, i.e. OHS and environmental protection. We don’t forget about our responsibility towards counterparties, local communities and our employees. Finally, we don’t forget about final effects of our business, as we are fully aware that our responsibility is embedded in all Budimex constructions. There are tens of constructions that serve the whole community or protect our environment. Yours faithfully, Dariusz Blocher President of the Management Board, Chief Executive Officer of Budimex SA 8 | AWARDS AND DISTINCTIONS 2 AWARDS AND DISTINCTIONS Awards and distinctions in 2013 G4-1, G4-2 In the 11th edition of the competition organised by the Builder magazine, Budimex was awarded the title of Construction Company of the Year in the General Contractor category, and our President Dariusz Blocher was awarded for effective company management and its success in 2013. The Nowy Przemysł monthly magazine and wnp.pl portal awarded Budimex with the title of “The One that Changes the Polish Industry” for constant resistance against unfavourable trends in construction and stability on the challenging and fluctuating market. The Business Superbrands Brand Council awarded Budimex with the titles of Business Superbrands 2013/2014 and Created in Poland Business Superbrands 2013/2014 in the construction category. In the 4th edition of Eurobuild Awards, Budimex was awarded with the title of Best construction company on the Warsaw Stock Exchange. Budimex was awarded in the Great Pearls category of the “Perły Polskiej Gospodarki” competition. BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 9 In the 14th edition of the competition organised by Klub Sportowa Polska, Budimex was awarded with the title of Constructor of the Polish Sport for substantial achievements in the sports construction sector. In the competition organised under the auspices of the Business Centre Club, Budimex was among the first three Most Desired Employers in the construction and real estate category. In the prestigious “Construction of the Year” competition, organised by Polski Związek Inżynierów i Techników Budownictwa (Polish Union of Construction Engineers and Technicians), as much as 12 projects entered by Budimex Group companies won first and second prizes. Seven constructions were awarded the 1st degree prize and 5 were awarded the 2nd degree prize. Construction of the extradosed bridge over the Vistula river near Kwidzyn, pioneering on a European scale, was awarded with the special prize in 5th Edition of the Maksymilian Wolff Bridge Competition, organised by Mosty magazine. Until now, bridges with similar span width had been built only in Japan (3 bridges) and Canada (1 bridge). The Bridge of the Year 2013 award was granted to the flyover constructed by Budimex near the PGE Arena Stadium in Gdańsk. For reconstruction of the historical Wrocław Railway Station, Budimex was awarded with another prize, i.e. the special prize for best historical object modernisation. The award was granted in 23rd Edition of the “Piękny Wrocław” competition under the auspices of the President of Wrocław and Towarzystwo Miłośników Wrocławia. Budimex has improved its score in the Rzeczpospolita daily ranking of 500 biggest companies – in the 25th Edition of the List of 500 by Rzeczpospolita daily, the company took the 39th place, improving its score from previous year by 2 places. Once again, Budimex was included in the RESPECT Index, in which it had been present since 2011. The Index includes stock of the most responsibly managed companies of the Warsaw Stock Exchange. Budimex was also found among 20 distinguished companies awarded with the CSR Silver Leaf in the List of 500 by Polityka weekly magazine. 10 | ABOUT US 3 ABOUT US Market activity and future prospects G4-4, G4-6, G4-8 Budimex Group is one of the strongrespect to the interest of customers, est and most recognised brands business partners, employees, local on the construction market. Difficommunities, nature and investors, cult years of economic slowdown whose assets we try to increase in a clearly showed that this brand was balanced but certain way. Responsistable, reliable and trustworthy ble business means balancing expecfor customers, subcontractors and tations of all groups of stakeholders, suppliers as well as for local comand openness to listening intently to munities. Budimex is a brand that their expectations and anxieties. It guarantees high-quality construcalso stands for sustainable develoption execution and minimisation ment, that is the only permanent deof social and environmental arduvelopment, which is so very much exousness, which may potentially pected by not only the environment, accompany construction. Budimex but first of all by shareholders thinkhas been present on the market ing about building long-term value. for over 40 years and its projects can be found in several dozen The key object of the Group’s activity countries on three continents. is to provide widely understood construction and assembly services under It is not by accident that such apthe system of general contracting at proach has been recorded in the home and abroad, property developcompany’s Mission statement. The ment activities and property manageMission is not just an unimportant ment, as well as, on a smaller scale, declaration, but a business philosotrade, production and transportation phy. It is a practice implemented for services. As in previous years, main many years and one that lets busimarkets for the Budimex Group were ness to be based on specific values. Poland (88% of income1) and GermaA philosophy which in hard times of ny (11% of income). Income from otheconomic slowdown not only proer markets reached the level of 1% of vides survival of the company, but overall Group turnover. In 2013, only also appoints true leaders. It is not technical works were performed on difficult to be develop quickly and the German market. In the case of Buspectacularly when the market grows, dimex Nieruchomości, the property and to experience defeats later, when developer business pertains to three prosperity turns round. The challenge cities: Warsaw, Kraków and Poznań. here is to capture the art of responsible management, which ensures The basic business goal of Budimex continuous and stable growth. With SA, the dominant Company, beside 1 Because of that the report is focused on social and environmental results of domestic activity. BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 11 rendering construction and assembly services and property developer activity, is the advisory, management and financial function for companies of the Group. Such model aims to achieve fast information flow within the structures of the Group, strengthening the efficiency of the financial and economic business of individual companies and further strengthening of the Group’s market position. Here we should mention several important changes in the structure of the capital group which happened in 2013. Most important ones were the takeover of Elektromontaż Poznań SA and its subsidiaries, and the sale of Budimex Danwood.2) Akademia Muzyczna we Wroclawiu BUDIMEX MISSION G4-56 „Our mission is to implement construction projects, including real estate development undertakings, in a manner worthy of a market leader, respecting the natural environment and ethics, with attention to customer satisfaction and user comfort, to be achieved thanks to our professionalism and passion for construction, high operating effectiveness and partner relations with suppliers and subcontractors.” 2 Detailed information about the transaction and other organisational structure changes can be found in the “2013 Annual Report”, available at www.raportroczny.budimex.pl/2013/. 12 | ABOUT US G4-9, G4-EC7 In 2013, there was a renewed slow24.9 billion, where in 2013 it was PLN 4 down of economic growth in Poland. billion, in 2014 it will be PLN 8.3 billion A particularly strong inhibition could and in 2015 the amount of PLN 12.5 be observed in the construction inbillion will be exceeded. One should dustry. In 2013, gross added value in not forget about the energy market, the construction industry dropped where investments also came to a by 9.0%, as compared to a growth of halt, but which still has a huge poten0.3% in 2012. While in 2012 constructial. In the years 2014-2018 the comtion and assembly works dropped pany of Polskie Sieci Energetyczne only slightly (-1.1% in comparison to alone plans to allocate PLN 8 billion 2011), in 2013 the industry shrank by to capital expenditure. 2014 may 13.6%. The observed decrease was bring an increase in the number of ina consequence of ending contracts vestments in property development and investments in the following companies. Opportunities for new segments: infrastructural (road-buildinvestments and contracts could also ing) and residential. Really important be found in public-private partnerfor the industry were the substanships, especially in founding the Poltially lower expenses of the General skie Inwestycje Rozwojowe company. Directorate of Domestic Roads and Motorways, which dropped from PLN As a consequence of unfavourable 22.6 billion in 2012 to about PLN 13 changes on the market in 2013, sales billion in 2013. This relatively small volume in the construction segment number of public investments (parof the Budimex Group dropped by ticularly the infrastructural ones) and 26.1% in comparison to 2012. Sales the lengthening winter of 2012/2013 in the infrastructural sector dropped caused that the last year, especialby as much as 30.9%. In the case of ly its first half, had turned out to be the infrastructural segment, the departicularly difficult for the industry. crease of sales of PLN 3.6 billion in 2012 to PLN 2.5 billion in the last It is expected that the year 2014 will year was observed. In 2013, sales be a period of stabilisation and inrevenue from property developer hibition of this strong decreasing activity dropped in comparison to trend. A series of new contracts fithe previous year by over 30%. Hownanced partly from the European Unever, it should be reminded that acion budget within the framework of countancy-based sales revenue is the new financial perspective for the recognised during the transfer of years 2014-2020 will also be settled. property/flat to the purchaser after The General Directorate for National the technical acceptance of the enRoads and Motorways estimates that tire building. Therefore the sale of in the years 2014-2015 it will spend real estate concluded in the form of about PLN 31 billion on fulfilment of a notarial deed depends on construcits statutory goals. By the end of 2013 tion project completion date and it announced about 50 tenders for transfer of finished flats to customers. construction of domestic roads and It is not a seasonal phenomenon nor bypass roads with total value exceedcould it be compared year-after-year. ing PLN 35 billion. In the next years investments in railway infrastructure will In 2013, the entire property developgain momentum as well. In complier market observed the recovery that ance with assumptions contained in was reflected by a very high level of the Long Term Programme of Railway flat pre-sales. The net pre-sales of new Investments until 2015, prepared by flats in 2013 were 742, in comparison the Ministry of Transport, Construction to 515 flats in the previous year. To and Maritime Economy, the expenses ensure the stability of sales revenue in of PKP PLK (main investor in this secthe following years, in 2013 the contor) necessary to execute 140 projects struction of over 750 new flats was in the years 2013-2015 will be PLN commenced within 6 new property BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 13 Muzeum Śląskie w Katowicach developer projects located in Warsaw, to enter the public utilities market Kraków and Poznań. As of 31 Decemand to commence new projects ber 2013, 1,071 flats were under conbased on public-private partnership. struction. At the same time, the Group has at its disposal an extensive land G4-9, G4-EC7 bank, providing areas for the construcIn 2013, the Budimex Group compation of over 7 thousand new flats.. nies signed construction contracts worth PLN 3.3 billion (including anG4-9 nexes). The construction order portNext year the Budimex Group will folio of the Budimex Group as of 31 work in all the most important secDecember 2013 was PLN 4.3 billion, tors of the construction market in which is a decrease by 11% in comPoland as well as on the German parison with the end of 2012. The market. New planned infrastructurorder portfolio structure is as follows: al investments (particularly in roads) create an opportunity for the Bu• nfrastructure – 26% dimex Group to win contracts in • non-residential segment – 38% this segment. The Group also plans • ailway segment – 22% to win contracts in the building, • residential segment – 6% energy and hydro-technical con• industrial construction – 4% struction segment. It is also planned • hydro-technical construction – 4% 14 | ABOUT US G4-9, G4-10, G4-21 The basic economic values that characterise the Budimex Group were: 2012 2013 Net revenues from sales of products and 6,077.66 4,749.46 services, goods and materials (million PLN) Profits (million PLN) 185.98 301.30 Equity (million PLN) 433.13 645.18 Liabilities (million PLN) 3,015.08 3,041.58 Assets (million PLN) 3,448.21 3,686.75 Number of employees 4,260* 3,983 Number of subcontractor employees under n/a** n/a** supervision of the Budimex Group * The number does not include employees of Budimex Danwood ** Construction works are characterised by large seasonality of the employment of subcontractors, and the specificity of subsequent stages of executed works means rotation of subcontractors and changing number of workers on Budimex contracts. Currently on each day the employee data, including the subcontractors’ employees, are registered directly on construction sites. Those registers are critical for the sake of OHS, especially in emergency situations (e.g. evacuations). The registers are not centrally consolidated. G4-12 The Budimex Group activities mean Energostal SA, CMC Poland Sp. z o.o., income for the capital group itself ArcelorMittal Distribution Solutions and for many companies whose serPolska Sp. z o.o. Konsorcjum Stali Sp. z vices and products are used. Budimex o.o., Bowim SA, Francisco Ros Casares cooperates annually with 12 thouPolska Sp. z o.o.), aggregate and consand counterparties, whose employcrete (Kopalnia Granitu Kamienna ees execute particular construction Góra Sp. z o.o., ZPK Rupińscy Sp.j., and assembly works. The business Górażdże Beton Sp. z o.o., Lafarge model in which subcontractors work Kruszywa i Beton Sp. z o.o., Cemex determines the approach to socially Polska Sp. z o.o., Kopalnie Dolomitu w responsible management. The main Sandomierzu SA, Nordkalk Sp. z o.o., goal is the subcontractor qualification Mineral Polska Sp. z o.o.), road and system and the final score system. The bridge barriers (Stalprodukt SA), fuels scores mentioned later in this report (heating oil, mazut)( Lotos Paliwa Sp. z include typical social factors, such as o.o., Mal-Sped Sp. z o.o.), precast confollowing environmental protection crete (cubes, edges) (Libet SA), pipes rules and OHS. When describing the and plastic wells (Hobas System Polsupply chain, we should also mention ska Sp. z o.o.) and shuttering renters the basic materials and raw materials. (Peri Polska Sp. z o.o.). In addition to Among Budimex suppliers are the the aforementioned raw materials, biggest road construction bitumen materials and construction services, producers (Orlen Asfalt, Lotos Asfalt), the Budimex Group purchases many manufacturers of reinforced steel, more. Some of them are processed by concrete reinforcing bars and metBudimex (bitumen, aggregates) in its allurgical products (ThyssenKrupp own factories of bituminous mass. BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 15 Libra Business Centre w Warszawie BUDIMEX MEMBERSHIP IN ORGANISATIONS AND SOCIAL INITIATIVES: G4-16 • Business Centre Club • Poland – Russia Commercial Society Chamber • POLLAB Polish Research Laboratory Club • Polish Chamber of Road Engineering • Polish Association of Construction Industry Employers • Polish Asphalt Pavement Association • Polish-Spanish Chamber of Commerce • Railway Business Forum • Association of Stock Exchange Issuers • Accountants Association in Poland • UN Global Compact • Polish Society of Bridge Engineers 16 | ABOUT US Contribution to infrastructural development G4-9, G4-EC7 Budimex Group activities may also be of Technology and construction of the in reconstruction and extension of seen differently. The same investments Centre for the Meeting of Cultures and the Clinical Hospital of the Medical whose execution brings income to modernisation of the building of the University in Białystok, construction the companies, and increased valMusical Theatre and the Henryk Wieof a group of clinics for the University ues of capital to shareholders, also niawski Philharmonic in Lublin, conHospital in Bydgoszcz, construction mean social benefits. They translate struction of the Municipal Waste Treatof the building for the needs of the into infrastructure the presence of ment Plant in Białystok and of coastal Department of Chemistry of Jagiellowhich supports social development. defences for the Darłowo Harbour. nian University and restoration of the It is not only about road and railway Pawilon Czterech Kopuł building in infrastructure or new airports. Social Also the order portfolio of contracts Wrocław. An important project is also development with accompanying signed in 2013 contains many inconnected with assurance of protecinfrastructure also means hospitals, vestments that would play importion of seacoasts within the Central theatres, museums and higher edutant social roles. From among road Air Force Range in Wicko Morskie. cation. Obviously it also means new investments it is worth to mention flats, but non-residential construction the continuation of construction of Additionally, Mostostal Kraków, conas well. Last year’s projects included, the Rzeszów Zachód – Rzeszów Centractor for many unique construcamong others, the construction of an tralny part of the A4 motorway or tions, has executed or continues to access road to Dąbrowica junction of continuation of construction of the execute orders for environmental prothe Lublin ring road, Stawiski ring road, Tarnów – Rzeszów A4 motorway sectection for the industry (e.g. industrial reconstruction of the tramline togethtion between the Krzyż junction and electro-filters and sack filters), sewer with the traffic control system in the Dębica Pustynia junction. We also age plants, waste treatment plants, Kraków, construction of the new runsigned a contract for extension of construction of water dams as well way at the Pyrzowice International Airthe landing area of the Frederic Choas many other kinds of public utiliport and ferry quay No 1 at Świnoupin Airport in Warsaw and designing ty buildings. Still, probably the most jście port. Investments not connected and construction of the Pomeraniunique project, standing as proof of with transport included construction an Metropolitan Railway (Stage One: the Company’s craft and professionalof the Educational Centre of the Facrevitalisation of “Kokoszkowska Railism, is the execution of construction of ulty of Chemistry at Poznań University way”.) Budimex Group was engaged the new steel dome protecting the ruins after the atomic reactor in Chernobyl, whose two parts will be slid over radioactive ashes. The construction will be 105 m high, 150 m long and 257 m wide. As the Novarka consortium, who ordered the construction from Mostostal Kraków, announced, this will be the greatest sliding construction in the history of mankind. Budimex Group is not an investor, but only a contractor, possibly also a designer of those aforementioned objects. Nevertheless, without engagement of our employee teams and without their professionalism, such objects would never have come to life. Transferring ideas and projects into particular objects and the satisfaction coming from awareness that they often serve thousands of people, is what motivates to work even harder. Osiedle Smolna w Poznaniu BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 17 Sustainable growth management PR DMA, LA DMA, EN DMA Operational management in Budimex For a few years now the existing soluis regulated by procedures and protions, according to rules described in cesses which very often define bePD standard, have been: ISO 26000, haviour in situations related to qualconsistently supplemented at the ity, safety and occupational health Group level by organisational solutions as well as to the influence on social enabling effective and comprehensive and natural environment. Those responsible business management. improved processes let us achieve Company operations in this area are continuously better results, not only designated by CSR Policy adopted in from their economic but also social 2010 along with measurable goals and environmental point of view. for the years 2011-2012. Although the original policy and goals were acThe abovementioned procedures cepted by the company authorities, and processes constitute the Inte2013 had a key meaning for systemgrated Management System, includatised approach to CSR. Formally the ing: quality management system CSR Committee was appointed, with according to PN-EN ISO 90001, enmembers of the management board vironmental management system and key managers. This allowed to not according to PN-EN ISO 14001, OHS only comprehensively divide responmanagement system according to sibility for individual measurements PN-N-18001 and quality assurance of influence, but first of all an effective system based on requirements of cooperation platform was created NATO standard AQAP 2110. These with holistic approach to sustainasystems’ effectiveness is confirmed ble development. Moreover, the CSR with the certificates granted and with Committee, in whose works and cyconstant supervision over external clic meetings the management board certification units. Mostostal Kraków is directly involved, is very important also works by the rules of the Intefor responsible business managegrated Quality Management System, ment. The Committee gives opinion environmental management and and confirms goals appointed within OHS within the range of comprehenthe CSR Policy, periodically monitors sive investment execution, deliveries the degree of their achievement and and assembly of objects of general, approves initiation of new projects industrial and transport construction from the responsible management in compliance with the following area. After initiation of the Committee standards: PN-EN ISO 9001:2009, PNworks, a technical training for persons EN ISO 14001:2005, PN-N 18001:2004. responsible for individual CSR actions Furthermore, the company holds was organised. As a result, new goal many other highly respected certifiproposals were established for Bucates for welding technology, bridge dimex. Ultimate goals for the years construction, steel construction pro2014-2015 were accepted by the Comducer and certificates granted by mittee, then accepted formally by the the Office of Technical Inspection3). management board as a resolution. Most na Trasie Słowackiego w Gdańsku 3 More information on Mostostal Kraków SA certificates can be found on the following website: http:9//www.mostostal.com.pl/?pid=25. 18 | ABOUT US CSR goals for Budimex for the years 2014-2015 (Appendix to the CSR Policy): Goal Time limit Ensuring safe organisation and implementation of particularly dangerous 1 works by preparing an Instruction of Safe Execution of Works – 100% of works 2014 determined in BIOZ plans as particularly dangerous. Training and communication activities within the range of good OHS practices 2 2014 for 80% of constructions executed in 2014. Implementation of standard of organisation and provision of hygiene and health 3 2015 resources at all construction sites planned in Q3 2014. Implementation of standard of organisation and implementation of work at 4 2015 height – 100% of sites where construction shall begin in Q3 2014. Implementation of standard equipment for workers and persons performing works on construction sites – basic personal protective equipment, i.e. 5 protective helmets, goggles, protective shoes and reflective clothing (2nd class 2015 reflectance) or reflective vests – 100% of sites where constructions shall begin in Q3 2014. Creation of quantitative and qualitative record of materials reused from 6 2014 demolitions, disassembles and earthworks. Manufacturing processes review for the purpose of their optimisation within the range of fuel consumption and related environmental pollution, preparation 7 2014 of activity plan and commencement of its execution. 5% decrease in fuel consumption. Improvement of manufacturing processes review for the purpose of their optimisation within the range of energy consumption and related 8 2014 environmental pollution, preparation of activity plan and commencement of its execution. 5% decrease in energy consumption. Optimisation of energy consumption by replacing existing lighting with LEDs in 9 2014 three Budimex offices – in Poznań, Kraków and Warsaw. Providing first aid kits to all construction sites – 100% of sites where 10 1Q 2015 constructions shall begin in Q2 2014. Successive replacement of paper newspapers with electronic ones. Reduction of 11 2Q 2015 purchases of paper newspapers by 15%. Providing proper hazardous waste disposal on 100% of construction sites, i.e. 12 signing of contracts with companies holding appropriate permissions within the 2015 range of hazardous waste management. BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 19 Increase in quantity of segregated waste generated on construction sites by 13 2015 approximately 30% in relation to the year 2013. Increase in quantity of waste transferred to natural persons or non-commercial 14 organisational units to be used for own purposes by approximately 30% in 2015 relation to the year 2013. Promoting energy, water and paper saving. Employee education with the use of 15 2015 the Budinet internal information portal. Publications: once a quarter. Changes in procedure 06-02 (Procedure for purchases and supplier 16 qualification): introduction of a negotiation protocol template in which one of 2014 the points pertains to OHS. Preparing a report in CBD, which will permit to list companies negatively (score 1, from 1 to 5) when evaluated in the area of fulfilment of safety conditions and 17 2014 hygiene (OHS) by the subcontractor and within the range of proceedings in environmental protection and ecology. Verification of Budimex agreement standards and adjustment of regulations to 18 2014 ensure more partnership relations with company counterparties. Extension of the report functionality in CBD by mail notifications to the 19 OHS Department with information about a supplier who received negative 2015 evaluation in the area of OHS and environmental protection. 20 Introduction of a CSR module into the “Welcome to the Group” training in 2014. 2014 21 Creating the “Risk management policy in Budimex SA” document (working title). 1H 2015 Creating the “Policy of cooperation with local communities in Budimex SA 22 2015 construction contracts being implemented” document (working title). Organisation of management structure, company operation methods and references to the corporate governance rules are exhaustively described in publicly available reports4). Current information on members of the Budimex management bodies and individual person résumés are available on the company websites5). 4 Detailed information about formal management structures can be found in the “2013 Annual Report” available at www.raportroczny.budimex.pl/2013/. 5 http://www.budimex.pl/subpage.asp?idbup=2&idmenuleftcat=7&start_url=publication_list_0.asp?idcategory=12;listactiontype=0;menutype=2;idmenu=10 20 | ABOUT THE REPORT 4 ABOUT THE REPORT G4-32 This repor t describes ac tiviSmaller companies, which are consolities and results for three key Budated in the financial statements, have d i m e x G r o u p co m p a n i e s , i . e . : been omitted in this report, due to the significantly smaller scale of their op• Budimex SA, erations and, consequently, the limit• Budimex Nieruchomości Sp. z o.o., ed social and environmental impact6). • Mostostal Kraków SA. G4-32, G4-33 G4-13, G4-21 This sixth annual responsible business As opposed to reports from previous report published by the Budimex years, it does not take into account the Group was once again prepared in acBudimex Danwood Sp. z o.o. compacordance with GRI guidelines in their ny, which was sold at the end of 2013. latest G4 version in core option. Due to lack of sector supplement for the The report also excluded PrzedsiębiG4 version, the supplement for GRI orstwo Napraw Infrastruktury Sp. z G3.1 guidelines was used to prepare o.o. (PNI) even though, considering its the report. Reliability and conformity size, the public reporting of social and of the report with the Guidelines, as environmental performance would in three previous ones, was verified be justified. This is caused by the and confirmed by an independent lack of effective control by Budimex auditor (Deloitte Advisory sp. z o.o.). Group over the activities of PNI. The company was acquired in NovemG4-18, G4-19 ber 2011, but in September 2012 the When defining the report contents, court announced its bankruptcy. The Budimex followed the reporting rules Budimex Group lost its control over defined in GRI Guidelines. Essential the company in November 2012 as a areas of responsibility which became result of the withdrawal of the comoriginally defined in accordance with pany’s own board and the appointthe ISO26000 standard and with the ment of an administrator by the court. dialogue from 2012 with over a dozThis meant that as of this date the en key managers (interview surveys) company was excluded from consolin 2013 became the subject of CSR idation in Budimex Group reporting. Committee discussion and verification. 6 Full list of consolidated companies in financial reports along with the consolidation method can be found in the “2013 Annual Report” available at www.raportroczny.budimex.pl/2013/. BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 21 Domofon ICE w Nowej Soli This supplementary process enaThey are: bled the score update for individual key areas in compliance with mate• conditions, occupational health riality and completeness principles and safety (OHS) and taking into account its stake• influence on local environment holders. In turn, reference to the ISO and biodiversity, 26000 standard ensures that the • non-ethical behaviour prevention context of sustainable development (bribery, corruption), is preserved. Due to unchangeable • quality and safety of character of our business, areas imconstructions, portant from the social responsibil• reasonable resource use and ity point of view were unaffected. environmental pollution. 22 | ABOUT THE REPORT G4-20 The importance of individual aspects for individual companies is not equal, though it has not changed significantly in relation to the previous report and is as follows: Social or Budimex Mostostal environmental Impact aspects and GRI indicators Budimex SA Nieruchomości Kraków SA aspect Sp. z o.o. Workplace: occupational health and safety (G4-LA-DMA, G4-LA5, G4-LA6, conditions, G4-LA7 G4-LA8) occupational health Supplier assessment (G4-LA14, high* high* high* and safety (OHS), G4-LA15) Complaint transfer procedure (G4-LA16) Biodiversity (G4-EN11, G4-EN12, G4-EN13, G4-EN14) impact on local Supplier environmental assessment environment and (G4-EN32, G4-EN33) high* low* low biodiversity Complaint transfer procedure (G4-EN34) Local community (G4-SO1, G4-SO2) Human rights: investments (G4-HR1) Human rights in the supply chain non-ethical (G4-HR10, G4-HR11) behaviour Human rights: complaint transfer high* high* high* prevention procedure (G4-HR12) Anti-corruption (G4-SO3, G4-SO4, G4-SO5) quality and safety Customer health and safety high* high* high* of constructions (G4-PR1, G4-PR2) Raw materials and materials (G4-EN1, G4-EN2) Energy (G4-EN3, G4-EN5) Emissions (G4-EN15, G4-EN16, reasonable G4-EN18, G4-EN21) resource use and Effluent and wastes (G4-EN23, average* average* average* environmental G4-EN24) pollution Compliance with regulations (G4-EN29) Supplier environmental assessment (G4-EN32, G4-EN33) Other (industry) (CRE2, CRE8) BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 23 G4-12 For most of these areas and compa• Customers (GDDKiA, corporate defining the content of the report, we nies, responsibility for a given aspect customers, individual customers, based on the managerial expertise is not only direct but also indirect rebusiness partners, key suppliers, regarding the expectations of stakesponsibility i.e. goes beyond the Busubcontractors, local selfholders. Information presented in the dimex Group and substantially relates government and government report reflects this long-term proto suppliers and subcontractors These administration), cess of gathering knowledge about aspects in the table above are marked • Society (local communities in the expectations of the environment. with an asterisk (*). For example, corarea of an investment, residents ruption and unethical behaviour are and community leaders, media, always relative and relate to both sides. universities and academics, For this reason, in addition to measures technical and professional aimed at Budimex employees, clear organisations), messages to business partners are • Natural environment important. As the business model is (environmental organisations, based on the execution of construcenvironmental supervision tion work by external subcontracinspectors, State Forests). tors, Budimex Group’s responsibility in terms of the impact on local bioDialogue with various groups is consphere, OHS or quality and accuracy ducted on an ongoing basis throughof the performance expands, providout the year, in the form and at a ing for safe use of premises. Hence, the frequency tailored to the specific regrowing importance of business partlations. For example, once every two ner monitoring in these dimensions of years, all employees of the Group unactivity. Shifting the burden of some dergo a comprehensive satisfaction of the work to a third party causes corstudy. The goal of the company for respondingly that the greater part of 2011-2012 was to create mechanisms consumption of raw materials, includallowing for regular dialogue with ining fuel, also lies with that side. In the dividual groups of stakeholders. This case of certain key raw materials such dialogue would be a source of busias steel, responsibility for its producness value, such as knowledge about tion, which affects the environment, future opportunities and threats, as lies entirely beyond the Budimex well as a tool for catching the first Group, including Mostostal Kraków, weak signals of new market trends. for which steel is the main material. Unfortunately, past experience does not encourage optimism, due to G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 the limited willingness of individual Similarly, during the CSR Committee stakeholders to cooperate. The limmeeting the stakeholder map was ited confidence of stakeholders in verified. The map had been originally such solutions may constitute the defined by the aforementioned group reason for this situation. In the opinof key managers that was surveyed in ion of Budimex, a stakeholder panel May 2012. The current map is not diforganised at this stage will not bring ferent from the original and specifies the expected business value. It will be 26 main stakeholders within bigger more efficient to conduct a dialogue categories: based on trust which was built over • Employees (full-time employees, the years by managers and execustudents and potential employees, tives. This process will be centrally former employees, trade unions, monitored and the information comemployees of subcontractors ing from managers will be combined and suppliers, labour inspection cumulatively. Scale of the dialogue and other similar supervision will also be correspondingly greater, authorities), so that the statistical significance of • Investors (strategic investor, obtained information would increase. institutional investors, individual investors, Warsaw Stock Exchange, As a consequence of the above-debrokerage houses, banks), scribed limitations, in the process of 24 | CONDITIONS, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (OHS) 5 CONDITIONS, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (OHS) LA DMA, G4-LA5, CRE6 For several years now, the Group has In 2013, the Budimex management attached great importance to ensurboard adopted the “Safety First” ing safe working conditions (OHS). policy to ensure constant increase Both in Budimex and Mostostal in safety level. The policy was deKraków, i.e. in the companies where signed on the basis of the strategic the majority of the capital group’s investor experience. It is based on 4 workers are employed, the occupabasic safe work rules (Planning, Ortional health and safety management ganisation and co-ordination, Folsystems were implemented as a part lowing rules and provisions, Improveof the integrated management sysment) and includes 18 activity areas. tems. In the case of Mostostal the system is PN-N-18001 compliant. BuLast year the new standard of the Safedimex, where the safety management ty and Health Protection Plan (BIOZ) and OHS system is compliant with the was implemented. Standardised BIOZ same PN-N 18001 standard, was auditPlan consists of permanent elements ed against the OHSAS standard certifithat include processes during concate and granted OHSAS 18001 certifstructions. Its integral part are the apicate in July 2013. In these companies pendices that define individual procethere are health and safety commitdures and most important processes tees.7 They consist of the representaconnected with co-operation with the tives of employees and an employer. subcontractor. The employees that roThe Committees represent all employtate between contracts find the same ees (100%). For example, in Budimex template at each construction site, the OHS Committee had 7 members which is facilitated by reading this at the end of 2013: 1 employer repdocument. The BIOZ Plan must be resentative, 4 employee representaaccepted by the OHS specialist and tives, OHS Department Manager and by the Site Manager. Participation in an occupational medicine physician. this process enables interception of Mostostal Kraków was granted a Certificate for Best Company in OHS at the 300 MW Energetic Block construction in Narva for September and October 2013 (granted by Alstom Power) 7 Budimex Nieruchomości is supervised by the Budimex SA OHS Department BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 25 possible lacks and shortcomings and ployed directly by Budimex. Activicorrecting them before the BIOZ Plan ties in 2013 were focused on manual is implemented within the contract. workers, as they are most endangered. As the work organiser, Budimex is reIn 2012, new working clothes were sponsible for informing all members introduced at construction sites. They participating in contract execution have been systematically distributed about conditions and dangers at the among employees of individual subconstruction site. During trainings, contractors since August 2013. The the most important BIOZ Plan clausprocess is still continued. These new es are discussed: project site plan, clothes, thanks to their bold colours, site traffic rules, strategic points indimake the employees more clearly cation (fire fighting, first aid, depots), visible, which reduces the risk of acprocedures in case of accident, fire cidents. The clothing is made using and other emergency situations, rules the latest technology fabrics, providof safe work exercise, co-operation ing protection against harmful and and co-ordination rules and superdangerous factors. Additionally, the vision methods. The training is obuse of modern fabrics with much ligatory for all people who execute better functional properties (such as works at Budimex construction sites. heat absorption, resistance to weather conditions) significantly increases An important last year’ achievement the comfort of work. It is also worth is the implementation of “Contract noting that some of the clothing was commencement”. It is an obligatory tailor made (currently the standard element at the beginning of every sizes are used: S, M, L, XL). From 1 Auinvestment and it takes the form of gust to 31 December 2013, 456 worka meeting of the OHS specialist with ers were given new clothing sets. construction site managers, during which the OHS procedures, legal requirements, Budimex standards and obligations coming from participation of the company in the Safety Agreement in Construction Industry, most important during organising and executing safe work at the construction site, are all discussed. Operations undertaken in earlier years were continued. The goal was to increase occupational health and safety. Continuously improved procedures for work safety management with contracts support construction site managers in efficient danger elimination. Any modifications aim to effectively monitor subcontractors within OHS, and in consequence to reduce the number of accidents among employees who are not em26 | CONDITIONS, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (OHS) OHS Training and Prevention For many years the training system has tions and real dangers. Only correct been going significantly beyond legal behaviour habits make it possible to requirements. Just to mention training limit routine-related threats. It is roufor employees, which the company is tine, haste and lack of imagination that obliged to carry out every three years are the most common causes of accibut which it carries out annually. Simdents at work. Hence, we care for proilarly, training for executives, required cedures and consistent monitoring of every five years, is carried out every their compliance by all employees on three years. As a rule, all persons exethe site, but also for striving for effeccuting a given contract, including emtive realisation of the danger connectployees of subcontractors, are trained ed with work on the site – whether for in internal safety procedures. Last year our or external employees. brought significant achievements in this area. According to the “Agreement In 2013, we initiated a new training for safety in the construction industry” programme for OHS coordinators. The signed by Budimex and in co-operatraining includes procedures of the intion with Budimex, in 2013, new spetegrated management system within cial OHS training programmes were the range of OHS and environmental introduced for manual workers. The protection, BIOZ Plan guidelines and training material used during obligaInstructions for the Safe Execution of tory trainings is different from the unithe Works (IBWR), the identification of versal programme. One of the benefits risks on site and demonstration of the is its reference to particular examples “Agreement for safety in the construcand dangers present at construction tion industry” initiative to coordinators. sites. These are often real-life examDuring training the participants are ples, based on real accident analysis. In given a “Coordinator case” – a set of the Budimex Group, training activities policies, internal procedures and docbased on the new programme began uments connected with work safety in January 2014. and environmental protection, all put inside a handy binder. 10 trainings in An important achievement in 2013 2013 were attended by 134 people. was the project of “Manuals for health The training is obligatory for future and environmental protection”. They coordinators. were transferred to contract sites (1,200 copies). The Manual consists In 2011, each of the contract sites of modules that describe all possible was equipped with the necessary kinds of work that an employee can equipment to save lives. In 2012, we find at a construction site. Each modconducted in-depth training in first ule describes specifics of given work, aid, which continued in 2013. The dangers, expected and prohibited betraining scheme was written with the haviour and series of other information regard to: specificities of work at a required for safe work execution. construction site, typical threats in the construction industry, most frequent Both the new training programme and traumas of workers during events at “Manuals for health and environmenwork, also sudden medical states. The tal protection” highlight our approach training comprises short lectures with to OHS binding in the Budimex Group simulated events, during which parfor many years. It is important to emticipants play roles in accidents and phasize the awareness of real accident rescue operations. First aid trainings risk. Demonstration of real life situaare organised on construction sites. BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 27 Thanks to this, workers have an opboards: so-called reaction sequence portunity to train their reactions and and access plan. Reaction sequence behaviour in difficult situations in their – it is an updated list of people who “natural environment”, in places where have been trained and designated to the probability of accidents and necesprovide first aid and people who are sity of appropriate actions is the greatentitled to manage a rescue action est. Trainings are done in small groups and evacuation. It contains such data (8-15 participants), which enables acas: first and last name of a person destive participation in classes. ignated to provide first aid, position and company phone number. Access In October 2013 Budimex SA employplan is a short and simple description ees delegated to the German market of access to the accident site. The deunderwent an extended, weekly first scription takes into account characaid training – Qualified First Aid. The teristic objects near the construction training was organised on the basis of site, GPS data and other information the Act on the National Emergency Refacilitating identification of the site and sponse Plan. According to the Act, the the rescue access operation, especially training programme is based on the when the construction office address Regulation of the European Resuscitais different than the construction site tion Council (RRC) with guidelines that address, when built objects are disapply to the whole European Union. persed or when the construction site is The course participants are granted located in a place with difficult access. a “Paramedic” title – the highest posThe description prepared earlier facilisible degree in life rescue for persons tates providing necessary information without medical education. Including do the emergency service dispatcher the QFA course in the provisions of the in a stressful situation such as an acciPolish law enabled qualified construcdent, medical event or fire. tion staff to carry out further first aid trainings on contract sites at the German market with own efforts. In 2013, Budimex equipped contract sites with 100 first aid kits within the continuing process of providing equipment and personnel capable of participating in emergencies and help the victims. 10 more kits were purchased by Mostostal Kraków. The bag contents were prepared with regard to dangers that may happen on construction sites. The contents were gathered in cooperation with a physician qualified in paramedic trainings. Additionally, one of the contract sites (Pomeranian Metropolitan Railway) was given 4 orthopaedic boards with belts and 4 defibrillators. 57 contract workers underwent 2-day first aid training. Each of them wears a hard hat with proper marking (green cross in a white circle). Another solution practical from the safety point of view, which was also initiated by Budimex, is the introduction of two sections on information 28 | CONDITIONS, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (OHS) BUDIMEX: AGREEMENT FOR SAFETY IN THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY Agreement for safety in the construction industry is an initiative of seven construction companies that signed a joint declaration in August 2010. The companies are Bilfinger Infrastructure, Budimex, Hochtief Polska, Mostostal Warszawa, Polimex Mostostal, Skanska and Warbud. In October 2013 the group was joined by Mota-Engil. The goal of this Agreement is the improvement of safety on Polish construction sites. The Agreement’s signatories already use high OHS standards and continuously raise the bar and transfer standards to subcontractors, as this is the group under the gravest threat of accidents. The construction site must be a safe place for everyone. All signatories place the same OHS demands in front of subcontractors. For that purpose, a common attachment was designed and implemented for subcontractor contracts under the title of “Requirements for occupational health and safety”, which obliges subcontractors to organise and conduct works in a way that guarantees safe and hygienic work conditions and imposes an obligation of cooperation with signatories of the Agreement within the OHS range. The Agreement has also designed and implemented the “Guidelines for Instructions for the Safe Execution of the Works”. The risk assessment refers to a particular task, IBWR preparation and, in consequence, to activities that minimise risk already at work planning stage. The next step in the safety improvement process on construction sites are OHS trainings among employees and subcontractors. Effects of initiatives and operations undertaken by the signatories of the Agreement for safety in the construction industry have been noticed by public institutions, e.g. the National Labour Inspectorate, which now wish to engage in a dialogue about implementation of high OHS standards and which see the Agreement as a social partner. BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 29 Accident rates G4-LA6, G4-LA7 Budimex Group has adopted a doufine a serious accident as e.g. a bone ble accidents at work classification fracture, knee joint dislocation or an system. Each accident is classified event resulting in hospitalisation exin compliance with the Polish legal ceeding 24 hours. As a result, the classification and with procedures non-obligatory classification provides and classification adopted by the better possibilities of post-accident strategic investor (Ferrovial). Along statistical analyses because of more with the differences regarding the stringent criteria and greater accident accident assessment process itself, differentiation. In statutory solutions the definition of a serious accident is many serious events are found in one also different. Internally adopted solucategory with insignificant events, tions are much more restrictive in this which makes analysis more difficult. area. Although the statutory system It should be mentioned here that in states that a serious accident means 2013 the number of serious accidents a long term health effect or perma(internal classification) dropped by as nent damage in a particular life area much as 47%, together with accidents (health, mental, reproductive, etc.), registered at subcontractors, not only the solutions adopted internally deamong own workers. The number of accidents and its basic indicators in Budimex are as follows: Among own workers Among subcontractor workers 2012 2013 2012 2013 Number of accidents (total) 64 36 56 59 Number of fatal accidents 0 0 4 1 More numeric data is provided in the tables at the end of the report. 30 | CONDITIONS, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (OHS) In 2013, the monitoring of harmful turn into accidents (9 reported events). construction site are strictly observed, factors in the workplace did not conWhat is more, within the cooperawhich reduces the likelihood that firm that highest permissible concention of enterprises participating in an unauthorised person can enter. trations and intensities (NDS, NDN) of the “Agreement for safety in the conPreventive measures are also taken harmful and dangerous factors were struction industry” it was decided to by the employees, and especially by exceeded. There was just one incident provide greater mutual transparency the security staff, who – of which not of an occupational disease, which perregarding analyses of accident rates everyone is aware – not only protect tains to a situation from many years and, as a result, to provide a possibility the property, but also indirectly conago and cannot be considered equivof comparison with competitors being tribute to the elimination of danger alent to the work conditions offered the signatories of the document. Curwhich may threaten, for example, chilby the Budimex Group. rently Budimex results are better than dren who would like to “explore” the results registered by all signatories. site unnoticed, unknowingly exposing The accident statistics reporting forthemselves to great danger. mula for top management was also SO DMA, SO2 changed. Currently they are the subAnother universal aspect of security ject of analyses at monthly manageis the issue of outsiders who may find ment board meetings and illustrated themselves in the impact zone of an by factors that refer them to the scale investment and may, potentially, be of executed contracts. In 2013, we also injured. Of course, all rules concernstarted registering events that may ing the fencing and marking of the BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 31 OHS AND SUBCONTRACTORS G4-LA14, G4-LA15, G4-LA16 In 2013, 1,589 contractors (100%) underwent pre-qualification regarding, among others, compliance with occupational health and safety (OHS). 7,722 assessments summarising cooperation were also conducted; they contain, among others, elements related to OHS. A negative assessment may result in terminating cooperation with a given subcontractor. All employees of subcontractors working on Budimex construction sites undergo training in internal OHS procedures and are obliged to comply with them. Apart from a register of own employees’ accidents, Budimex also keeps a record of occupational accidents that occurred on construction sites among employees of subcontractors for whom Budimex acts as the main contractor. All of them are analysed in terms of causes and circumstances in which they occurred, as well as responsibilities of supervisors. Ongoing observation of the work of subcontractors, which is reflected in final assessments of the suppliers, led to the identification of 362 irregularities, of which 23 were related to OHS. Therefore we can note a substantial result improvement – one year earlier out of 118 inspections as much as 58 referred to OHS. Among cases reported to the Ethics Committee, no reports regarding OHS were recorded. Based on 7,722 final assessments, it can be estimated that irregularities related to OHS may occur in the case of 0.3% of subcontractors. It should also be reminded that in 2011 within the “Agreement for safety in the construction industry”, with leading Budimex participation, a template of an Attachment to a standard subcontractor agreement, pertaining to OHS, was designed. The Attachment has been implemented since May 2013. Agreements signed by Budimex before that date were annexed, while new agreements are signed with the OHS Attachment. The Attachment defines responsibilities and rights of an ordering party and a contractor and regulates cooperation rules referring to workplace safety. The document was beneficial to both parties. Due to the fact that the Attachment has the same form and content for all signatories of the Agreement, it is easier for contractors to prepare for cooperation with the general contractor. No matter which Agreement signatory executes the works, it always has the same, precise, standard requirements referring to preparation and work execution as concerns OHS. In turn, it is easier for general contractors to maintain cooperation with a subcontractor that will assure meeting OHS requirements at a constant level. At the same time, Budimex is a partner which supports, along with other leading construction companies, the social campaign of the National Labour Inspectorate and the Social Insurance Company (ZUS), entitled: “Szanuj życie! Bezpieczna praca na wysokości” (“Respect life! Safe work at heights”). Budowa Pomorskiej Kolei Metropolitalnej w Gdańsku 32 | IMPACT ON THE LOCAL ENVIRONMENT AND BIODIVERSITY 6 IMPACT ON THE LOCAL ENVIRONMENT AND BIODIVERSITY Reducing impacts on valuable natural areas EN DMA The scale of construction industry to replace the previous “sarcophapotential impact on the environgus”, one can speak about many othment is influenced by the characers. The investments contribute to ter of the investment project itself, restriction of negative human influand most importantly its location. ence on the environment (e.g. desFirst of all, we can note the potenulphurising installations, filters and tially big impact of infrastructural electro-filters assemblies). As far as investments. Road and railway insuch installations are concerned, in vestments often run across or in the the last few years Mostostal Kraków neighbourhood of valuable natural was engaged in investments whose areas, which can af fect the local beneficiaries included: GEA Process biosphere at the stage of the investEngineering, Torgau (Germany), Huta ment execution and later exploitaSzkła SGG PolskaDąbrowa Górtion of objects. The implementation nicza, Cementownia Górażdże S.A., of residential investments, especially EC Częstochowa – Fortum Częstothose located in urbanised areas, has chowa S.A., Elektrociepłownia Łódź, a significantly smaller influence on Alstom Power, Lafarge Cement – the environment. Also the construcCementownia Małogoszcz, Cemention of industrial facilities is not indiftownia Górażdże S.A., Elektrownia ferent for the environment, though Kozienice S.A., Elektrociepłownie one should pay attention to the fact Wybrzeże S.A., Elektrociepłownia that a series of Budimex and MostosKraków S.A., Salzgitter Steelworks tal Kraków investments are directly (Germany), Duisburg – Schwelgern or indirectly related to environmen– Thyssen Stahl AG Steelworks and tal protection. Along with the MosElektrownia Siersza S.A. w Trzebini tostal Kraków flagship project, i.e. (PKE). Considering sewage treatthe construction of the steel dome ment plants only, where Budimex protecting the remains of the atomic was engaged in construction, exreactor in Chernobyl, which will help tension or modernisation, we should BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 33 mention sewage treatment plants in Wrocław, Jastrzębie Zdrój (Rupawa), Brzeg, Łódź, Kutno, Krynica Morska, Iława, Pasłęk, Gryfino, Gdynia (Gdynia-Dębogóra), Koziegłowy near Poznań, Nowy Dwór Gdański, Pruszków and Gdańsk (Wschód). In previous years the Company was engaged in construction and modernisation of various waste disposal facilities, such as: Municipal Waste Disposal Facilit y in Toruń, Composting and Waste Sorting Plant in Prażuchy Nowe, Sorting Plant and waste transfer station in Łódź, Municipal Waste Landfill Lipówka II in Dąbrowa Górnicza, Waste Sorting Plant in Bierkowo, Composting Plant in Łódź, Municipal Waste Landfill Barycz Kraków, the Municipal Solid Waste Treatment Plant in Warsaw. Budimex pro-environmental activity also includes hydraulic engineering works that protect sea shores against erosion and destruc tive wave activity. Wrocławska oczyszczalnia ścieków MOSTOSTAL KRAKÓW SA: „Construction of a selective, non-catalytic nitrogen oxides reduction system / sncr / in clinker burning process for w-1 furnace” – contract signed with grupa ożarów s.a. In June 2013 Mostostal Kraków S.A. signed a contract with Grupa Ożarów S.A. for construction of a selective, non-catalytic nitrogen oxides reduction system in the Ożarów Cement Factory. The task includes among other things the execution of construction elements with earthworks, sub-bases, foundations, insulations, expansion joints and resin floors; realisation of a brick electrical room; execution, delivery and assembly of a steel structure; realisation of an electrical room for the FLS local panel (sandwich panel on steel structure) on the platform of the exchangers tower; assembly of a discharge pump, ammonia water tanks, an industrial pump, PMT assembly of a transfer pump, PMR-1 assembly of a transfer pump, valves and pipes, mechanical accessories, purchase, delivery and assembly of stainless steel pipes. 34 | IMPACT ON THE LOCAL ENVIRONMENT AND BIODIVERSITY Approach to environmental protection at construction sites G4-EN11, G4-EN12, G4-EN27 A mandatory environment impact agreement with the investor, solutions report is prepared for ongoing and are adopted that exceed law requireplanned investments which may poments and limit risks. In 2013, several tentially affect biodiversity. The reprojects in areas of high natural value port is prepared in cooperation with were executed. The projects are deexternal specialists of various fields scribed later in this document. (ex. ornithologists, herpetologists, ichthyologists, entomologists, botaBudimex, as a contractor of ready pronists, etc.). Proposed are solutions that jects, usually does not have a direct could minimise or eliminate negative influence on the form of the project influence of investments to environitself, i.e. on the way in which dement. It is worth noting that often, in signers of the route have taken into Elektrownie wiatrowe BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 35 account the needs of the natural enof the work of heavy construction vironment. This applies to the course equipment. Construction facilities, esof the planned road, which should be pecially the depots, warehouses and routed in the least disruptive way for transportation bases are mainly localthe local biosphere and omit particuised on developed and transformed larly valuable natural areas. A suitable areas, if possible, far from residential planning of the infrastructure should buildings, but also far from naturalbe added here, such as animal pasly valuable areas. The occupancy of sages which should coincide with land in the forests or wetland areas is their migration paths. The passages, in reduced to the necessary minimum. turn, should be consistent with plantWherever it is possible, the works do ing of trees and shrubs. The plantings not go outside the designated lane should be planned in a way which road. Transportation of materials necdirects animals to the passages. It is essary for the construction takes place important to create ecotone zones in primarily within the designated road, the forests along the routes, in order so as not to cause an unnecessary to protect the ecosystem from the eftransformation of other areas. Solufects of a rapidly exposed forest wall. tions for protection against pollution An adequate drainage system, which with chemical substances coming will protect subterranean streams and from the construction sites, are introsurface waters from contamination duced on sections where earthworks with petroleum substances, should and construction works are conductbe foreseen, as well as noise barriers ed near water reservoirs. Special ator appropriate lighting of bridges, limtention is paid to environmental proiting the number of bird collisions. In tection against oil derivatives from the cases where Budimex is also a decars and construction machinery. signer, the Company is responsible for Therefore, the construction site and its preparation of an optimum solution facilities (places of equipment/materifrom the social and environmental al storage, etc.) are protected against point of view. Most frequently, howevcontamination of groundwater, by er, the company is responsible for the applying a system to collect polluted construction of an already planned rainwater. road in a manner consistent with the design prepared by the investor. Because part of the vegetation, located directly below the planned CRE5 route, will be irrevocably destroyed, Some environmental risks are associatcompensatory planting is carried out. ed with the investment implementaFor inventoried habitats of valuable tion stage, which requires maintaining plants which would be destroyed by utmost diligence by the contractor, the constructed route, metaplantawhich is usually Budimex. Seemingly tion is carried out, i.e. the plants are simple activities can, in fact, be very carried to new places. When a small important. This should include proper water reservoir (pond) is to be filled construction site and facility organisain (destroyed) during construction, its tion. Technological routes should be amphibians and reptiles are harvested routed in a way ensuring an efficient and transferred to new localities. The use of land and minimal transformanature itself is also monitored during tion of its surface and, after the comthe construction process. Construcpletion of works, the area should be tion works are conducted under the restored to its previous state. Such an supervision of naturalists, often of difapproach minimises deforestation. Referent specialties. In the case of some gardless, valuable trees located in the contracts that run through nature impact zone of the construction site, valuable areas, there were sometimes must be properly protected against as many as seven experts of different mechanical damage. Similarly, e.g. anspecialties (e.g. an ornithologist, an thills are protected against the effects ichthyologist, a herpetologist, an en36 | IMPACT ON THE LOCAL ENVIRONMENT AND BIODIVERSITY Autostrada A4 Dębica-Rzeszów tomologist and a botanist) involved. invasive species, pests, and pathotions of the environmental impact reConstruction works were sometimes gens to the biosphere. port of the project and legal decisions temporarily suspended, when rare issued by the environmental protecanimals appeared in the impact What also helps to reduce the negtion offices. zone of investment. The schedule ative impact on the environment is and cycle of works are closely correa series of very simple rules for conG4-14, G4-EN24, G4-EN29 lated with the cycle of nature. Some ducting the work, such as: spraying Construction sites and particular works are temporarily held up due to the site with water in the case of investments are well prepared for periodic migration or the breeding draught, reduction to a minimum of unforeseen emergencies. Each conseason of birds. Periodic migrations working time for internal combustion tracted investment implemented by do not apply only to birds, but also engines of construction equipment Budimex has instructions for dealing for example, to amphibians or fish. and vehicles at idle, careful loading of with an emergency situation, and is Construction works in the vicinity of loose materials onto vehicles and the equipped with the necessary equipnoise-protected areas are carried out use of tarpaulins or simply reducing ment needed in case of contaminaonly during the day. speed within the site and in the surtion, including sorbent, absorbent rounding area. sleeve, absorbent mats and personal During works it is also required that protection equipment (“ecology kit”). the covering soil (humus) used in finThe procedures described above Furthermore, any contamination is ishing works (riverbank reinforcing, correspond closely with national and treated as threatening to the envietc.) be of local origin. Thus, the soil European regulations, including reguronment, until its type and source is humus removed from the surface lations concerning Natura 2000 sites determined. Additionally, construction is stored in heaps and then used in The adopted solutions ensure complisite managers undergo specialist traindeveloping land at the end of the ance with legal requirements and ofings connected with environmental investment. The earth material used ten exceed the regulatory minimum. protection, including emergency situfor finishing works is most often of The monitoring (nature control) of the ations. In 2013, no accidents or other local origin, so that it would not conimpact zone and its habitats is conserious incidents that would lead to tain the base of species seeds alien ducted during the implementation of significant water and soil contaminato that region. The point is that imthe project and after its completion, tion, were reported. Also there were plementation of investment projects in accordance with the recommendano reports of penalties connected should not result in introduction of with breaching regulations referring to environmental protection. BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 37 BUDIMEX SA: G4-EN11, G4-EN13, G4-EN14 Budowa i modernizacja obwałowań Wrocławskiego construction and modernisation of embankments of the Wrocław Water Junction above Wrocław Individual facilities of the modernised part of the Wrocław Water Junction fully or partially border naturally valuable areas covered by the Natura 2000 Programme and some of them are located within these areas. These are two sites: • “Grądy w Dolinie Odry” (code PLH020017, 8,348.90 ha) • “Grądy Odrzańskie” (code PLB020002, 19,999.28 ha) The “Grądy w Dolinie Odry” site hosts 11 types of habitats listed in Appendix 1 to the Regulation of the Minister of the Environment of 16 May 2005 on types of habitats and plant and animal species requiring protection in the form of establishing Natura 2000 protected sites. Moreover, the site hosts 7 species of protected insects (including Eriogaster catax, hermit beetle and Great Capricorn beetle), 6 species of fish and lampreys, 2 species of amphibians (Northern crested newt and European firebellied toad) and 5 species of mammals from Annex II to Council Directive 92/43/ECC, as well as 9 species of amphibians and 4 species of reptiles from Annex IV to Council Directive 92/43/ECC. The “Grądy Odrzańskie” site hosts 22 species of birds listed in Annex I to Council Directive 79/409/EEC of 2 April 1979 on the conservation of wild birds and 11 species of migratory birds not listed in Annex I. During the breeding season the site is inhabited by at least 1% of the national population of the following species of birds: grey-headed woodpecker, black kite, collared flycatcher, grey heron; there is a relative density of: white stork, black stork, red kite, European honey buzzard, white-tailed eagle, little ringed plover, great grey shrike and middle spotted woodpecker. The environmental supervision team was composed of a botanic-entomologist, herpetologist and chiropterologist, who ensure the safety of natural environment at the investment implementation stage. After completion of the modernisation of embankments, no negative impact on the soil environment is expected, and there will be no risks to surface, ground or underground waters, nor will there be any risks to fauna and flora. (more information on individual naturally valuable areas, including species subject to protection, is available at http://obszary.natura2000.org.pl) 38 | IMPACT ON THE LOCAL ENVIRONMENT AND BIODIVERSITY BUDIMEX SA: G4-EN11, G4-EN13, G4-EN14 Construction of a bridge over the Vistula River near Kwidzyn (DK 90) Construction of a bridge over the Vistula, completed in 2013, was associated with certain environmental costs, especially as a result of work carried out in the riverbed, which meant losses in habitats of fish and lampreys. The investment related to the intersection of the Area of Special Protection of Birds “Dolina Dolnej Wisły” (PLB040003, 33,559 ha), the Refuge “Dolna Wisła” (PLH220033, 10,374.2 ha) as well as the Vistula Protected Landscape Area and the Protected Landscape Area of the Kwidzyn Valley. The following nature reserves: “Opalenie Dolne”, “Opalenie Górne”, “Wiosło Duże” and “Wiosło Małe” are also located in close proximity. As a result of the investment, the following habitats were partially occupied: extensively used hay meadows, lowland riverside herbs and flooded muddy river banks. In the area in which the investment was carried out, there were valuable species, including: • protected species of plants: Pulsatilla patens, Thesium ebracteatum Hayne and Cypripedium calceolus, • Protected species of animals: otter, beaver, Northern crested newt, firebellied toad, spined loach, loach, bitterling, Atlantic salmon, asp, European river lamprey, hermit beetle, • protected birds: common merganser, common shelduck, little tern, common tern, kingfisher, oystercatcher, corncrake, Mediterranean gull, little ringed plover, white-tailed eagle, common goldeneye, smew, red-backed shrike. The action plan envisaged both minimising impacts on existing habitats and compensating for the loss of nesting habitat of terns – for that purpose, replacement habitats on two barges anchored in the river have been designed. Experts reckon that within 2-3 years the natural regeneration of habitats of fish and lampreys species should take place. The investment led to irreversible destruction of the territories occupied for road purposes as well as of places and surfaces occupied for drainage facility purposes. As a result of construction works, the area of agricultural crops decreased as well. The total area that has been occupied amounts to approx. 715 ha. (more information on individual naturally valuable areas, including species subject to protection, is available at http://obszary.natura2000.org.pl) BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 39 BUDIMEX SA: G4-EN11, G4-EN13, G4-EN14 Construction of Pomeranian Metropolitan Railway (Revitalisation of Kokoszkowska Railway) The following sites subject to legal protection are located within the area of the investment: Tri-City Landscape Park, Strzyża Valley Wildlife and Landscape Complex, Nature Reserve “Dolina Strzyży”, Nature Reserve “Źródliska w dolinie Ewy”, Nature Reserve “Wąwoz Huzarów”, Natura 2000 site “Bunkier w Oliwie” (PLH220055, 0.1 ha). In the vicinity of the investment project, other forms of nature protection are also planned, including: Nature Reserve “Dolina Radości”, Nature Reserve “Dolina Samborowo i Dolina Zielona”, Nature Reserve “Wąwóz Huzarów” (planned extension), ecological site — Skarpy nad Strzyżą, ecological site — Morena, ecological site — Jaśkowe Parowy, ecological site — Jaśkowe Bluszcze. In the case of the “Dolina Strzyży” Nature Reserve, special attention should be paid to rich vascular flora, represented by at least 185 species of plants, including 14 protected plants (strictly: Lycopodium annotinum, Lycopodium clavatum, Huperzia selago, Polypodium vulgare, Anemone hepatica, Aconitum variegatum, Digitalis grandiflora, Daphne mezereum; partially: Hedera helix, Asarum europaeum, Convallaria majalis, Galium odoratum, Viburnum opulus and Rhamnus frangula) and a number of rare ones. Species with a sub-mountain and mountain distribution pattern constitute a relatively large group. Particular attention should be paid to the locality of Aconitum variegatum. In turn, the “Źródliska w dolinie Ewy” Nature Reserve hosts plant communities and flora typical both for the region as well as for sub-mountain and mountain areas. 194 species of vascular plants were found in the nature reserve. The nature reserve flora contains several protected species: Daphne mezereum, Hedera helix, Listera ovata, Galium odoratum and Convallaria majalis. The value of the nature reserve is also determined by the presence of a number of sub-mountain and mountain species in the flora, such as: Ajuga genevensis, Campanula trachelium, Epilobium roseum, Glyceria nemoralis, Lysimachia nemorum, Viola mirabilis, Alnus incana, Valeriana sambucifolia and Veronica montana. 117 species of vascular plants were found in the “Wąwóz Huzarów” nature reserve. Three of them are subject to strict protection (Blechnum spicant, Hepatica nobilis and Lycopodium annotinum) and four to partial protection (Hedera helix, Convallaria majalis, Rhamnus frangula and Galium odoratum). It is interesting to note the presence of several species with sub-mountain and mountain geographical distribution pattern, e.g. Sambucus racemosa, Glyceria nemoralis, Alnus incana, Veronica montana and Lysimachia nemorum. The identification of 9 species of plants listed on the list of endangered Most przez Wisłę koło Kwidzyna 40 | IMPACT ON THE LOCAL ENVIRONMENT AND BIODIVERSITY or threatened vascular plants of the West Pomerania proves the high quality of the nature reserve. These are the following plants: Actaea spicata, Ajuga pyramidalis, Moneses uniflora, Stellaria uliginosa, Glyceria nemoralis, Blechnum spicant, Veronica montana, Bromus and Vicia sylvatica. In turn, an old bunker, protected as “Bunkier w Oliwie”, is one the three largest wintering site for bats in the Pomeranian voivodeship (up to 103 individuals of 4 species: mouse-eared bat, Daubenton’s bat, Natterer’s bat and brown long-eared bat). The analyses conducted did not confirm a significant impact of the investment project on the naturally valuable areas listed above. (more information on individual naturally valuable areas, including species subject to protection, is available at http://obszary.natura2000.org.pl). BUDIMEX SA: G4-EN11, G4-EN13, G4-EN14] Continuation of the construction of the A4 motorway section between the Rzeszów Zachód interchange and the Rzeszów Centralny interchange. The investment project does not run directly through areas included in the European Ecological Network Natura 2000. The closest naturally valuable area is “Puszcza Sandomierska” (PLB180005; 129,115.6 ha). The area is a refuge for many bird species. Annex I of the Birds Directive lists species of birds occurring here: red-throated loon, black-throated loon, bittern, little bittern, black-crowned night heron, great egret, purple heron, black stork, white stork, ferruginous duck, honey buzzard, black kite, white-tailed eagle, short-toed snake eagle, western marsh harrier, lesser spotted eagle, osprey, red-footed falcon, peregrine falcon, spotted crake, little crake, corn crake, common crane, ruff, great snipe, common tern, whiskered tern, black tern, European nightjar, kingfisher, roller, grey-headed woodpecker, black woodpecker, middle spotted woodpecker, white-backed woodpecker, woodlark, tawny pipit, bluethroat, barred warbler, red-breasted flycatcher, red-backed shrike, ortolan, black grouse, Syrian woodpecker. The group of migrating birds that occur regularly here and are not listed in Annex I of the Birds Directive include: little grebe, red-necked grebe, greylag goose, northern shoveler, common goldeneye, common merganser, common kestrel, Eurasian hobby, common snipe, Eurasian woodcock, black-tailed godwit, whimbrel, Eurasian curlew, green sandpiper, European turtle dove, hoopoe, Eurasian wryneck, European green woodpecker, thrush nightingale, common grasshopper warbler, river warbler, Savi’s warbler, bearded reedling, great grey shrike, corn bunting. BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 41 The motorway will run parallel to the border of the Jastrzębie and Żdżary Protected Landscape Area, which hosts particularly valuable species of plants protected in the “Torfy” and “Słotownia” nature reserves. In the section between Ropczyce and Reszów, the route will additionally cross the Mielec, Kolbuszowa and Głogów Protected Landscape Area. The “Zabłocie” nature reserve was established there to protect rare species of nesting birds. The implementation of the planned project, due to the scope of works and designed environmental safeguards, will not have a significant adverse impact on the above areas. (more information on individual naturally valuable areas, including species subject to protection, is available at http:// obszary.natura2000.org.pl) BUDIMEX SA: G4-EN11, G4-EN13, G4-EN14 Continuation of the construction of the Tarnów – Rzeszów part of the A4 motorway for the section between the Krzyż junction and the Dębica Pustynia junction Part of the implemented investment project runs through the area subject to legal protection due to its high natural value, or in the immediate proximity of that area. Attention should be drawn to a special site of habitat conservation Natura 2000 “Dolny San i Wisłok” (pltmp211; 1,192.8 ha), Sokołów and Wilczowola Protected Landscape Area and the planned ecological site of “Stary Wisłok”. The protected sites host valuable, diversified fish fauna (“Dolny San i Wisłok”) — 29 fish species including, among others, nase, barbel, chub, bleak, roach and asp — a species declining in many European rivers. This site hosts or may host the following fish species listed in Annex II of the Habitats Directive: barbel, bullhead, spined loach, Amur Bitterling, European brook lamprey, Kessler’s gudgeon and spirlin, Eurasian minnow, vimba. This site is also inhabited by otters and beavers. Due to the large number of valuable fish species, any works that may cause murkiness in the water will be carried out outside their spawning season. The route of the investment project runs at some distance from the smallest Polish Natura 2000 site “Kołacznia” (PLH180006, 0.1 ha), in the vicinity of the “Puszcza Sandomierska” site (PLB180005, 129,115.6 ha) and 8 km from the “Wisłok Środkowy z dopływami” site (PLH180030, 1,064.6 ha). The first site is the only, apart from Volhynia and Polesia, Polish and European habitat of Rhododendron luteum. The second site is a valuable refuge for many birds. The “Wisłok Środkowy z dopływami” site is particularly valuable due to the protection of the Romanian barbel. According to an independent assessment, provision of appropriate solutions will ensure that the project does not pose a threat to the above sites. (more information on individual naturally valuable areas, including species subject to protection, is available at http:// obszary.natura2000.org.pl) Autostrada A4 Dębica-Rzeszów 42 | IMPACT ON THE LOCAL ENVIRONMENT AND BIODIVERSITY ECOLOGY AND SUBCONTRACTORS G4-EN32, G4-EN33, G4-EN34 In 2013, 1,589 contractors (100%) underwent pre-qualification regarding, among others, compliance with environmental rules. 7,722 assessments summarising cooperation were also conducted; they contain, among others, elements related to environmental protection. Specific risks are associated with work of subcontractors on construction sites and a threat that their activity may contribute to losses in the local biosphere or, in extreme cases, to environmental contamination (e.g. contamination of soil and groundwater with petroleum substances, paints and solvents) or fire. Therefore, it is extremely important that they follow their procedures, have relevant experience and fully functional equipment. Subcontractors (100%) entering construction sites receive appropriate training in applicable procedures in the field of environmental protection, including rules of conduct in the event of failure. Contractors’ equipment (in relation to e.g. the issue of leakage of fuel) is assessed to check its technical efficiency. Among cases reported to the Ethics Committee, no reports regarding environment were recorded. There were no significant incidents related to suppliers and subcontractors. However, ongoing observation of the work of subcontractors, which is reflected in final assessments of the suppliers, led to the identification of 362 irregularities, of which 23 were related to environmental protection. In the preceding year, 118 irregularities were identified, including 71 related to environmental protection. Based on 7,722 final assessments, it can be estimated that irregularities related to environmental protection may occur in the case of 0.3% of subcontractors. DoubleTree by Hilton w Łodzi BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 43 Waste management G4-EN23 An important area of management asbestos. This includes mainly asterfere with the biosphere are limited associated with the potential imbestos-cement tile roofing coming to the necessary minimum, however, pact on the environment is waste from demolished buildings. Budimex logging often cannot be avoided management. Incorrectly stored, imand its companies guarantee that (e.g. to clean the lane for a future properly treated wastes generated such works are carried out with the road). This also applies, on a smallon construction sites may adverseutmost care, and that hazardous er scale, to industrial and residential ly affect the local biosphere. Also, material is properly managed by an construction. In practice, because if not treated properly, they always entity holding the appropriate perof economic attractiveness, wood mean a loss of resources valuable missions. As a result, there is no risk is usually managed by the investor for the economy (see chapter “Mateto people and the local biosphere. who commissioned the execution rials and raw materials”). In the case of works by the Budimex Group. of business activity conducted by The occurrence of wastes, such as The tasks of contractor include the the Budimex Group, in particular by those that are generated during the removal of rootstocks, boughs and Budimex itself, these are mainly typremoval of hazardous asbestos-ceremnants of shrubs. They can be ically construction waste: earth and ment, properly illustrates stages utilised for the benefit as well. Most rubble as well as waste from repair of work — in 2011, it was the most often they are handed over to other and demolition of buildings and road frequent item among the hazardentities and used as fuel. The chipinfrastructure. It is also worth noting ous waste repor ted by Budimex ping process, i.e. clear-cutting by that there are site offices and labora(76.0 tonnes), while in 2012 there special machines, also makes them tories on construction sites. Their opwas almost no waste of this type a valuable gardening material. In eration may generate some amounts (3.3 tonnes). In turn, in 2013 hazard2013, due to the nature of carried out of wastes that may contain residues ous waste again included materials works, the volume of wastes formalof hazardous substances. containing asbestos (55.1 tonnes). ly classified as wastes from forestry and waste plant matter increased The volume of waste and its compoSoil, earth, stone, and all excavated from approx. 0.5 thousand tonnes in sition depends strongly on the nummaterial generated during excava2012 to approx. 11 thousand tonnes. ber of contracts and their progress tions are specific wastes, with key (stage). It is also worth mentioning significance for waste management. In conclusion, less than 0.004% of that the volume of waste often does Each year, they represent the largest the waste produced by the comnot depend on the company itself, volume of wastes. Earth removed pany is considered dangerous (if but on the specific nature of a conis then reused directly on the conwe exclude from the volume of tract. The key category of waste construction site or — if for some reason wastes the amount of soil, earth sists of various kinds of brick and conits excess has to be removed — it and dredge spoil from excavations, crete rubble, often mixed with other is used elsewhere. From the formal this percentage is less than 0.047%) . materials originating from the demopoint of view, it is recognised as lition of buildings and infrastructure waste in the latter case; however, in Detailed information on the amount facilities, which have to be removed practice, it is a reutilised raw material of waste is provided in the tables at so that an investment project can of full value8. the end of the report. be implemented. Last year, removed asphalt was also one of the major Execution of contracts, especially items. A good example of waste road contracts in forest and woodthat is dangerous to the environland areas, involves logging trees ment and that occurs among wastes and removing shrubs. As it was menformally generated by Budimex is tioned before, such actions which in8 W niniejszym raporcie gleba i ziemia są w tabelach pokazywane odrębnie, żeby ze względu na znaczący wolumen nie dominować reszty odpadów. 44 | RELATIONS WITH LOCAL COMMUNITIES 7 RELATIONS WITH LOCAL COMMUNITIES Reducing nuisance SO DMA, G4-SO1, G4-SO2 The implementation of investment Over the years, the Budimex Group projects, including infrastructural has contributed directly to the creprojects, translates into tangible and ation of hundreds of kilometres of measurable social and economic roads, many bridges, industrial facilibenefits. Roads, railways and airports ties, as well as theatres, concert halls are the bloodstream of the econoand hospitals. my and determine its development. New schools, universities, hospitals However, investments in the impleand other public facilities translate mentation phase generate not only into an increase in the level of social positive effects such as jobs and orlife. They often have a crucial imporders for local entrepreneurs. Constructance for people living nearby, i.e. for tion works also mean the occurrence the local community. Although much of nuisance. The potential impact on is said about the importance of road neighbouring areas of an investment and rail infrastructure for the national project is also a matter of analysis at economy, the perspective of a parthe stage of issuing relevant adminticular municipality or municipalities istrative decisions authorising the allows us to see what great value such commencement of works. Adminisinvestments bring into their lives; as trative processes are transparent and sometimes they create new opporrepresentatives of local communities tunities and possibilities for them. A are considered a party to the adminstriking example of the above was istrative proceedings. During the the commissioning of a bridge over implementation phase, actions are the Vistula River near Kwidzyn in 2013. undertaken to reduce the nuisance of Two Pomeranian regions, Powiśle and investment for residents. Building maKociewie, two separated communities terials, including thousands of tonnes living along the Vistula River, waited of soil, aggregates, concrete or bitu20 years for this crossing that brought men, must be delivered to the conthem closer to each other. struction site, which means increased BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 45 traffic and noise. Another frequent impact on environment. The company issue is the change of road markings feels responsible for incidents caused and traffic obstructions, which imby it, affecting the property of local pede the daily lives of residents. The residents. In 2013, the insurer paid, on company responds to any worrying behalf of the company, 7 compensasignals and complaints. It is aware of tions for damage to buildings adjacent being only a guest in the community to Budimex construction sites. Total for which it operates. This means a repayments amounted to almost PLN sponsibility. 117 thousand. Unfortunately, sometimes unintentional damages occur, despite executing the construction works with utmost care and despite the attention paid by the company to reducing the COMMUNITIES AND SUBCONTRACTORS G4-SO9, G4-SO10 In 2013, 1,589 subcontractors (100%) underwent pre-qualification regarding, inter alia, elements of the assessment in terms of technical capacity, meeting the quality requirements, occupational health and safety, respect for workers’ rights and environmental protection. Although, among these criteria the aspect of impact on the local community was not defined explicitly, it is included in other activities. Minimising disturbance to the local community is directly related to compliance with fixed hours of work and moving only on designated access roads, and this, in turn, is associated with the fulfilment of quality requirements and compliance with employment laws. Noise that irritates people or dust from the construction site is nothing but a violation of the principles relating to the environmental protection. One could cite numerous examples, but all these aspects are an element of the assessment of subcontractors, who may directly cause disturbances for the residents. These issues are assessed during both the prequalification and final evaluations. All incidents and complaints of residents are reported directly to contract managers. This allows us to immediately diagnose the problem and undertake corrective actions. Due to the lack of specification of the category of impact on the local community in qualification surveys and surveys summarising cooperation, possible violations are recorded statistically in other categories. 46 | RELATIONS WITH LOCAL COMMUNITIES Compensating communities for nuisance G4-SO1 In most cases, by paying significant the same time, for several years the attention to the needs and concompany has been implementing cerns of communities, it is possible a social project of an entirely differto significantly reduce the nuisance. ent nature, addressed to students It, however, cannot be completeof technical universities, called “Akaly eliminated. Therefore, Budimex demia Budimex” (Budimex Academy). feels compelled to compensate for the disadvantages to communities Although these two programmes in a different way. As a result, it inconstitute the core of the carried out itiates, gets involved in and implesocial activities, the company tries, as ments a number of social activities. far as possible, to provide support by collaborating with recognised NGOs. Under the above assumption, the target beneficiaries of the compaIn 2013, the company donated monny’s long-term activities are mainey to the “Na Ratunek Dzieciom z ly communities living close to the Chorobą Nowotworową” Foundation implemented investment projects. for the treatment of children and to In some cases these are large cities, the construction of “Przylądek Nawhile in other cases — small villages. dziei” – Clinic of Bone Marrow TransThe foundation of activities addressed plantation, Oncology and Children’s to local communities are two parallel Haematology of the Wrocław Medical programmes addressed to children. University. The “Wróć” Foundation for The first one, “Domofon ICE”, has Children Injured in Transportation Acbeen implemented since 2010. The cidents received funds from Budimex second one, “Strefa Rodzica. Budimex for the purchase of paediatric LokoDzieciom” (Parent Zone. Budimex mat – a modern device for walking Domofon ICE w Sokolnikach for Children), was started in 2012. At therapy and evaluation. BUDIMEX SA: Domofon ICE “Domofon ICE” is a programme launched in 2010. It involves providing grade 0-3 schoolchildren with plastic cards with contact details of their next of kin to be contacted in the event of an emergency. Additionally, the campaign has a broader educational dimension as it promotes the principles of road safety and first aid among young people. All children participating in the programme receive mobile phone-shaped cards together with a fluorescent holder that can easily be fixed to a backpack. Thus far, the programme has included over 12 thousand children from 92 schools nationwide. In 2013 alone, 4,095 children from 18 schools joined the programme. More on: www.domofonice.pl. BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 47 Agnieszka Grochowska Ambasadorka Strefy Rodzica Budimex has also been helping Jacek Budimex, whose registered office is loGaworski, a prominent Polish fencer cated close to one of the most beausuffering from multiple sclerosis. In tiful Polish necropolises, has been a 2013, the company helped to cover long-time supporter of the J. Walthe costs of experimental treatment dorff Social Committee for the Stare of a spinal tumour he had been diagPowązki Cemetery in Warsaw. In 2013, nosed with. the company provided funds to save historical chapels and tombstones. In response to social demand, the company became a partner of the Apart from community, charity and “Budimex Półmaraton Augustowski”, a sponsoring initiatives, the company half marathon race organised to proalso carried out educational activities, mote healthy lifestyle. It is the largest supporting the organisation of prorunning event in the region, and its fessional and industry conferences, 2013 edition drew a record-breaking congresses and seminars. Budimex number of participants. representatives participated in many of those as experts. As in previous years, the company remains involved in the organisation of Last year, Budimex Group made multhe Polish Sailing Championship for tiple donations totalling over PLN 585 the Disabled. The year 2013 witnessed thousand, of which PLN 548 thousand the 19th edition of this event. was provided by Budimex. 48 | RELATIONS WITH LOCAL COMMUNITIES BUDIMEX SA: Strefa rodzica. Budimex Dzieciom (Parent Zone. Budimex for children) Strefa Rodzica. Budimex Dzieciom (Parent Zone. Budimex for children) is a programme aiming to provide children’s departments at hospitals with isolated zones, where parents can spend time with their sick children in decent conditions. Depending on the needs and conditions in individual hospitals, this can involve refurbishing an unused space or part of a corridor, equipping the hospital with an appropriate number of folding beds or sanitary devices, and organising a place to rest and play with the children. “Parent Zone” also involves the personal engagement of Budimex employees, who volunteer to outfit renovated spaces, help in the assembly and placing of furniture, and do small finishing works. They also organise private fundraising events to purchase toys that will stay in the Parent Zones. In 2013, Budimex launched four Parent Zones in children’s hospitals in Lublin, Białystok, Łódź and Katowice. All Zones launched in 2013 can be used by approx. 11,000 children a year. More on: www.strefarodzica.budimex.pl Strefa Rodzica w Katowicach BUDIMEX NIERUCHOMOŚCI: Collaboration with local communities in Poznań Next to the currently developed “Na Smolnej” estate in Poznań, there is the Parish of Our Lady of Immaculate Conception. It provides its premises for the needs of a community centre that takes care of children and youth. Rent is free, so the parish does not have the resources to equip the premises. As part of the actions taken, Budimex Nieruchomości equipped the premises used by the community centre with a set of furniture and modern lighting. BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 49 BUDIMEX NIERUCHOMOŚCI: Support by employing unemployed single mothers In 2013, Budimex Nieruchomości established cooperation with residents of the Crisis Intervention Centre “Dom Otwartych Serc” in Otwock, run by Caritas. Two women were employed to clean service premises in Apartamenty Murano (approx. 1,500 m2). Budimex Academy, established in establish cooperation with top stucollaboration with Polish technical dents who undertook apprenticeuniversities, is another dimension ships in Budimex, completing the of Budimex social activity. It can be fourth year of study, and who would said that this programme is a social like to work for the Budimex Group. Its investment of the Group and helps participants receive a monthly scholto provide young, well-educated arship throughout the academic year engineers to the whole construc(i.e. the last year of their studies) and tion industry. It is a free educational have a guarantee of employment afinitiative, launched in spring 2009. ter graduation. Promoting the best It consists of a series of professional students of technical faculties also workshops addressed to students includes the “Build your future” comof building, road, bridge and railway petition. It is the competition for the construction, as well as environment best and most interesting master’s engineering studies. Training includes thesis, addressed to students in their the use of modern technologies and final year of full-time Civil Engineeradvanced solutions in civil and transing, Transport and Environmental port engineering, discussed based on Engineering of the Technical Univerthe example of contracts executed sity of Warsaw, Kraków, Poznań, West by the Budimex Group. At the same Pomeranian University of Technology time, the annual Summer Internship and University of Warmia and MaProgramme is conducted, addressed zury. A total of 6,000 students have mainly to students of technical uniparticipated in the four previous versities. On the other hand, the goal editions of the Budimex Academy. of the Scholarship Programme is to Strefa Rodzica w Łodzi 50 | PREVENTION OF UNETHICAL BEHAVIOUR AND INTEGRITY IN OPERATIONS 8 PREVENTION OF UNETHICAL BEHAVIOUR AND INTEGRITY IN OPERATIONS SO DMA The nature of the company’s busiof rules for dealing with suspected G4-LA10 ness activity, i.e. implementation of abusive acts or omissions, including These trainings are perfectly comhigh-value contracts, entails a poallegations of corruption. Proceedpatible with other comprehensive tential risk of unethical behaviour of ings resulting from the procedure are development measures, the goal of a corrupt nature. Additionally, the coordinated by the Office of Internal which is to provide Budimex with fact that most of them are financed Audit supervised by the CEO. staff with the highest qualifications with public funds creates particular and systematise the knowledge of commitment towards society to enG4-SO4 management. They supplement sure that all processes are carried out Budimex Executives participate in the competence development proin a transparent manner, are monispecial training concerning issues gramme of “Project Management tored and controlled and that even of ethics in business operations and Academy”, which enables managers the smallest doubts are analysed. A their impact on building relations to acquire the skills of effective manrisk map, updated on an annual basis, with different groups of stakeholdagement of existing and new conidentifies, among other things, risks ers. They also relate to the subject of tracts in a changing market environassociated with unethical behaviour corruption, attempts at corruption ment. At the same time, the Group and the threat of fraud. All business and intimidation, and broadly unruns other managerial programmes, risks, including those mentioned derstood safety. The last training of e.g. the Leadership Development above, are monitored. Procedures are this kind, attended by 57 persons: diProgram (within the Ferrovial Group). streamlined and actions are taken to rectors from the production division eliminate or minimise the likelihood and contract managers (i.e. 1.9% of of occurrence of specific threats. The all employees), was held fairly recentgoal is to prevent any forms of bribly — in 2012. Due to the staff having ery or corruption. Integrated manalready been trained, these trainings agement system, in the procedure were not planned in 2013. They were of “Protecting the interests of the Buresumed, i.e. another edition of these dimex Group” (05-08), defines a set trainings was commenced, in 2014. BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 51 Monitoring of threats SO-DMA, G4-SO3 All contracts (100% of construction tractors and support services. For values in business itself results in an projects) are constantly monitored for over a dozen contracts, the Office increasing number of reprehensible proper implementation, including the carried out random inspections of, phenomena in the modern world. risk of corruption. Monitoring of the e.g. measurements of completed On the other hand, when people act progress of selected contract works production and settlement of purbased on ethical values, the threat was made on a monthly, bi-weekly or chased and incorporated materials. is much smaller. That is why comeven weekly basis. At the same time, An inspection of the final settlepanies attach much importance to independent inspections are carried ment of purchased and incorporatvalue management and ethical beout, supervised by the Office of Internal ed building materials for completed haviour. There is a reason for ethical Control. It is an interdisciplinary team, contracts was also carried out. The actions to be so strongly reflected in consisting of experts in the fields of value of identified excessive shortthe Mission of the Budimex Group. economics and finance, as well as conages in absolute terms was immaBribery and corruption are unambigstruction experts: a general constructerial. uously stigmatised in the organisation engineer, construction and engitional culture of the Group, and any neering structures engineer, structural The issue of corruption and bribunethical behaviour must be strictly engineer and environmental engineer. ery can, however, be viewed from punished, in full cooperation with They all are highly qualified internal aua broader perspective, i.e. not only competent authorities of the state ditors holding professional competenthrough the transparency of proadministration. cies and psychologically prepared to cesses and firm reactions to all danconduct inspections. gerous incidents. In the opinion of the Budimex Group, corruption and In 2013, employees of the Of fice bribery are part of a wider phenomcompleted all audits approved in enon, related to values, ethics and the annual audit plan. A total of 63 integrity in business. The crisis of reports of audits performed were prepared, containing approx. 100 follow-up recommendations. All these recommendations were implemented by the end of 2013, contributing to the reduction of operational risk. Such measures are a highly effective organisation improvement tool. Thanks to them, Budimex can quickly adapt to changing market conditions, including the possible new types of threats. As a result, identified irregularities don’t include irregularities with a very high importance to the interests of the Budimex Group. In addition to planned audits, employees of the Of fice of Internal Control also conducted a number of other audits, including audits concerning cooperation with subconWschodnie Innowacyjne Centrum Architektury Politechniki Lubelskiej w Lublinie 52 | PREVENTION OF UNETHICAL BEHAVIOUR AND INTEGRITY IN OPERATIONS Clear and fair principles in relations with counterparties Budimex is a reliable and trustworseemingly prosaic issue as the obserthy business partner. It cooperates vance of dates of payments to supannually with approx. 12 thousand pliers and subcontractors. The timely counterparties, who value the comsettlement of payments, especially pany for meeting its obligations. To in difficult times for the construction expect a partner to keep their word, market, has become a distinguishing one must also be honest. Honest feature of the Budimex Group, valued relations are nothing more but just by its suppliers and subcontractors. keeping promises, including such structure as at trade liabilities (gross) 31.12.2013 (%) a) current 87,2% b) overdue: 12,8% –– up to 1 month 1,2% –– 1–3 months 2,5% –– 3–6 months 1,6% –– over 6 months 7,5% Total trade liabilities 100,0% The above overdue payments don’t result from unjustified retaining of terparties” attachment is appended counterparty, it is always assessed funds by Budimex. Outstanding payto contracts with suppliers. It specifies on the basis of a prequalif ying ments usually result from such events expectations related to: questionnaire. The questionnaire as a delay in the performance of • compliance with the law, consists of a supplier’s services by a supplier due to which • business ethics, declaration of compliance with the acceptance of works cannot be • respect for Human Rights, ap p lic ab l e re gulatio ns in su ch completed. This results in an auto• relations with and between a rea s a s : l a b o u r l a w, O HS a n d matic suspension of the payment. employees, environmental prote c tion. T he obligations to third parties and the co n ditio n fo r sup p lier ’s p re HR DMA, G4-HR1, G4-HR10, G4-HR11, market, qualification is the approval of G4-HR12 • respect for the environment the declaration. Thus, all key Reliability should be expected from suppliers and subcontrac tors both parties to a relation. Therefore, A s su m in g t h at a n e w su p p li e r (10 0 %) w e r e s u b j e c te d to t h e in exchange for its honesty, Budimex i s co n s i d e r e d t o b e a n e n t i t y e v a l u at i o n ( p re q u a l i f i c at i o n). also expects honesty from its counterwhich is chosen for the first time At th e end of th e co op er ation parties. A “Code of conduct for counfrom the purchasing table as a they were also subjected to final BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 53 evaluation. T he evaluations do not only apply to key suppliers. The company par ticularly seek s that significant agreements with key counterparties, often despite of weaker bargaining p ower of Budimex, are supplemented with a special appendix related to ethical issues — their number was as follows: Wola Center w Warszawie 2012 2013 Significant framework agreements concluded in 27 25 the calendar year Including agreements containing the ethical clause 21 19 % of significant agreements with ethical clause 77,8% 76,0% Taking into account all subcontractors, not just the most important ones, increasing numbers of pre-qualifications (pre-qualifying questionnaires) and final evaluations are made with each passing year: 2012 2013 Number of qualifying questionnaires 1471 1589 Number of final evaluations 2194 7722 Number of identified irregularities 118 362 % of final evaluations during which irregularities 5,4% 4,7% were identified Compared to the previous year, the ronmental protection were identified. number of final evaluations has inThis means that such irregularities creased significantly, which resulted were identified only in the case of in a greater number of identified ir0.3% of all evaluated counterparties regularities. However, their relative and suppliers, despite the fact that number has slightly decreased, which the monitoring conducted by OHS confirms the improving quality of coand environmental protection cooroperation. The significant decline in dinators working directly on contract the share of irregularities related to sites has been significantly tightened. OHS and the environment is imporIn 2013, most objections were raised tant, especially in the context of other in connection with failures to meet aspects of sustainable development. deadlines, insufficient quality of ofWhile in the previous year these catfered products and the associated egories of irregularities dominated unsatisfactory technical potential. No the final evaluations, in 2013 only 23 cases of human rights violations were irregularities related to OHS and, simidentified at the evaluated entities. ilarly, 23 irregularities related to envi54 | PREVENTION OF UNETHICAL BEHAVIOUR AND INTEGRITY IN OPERATIONS Code of Ethics G4-SO-DMA, G4-56 G4-HR3, G4-HR10, G4-HR11, G4-HR12 Provisions that strongly condemn any The Committee monitors the compliBudimex SA and to the director of the form of unethical behaviour, includance of applicable standards of probranch. Thereby, last year there were no ing corruption and bribery, were also fessional ethics with the rules of the cases of complaints related to employincluded in the Code of Ethics of the Code of Ethics. Every employee can ee relations, corruption or bribery and Budimex Group. The Code also clearly anonymously inform the Committee violation of human rights. condemns all forms of discrimination. about identified violations of the Code. In the chapter “Obszary szczególnego All cases reported to the Ethics ComThe Ethics Committee, during its meetprzestrzegania wartości etycznych” mittee are analysed by employees ings in 2013, analysed the possibility (Areas of Special Observance of Ethof the Office of Internal Control or by to increase the number of ways of ical Values), it states that it “does not employees of the Human Resources notifying the Committee of identified tolerate discrimination and imposition Management Division. Following the irregularities. In April 2013, on its initiaof views, especially due to gender, orinspection of each report, written intive, information on the Code of Ethics igin, religion, age, political views and formation is prepared along with recwas published in the new version of the position held; in daily relations ommendations or guidelines for furthe Budinet intranet portal (including with employees it does not accept vither action for relevant organisational a reminder of unethical activities that olation of privacy or abuse of profesunits. The Committee considers cases should be reported to the Ethics Comsional position for private goals; the of Code violation and it provides guidemittee). Employees are also reminded, company ensures good employment lines regarding the rules set forth thereon an ongoing basis, of the e-mail adconditions for their employees and in, adhering to confidence standards. dresses that can be used to send inforit creates an environment that gives mation to the Ethics Committee. considerable possibilities of profesThe importance that the authorities of sional development and promotion Budimex attach to the prevention of In 2013, employees of the Office of and it does its best to employ people unethical behaviour and all forms of Internal Control organised and conwith varied level of experience in the discrimination is best evidenced by the ducted several internal trainings on organisation”. The Code of Ethics apfact that the report on the operations construction sites during which, in adplies to all companies covered by this of the Ethics Committee is submitted dition to discussing production-related report. every year to the Management Board matters, they also reminded employees and Audit Committee of the Superviabout respecting the rules of ethics and Compliance with the provisions of the sory Board. In 2013, the Ethics Commitconducting operations in accordance Code of Ethics is monitored by the tee received only one anonymous nowith the Code of Ethics. Additionally, Ethics Committee, comprising: tification concerning an employee of during the meetings with the direc• Member of the Management one of the company’s branches. Case tors of the General Construction East Board, Human Resources analysis did not confirm the allegations region, General Construction West Manager, mentioned in the notification. In addiregion and Transport Infrastructure, • Member of the Management tion, it unambiguously indicated that the issue of ethics in the collaboration Board, Chief Legal Officer, this was a deliberate false accusation of with suppliers and subcontractors were • Director of the Office of Interembezzlement. The Committee’s opinalso addressed, as well as execution of nal Audit. ion on that case was submitted to the construction investment projects with President of the Management Board of respect to the environment. 9 At the same time, the Work Regulations of Budimex guarantee respect for human rights and prevent discrimination in employment. BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 55 Human rights and compliance with law G4-SO6, G4-HR3, G4-HR4, G4-HR5, G4-HR6 The Budimex Group does not employ of freedom of association and avoidchildren, as declared in chapter XIV ance of all forms of discrimination, are of the Work Regulations. No cases of defined in a standard ethical attachcompulsory labour or child labour ment to contracts and constitute their were noted in the Budimex Group or integral part. None of the Budimex the reviewed counterparties in 2013. Group companies financed political These aspects, along with the matter parties. Budimex Mostostal Budimex SA Counterparties Nieruchomości Kraków [G4-HR3] Total number of reported cases of discrimination and actions None None None None taken in this regard [G4-HR4] Identified activities that could pose a threat to the freedom of None None None None association and the right to collective disputes [G4-HR5] Identified incidents of use None None None None of child labour [G4-HR6] Identified incidents of use None None None None of forced and compulsory labour G4-SO7 Since 2013 Budimex Nieruchomości tify the opening of proceedings on the specific actions or ordering certain achas been a subject of proceedings on ban on practices that infringe collective tions have been made. the company’s use of practices that consumer interests within the meaning infringe collective consumer interests of Article 24 of the Act on competition G4-PR9 within the meaning of Article 24 section and consumer protection, and whether In 2013, there were no fines for non2 item 1 of the Act on competition and there was a violation of the interests of compliance with laws or regulations consumer protection (pending). Second consumers that would justify actions concerning the provision and use of investigation proceedings have also specified in relevant Acts (pending). As products and services. been initiated to establish whether the at the time of drawing up this report, actions of Budimex Nieruchomości jusno administrative decisions prohibiting 56 | QUALITY AND SAFETY OF CONSTRUCTION SITES 9 QUALITY AND SAFETY OF CONSTRUCTION SITES Quality management PR DMA, G4-PR1 To ensure the highest quality and, deliveries and assembly of objects of consequently, safety of constructions, general, industrial and transport concompanies of the Budimex Group imstruction in compliance with the folplement investment projects based lowing standards: PN-EN ISO 9001, PNon procedures. Their observance not EN ISO 14001, PN-N 18001. Budimex only guarantees a consistently high Nieruchomości is the only company quality of work, but also ensures the that doesn’t have any officially certiimprovement of processes. Integrated fied management systems. Management System has been implemented in Budimex, comprising: qualMostostal Kraków, due to the naity management system according to ture of its activities, holds numerous PN-EN ISO 90001, environmental mancertificates and permits for manuagement system according to PN-EN facturing, assembly and repairs to ISO 14001, OHS management system steel structures, pressure and lifting according to PN-N-18001 and quality equipment, construction of road and assurance system based on requirerailway bridges and for carrying out ments of the NATO standard AQAP welding works, conducting destruc2110. All these systems are certified tive and non-destructive research, by external entities. As in the case training and examining of welders; of Mostostal Kraków, the Integrated issued by, among others, the Office of Quality Management System includes Technical Inspection, Universität (TH) the systems of environmental manKarlsruhe, Institute of Welding Techagement and OHS within the range of nology, Ministry of Infrastructure and comprehensive investment execution, the Polish Chamber of Steelworks. In BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 57 February 2013, the Office of Technical methods of obtaining materials, to the Inspection, branch in Kraków, granted steps to be taken in case of deviations to Mostostal Kraków licence UC-12from the requirements of the stand90-W/1-13 for manufacturing: combusard. They specify patterns of operation tible material transmission pipelines, in the case of identifying irregularities toxic or caustic material transmission at various stages of the construction pipelines, non-pressure and low-presprocess, implementation of preventive sure tanks for combustible liquids, or corrective measures. The define the non-pressure and low-pressure tanks method of controlling construction infor toxic and caustic material. vestment projects in order to ensure high quality of works. In turn, Budimex Nieruchomości has received the Developer Certificate, In 2013, as part of protective measures, awarded by the Polish Association of the company implemented a system Construction Industry Employers, for to record repair costs incurred during over 10 years. The certificate is awardthe warranty period. Analysis of caused to companies which are consides of faults will enable the company ered credible and reliable partners by to take measures in order to minimise the independent experts composing them. As a result, not only will it be the panel of the Developer Certificate. possible to further improve perforThe best measure of the reliability of mance in terms of quality, but this will Budimex Nieruchomości is that alalso contribute to better control and though the company has built several cost reduction. thousand apartments, it has never exceeded a deadline for their commissioning. Solutions adopted by Budimex are a good example of the operation of the process approach in quality management. At the same time, the operation of this company is of utmost importance for the image of the Group, both due to the volume of turnover, as well as due to its superior role in relation to other entities of the Budimex Group. The procedures applicable in Budimex define in great detail the process of quality management in the Company, with particular emphasis on construction processes. It specifies the procedures for quality control on construction sites, including managing the quality of mineral-asphalt mixes, concrete mixes and aggregates. They define very precisely the responsibility of individuals, including technicians and laboratory (as well as field laboratory) staff for quality control and responsibility of contract directors and contract managers for the quality of implemented investment projects. They define the way of monitoring and laboratory testing raw materials used. The procedures describe the actions globally: from the criteria and Centrum Biologii Medycznej w Poznaniu 58 | QUALITY AND SAFETY OF CONSTRUCTION SITES Research laboratories and reliable quality control Budimex has its own, extensive labmineral-asphalt mixes. The verification oratory and technological facilities. and reassessment carried out by the This allows for the performance of auditors during the accreditation proefficient ongoing control of quality cess covered, among others, the folof construction works and follow-up lowing aspects: assurance of quality of analysis. In 2013, the company’s laboresults of laboratory tests, competency ratories were located in 18 regions of of staff, equipment and assurance of Poland. An important achievement in measurement traceability, impartiality 2013 was the extension by the Central and independence, implementation of Laboratory of Budimex of the scope research and measurement processes. of accreditation of the Polish Centre for Accreditation (PCA) (accreditation Accreditation is a formal acknowlnumber AB1414 ) granted in 2012. The edgement of the competence in the scope of accreditation included mescope of assessment of compliance by chanical tests and physical properties a statutory authorised administrative of building materials, buildings and body. It directly translates into stronger sampling of concrete, aggregate and confidence in the results of tests and inspections. Increased reliability of assessments carried out by Budimex directly contributes to the reduction of risk in business relations. Accreditation is an objective and undisputable proof that the organisation operates in accordance with the best practice, limits the number of defective products, reduces costs of control and production and enables the implementation of innovative solutions. With its own laboratories, Budimex collaborates with renowned research and scientific institutions. It participates, on a regular basis, in comparative laboratory tests and proficiency tests, bearing in mind the need to constantly improve research methods and, as a result, increase customer satisfaction. As part of the activity related to increasing the level of quality in the company and constant improvement, Budimex is a member of the Polish Asphalt Pavement Association and Pollab. Membership and participation in the activities of these organisations enaLaboratorium bles the development of processes and technological trainings. 10 http://www.pca.gov.pl/zakresy/zakresy.php?d=AB&z=AB%201414 4 BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 59 Quality performance G4-PR2 Ever since the time when in 2011 the Budimex results are constantly not From the management point of view, Department of Technology of GDDKiA only good, but also much better than the Quality Conformance (QC) ratio, for the first time published the results the average result for the market: last calculated for internal needs, has key of its analyses of quality of works of year the percentage of challenged importance for quality assessment. individual contractors, Budimex has samples in Budimex was 11.4%, while It defines the compliance of results always been ranked as one of the for all tested samples from the market with the applicable quality standards. best rated contractors. It is worth notthis ratio was 16.6% (without Budimex, In the entire 2013, this ratio amounting that every year Budimex provided i.e. for the competitors of Budimex — ed to 93%, i.e. only 7% of results was a large number of samples. For ex17.9%). This means that for the entire negative. It should be noted that tests ample, in 2012 7.7 thousand samples market, samples were challenged 46% conducted during GDDKiA’s analyses out of all 44 thousand tested sammore often (without Budimex — 57% constitute only approx. 10% of tests ples (17.4%) came from Budimex. Last more often). Most importantly, thanks conducted by Budimex. This result year, 4.7 thousand samples out of 23 to the approach of the organisation confirms, even more clearly, the high thousand samples tested during the to quality management, the results of quality of investment projects implefirst three quarters were provided by Budimex are gradually improving. mented by the company. Budimex (20.2%). Most importantly, 2012 2012 2013* % of challenged samples — Budimex 12.6% 12,6% 11,4% G4-PR1 G4-PR2 Speaking of quality of workmanship, ment also acts as a research and deAll the above certificates, manageone cannot forget about its impact velopment unit. This is where new, ment systems, procedures and the on the safety of users. In this case, innovative ideas are created. The dedaily efforts of many people allow us the quality of workmanship or matepartment also decides on the use of to maintain the highest quality and rials used is essential. Speaking of the specific materials and raw materials, accuracy. The Budimex Group means safety of users, one should consider so that they ensure safety of the faa professional, experienced team the different stages of life of a prodcility under construction. At the stage with unique skills and responsible uct — a motorway, flyover, bridge, of execution, as mentioned above, people, allowing us to provide safe industrial structure or a flat in an the quality of used materials and raw premises. The best proof of this is the apartment block. Responsibility for materials and their compliance with absence of incidents, not to mention safety begins at the design stage and the project requirements and the acconstruction disasters, for any of the extends further to the stage of concuracy of workmanship is supervised facilities built by the Budimex Group. struction and further maintenance of by, among others, Budimex mobile Another proof consists of the numerthe facility. Although the role of the laboratories. They collect samples ous awards. Our concern for quality is Group’s companies is often limited to from already constructed sections of confirmed by the fact that Budimex Nithe mere execution, especially in the roads and analyse their compliance eruchomości has delivered over 7,000 case of infrastructure, the designers’ with the standards. apartments — all completed on time. work is extremely important for the Group. Budimex Technical Depart* W chwili opracowywania raportu dostępne były wyłącznie wyniki dla trzech kwartałów 2013 r. 60 | RATIONAL USE OF RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION 10 RATIONAL USE OF RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION EN DMA The production cycle, i.e. the lead er the raw materials for the constructime, usually substantially exceeds the tion of foundation, or embankments, 12-month reporting period. A demand will be used, as well as the concrete for specific materials and raw materials and reinforcing steel necessary for is highly variable, depending on the the construction of certain elements stage of the given construction site. of infrastructure (such as flyovers). In Additionally, cash flows are not necesturn, the aggregate and bituminous sarily correlated with the demand for mixtures, required for the production raw materials and energy. Moreover, of asphalt surface, will be needed at due to the cyclical nature of some orthe later stages of construction. In ders, some investment projects are at addition, the operation of bitumen the same stage at the same time. As a plants owned by Budimex is associresult, the analysis of consumption of ated with an increased demand for individual materials, fuels and energy heat generated by the combustion on a period to period basis is very diffiof fuel oil. As a result, the analysis of cult in the construction industry. When effectiveness of the demand for maanalysing the dynamics, we should be terials, raw materials, fuel and energy aware of that volatility. conducted on an annual basis and compared to revenue is extremely In the case of road construction, many misleading and unreliable in the case materials classified as waste (concrete of construction industry. and brick rubble from the demolition of existing buildings, plant matter and soil) can appear at the initial stage. LatBUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 61 Materials and raw materials G4-EN1,G4-EN2, G4-EN23, CRE8 The value engineering (VE) process implemented in Budimex is used to manDue to the nature of the business acage the effective use of materials and tivity, virtually all materials and raw raw materials. It allows for optimisation materials used are non-renewable. For of the use of materials and for reducalmost all of them, it is also difficult to ing the amount of waste produced, talk about recycling. The life cycle of inthereby reducing the negative impact frastructure facilities is extremely long, on the environment. As for the cateand therefore it cannot be determined gories of the most important materials, to what extent the facilities built today they vary depending on the nature of will be used in the future. Of course, the activities of individual companies. there are some exceptions — e.g. the These are: plain and modified road asbituminous surface is changed relaphalt, cement, crushed-stone aggretively often during periodic repairs. It gate for bituminous mixtures, mixtures is usually milled and re-used. of crushed-stone aggregates, concrete, reinforcing steel, and wood. At the same time, Budimex, during the implementation of current projects, often carries out many demBudynek biurowy Pixel w Poznaniu 62 | RATIONAL USE OF RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION olition works. During these works, of the economy, such as mining, Budimex recovers a lot of material power engineering and metallurgy. from previously built premises (e.g. This concerns different types of raw steel, scrap iron and aluminium). materials, such as slag or rock spoil. Various types of debris or rubble, Such a form of using by-products for example, are also recycled. At of mining, power engineering or this point it is worth to mention metallurgy is beneficial from the that a large volume of raw materipoint of view of sustainable develal waste, due to the currently conopment, since it saves an analogical ducted demolition works, does not amount of natural aggregate, the mean inefficient management — it acquisition of which would result in means something quite opposite. environmental degradation. It also Its large volume is a sign of concern allows for better management of and belief in the need to restore the the raw material, which was previeconomic purpose of valuable raw ously stored as waste in heaps and materials. which disturbed the local landscape. The condition for the use of From wastes formally produced raw materials, such as waste prodin 2013, we were able to separate, ucts from mining, metallurgy and among others : 49.6 tonnes of plasenergy production, is their availabiltic, 2.0 tonnes of glass, 23.9 tonnes ity in the immediate vicinity of conof paper and cardboard packaging, tract sites. They were widely used as much as 1,213.6 tonnes of iron in 2011, whereas in 2012, due to the and steel and 7.3 tonnes of other completion of work on a number metals. They all can be recycled of construction sites, they were not and reused. They all are economirequired. In 2013, approx. 1.7 thoucally valuable. sand tonnes of sand and clay constituting mining wastes were used. Soil, earth, stones and sand, formally recognised as waste, are also Detailed information on the conreused on construc tion sites. In sumption of key raw materials, and 2013, over 222.4 thousand tonnes economic utilisation of by-products of these materials were used. of other industries, can be found in “Tables and data”. Wherever possible, Budimex seeks to reuse raw materials which are waste products from other sectors Autostrada A4 Jaroslaw-Radymno 11 The figure provided is a total volume of e.g. plastic wastes, plastic packaging and plastics which, from the formal point of view, represent separate categories of wastes (similarly for other volumes provided above — e.g. glass and glass packaging). BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 63 Fuel, energy and CO2 emissions G4-EN-DMA, G4-EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN15 The nature of the business prevents consumption of fuels and energy (2% There was a slight increase in key the complete elimination, and even of total energy demand), heavy fuel energy efficiency indicators and effihinders a significant reduction, of deoil is the most important fuel (40% ciency ratios related to carbon dioxmand for fuels and energy (e.g. assoof total energy consumption comes ide emissions. The increase amountciated with the bitumen production from heavy fuel oil). At the same ed to, respectively, 9.1% in the case process or operation of vehicles and time, there was an increase in the of energy efficiency and 12.5% in the construction machinery). However, consumption of diesel oil (by 13.5%) case of carbon dioxide emissions per for many years Budimex has been reand light fuel oil (by 25.9%). one unit of revenue. This is due to the ducing the demand for fuels in prodecrease in sales revenue, over which cesses supporting basic operations The overall decline in demand for energy consumption and emissions in an orderly manner, e.g. by emphaenergy and the resulting decrease are distributed. sizing energy savings in offices and in carbon dioxide emissions can be replacing the fleet of passenger cars partially explained by the length of While conducting such indicator with more economical vehicles, with the investment cycle, i.e. by the fact analyses, one must be aware of their smaller capacity engines that meet that key contracts were at a different imperfections in the case of operastringent exhaust quality standards. stage of implementation. It is worth tion in an industry where the producThis approach is directly related to to remind at this point that last year tion cycle is much longer than the rethe logic of environmental managetrends in the demand for key fuels porting period and the demand for ment systems, which are based on were entirely opposite, i.e. there was energy carriers strongly depends on, standard ISO14001 and thus assume an increase in demand for heavy fuel among others, the current stage and improvement of the organisation. oil (56.3%) and a slight decrease in size of an investment project. Optimisation of fuel and energy condemand for diesel oil (-1.4%). sumption and, consequently, reduction of direct and indirect emissions, contribute to the reduction of operational and environmental costs. Energy consumption declined in 2013, resulting in a decrease in direct and indirect carbon dioxide emissions. Consumption in 2013 represented, respectively, 88.1% of the previous year’s consumption. The same ratio for emissions represented 90.6% of emissions generated in the previous year. While the consumption of electricity remained at a similar level, the consumption of selected fuels: gasoline (65.1% of consumption from 2012) and heavy fuel oil (67.7%) declined. Although gasoline consumption is relatively insignificant in the context of the total A4 runway Jaroslaw-Radymno 64 | TABLES AND DATA 11 TABLES AND DATA G4-17 Subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities consolidated in financial statements of the Budimex Group Companies of Method of Subsidiaries and jointly controlled the Budimex consolidation entities consolidated in financial Registered office Group included in financial statements of the Budimex Group in the corporate statements responsibility report Mostostal Kraków SA Kraków / Poland full yes no (company sold, Bielsk Podlaski / Budimex Danwood Sp. z o.o. 1 full outside the Budimex Poland Group as at 31.12.2013) Budimex Bau GmbH Cologne / Germany full no Budimex Nieruchomości Sp. z o.o. Warsaw / Poland full yes Budimex Budownictwo Sp. z o.o. Warsaw / Poland full no SPV-BN 1 Sp. z o.o. Warsaw / Poland full no SPV-BN 2 Sp. z o.o. Warsaw / Poland full no Budimex Kolejnictwo SA Warsaw / Poland full no Budimex Parking Wrocław Sp. z o.o. Warsaw / Poland full no Budimex B Sp. z o.o. Warsaw / Poland full no Elektromontaż Poznań SA Poznań / Poland full no Elektromontaż Import Sp. z o.o. Warsaw / Poland full no Instal Polska Sp. z o.o. Poznań / Poland full no Elektromontaż Warszawa SA Warsaw / Poland full no Budimex SA – Budimex Budownictwo Sp. z Warsaw / Poland full no o.o. s.c. Budimex SA Ferrovial Agroman SA s.c. Warsaw / Poland Pro-rata no Budimex SA Sygnity SA Sp. j. Warsaw / Poland Pro-rata no Budimex SA Ferrovial Agroman SA Sp. j. Warsaw / Poland Pro-rata no Budimex SA – Cadagua SA s.c. Warsaw / Poland Pro-rata no Tecpresa – Techniki Sprężania i Usługi Warsaw / Poland Pro-rata no Dodatkowe Sp. z o.o. BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 65 G4-EC1 Generated economic value (in PLN thousand) 2012 2013 Change (%) Directly generated economic value 6 185 592 4 995 573 -19,2% Revenue 6 185 592 4 995 573 -19,2% Divided economic value 6 120 325 4 663 930 -23,8% Operating costs 5 076 423 3 830 646 -24,5% Salaries and employee benefits 713 761 622 327 -12,8% Payments to investors 300 881 131 467 -56,3% Payments to the state 28 596 78 905 179,9% Investments in the community 664 585 -11,8% Retained economic value (calculated as the generated economic value after deducting 65 267 331 643 408,1% divided economic value) G4-10 Number of employees as at the end of the year . 2012 2013 Women Men Total Women Men Total Budimex SA 604 3 038 3 642 577 2 815 3 392 –– Polish market 600 2 407 3 007 574 2 173 2 747 definite period of time 161 725 886 147 525 672 439 1 682 2 121 427 1 648 2 075 full-time basis 596 2 403 2 999 569 2 169 2 738 part-time basis 4 4 8 5 4 9 aged under 30 185 620 805 169 482 651 aged 30–50 344 1 299 1 643 339 1 244 1 583 aged over 50 71 488 559 66 447 513 –– German market 4 631 635 3 642 645 definite period of time 0 620 620 0 631 631 4 11 15 3 11 14 full-time basis 4 631 635 3 642 645 part-time basis 0 0 0 0 0 0 aged under 30 0 78 78 0 84 84 aged 30–50 2 392 394 1 376 377 aged over 50 2 161 163 2 182 184 12 data applies only to employees of individual companies (excluding subcontractors) 66 | TABLES AND DATA 2012 2013 Women Men Total Women Men Total Budimex 40 22 62 45 23 68 Nieruchomości sp. z o.o. definite period of time 5 2 7 8 2 10 indefinite period of time 35 20 55 37 21 58 full-time basis 40 22 62 44 23 67 part-time basis 0 0 0 1 0 1 aged under 30 5 1 6 7 2 9 aged 30–50 32 15 47 35 15 50 aged over 50 3 6 9 3 6 9 Mostostal Kraków SA 5 551 556 8 515 523 –– Polish market 5 354 359 8 343 351 definite period of time 2 32 34 2 28 30 indefinite period of time 3 322 325 6 315 321 full-time basis 5 353 358 8 342 350 part-time basis 0 1 1 0 1 1 aged under 30 0 29 29 1 31 32 aged 30–50 3 177 180 5 175 180 aged over 50 2 148 150 2 137 139 –– German market 0 197 197 0 172 172 definite period of time 0 197 197 0 172 172 indefinite period of time 0 0 0 0 0 0 full-time basis 0 197 197 0 172 172 part-time basis 0 0 0 0 0 0 aged under 30 0 22 22 0 23 23 aged 30–50 0 126 126 0 102 102 aged over 50 0 49 49 0 47 47 Razem Grupa 649 3 611 4 260 630 3 353 3 983 definite period of time 168 1 576 1 744 157 1 358 1 515 indefinite period of time 481 2 035 2 516 473 1 995 2 468 full-time basis 645 3 606 4 251 624 3 348 3 972 part-time basis 4 5 9 6 5 11 aged under 30 190 750 940 177 622 799 aged 30–50 381 2 009 2 390 380 1 912 2 292 aged over 50 78 852 930 73 819 892 BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 67 G4-LA1 Number of persons hired 2012 2013 Women Men Total Women Men Total Budimex SA 92 531 623 73 884 957 –– Polish market 92 252 344 73 206 279 aged under 30 45 123 168 50 101 151 aged 30–50 40 101 141 21 80 101 aged over 50 7 28 35 2 25 27 –– German market 0 279 279 0 678 678 aged under 30 0 33 33 0 106 106 aged 30–50 0 178 178 0 411 411 aged over 50 0 68 68 0 161 161 Budimex 1 3 4 6 3 9 Nieruchomości sp. z o.o. aged under 30 1 1 2 3 1 4 aged 30–50 0 1 1 3 2 5 aged over 50 0 1 1 0 0 0 Mostostal Kraków SA 1 205 206 5 155 160 –– Polish market 1 22 23 5 25 30 aged under 30 0 6 6 1 13 14 aged 30–50 1 15 16 3 9 12 aged over 50 0 1 1 1 3 4 –– German market 0 183 183 0 130 130 aged under 30 0 23 23 0 15 15 aged 30–50 0 114 114 0 80 80 aged over 50 0 46 46 0 35 35 Razem Grupa 94 739 833 84 1 042 1 126 aged under 30 46 186 232 54 236 290 aged 30–50 41 409 450 27 570 597 aged over 50 7 144 151 3 236 239 68 | TABLES AND DATA G4-LA1 Number of resignations 2012 2012 Women Men Total Women Men Total Budimex SA 93 1 414 1 507 85 1 066 1 151 –– Polish market 93 597 690 84 391 475 aged under 30 30 190 220 29 104 133 aged 30–50 56 298 354 45 201 246 aged over 50 7 109 116 10 86 96 turnover ratio 15,5% 24,8% 22,9% 14,5% 18,0% 17,3% –– German market 0 817 817 1 675 676 aged under 30 0 198 198 0 83 83 aged 30–50 0 128 128 1 423 424 aged over 50 0 491 491 0 169 169 turnover ratio 0% 129% 129% 67% 105% 105% Budimex Nieruchomości 5 2 7 1 2 3 sp. z o.o. aged under 30 3 0 3 0 0 0 aged 30–50 2 1 3 1 2 3 aged over 50 0 1 1 0 0 0 turnover ratio 13% 9% 11% 2% 9% 4% Mostostal Kraków SA 10 223 233 2 193 195 –– Polish market 10 69 79 2 36 38 aged under 30 0 11 11 0 5 5 aged 30–50 5 33 38 1 10 11 aged over 50 5 25 30 1 21 22 turnover ratio 200% 19% 22% 25% 10% 11% –– German market 0 154 154 0 157 157 aged under 30 0 20 20 0 12 12 aged 30–50 0 94 94 0 99 99 aged over 50 0 40 40 0 46 46 turnover ratio 78% 78% 91% 91% Razem Grupa 108 1 639 1 747 88 1 261 1 349 aged under 30 33 419 452 29 204 233 aged 30–50 63 554 617 48 735 783 aged over 50 12 666 678 11 322 333 turnover ratio 17% 45% 41% 14% 38% 34% BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 69 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 2012 2013 Budimex SA 99,3% 99,4% Budimex Nieruchomości sp. z o.o. 0,0% 0,0% Mostostal Kraków SA 99,7% 99,4% G4-LA13 Ratio of remuneration for men to the remuneration for women (in the same employee category) 2012 2013 Budimex SA 105,0% 106,7% Budimex Nieruchomości sp. z o.o. 100,0% 91,4% Mostostal Kraków SA 111,0% 78,3% G4-EC5 Lowest remuneration in the company in relation to the minimum wage in the country 13 2012 2013 Kobiety Mężczyźni Kobiety Mężczyźni Budimex SA 100% 100% 125% 125% Budimex Nieruchomości sp. z o.o. 187% 213% 181% 200% Mostostal Kraków SA 133% 120% 125% 113% 13 Information relates only to the Polish market. 70 | TABLES AND DATA G4-LA3 Number of employees on maternity/paternity leaves (as at 31 December) 2012 2013 Women Men Total Women Men Total Budimex SA 29 3 32 46 5 51 –– Polish market 29 3 32 46 3 49 –– German market 0 0 0 0 2 2 Budimex Nieruchomości 0 0 0 4 0 4 sp. z o.o. Mostostal Kraków SA 0 0 0 0 1 1 –– Polish market 0 1 1 0 1 1 –– German market 0 1 1 0 0 0 G4-LA3 Number of employees who returned to work after maternity/paternity leaves during the year 2012 2013 Women Men Total Women Men Total Budimex SA 42 146 188 25 122 147 –– Polish market 41 138 179 25 110 135 –– German market 1 8 9 0 12 12 Budimex Nieruchomości 2 0 2 0 1 1 sp. z o.o. Mostostal Kraków SA 0 8 8 0 4 4 –– Polish market 0 6 6 0 1 1 –– German market 0 2 2 0 3 3 BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 71 G4-LA3 Percentage of employees who resigned from work at the company within 12 after their return to work from parental leave 2012 2013 Women Men Total Women Men Total Budimex SA 39% 0% 9% 20% 0% 4% –– Polish market 39% 0% 9% 20% 0% 4% –– German market 0% 0% 56% 0% 0% 0% Budimex Nieruchomości 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% sp. z o.o. Mostostal Kraków SA 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% –– Polish market 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% –– German market 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% G4-EC6, G4-LA12 Diversity in management bodies 2013 Women Men Total Budimex SA management board 0 5 5 aged under 30 0 0 0 aged 30–50 0 3 3 aged over 50 0 2 2 foreigners 0 1 1 supervisory board 1 8 9 aged under 30 0 0 0 aged 30–50 1 1 4 aged over 50 0 5 5 foreigners 0 2 2 72 | TABLES AND DATA 2013 Women Men Total Budimex Nieruchomości sp. z o.o. management board 0 3 3 aged under 30 0 0 0 aged 30–50 0 2 2 aged over 50 0 1 1 foreigners 0 1 1 supervisory board 0 3 3 aged under 30 0 0 0 aged 30–50 0 2 2 aged over 50 0 0 0 foreigners 0 2 2 Mostostal Kraków SA management board 0 2 2 aged under 30 0 0 0 aged 30–50 0 1 1 aged over 50 0 1 1 foreigners 0 0 0 supervisory board 1 2 3 aged under 30 0 0 0 aged 30–50 1 2 3 aged over 50 0 0 0 foreigners 0 0 0 G4-LA6 Accidents at work Accident frequency rate Accident severity rate 2012 2013 2012 2013 Budimex SA 20,04 12,76 49,89 38,50 Budimex Nieruchomości sp. z o.o. 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 Mostostal Kraków SA 29,10 27,93 59,82 70,60 BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 73 2012 2013 “Porozumienie dla “Porozumienie dla bezpieczeństwa bezpieczeństwa w budownictwie” w budownictwie” Budimex (“Agreement Budimex (“Agreement for safety in the for safety in the construction construction industry”) industry”) Accident frequency rate 20,04 13,95 12,76 13,25 Accident severity rate 48,89 44,28 38,50 37,60 Budimex Budimex SA Nieruchomości Mostostal Kraków SA sp. z o.o. 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Injury rate (IR) 2,83 1,27 0 0 5,23 2,76 Occupational disease rate 0 0,04 0 b/d 0 b/d (ODR) Lost day rate (LDR) 146,53 48,43 0 0 466,53 196,64 Absence rate (AR) 60 621 429 38 909 960 669 841 678 088 9 334 921 4 713 147 G4-EN1 Consumption of selected raw materials, most important due to the type of activities: Raw material / material j.m. 2012 2013 Budimex SA Road asphalt (regular and modified) thousand tonnes 98 53 Cement thousand tonnes 90 70 Crushed-stone aggregate for bituminous thousand tonnes 1 717 1 063 mixtures Mixtures of crushed-stone aggregates thousand tonnes 2 478 2 221 Railway aggregate thousand tonnes 80 354 Hydro-technical stone thousand tonnes 7,5 215 Reinforcement steel thousand tonnes 57 42 Concrete thousand m3 1 011 743 Mostostal Kraków SA Steel thousand tonnes 11 12,8 74 | TABLES AND DATA G4-EN2 Consumption of raw materials as reuse Category of recovered raw material unit 2012 2013 Asphalt (code of waste: 17 03 02) thousand tonnes 6,8 Waste sand and clays (code of waste 01 04 09) thousand tonnes 1,7 Soil and earth, including stones (code of waste 17 05 04) thousand tonnes 50 Soil and earth, including stones (code of waste 20 02 02) thousand tonnes 28,7 Minerals (e.g. sand, stones) (code of waste 19 12 09) thousand tonnes 142 G4-EN3, G4-EN5 Fuel and electricity consumption Source of energy and energy raw unit 2012 2013 Change y/y materials 173 108 196 497 Diesel oil GJ 113,5% (3 990,50 ton) (4 529,67 ton) 19 417 12 647 Gasoline GJ 65,1% (433,90 ton) (293,44 ton) 24 851 39 747 Light fuel oil GJ 125,9% (576,60 ton) (922,21 ton) Heavy fuel oil with low sulphur 382 117 258 781 GJ 67,7% content (LSC) (9 059,20 ton) (6 135,17 ton) Fuel oil (HSC) GJ 0 (0,0 ton) 0 (0,0 ton) 134 719 138 983 Electricity GJ 103,2% (37 421,90 MWh) (38 606,37 ton) Total GJ 734 212 646 656 88,1% G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN18 CO2 emissions 14 CO2 emissions unit 2012 2013 Change y/y Direct emissions (scope 1) tonnes 44 895 37 678,14 83,9% Indirect emissions (scope 2) tonnes 23 957 24 715,97 103,2% Indirect emissions (scope 3) x x x Total: 68 852 62 394,11 90,6% tonnes/PLN Efficiency 11,1 12,5% 112,5% thousand 14 Szacunki dokonywane z wykorzystaniem spójnej metodyki obowiązującej w Grupie Ferrovial opartej o GHG Protocol oraz rzeczywiste zużycia podstawowych paliw i energii elektrycznej. BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 75 G4-EN21 Air emissions of pollutants, main sources (in kg/year)15) 16) sulphur nitrogen carbon other dust other dust dioxide dioxide monoxide (source: paving (source: limestone flour (source: paving plant) (source: paving plant) (source: paving plant) plant) container) Szczecin 953,04 274,89 1 143,45 119,46 33,34 Suwałki 969,08 2 010,30 483,56 4 015,63 69,56 Stawiski 6 830,28 3 173,48 322,21 0,69 0,00 Ropczyce 4 395,97 3 628,42 18 839,86 167,47 91,93 Jarosław (Roźwienica) 92,25 298,47 470,59 6,26 4,30 Jaźwiny (Czarna) 1 577,30 731,41 73,91 0,16 6,49 Zagórz (Komańcza) 293,82 752,28 5 170,63 10 922,86 38,04 Lublin 119,97 1 139,98 3 612,43 183,97 73,52 Jastków 1 439,88 1 258,28 370,64 1 191,97 68,29 Sulechów 167,05 185,46 114,38 1 111,11 3,51 Łódź Babichy 10 011,73 4 622,22 462,22 1,02 31,97 Pruszków 1 589,47 1 642,77 477,78 1,05 14,57 Total 28 439,83 19 717,95 31 541,66 17 721,65 435,51 aromatic carbon benzo(a) aromatic hydrocarbons aliphatic cont. pyrene hydrocarbons (source: process of dioxide (source: paving plant) (source: paving plant) unloading the mineralhydrocarbons (source: paving plant) asphalt mix) Szczecin 0,00 0,32 346 800 Suwałki 0,00 0,02 1 740 800 Stawiski 0,00 0,01 1 168 448 Ropczyce 0,00 0,03 1,88 2 669 600 Jarosław (Roźwienica) 0,01 0,00 0,23 213 601 Jaźwiny (Czarna) 0,00 0,00 0,19 267 454 Zagórz (Komańcza) 0,00 330,00 1,56 1 790,00 760 072 Lublin 1,23 0,01 1 004 856 Jastków 1,74 0,02 1 344 651 Sulechów 0,00 0,00 0,18 157 200 Łódź Babichy 0,00 0,02 1 664 000 Pruszków 0,00 0,02 1 720 000 Suma 2,98 330,46 4,04 1 790,00 13 057 482 15 All plants listed in the table operate within the structure of Budimex SA. The list does not include substances whose emissions do not exceed 1 kg/year. These are: (a) benzo(a)pyrene (source: asphalt container): 0.0001 kg/year; (b) benzo(a)pyrene (source: bitumen container): 0.002 kg/year; (c) aromatic hydrocarbons (source: asphalt container): 0.001 kg/year; (d) aromatic hydrocarbons (source: bitumen container): 0.04 kg/year; (e) aromatic alcohols and their derivatives — phenol (source: asphalt container): 0.0001 kg/year; (f ) aromatic alcohols and their derivatives — phenol (source: bitumen container): 0.003 kg/year; (g) aromatic alcohols and their derivatives — phenol (source: process of unloading the mineral-asphalt mix): 0.72 kg/year. 16 The values provided are equal to the values reported to relevant administrative bodies in order to calculate the environmental charges and their sources are direct measurements or estimates calculated in accordance with applicable regulations (based on volumes of production and processed raw materials). 76 | TABLES AND DATA G4-EN23 Waste (without earth and soil)* Main waste by type 2012 2013 mass (tonnes) mass (tonnes) Waste considered to be hazardous, including: 1 122,5 131,8 other engine, gear and lubricating oils (13 02 08) 1,0 packaging containing residues of hazardous substances (15 01 6,7 17,2 10) aqueous liquid waste (16 10 01) 9,2 wood, glass and plastic waste containing hazardous substances 5,9 (17 02 04) tar (17 03 03) 4,1 soil and earth (17 05 03) 38,0 materials containing asbestos (17 06 05) 55,1 Non-hazardous waste, including: 101 388,5 281 295,7 waste plant matter (02 01 03) 544,2 427,2 waste from forestry (02 01 07) 10 760,0 paper and cardboard packaging (15 01 01) 10,4 23,9 plastic packaging (15 01 02) 8,7 21,7 wooden packaging (15 01 03) 6,5 4,2 composite packaging (15 01 05) 2,0 concrete waste and concrete rubble (17 01 01) 50 225,9 35 121,9 brick rubble (17 01 02) 9 662,4 849,7 mixtures of concrete waste, brick rubble, ceramic waste and 20 057,8 38 937,5 pieces of equipment (17 01 07) removed plaster, wallpaper, veneer (17 01 80) 7,1 waste from renovations and reconstruction of roads (from the 9 834,8 49 722,9 existing foundation, etc.) (17 01 81) other not specified waste (17 01 82) 98,1 33,9 wood (17 02 01) 1 263,4 6 182,1 glass (17 02 02) 1,3 plastic (17 02 03) 0,2 27,5 asphalt other than mentioned in 17 03 01 7 757,3 600 022,8 waste tar paper (17 03 80) 12,8 91,1 iron and steel (17 04 05) 155,0 1213,6 mixed metals (17 04 07) 4,7 7,3 track ballast (17 05 08) 1 034,0 32176,9 * the statement does not include categories of wastes whose mass did not exceed 1 tonne in 2013. BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 77 Main waste by type 2012 2013 mass (tonnes) mass (tonnes) insulation materials (17 06 04) 9,5 35,1 mixed construction, renovation and demolition waste (17 09 04) 1 682,8 5 198,6 wood other than mentioned in 19 12 07 (19 12 07) 1,2 minerals (e.g. sand, stones) (19 12 09) 15 929,1 waste from mechanical treatment of wastes (19 12 12) 24 495,1 Łącznie 102 511,0 281 427,5 G4-EN23 Soil and earth Main waste by type unit 2012 2013 Soil and earth, including stones, considered tonnes 38,02 to be hazardous (17 05 03) Soil and earth, including stones, other than waste tonnes 2 449 716,0 2 389 711,86 considered to be hazardous (17 05 04) Dredged material not containing or not contaminated with dangerous substances tonnes 148 302,5 322 088,10 (17 05 06) Total tonnes 2 598 018,6 2 711 837,98 G4-EN23 Utilisation of waste Main waste by type unit 2012 2013 Used as a fuel or other means to generate energy (R1) tonnes 211,96 4 659,14 Reuse (R14) (without earth and soil) tonnes 11 881,3 9 364,74 Transferred to companies with permits for collection, transportation and disposal (including tonnes 90 329,23 267 403,59 e.g. storage in landfills) (without earth and soil, excluding contaminated soil) Total tonnes 102 422,49 281 427,47 G4-EN23 Utilisation of earth and soil Main waste by type unit 2012 2013 Reuse (R14) tonnes 1 841 862,72 1 769 402,37 Transferred to companies with permits for collection, transportation and disposal (including tonnes 756 155,85 942 435,61 e.g. storage in landfills) Total tonnes 2 598 018,57 2 711 837,98 78 | GRI INDICATORS 12 GRI INDICATORS range overall Area UN partial not according Global Indic. p. audit GRI guidelines Comment / Description reported to ISO Compact / not 26000 principle applicable Strategy and analysis Statement from the most-senior decision-maker of the G4-1 6, 8 organisation (e.g. CEO, chair or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation [Letter from the President of the Management Board] and its strategy 4.7 6.2 7.4.2 [Letter from the President 6.2 of the Management Board] Business risks are described G4-2 6, 8 Description of key impacts, opportunities and risks in the “Annual Report 2013” available at www.raportroczny.budimex.pl/2013/ Organisational profile G4-3 Name of the organisation Budimex SA G4-4 10 Primary brands, products and/or services [About us] More on www.budimex.pl ul. Stawki 40 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters 01-140 Warszawa Poland www.budimex.pl Number of countries where the organisation operates, G4-6 10 and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues [About us] covered in the report 6.3.10 Spółka Akcyjna (joint-stock G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 6.4.1 6.4.2 company) listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange 6.4.3 6.4.4 6.4.5 [About us] 6.8.5 Detailed information Markets served, including geographic breakdown, 7.8 on this subject can be G4-8 10 sectors served, and types of customers/consumers and beneficiaries found in the “2013 Annual Report” available at www. raportroczny.budimex. pl/2013/ G4-9 12-14 16 Scale of activity [About us] Number of the Company’s employees and employees unG4-10 14, 65 der the Company’s supervision broken down by gender and type of contract [About us] [Tables and data] G4-11 69 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements [Tables and data] G4-12 14, 23 Description of the value chain [About the report] BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 79 range overall Area UN partial not according Global Indic. p. audit Description of the value chain Comment / Description reported to ISO Compact / not 26000 principle applicable [About the report] At the end of 2013, the company of Danwood sp. z o.o. was sold. Detailed description of G4-13 20 Significant changes during the reporting period, regarding size, structure, form of ownership, or value chain changes in the organisational structure of the Budimex Group can be found in the “2013 Annual Report” available at www. raportroczny.budimex. pl/2013/. [Impact on the local environment and biodiversity] The procedure “Environmental management on contract sites”, which is a part of the Integrated Man6.3.10 agement System, defines, 6.4.1 among others, rules for the 6.4.2 analysis of environmental G4-14 36 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary principle is applied by the organisation. 6.4.3 6.4.4 7 requirements and the concept of environmental 6.4.5 impact. It covers every 6.8.5 actual and potential type 7.8 of impact. In addition, the Group undertook to comply with the precautionary principle by joining UN Global Compact. • UN Global Compact • “Porozumienie na Rzecz Bezpieczeństwa Externally developed economic, environmental, and social w Budownictwie” G4-15 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses 1-10 (“Agreement for safety in the construction industry”) • social campaign of the National Labour Memberships in associations (such as industry associaG4-16 15 tions) and/or national/ /international organisations 1-10 [About us] Identification of material aspects and limitations G4-17 64 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements [Tables and data] G4-18 20 Process for defining the report content [About the report] G4-19 20 Identified important aspects of social and environmental impact [About the report] G4-20 22 Significance of identified aspects of social and environmental impact for each entity [About the report] 5.2 Limitations of the report in relation to the relevant aspects 7.3.2 G4-21 14, 20 of social and environmental impact, including entities outside the organisation 7.3.3 7.3.4 [About us] [About the report] Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, reasons for such G4-22 restatement and its impact (e.g. mergers, acquisitions, change of a base year/period, nature of business activity, No material restatements measurement methods) Significant changes in relation to the previous report G4-23 regarding the scope, range, or measurement methods applied in the report No significant changes. 80 | GRI INDICATORS range overall Area UN partial not according Global Indic. p. audit Description of the value chain Comment / Description reported to ISO Compact / not 26000 principle applicable Stakeholder engagement G4-24 23 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation [About the report] G4-25 23 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation [About the report] G4-26 23 Approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 5.3 [About the report] Key topics and concerns that have been raised through G4-27 23 stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including [About the report] their reporting Report profile G4-28 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/ Fiscal/calendar year: 01.01.2013–31.12.2013 G4-29 calendar year) December 2013 G4-30 Date of most recent previous report (if any) annual Łukasz Kubiak, Office of External Communication, Budimex SA, ul. Stawki 40, 01-040 Warsaw G4-31 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 5.3 e-mail: lukasz.kubiak@ budimex.pl 7.5.3 Phone (22) 623 61 64 7.6.2 mobile 695 052 455 fax (22) 623 60 14 G4-32 20 CSR Index [GRI indicators] [About the report] [About the report] Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance The report was prepared G4-33 20 report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also by an external entity on the basis of data provided explain the relationship between the reporting organisaby Budimex SA, and then tion and the assurance provider(s). subjected to verification by an independent auditor Governance, commitments and engagement Sustainable growth management] Governance structure of the organisation, including com6.2 G4-34 mittees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational 7.4.3 7.7.5 1-10 Detailed information can be found in the “2013 oversight Annual Report” available at www.raportroczny. budimex.pl/2013/ Ethics and reliability [About us] [Prevention of unethical G4-56 11, 54 Organisation’s values, principles, code and standards of behaviour and ethics. 4.4 6.6.3 1-10 behaviour and integrity in operations] BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 81 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE range overall Area UN according Global Indic. partial p. audit Description of the value chain Comment / Description not reporto ISO Compact ted / not 26000 principle applicable Economic performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, 6.8.1 including revenues, operating costs, employee compen6.8.2 G4-EC1 65 sation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and 6.8.3 6.8.7 [Tables and data] governments 6.8.9 No significant impact was stated at the moment. Nevertheless, the primary raw materials used by the company are the products of industries which have a significant impact on the climate (production of asphalt and fuels, cement production, steel industry). Thus, changes in regulations and additional burdens of these industries in relation to greenhouse gas G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change 6.5.5 7 emissions, could adversely affect the company’s costs. Climate change in a broader sense, i.e. intensity of extreme weather events, may influence the process of execution of contracts. The company’s offer responds to expectations indirectly related to climate change. Budimex has adequate resources allowing it to be included in the restructuring processes for power plants (construction of production facilities). None of the companies included in the report offers an Employee Pension Plan to their employees. Detailed information on the “liabilities arising from G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisational pension liabilities arising from defined benefit plans. 6.8.7 retirement benefits and similar obligations” item (retirement and disability packages, jubilee, death benefits) can be found in the “2013 Annual Report” available at www.raportroczny.budimex.pl/2013/. The Group’s companies did not benefit from direct G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from the government state aid. The Treasury is not a shareholder of Budimex SA. Market presence 6.3.7 6.3.10 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender G4-EC5 69 compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation 6.4.3 6.4.4 1 [Tables and data] 6.8.1 6.8.2 82 | GRI INDICATORS range overall Area UN according Global Indic. partial p. audit Description of the value chain Comment / Description not reporto ISO Compact ted / not 26000 principle applicable [Tables and data] Basically, companies within the Budimex Group em6.4.3 ploy only Polish citizens. A 6.8.1 few foreigners, representG4-EC6 71 Percentage of senior management hired from the local market 6.8.2 6.8.5 6 ing the main shareholder, are in the governing 6.8.7 bodies of companies. Their number is given in the table, illustrating the compositions of management and supervisory boards. Indirect economic impact 6.3.9 Development and impact of infrastructure investments 6.8.1 G4-EC7 12, 13, 16 and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Impact of 6.8.2 6.8.7 [About us] these activities on society 6.8.9 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE range overall Area UN according Global Indic. partial p. audit Description of the value chain Comment / Description not reporto ISO Compact ted / not 26000 principle applicable Raw materials and materials 6 7.3.1 [Rational use of resourcEN DMA 17, 32, 60 Management approach 7.4.3 7.7.3 7, 8, 9 es and environmental pollution] 7.7.5 [Rational use of resourcG4-EN1 61, 73 Materials used by weight or volume. 6.5.4 8 es and environmental pollution] [Tables and data] [Rational use of resourcG4-EN2 61, 74 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 6.5.4 8, 9 es and environmental pollution] [Tables and data] Energy 6 7.3.1 [Rational use of resourcEN DMA 17, 32, 60 Management approach 7.4.3 7.7.3 7, 8, 9 es and environmental pollution] 7.7.5 [Rational use of resourcG4-EN3 63, 74 Direct and indirect energy consumption by primary energy source 6.5.4. 8 es and environmental pollution] [Tables and data] [Rational use of resourcG4-EN5 63, 74 Energy efficiency es and environmental pollution] [Tables and data] BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 83 Water Operations of the Budimex G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 6.5.4 8 Group in 2013 did not result in significant depletion of water resources. range overall Area UN according Global Indic. partial p. audit Description of the value chain Comment / Description not reporto ISO Compact ted / not 26000 principle applicable Biodiversity 6 7.3.1 EN DMA 17, 32, 60 Management approach 7.4.3 7.7.3 7, 8, 9 [Impact on the local environment and biodiversity] 7.7.5 34, 37, Location and area of land owned, leased, managed in, or G4-EN11 38, 39, 40, 41 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 6.5.6 8 [Reducing impacts on valuable natural areas] Description of significant impacts of activities, products, G4-EN12 34 and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 6.5.6 8 [Reducing impacts on valuable natural areas] [Reducing impacts on valuable natural areas] Detailed information is available in the studies of G4-EN13 37-41 Habitats protected or restored 6.5.6 8 the impact of individual investments on the environment, with an indication of the exact location in relation to the investment. Number of IUCN Red List species G4-EN14 37-41 and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk 6.5.6 8 [Reducing impacts on valuable natural areas] Emissions 6 7.3.1 [Rational use of resourcEN DMA 17, 32, 60 Management approach 7.4.3 7.7.3 7, 8, 9 es and environmental pollution] 7.7.5 G4-EN15 63, 74 Total direct greenhouse gas emissions by weight (Scope 1) 6.5.5 8 [Tables and data] G4-EN16 74 Total indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (Scope 2) 6.5.5 8 [Tables and data] G4-EN18 74 Efficiency associated with greenhouse gas emissions 6.5.5 [Tables and data] Not applicable. The comG4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 6.5.3 6.5.5 8 pany’s activities are not associated with emissions of such compounds. 84 | GRI INDICATORS range overall Area UN according Global Indic. partial p. audit Description of the value chain Comment / Description not reporto ISO Compact ted / not 26000 principle applicable [Tables and data] Different bituminous mass plants, whose locations are indicated in the table along with emission values G4-EN21 75 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 6.5.3 8 of the individual compounds, are the source of emissions. Emissions are related to the work of paving plants and aggregate dryers, as well as tanks of bitumen, asphalt, limestone and stone dust. Sewage and waste 6 7.3.1 [Rational use of resourcEN DMA 17, 32, 60 Management approach 7.4.3 7.7.3 7, 8, 9 es and environmental pollution] 7.7.5 [Reducing impacts on G4-EN23 43, 61, 76, 77 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5.3 8 valuable natural areas] [Tables and data] [Reducing impacts on valuable natural areas] G4-EN24 36 Total number and volume of significant spills 6.5.3 8 In 2013, Budimex did not record any spill into water reservoirs. Not applicable. Budimex neither transports, imports, exports nor processes waste considered hazardous, nor does it ship such waste internationally. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous (under the terms of the Basel G4-EN25 Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII) and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally 6.5.3 8 In each contract executed by Budimex, laboratories and bitumen plants cooperate in matters related to hazardous waste with companies which have relevant permits for collection, transport and disposal of such waste. Budimex does not dump water into water reservoirs or on areas of particular Type, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of 6.5.3 G4-EN26 water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and spills 6.5.4 6.5.6 8 importance for biodiversity. In terms of wastewater management, Budimex cooperates with municipal companies. Products and services 6.5.3 G4-EN27 34 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation 6.5.4 6.6.6 7, 8, 9 [Reducing impacts on valuable natural areas] 6.7.5 Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of G4-EN29 36 non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations 4.6 8 [Reducing impacts on valuable natural areas] BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 85 Environmental assessment of suppliers 6 7.3.1 EN DMA 17, 32, 60 Management approach 7.4.3 7.7.3 7, 8, 9 [Impact on the local environment and biodiversity] 7.7.5 6.3.5 G4-EN32 42 Percentage of suppliers who were assessed against the environmental criteria 6.6.6 7.3.1 [Reducing impacts on valuable natural areas] 6.3.5 G4-EN33 42 Significant current and potential risks of employee relations in the supply chain 6.6.6 7.3.1 [Reducing impacts on valuable natural areas] Complaint transfer procedure G4-EN34 42 Number of complaints relating to the environmental impact, addressed and resolved through formal mechanisms 6.3.6 [Reducing impacts on valuable natural areas] SOCIAL PERFORMANCE range overall Area UN according Global Indic. partial p. audit Description of the value chain Comment / Description not reporto ISO Compact ted / not 26000 principle applicable Workplace: employment Total number of resignations and employee turnover rate G4-LA1 67, 68 by age group, gender, and region 6.4.3 6 [Tables and data] The benefits are the same, regardless of whether the person is a full-time or part-time employee. The following benefits among non-mandatoBenefits provided to full-time employees that are not G4-LA2 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by main organisational units 6.4.4 6.8.7 ry benefits should be mentioned here: medical insurance (Budimex, Budimex Nieruchomości), life insurance (Budimex, Budimex Nieruchomości) and Benefit cards (Budimex, Budimex Nieruchomości). G4-LA3 70, 71 Percentage of return to work and retention rate after maternity/paternity leave in relation to gender 6.4.4 [Tables and data] Workplace: labour/management relations In accordance with the G4-LA4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements 6.4.3 6.4.5 3 requirements of the Polish Labour Law. Workplace: occupational health and safety (OHS) 6 7.3.1 LA DMA 17, 24 Management approach (regarding occupational health and safety) 7.4.3 7.7.3 1, 3, 6 [Conditions, occupational health and safety (OHS)] 7.7.5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal G4-LA5 24 health and safety committees (attended by both managers and workers) that help monitor and advise on 6.4.6 1 [Conditions, occupational health and safety (OHS)] occupational health and safety programmes 86 | GRI INDICATORS range overall Area UN according Global Indic. partial p. audit Description of the value chain Comment / Description not reporto ISO Compact ted / not 26000 principle applicable Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 6.4.6 G4-LA6 29, 72 absenteeism, and a total number of work-related fatalities, by region 6.8.8 1 [Tables and data] 6.4.6 G4-LA7 29 Employment at high risk of occupational diseases. 6.8.8 1 [Conditions, occupational health and safety (OHS)] OHS aspects were included in the collective bargaining agreement only in the case of Budimex SA and Mostostal Kraków. The provisions G4-LA8 OHS in collective agreements 6.4.6 1 define the possibility to temporarily grant to a given group of employees periodical allowance in harmful and burdensome conditions. Workplace: trainings 6.3.7 [Prevention of unethical G4-LA10 50 Development programmes 6.3.10 6.4 1, 6 behaviour and integrity in operations] 6.4.3 Workplace: diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of 6.2.3 G4-LA12 71 employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other diver6.3.7 6.3.10 1, 6 [Tables and data] sity indicators 6.4.3 6.3.7 G4-LA13 69 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category 6.3.10 6.4.3 1, 6 [Tables and data] 6.4.4 Assessment of suppliers 6 7.3.1 LA DMA 17, 24 Management approach (regarding occupational health and safety) 7.4.3 7.7.3 1, 3, 6 [Conditions, occupational health and safety (OHS)] 7.7.5 6.3.5 G4-LA14 31 Percentage of suppliers who were assessed against employment criteria 6.4.3 6.6.6 [Conditions, occupational health and safety (OHS)] 7.3.1 6.3.5 G4-LA15 31 Significant current and potential risks of employee relations in the supply chain 6.4.3 6.6.6 [Conditions, occupational health and safety (OHS)] 7.3.1 Complaint transfer procedure [Conditions, occupational health and safety (OHS)] G4-LA16 31 Number of complaints relating to employment, addressed and resolved through formal mechanisms 6.3.6 [Prevention of unethical behaviour and integrity in operations] BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 87 range overall Zasada Obszar wg UN Indic. partial p. audit Wytyczne GRI Komentarz / Opis not reporISO 26000 Global ted / not Compact applicable Human rights: investment and procurement procedures 6 7.3.1 [Prevention of unethical HR DMA 52 Management approach 7.4.3 7.7.3 1-6 behaviour and integrity in operations] 7.7.5 Percentage and total number of significant investment 6.3.3 [Prevention of unethical G4-HR1 52 agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone 6.3.5 6.6.6 1-6 behaviour and integrity in operations] human rights screening Human rights: non-discrimination 6.3.6 [Prevention of unethical G4-HR3 54, 55 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 6.3.7 6.3.10 1, 2, 6 behaviour and integrity in operations] 6.4.3 Human rights: freedom of association and collective bargaining 6.3.3 6.3.4 Operations identified in which the right to exercise 6.3.5 [Prevention of unethical G4-HR4 55 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support 6.3.8 6.3.10 1-3 behaviour and integrity in operations] these rights 6.4.5 6.6.6 Human rights: child labour 6.3.3 6.3.4 Operations identified as having significant risk for inci6.3.5 [Prevention of unethical G4-HR5 55 dents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour 6.3.7 6.3.10 1, 2, 5 behaviour and integrity in operations] 6.6.6 6.8.4 Human rights: forced and compulsory labour 6.3.3 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents 6.3.4 [Prevention of unethical G4-HR6 55 of forced or compulsory labour, and measures taken to eliminate such incidents 6.3.5 6.3.10 1, 2, 4 behaviour and integrity in operations] 6.6.6 Assessment of suppliers 6 7.3.1 [Prevention of unethical HR DMA 52 Management approach 7.4.3 7.7.3 1-6 behaviour and integrity in operations] 7.7.5 6.3.3 [Prevention of unethical G4-HR10 52, 54 Percentage of suppliers who were assessed against human rights 6.3.4 6.3.5 behaviour and integrity in operations] 6.3.3 [Prevention of unethical G4-HR11 52, 54 Significant current and potential risks to human rights in the supply chain 6.3.4 6.3.5 behaviour and integrity in operations] 6.6.6 Complaint transfer procedure [Prevention of unethical G4-HR12 52, 54 Number of complaints relating to human rights, addressed and resolved through formal mechanisms 6.3.6 behaviour and integrity in operations] 88 | GRI INDICATORS range overall Zasada Obszar wg UN Indic. partial p. audit Wytyczne GRI Komentarz / Opis not reporISO 26000 Global ted / not Compact applicable Local communities 6 [Conditions, occupational 7.3.1 SO DMA 30, 44, 50 Management approach 7.4.3 7.7.3 10 health and safety (OHS)] [Compensating communities for nuisance] 7.7.5 Nature, scope and effectiveness of programmes and prac6.3.9 [Relations with local comtices in the area of evaluation and management of the 6.5.1 G4-SO1 44, 46 organisation’s impact on the local community, including the impact of entering a market, operating and cessation 6.5.2 6.5.3 munities] [Conditions, occupational health and safety (OHS)] of activities 6.8 6.3.9 G4-SO2 44 Activities with significant potential or existing negative impact on the local community 6.5.3 6.8 [Relations with local communities] Anti-corruption measures 6 7.3.1 [Prevention of unethical SO DMA 30, 44, 50 Management approach 7.4.3 7.7.3 10 behaviour and integrity in operations] 7.7.5 [Prevention of unethical behaviour and integrity in operations] The report does not disclose tools used in their monitoring, recognising 6.6.1 G4-SO3 51 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption 6.6.2 6.6.3 10 them as confidential. Disclosure of such information, regarding, in particular, the way of conducting analyses, according to the company could contribute to reducing their effectiveness and increasing the risk of unethical behaviour. [Prevention of unethical behaviour and integrity in operations] 6.6.1 Percentage of employees trained Due to the nature of the G4-SO4 50 in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 6.6.2 6.6.3 10 business, in particular the staff rotation between 6.6.6 contracts, the division into regions was omitted in the description of the indicator. 6.6.1 [Prevention of unethical G4-SO5 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 6.6.2 6.6.3 10 behaviour and integrity in operations] Participation in public life 6.6.1 [Prevention of unethical G4-SO6 55 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country 6.6.2 6.6.4 10 behaviour and integrity in operations] Zgodność z regulacjami 6.6.1 Total number of legal actions against the organisation G4-SO7 55 for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. 6.6.2 6.6.5 [Prawa człowieka i zgodność z prawem] 6.6.7 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of G4-SO8 non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations 4.6 No penalties were imposed. BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 89 range overall Zasada Obszar wg UN Indic. partial p. audit Wytyczne GRI Komentarz / Opis not reporISO 26000 Global ted / not Compact applicable Compliance 6 7.3.1 [Prevention of unethical SO DMA 30, 44, 50 Management approach 7.4.3 7.7.3 10 behaviour and integrity in operations] 7.7.5 6.3.5 6.6.1 6.6.2 G4-SO9 45 Percentage of suppliers who were assessed against social criteria 6.6.6 6.8.1 [Relations with local communities] 6.8.2 7.3.1 6.3.5 6.6.1 6.6.2 G4-SO10 45 Significant current and potential social risks in the supply chain 6.6.6 6.8.1 [Relations with local communities] 6.8.2 7.3.1 range overall Zasada Obszar wg UN Indic. partial p. audit Wytyczne GRI Komentarz / Opis not reporISO 26000 Global ted / not Compact applicable Product responsibility: customer health and safety 6 7.3.1 PR DMA 17, 56 Management approach 7.4.3 7.7.3 1, 8 [Quality and safety of constructions] 7.7.5 [Quality and safety of constructions] 6.7.1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety 6.7.2 G4-PR1 56, 59 impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and 6.7.4 6.7.5 1 Procedures described in the content of the report services categories subject to such procedures are generally applicable 6.8.8 and apply to all ongoing contracts. 4.6 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regula6.7.1 G4-PR2 59 tions and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by 6.7.2 6.7.4 1 [Quality and safety of constructions] type of outcome 6.7.5 6.8.8 90 | NIEZALEŻNY RAPORT POŚWIADCZAJĄCY Because of the specificity of construction projects, their implementation is from the earliest stage accompanied by very detailed construction documents. The requirements are specified by regulations and standards. These documents include not only the relevant consents, 6.7.1 permits or confirmations 6.7.2 Type of product and service information required by of acceptance by different G4-PR3 procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements 6.7.3 6.7.4 8 offices and departments. Individual raw materials 6.7.5 and materials are accom6.7.9 panied by certificates and declarations of conformity, or hygiene certificates and documents related to waste management. This ensures widely understood safety for people and the environment. They are also supported by the Integrated Management System. The specificity of the B2B market, in which the company mainly operates and in which the number of customers is very limited, is associated with the fact that it is not possible to 6.7.1 conduct typical, quantita6.7.2 G4-PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 6.7.6 tive surveys of customer satisfaction. Nevertheless, the execution of orders is discussed with customers on an ongoing basis, and continuous dialogue ensures current knowledge about customer expectations. Odpowiedzialność za produkt: zgodność z regulacjami [Prevention of unethical behaviour and integrity in operations] 4.6 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance (The amount of penalties, G4-PR9 55 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 6.7.1 6.7.2 shown in the financial statements of the Budimex 6.7.6 Group, refers to contractual breaches which are not covered by the PR9 indicator) BUDIMEX GROUP | 2014 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT | 91 Sector ratios The companies do not conduct activities as a result of which there would be a significant risk of soil contamination. As a result of roads construction, lands located directly under the driving lane are lost to the biosphere, and those located in the immediate vicinity Degraded, permanently contaminated, damaged lands, to the driving lane are CRE5 35 requiring remediation as a result of the conducted construction activities subject to reclamation, as part of the investment. In 2013, a total of 1,118.5 thousand tonnes of bitumen (430.2 thousand m3) was laid, giving a total of 1.72 million m2 of surface, which is the best approximation of the area excluded from biological activity as a result of road construction. W przypadku Budimeksu SA oraz Mostostalu Kraków wdrożenie ISO18000 oraz Percentage of the organisation operating in verified OHSAS 18000 zostało CRE6 24 compliance with an internationally recognised health and safety management system (e.g. ISO 18000) potwierdzone stosownymi certyfikatami. Budimex SA i Mostostal Kraków zatrudniają 98,5% pracowników spółek objętych raportem. Factory Annopol uzyskał finalny certyfikat BREEAM na poziomie Very Good. Budynek biurowo – usługowy: ul. Grunwaldzka w Poznaniu jest w trakcie fiSustainability certification for new constructions, nalnej certyfikacji BREEAM. CRE8 61 operation of existing constructions and dismantling of demolished constructions Z kolei w przypadku Zespołu Obiektów Centrum Usług Korporacyjnych w Płocku nie złożono jeszcze dokumentacji do finalnej certyfikacji BREEAM (prace budowlane jeszcze trwają). 13 NIEZALEŻNY RAPORT POŚWIADCZAJĄCY Budimex SA ul. Stawki 40 01-140 Warszawa www.budimex.pl
