Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Full Edition About this Report MUFG CSR Report 2013 01 From the Editorial Team About this Report Page Content GRI Category About this Report To clearly convey the links between MUFG business activities and CSR activities, this FY 2013 report was compiled with refer1 About this Report ence to Version 3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, international guidelines for CSR 2 Message from the CEO and sustainability reports. 3 Corporate Vision MUFG's mediumto long-term Corporate Vision is to be the 4 MUFG Profile ● Scope of Reporting: This report mainly covers the following five world's most trusted financial group. core companies: Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (the holding To realize this vision and continue to support our customers and company), The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ ( BTMU), 6 MUFG's CSR society at large, we engage in a variety of CSR activities. Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking (MUTB), Mitsubishi UFJ Supporting Areas Affected by Morgan Stanley Securities (MUMSS), and Mitsubishi UFJ 12 Disasters The Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 helps us NICOS (MUN). The report also covers some of the activities of improve the quality of these activities—and thus their effectiveMitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance (MUL) and Union Bank (UB). 14 Corporate Governance Strategy and Profile ness in promoting sustainability—by reporting to stakeholders In this report, MUFG refers the entire group. Where activities relate to a specific company, the following 15 Risk Management about our progress and challenges and inviting feedback on what symbols are used: we can do better in the future. MUFG BTMU MUTB MUMSS MUN MUL UB 16 Compliance ● Period Covered: This report describes activities and achieveFinancial Crime ments in FY 2012 (April 2012 to March 2013). 18 Countermeasures In some cases, reporting covers activities before or after FY 2012. 19 Major Policies ● Content Selection: Criteria for the selection of content in this report are as follows—(1) level of stakeholder interest (based on 22 CSR Structure readers' surveys and our policies), (2) level of importance for the companies concerned (based on company's own judgment). 23 Participation in Initiatives ● This Publication: December 2013. Next Publication: December 2014. 24 Our Stakeholders and MUFG Relations with Shareholders and 25 Investors MUFG publishes the following CSR reports Economy to meet the interests of our readers. 26 Relations with Business Partners Environmental Policies and 27 Environment The full edition provides a comprehensive sumInitiatives Full Edition mary of MUFG's approach to CSR and our FY Labor Practices & 2012 CSR activities, with detailed data. 42 Employee Policies and Initiatives Decent Work Human Rights Policies and The highlights edition presents the highlights from 48 Human Rights Initiatives Highlights Edition the full edition to give readers a clearer underLocal Community Policies and standing of MUFG's CSR activities in FY 2012. 49 Society Initiatives http://www.mufg.jp/english/csr/csrreport/ 58 Relations with Customers Product Responsibility To learn more about the management, financial performance, and services of MUFG, please refer to the disclosure documents on the following website. Strategy and Profile 66 Third Party Comment (Report Parameters) http://www.mufg.jp/english/ir/ Message from the CEO MUFG CSR Report 2013 02 We will work to fulfill our inherent mission in society as a financial group Message from the CEO and to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. I would like to express my appreciation to readers for their interest in MUFG. It is with pride that I present the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group's Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013, which describes our principles and initiatives relating to CSR. I invite you to review these pages. While our Corporate Vision guides all activities carried out by MUFG companies, in 2012 we created new Principles of Ethics and Conduct to serve as a behavioral standard for all Group directors and employees. The Corporate Vision and Principles of Ethics and Conduct will underpin all Group CSR activities as well. The priority themes for MUFG's CSR activities are Addressing Global Environmental Issues and Nurturing Society's Next Generation —themes that were selected from the perspective of contributing to the resolution of the most important issues of society as a whole. Under the first theme, we have sought to use the financial functions of MUFG as we strive to provide products and services that contribute to a reduction in environmental impacts. Under the second theme, we have focused our social contribution on employee participation in activities as members of the local community and society. Going forward, all executives and employees will work together to fulfill our core mission in society as a financial group, and contribute, through the provision of capital and other services, to the sustained growth of Japan and the world. We welcome your continued support. Nobuyuki Hirano President & CEO Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group September 2013 Corporate Vision MUFG CSR Report 2013 03 Corporate Vision Corporate Vision OUR MISSION OUR VISION OUR VALUES To be a foundation of strength, −Be the world’s most trusted financial group− committed to meeting the needs of our customers, 1. Integrity and Responsibility serving society, and fostering shared 1. Work together to exceed the expectations of our Strive to be fair, transparent, and honest. Always act responsiand sustainable growth for a better world. customers bly in the best interest of customers and society as a whole, Strive to understand and respond to the diversified needs of building long-term stakeholder relationships and giving back to our customers. Maintain and expect the highest levels of proour communities. fessionalism and expertise, supported by our consolidated strength. 2. Professionalism and Teamwork Respect the diversity of our fellow workers and foster a strong 2. Provide reliable and constant support to our spirit of teamwork. Expect the highest levels of professionalcustomers ism. Give the highest priority to protecting the interests of our customers. Promote healthy, sustainable economic growth. Main3. Challenge Ourselves to Grow tain a robust organization that is effective, professional, and Adopt a global perspective to anticipate trends and opportuniresponsive. ties for growth. Create and sustain a responsive and dynamic workplace where everyone can focus on providing outstanding 3. Expand and strengthen our global presence customer service and embrace new challenges. Leverage our strengths and capabilities to attract a loyal global customer base. Adapt rapidly to changes in the global economy and their impact on the needs of our customers. MUFG Profile MUFG CSR Report 2013 04 MUFG Profile MUFG Profile Group Network With 40 million individual customer accounts, 500,000 corporate customers, and 91 trillion yen MUFG has a balanced network throughout Japan, and is in total loans outstanding, we are the largest responsible for the provision of credit as the life-blood of socifinancial institution based in Japan. We are ety. The Group also maintains the greatest overseas network keenly aware of our social responsibility and act of all Japanese financial institutions, providing financial based on our status as a comprehensive services in many countries. financial group. 434 58 Union Bank Asia, Oceania 1,104 29 Japan Americas 34 Europe, Middle East, etc. Direct Channels Internet Mobile Telephone Eastern Japan Region Western Japan Region Retail: 410 Retail: 229 Corporate:142 Corporate: 99 Central Japan Region Retail:149 Corporate:75 Convenience Store ATMs Approx.39,000 locations The number of locations is the total of the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking, and Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings locations. External ATMs Retail: Head office and branches, including sub -branches. The numbers for the Bank of Tokyo Approx.1,700 locations Mitsubishi UFJ and Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking do not include virtual branches (which only provide funds transfers), loan promotion sub-branches, and partner banks. Corporate: Includes corporate sales offices. (As of March 31, 2013) MUFG Profile MUFG CSR Report 2013 05 Major MUFG Companies Debt Collection Venture Capital MUFG Profile • MU Frontier Servicer • Mitsubishi UFJ Capital Holding Company • MU Hands-on Capital • Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG) Wealth Management • Marunouchi Capital Commercial Bank • Mitsubishi UFJ Merrill Lynch PB Securities •The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU) • Mitsubishi UFJ Personal Financial Advisers Information Technology Trust Bank • Mitsubishi Research Institute DCS • Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking (MUTB) Asset Management • MU Business Engineering Securities Company • Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management • Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings (MUSHD) • KOKUSAI Asset Management DC Pensions • MU Investments • Defined Contribution Plan Consulting of Japan Securities • Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Online Securities / Internet Settlements / Mobile Internet Electronically Recorded Monetary Claims • Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Bank • Japan Electronic Monetary Claim Organization • kabu.com Securities Credit Cards / Consumer Loans / Installment Credit • Paygent Overseas • Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS • Jibun Bank • UnionBancal Corporation •Ryoshin DC Card • PT U Finance Indonesia • JALCARD Finance • PT. BTMU-BRI Finance • JACCS • Nippon Mutual Housing Loan • BTMU Capital Corporation • ACOM • BTMU Leasing & Finance Asset Administration • Mitsubishi UFJ Trust International Housing Loans • The Master Trust Bank of Japan • Mitsubishi UFJ Global Custody • Mitsubishi UFJ Loan Business • Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking Corporation (U.S.A.) Factoring • Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International Regional Banks • Mitsubishi UFJ Factors • Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (HK) Holdings • The Chukyo Bank • Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (USA) • TAISHO Bank Shareholder Relations Consulting Services • Mitsubishi UFJ Wealth Management Bank (Switzerland) • Japan Shareholder Services • PT. Bank Nusantara Parahyangan Foreign Exchange • Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management (UK) • Tokyo Credit Services (World Currency Shop) Research / Consulting • Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (Singapore) • Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting • BTMU LF Capital Real-Estate Brokerage • Mitsubishi Asset Brains • BTMU Capital Leasing & Finance • Mitsubishi UFJ Real Estate Services • BTMU Lease (Deutschland) Leasing • Mitsubishi UFJ Baillie Gifford Asset Management • Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance • BTMU Participation (Thailand) • BOT Lease (As of March 31, 2013) MUFG's CSR MUFG CSR Report 2013 06 MUFG's CSR MUFG's CSR Corporate Vision and Our CSR Values-based Framework for Promoting CSR Activities Group CSR Priority Themes Corporate Vision The Corporate Vision serves as the basic policy in conducting Across MUFG, we have adopted Addressing Global Environbusiness activities, and provides guidelines for all group activimental Issues and Nurturing Society's Next Generation as the ties. The Principles of Ethics and Conduct provide Group two priority themes for our CSR activities. directors and employees with a standard for conducting themOur Mission selves in ways that embody the Corporate Vision in their daily work. The Corporate Vision and Principles of Ethics and Conduct underpin all Group CSR activities as well. (The Principles of Ethics and Conduct are listed on page 19.) Our Vision Addressing Global Nurturing Society's Our Values Environmental Issues Next Generation Focus on global warming, biodiNurture the next generation who versity and other global environwill address issues like global mental issues. env ironment al pro b lems and Principles of Ethics and Conduct poverty on a global scale, as well as domestic problems in Japan such as low population growth, the aging of society, and local and regional issues. Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Customer Responsibility Ethical and Focus as a Corporate Dynamic Citizen Workplace How we act to realize the vision MUFG's CSR MUFG CSR Report 2013 07 Addressing Global Environmental Issues MUFG will continue to leverage its unique capabilities as a compreMUFG's CSR hensive financial group to provide financial support so that funds flow to companies and individuals that are passionate about social and MUFG Environmental Action Policy environmental initiatives. We will continue to offer products and MUFG views environmental issues with the utmost serious• We will support the activities of companies that actively engage in services that directly lead to customers' social and environmental ness, and aims to help realize a sustainable society in which initiatives to address environmental issues by developing and projects. We will also continue our initiatives to promote biodiversity. future generations can live with peace of mind. selling products such as SRI-type investment products, which ◯ Environmental threats such as global warming, resource depleinvest in shares of companies associated with environmental meation, and pollution are increasing at an accelerating rate. In particusures, and by promoting SRI amongst our pension fund custom■ MUFG Environmental Action Policy lar, in Asia, pollution of water, air, and soil is worsening. ers. MUFG is concerned about global environmental issues. To put ◯ Environmental issues constitute an urgent problem requiring a ◯ We will actively promote initiatives overseas that take regional those concerns into action, we created our policy to promote conunified approach from the entire world. It is essential that, in seekcharacteristics into account. crete efforts for the environment as the MUFG Environmental ing solutions, we reexamine from an environmental perspective • In Asia (particularly China), we will use the capabilities of Group the patterns of our own lifestyles as well as society itself. companies to conduct Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) Action Policy in June 2008. This policy will make employees ◯ MUFG gains support from customers and members of society and other operations. aware of the roles that we should play as a comprehensive finanaround the world, and we therefore feel it is our duty to address • In the Americas and Europe, we will promote initiatives centered cial group—as we work to strengthen our environmental initiaenvironmental issues, which have a major impact on the lives of on the provision of finance in the fields of alternative energy and tives in various ways, such as by offering products and services future generations. We will channel our full capabilities into workrenewable energy. ing toward the benefit of the environment and future generations. ◯ In addition to our approach based on the Equator Principles, we that are better for the environment. ◯ We aim to fulfill society's expectations of us as a comprehensive will further clarify our lending criteria from an environmental financial group that exerts a wide-reaching influence on the environperspective, in order to contribute to the creation of an environ■ Environmental Finance and Financial CSR ment and society through its capital flows, while working to achieve mentally conscious society through our financial functions. In order to create an eco-friendly society through finance, we are a sustainable society in which future generations can live with ◯ We will leverage the comprehensive strengths of the Group, peace of mind. We will also endeavor to enhance the awareness of making use of our market intermediary functions to provide stable active in environmental finance, whereby funds are provided each individual Group employee, while taking initiatives to reduce means for emissions reductions to more customers. directly to projects aiming to reduce environmental impacts, as our own environmental impact. • We will provide a range of services that increase the liquidity of well as financial CSR, whereby funds are provided to economic emissions rights, which are created in CDM operations. I. We will dedicate our efforts to creating an environmentally • We will enhance our transaction base to allow the maintenance of entities including businesses, groups and individuals working to conscious society through finance. cost transparency and liquidity. reduce environmental impacts. MUFG is implementing a ◯ We will provide products and services that reflect the concerns of balanced approach, recognizing the significance and issues individual customers in relation to the environment. II. We will work to reduce our own environmental impact and involved with each type of environmental finance. • We will provide loans to support the installation of solar power also focus on social contribution activities. generation systems. ◯ We will work to reduce our emissions of greenhouse gases, • Through our credit card operations, we will provide access to conducting measurements of data concerning the environmental Environmental Direct provision of funds to projects that emission rights, which aid global warming prevention. burden at each of our locations, continuously operating and Finance reduce environmental impacts • We will promote the spread of Socially Responsible Investment improving environmental management systems based on ISO Investment (SRI) funds, which contribute not only to the growth of customer 14001, switching to environmentally friendly equipment, and Project = Reducing CO 2 emissions, and financing etc. assets but also the wellbeing of society and the planet as a whole. adopting alternative energy, amongst other initiatives. ◯ We will use our comprehensive financial capabilities to support ◯ We will provide environmental burden measurement tools to the environmental initiatives of our corporate customers. Group employees and their families in order to increase their enviProvision of funds to support economic entities • We will provide seamless support to customers as they advance ronmental awareness in relation to their own lifestyles. Financial CSR acting to reduce environmental impacts environmental initiatives, involving the cooperation of companies ◯ We will pursue environmental conservation initiatives such as tree with advanced environmental technology to provide consulting, planting by employees, environmental education support, and Investment Economic Reduced environmental impacts business matching and fund procurement, and other services. local contribution activities both in Japan and overseas. and financing entities MUFG's CSR MUFG CSR Report 2013 08 ■ Activities based on the MUFG Environmental Action Policy MUFG's CSR Based on the MUFG Environmental Action Policy, project teams comprised of personnel from throughout the Group are leading efforts to carry out specific initiatives. The following is an overview of FY 2012 results and FY 2013 plans. Theme / FY 2012 Plans FY 2012 Results FY 2013 Plans Project Team Promote eco-equipment and eco-housing loans. Promoted Environmentally Friendly Housing Loans. Promote eco-equipment and eco-housing loans. Study and promote new financial products related to eco Implemented the Eco Car Loan campaign. (May-Aug.: BTMU) Devise and promote new environmentally friendly products. Individuals products. Launched Eco Bank Book and Eco Notification. (May: BTMU) Continue the elimination of paper use. Promote the elimination of paper use. Began IC card authentication at branches. (Aug.: BTMU) Carried out e-post campaign. (Jul.-Sep.; Dec.-Mar.: MUMSS) Further develop and promote financial products and schemes. Hold environmental seminars for customers and bolster Released financing products using the Ministry of the EnvironFurther develop and promote financial products and schemes. activities proposing solutions to customers' environmentment and Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry interest Hold seminars for customers on environmental topics and expand related management issues. subsidy programs. activities to propose solutions to customers' management-related Domestic Had Group companies collaborate and held energy conservation issues. Promote MUFG collaboration regarding the environment Corporations (including renewable energy). seminars for customers. (Jul.) Promote collaboration within MUFG on the environment (including Continue to build know-how on saving energy in real estate field. Held solar project seminars for customers in cooperation with renewable energy). Energy conservation measures and other support for office the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, etc. (Oct.) buildings owned by customers. Promote SRI outside the company through seminars, Implemented activities to spread SRI & ESG investments Promote ESG investment. Trust lectures, etc. through lectures and university classes. Address enterprise evaluation and investment management Assets Promote initiatives by ESG* research office. Reflected expert findings from ESG investigation in ESG investment considering ESG. *Environmental, social, corporate governance products (SRI funds), developed ESG investment products, etc. Demonstrate the comprehensive strengths of M U F G by Advanced feasibility studies on the Joint Crediting Mechanism Demonstrate the comprehensive strengths of MUFG by leverleveraging its knowledge of and experience with c arbon projects supported by the Ministr y of Economy, Trade and aging its knowledge of and experience with carbon emission emission credits. Industry and other ministries. credits and the Joint Crediting Mechanism. Overseas Expand renewable energy-related project finance. Expanded project financing for renewable energy. Expand project financing for renewable energy. Ranked #1 worldwide in 2012 renewable energy project finance MLA rankings.* (BTMU) *Source: Infrastructure Journal Credit Consider detailed screening from environmental and social Examined internal readiness for the revision of the Equator Make internal preparations for applying the revised Equator Screening perspectives, based on the Equator Principles. Principles (application to corporate financing). Principles (apply to corporate financing). Collected information and researched emissions trading market Collect information and research emissions trading market trends. Collect information and research emissions trading market trends. Markets Build know-how in the European market (EU-ETS). trends. Accumulate knowledge of the European market (EU-ETS). Continued trading initiatives in the European market (EU-ETS). CO 2 emission reductions in F Y 2012 surpassed the target Actively advance energy and electricity conservation efforts Promote energy conservation across the Group. Internal (actual emissions were 34% lower than in FY 2000, compared throughout the entire Group. to the Group's CO 2 reduction target of 25% by FY 2012). Held the first TOMODACH MUFG International Exchange Program. Promote Group collaborative activities. Promote collaborative Group activities. Implemented various reconstruction support programs under Enhance local involvement activities at each office. Boost local contribution activities at each domestic and overthe MUFG NFUAJ ( National Federation of UNESCO Associaseas office. tions in Japan) East Japan Earthquake Recovery and Scholarship Fund. Social Carried out the Save Our Common Treasures of the Earth enviContributions ronmental education project. Implemented fifth term of Next Generation Leaders Training Program for Asia and the Pacific. Held the MUFG Graduation Memorial Cup Soccer Tournament. Implemented local contribution activities at each office. MUFG's CSR MUFG CSR Report 2013 09 MUFG's Contribution to Society ■ Wide-ranging Social Contribution Activities Promoted by ■ Community Outreach and Participation Activities MUFG's CSR MUFG As an active member of communities all around the world, MUFG promotes a wide range of social contribution activities driven by employee efforts. See page 57 for expenditures on social contribution activities. Supporting UNESCO Associated Schools Peter RabbitTM Forest for the Future Hiroshima Branch, Hiroshima Commercial Nihonbashi Area, BTMU ■ Employee-participation Social Contribution Initiatives (See page 50 for details.) Environmental Conservation Activities Banking Office, BTMU (See page 53 for details.) (See page 50 for details.) (See page 53 for details.) Supported by MUFG Environmental Education Project: Save Next Generation Leaders Training Sponsoring the FIT For Charity Run 2012 Sponsoring the Culture Support Project: Brussels Branch, BTMU Chennai Branch, BTMU Our Common Treasures of the Earth Program for Asia and the Pacific (See page 52 for details.) Shiki Theatre Company's Kokorono (See page 53 for details.) (See page 53 for details.) (See page 49 for details.) (See page 49 for details.) Gekijou(See page 51 for details.) MUFG Graduation Memorial Cup Soccer Economic/Financial Education Program The World of Peter RabbitTM –Diorama Participation in Marunouchi de Uchimizu Utsunomiya Branch, MUTB 5 offices in Osaka Area, MUTB Tournament Let's Learn about Finance and Economy exhibit on the first floor of the head office, –Splashing water to alleviate the (See page 54 for details.) (See page 54 for details.) (See page 49 for details.) (See page 49 for details.) MUTB heat-island effect Job Shadowing Work Experience Gifts for the Future TV Program Sponsoring the Special Olympics Nippon Club for You Volunteer Team–Participation London Branch, MUTB Head Office, MUSHD Program (See page 50 for details.) (See page 52 for details.) in cleanup and repairing activities of the (See page 54 for details.) (See page 49 for details.) Kumano Kodō ancient pilgrimage routes MUFG's CSR MUFG CSR Report 2013 10 CSR Topics at MUFG MUFG's CSR 2012 2013 Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Ma r A pr Ma y J un J ul ●Sixth term started for Next ●First tree-growing event held for the Save Our ●Fifth term started for Next Generation ●Held sixth Job Shadowing program ●Carried out MUFG NFUAJ East Japan Earthquake Recovery Generation Leaders Training Common Treasures of the Earth project Leaders Training Program for Asia and Scholarship Fund flower–replanting volunteer works ●Started taking applications ●Held the first TOMODACHI MUFG Program for Asia and the Pacific ●Second tree-growing and the Pacific (six times through November) for scholarships under International Exchange Program event held for the Save MUFG NFUAJ East Japan Mitsubishi UFJ ●Announced participation in the TOMODACHI Initiative Earthquake Recovery ●Carried out MUFG NFUAJ Our Common Treasures East Japan Earthquake of the Earth project Financial Group, ●Ninth and tenth tree-planting event held ●Participated in FIT For Charity Run 2012 and Scholarship Fund for FY 2013 Recovery and Scholarship Fund ●Held the second Inc. for the Save Our Common Treasures of the Earth project flower-replanting volunteer works TOMODACHI MUFG ●Carried out MUFG NFUAJ East Japan Earthquake ●Held the sixth (five times through June) International Exchange Recovery and Scholarship Fund flower–replanting ●Held MUFG Girls' Soccer Invitational Tournament 2012 MUFG Graduation Memorial Program volunteer works (six times through July) Cup Soccer Tournament ●Fifth Next Generation Leaders ●Held seventh Training Program for Asia and the Pacific ended Job Shadowing program The Bank of ●Implemented third ESD International Exchange Program Tokyo-Mitsubishi ●Held fifth Kagaya Kids' Day ●Exhibited at MESSE NAGOYA 2012 ●Held MUFG Junior Tennis Tournament 2013 UFJ, Ltd. ●Dispatched lecturer to The University of ●Launched CSR Support Loans ●Held fourth CSR-related Business Plans Presentation Conference Tokyo Graduate School of Engineering ●Held Children's Visiting Day –Innovation Case Studies ●Zutto Anshin Trust received first place in 2012 Nikkei Superior Products and Services Awards Nikkei Veritas Award for Excellence Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and ●Weed-clearing as part of Peter RabbitTM Forest for the Future activities ●Kakehashi-Shintaku Ai-no-Kikin Fund donated social welfare facilities, etc. Banking ●Launched Educational Fund Gift Trust Corporation ●Rikuzentakata Paintfest ●Film screening and panel discussion for Sanriku Railway Reconstruction Support ●Coastal forest restoration ● Coastal forest restoration ●Picture Book and Jazz Collaboration ●Blood donation drive (Mejirodai Building) in Kujukurihama Beach in Kujukurihama Beach*1 in Ishinomaki Mitsubishi UFJ ●Conducted e-post Securities ●Coastal forest restoration in Kujukurihama Beach*1 ●Coastal forest restoration in Kujukurihama Beach*1 campaign (2013) *2 Holdings ●Christmas cards for children hospitalized for extended stays*1 ●Donated funds raised by the e-post campaign (second half 2012) to MUFG NFUAJ East Japan Earthquake Recovery and Scholarship Fund*2 Co., Ltd. ●Conducted e-post campaign (first half 2012)*2 ●Participated in Furusato-seiso ●Conducted e-post campaign (second half 2012)*2 neighborhood cleanup rally*2 ●Donated to two organizations from ●Donated funds raised by the e-post campaign (first half 2012) Employee Donations Account*2 to MUFG NFUAJ East Japan Earthquake Recovery and Scholarship Fund*2 ●Implemented carbon offsets*2 ●Launched assistance for concert for emotional care ●Launched new forms of voluntary activities ●Launched Poke Pos for J-Mups service to meet diverse needs in disaster areas ●Released e-saifu prepaid settlement service ●Launched employees' ●Held trainings for educators at private companies Mitsubishi UFJ volunteer activities to restore ●Sponsored TOKYO FM Earthquake ●Held Family Visit Day NICOS agriculture in disaster areas Disaster Second Anniversary ●Launched employees' volunteer activities for the revival of communities in disaster areas Memorial program ●Sponsored reconstruction memorial concert Co., Ltd. in Ishinomaki ●Endowed a next-generation ●Launched J-Mups service personal identification technology course ●Implemented Cool Earth Day (No Overtime Day) at the University of Tokyo *1 Joint CSR Activity by Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities (MUMSS) and Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities (MSMS). *2 Activity by MUMSS. MUFG's CSR MUFG CSR Report 2013 11 Summary of Key Indicators for FY 2012 MUFG's CSR This page summarizes key indicators concerning the CSR initiatives of MUFG. Reporting Reporting Category Item Indicator Notes Category Item Indicator Notes Greenhouse gas emissions MUFG Total CO2 emissions Career development for female BTMU Female general managers As of early April 2013 Actual emission factors 101.2% compared to employees 43(80) Numbers in parenthe212,473 t FY 2011 Female chief and senior ses indicate targets for Adjusted emission factors 103.5% compared to managers 272 (220) March 2015 206,928 t FY 2011 Total 315 (300) Employees Female managers 13.6% (15%) Cost of environmental MUFG Investment 7,721 million yen 103.6% compared to measures by offices FY 2011 MUMSS Female general managers 4 As of the end of March Expenses 5,857 million yen 142.2% compared to Female deputy general 2013 FY 2011 managers, chief managers 8 Deputy chief managers, senior Number of UN-registered CDM MUMSS 72 (as reported by UNFCCC) Cumulative as of June managers 132 consulting projects 2013 Expenditures for social BTMU MUTB MUMSS FY 2012 Projects reviewed for social and BTMU By Category From April 2012 to contribution activities Local and International Environment environmental considerations Category A 7 March 2013 Education & culture based on Equator Principles Category B 38 231 million yen (see Note) Category C 12 Social welfare & environmental Total 57 conservation 167 million yen Communities Community contributions, BTMU By Sector international exchange, others Infrastructure 17 833 million yen Mining 2 Total 1,231 million yen Oil and gas 9 Petrochemicals 2 Customer satisfaction Total of Satisfied or Somewhat satisfied Customer Satisfaction Power 26 (individual customers) Survey Results in FY BTMU Approx. 67.5% Other 1 2012 Customers MUTB Approx. 71.0% Total 57 MUMSS Approx. 52.9% By Region MUN Approx. 65.0% Americas 20 Asia, Oceania 16 Europe, Middle East, Africa 21 Note: Detailed report available at: http://www.bk.mufg.jp/english/ourcompany/societyandenvironment/implementing.html Total 57 Supporting Areas Affected by Disasters MUFG CSR Report 2013 12 Participation in the TOMODACHI Initiative Supporting Areas Affected by MUFG 1. Scholarship Program Supporting Areas Each student is awarded 100,000 yen at the start of the Affected by Disasters program and 20,000 yen (in total 240,000 yen per year) every Disasters month until high school graduation. The number of scholarship students was 1,225 at the end of FY 2012. The program will We are carrying out a range of programs while issue new scholarships in FY 2013 as well, and will continue working to raise awareness wherever we can. until those students have graduated from high school in 2026. TOMODACHI Program 2. Healthy Growth Program (Japan-U.S. Exchange) This program provides a Support Exchange Meeting among scholarship recipients. In December 2012, 17 scholarship Initiatives by MUFG recipients were invited to the Japan Pro-Footballers Association's Charity Soccer 2012 event held at Yurtec Stadium MUFG appealed to member companies to undertake initiatives, Sendai. Participating students enjoyed the day watching the through their core businesses and charity programs, that will conmatch and walking onto the field afterward to talk with the tribute to the reconstruction of disaster-affected areas. Student representative addressing audience Exchange party athletes about their experience playing in international comBTMU is carrying out reconstruction support activities through petitions. the Reconstruction Public-private Partnership Office at its local As part of the TOMODACHI Initiative, a U.S.Japan 3. Flower-replanting Program branch office in Sendai. It is also providing support through major exchange program involving the U.S. government and a Executives and employees from MUFG companies visited business-matching conferences. U.S. non-profit organization, the U.S.-Japan Council, MUFG elementary and junior high schools in Iwate, Miyagi, and FukuOther ongoing efforts include employee volunteering, holding established the TOMODACHI MUFG International shima Prefectures, where damage from the tsunami was concerts for emotional support and inspiration, hosting movie Exchange Program, a three-year exchange program for particularly severe, and replanted some 10,000 flowering plants events and talk shows, and soliciting support for the reconstrucstudents and educators from the disaster-affected areas in at 14 schools from May through November in FY 2012. We will tion through radio programs that we sponsor. Japan and their counterparts in the United States. continue to implement this program next year and onward. To This fiscal year, the second year of the program, 26 high date roughly 21,000 plants were donated to 27 schools. Mediumto Long-term Reconstruction Assistance school students and four teachers from California were 4. Volunteer Program Efforts invited to the Sendai area where they stayed with local famiIn FY 2012, some 360 MUFG executives and employees lies, visited a local high school, and socialized with the volunteered to help the programs mentioned above, bringing MUFG NFUAJ East Japan Earthquake Recovery and Scholarstudents who had visited California in 2011. They also the total number of volunteers to 570. ship Fund listened to stories about the disaster and volunteered in a BTMU, in cooperation with a public interest incorporated association, beach cleanup in Kesennuma. the National Federation of UNESCO Associations in Japan, estabOn the occasion of an opportunity to meet John Roos, the lished in April 2011 the MUFG NFUAJ East Japan Earthquake Recovformer United States Ambassador to Japan, the high school ery and Scholarship Fund. For up to 15 years, the fund will work with students were encouraged when he said that he looked local schools in operating a scholarship program and holding various forward to them being the next generation to carry on support projects for orphaned students (children who lost one or Japan-U.S. relations. Participating students had comments both of their parents as a result of the earthquake and tsunami) from such as, In the future I would like to be a bridge between elementary through high school. The fund is expected to grow to the U.S and Japan, and I would like to return to Japan, around 3 billion yen. Healthy Growth Program Flower-replanting Program study Japanese, and learn more about Japan. Supporting Areas Affected by Disasters MUFG CSR Report 2013 13 MUFG will continue to support the TOMODACHI Initiative and nology). Also, in November that year, MUSHD supported a Participation in Restoration of Coastal Forests Supporting Areas Affected by MUMSS other programs that support children in becoming future leaders. film screening of Our Railway—Sanriku Railway Journal in Through the efforts of employee volunteers, MUMSS, Yokohama City, as well as a talking event on the theme of together with MSMS, is supporting activities to restore the Initiatives through Business reconstructing the Sanriku Railway. The entire net proceeds coastal forest at Kujukurihama Beach (Chiba Prefecture), Disasters from the screening were offered as a donation to the Sanriku where trees suffered salt damage from the tsunami caused BTMU Financial Assistance based on Public-private Partnerships Railway and the people of Sanriku. by the Great East Japan Earthquake. In April 2012, about 60 In May 2012, BTMU established the Reconstruction Publicemployees from these companies planted 6,000 seedlings, private Partnership Office in Sendai, with the aim of promotone by one. In August 2012 and July 2013, a total of about ing investment in the region targeted for reconstruction, 90 employees from these companies worked under the hot based on partnerships with national and local government summer sun to remove weeds from the tree-planted areas. agencies. As a corporate group CSR activity under MUSHD, about 25 Making use of the support systems available under the Interemployees from KOKUSAI est Subsidy Program in Special Zones for Reconstruction Asset Management, MUS Talking event to support reconstruction Picture Book and Jazz Collaboration (see Note) of the government's Reconstruction Agency, we of the Sanriku Railway Business S er v ices, and also provided the largest amount of funding of any major MUMSS, all MUFG compabanking group in Japan, at about 10 billion yen (in seven MUN Support for the Disaster Area through Concerts and nies, carried out supplemenloans). Major media outlets extensively covered our efforts Radio Broadcasts tary tree planting and weeding Coastal forest restoration to direct financing of companies based outside the reconMUN has been holding free Japan Philharmonic Orchestra at the same site in April 2013. support at Kujukurihama Beach struction zone to go into that zone. concerts in disaster-affected areas. By the end of July 2013, Note: For funding of core projects as part of reconstruction plans in designated Special a total of 26 concerts had been held, bringing the enjoyment MUN Employee Volunteers' Activities to Support ReconZones for Reconstruction in the disaster areas (in 227 municipalities), the national government subsidizes up to 0.7% of the interest for five years. of soothing, live music to about 5,000 victims of the disaster. struction MUN also contributed to the organizing costs of a reconSince July 2011, MUN has been allowing employees to BTMU Support through Business Matching struction memorial concert by local citizens in Ishinomaki, make use of its volunteer leave system. While allowing the BTMU invited regional banks (the Bank of Iwate, the 77 Miyagi Prefecture, in June 2013, and employees volunteered program to evolve over time in order to reflect the changing Bank, and the Toho Bank) and customers from the disaster for event management. needs of the disaster-affected areas, a total of 420 employareas to a large business conference known as Business The Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Dear Partner FM radio program ees had participated in a variety of volunteer activities by Link Shobai Hanjo, held in February 2013 by MUFG. The hosted by Masataka Matsutoya invites special guests at the July 2013, aiming to help the local people, including through meeting offered them a variety of opportunities to meet, forefront of reconstruction efforts every month to share their the restoration of farming activities and by providing emoresulting in about 30 business negotiations. thoughts about the reconstruction of the disaster-affected areas. tional care. The company actively supported the volunteer By providing an ongoing discussion about the disaster, MUN activities on the necessary expenses. Many employees Other Initiatives aims to maintain public interest in the reconstruction efforts. participated in a variety of ways, such as by purchasing the farm products har vested MUMSS Picture Books, Music, and Movies: Supporting Reconstruction from the activity areas, and MUMSS supported a Picture Book and Jazz Collaboration by donating children's clothevent in September 2012, held at the Children's Playhouse at ing and picture books to the Ohzashi temporary housing complex in Ishinomaki City, nurseries that had accepted led by our company's clinical psychologist (at the time, evacuee children. Support for Ishinomaki citizens' Concert organized at junior high school Agricultural reconstruction graduate school professor of the Kanazawa Institute of Techreconstruction memorial concert in disaster area volunteers on strawberry farm Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2013 14 Group Corporate Governance Structure Members of the Advisory Board Corporate Governance General Meeting Toru Nagashima Corporate Auditors/Board of Shareholders of Corporate Auditors (Senior Adviser, TEIJIN LIMITED) (3 of 5 auditors are external) Shinichi Fukuda (Professor, the University of Tokyo, Graduate School of Economics) Corporate Mariko Fujii Auditors Office (Professor, the University of Tokyo, Research Center for Advanced Science To realize the mediumto long-term goal Governance, Commitments, Chairman Reports and and Technology) Advisory Board recommendations Akio Mimura Committees reporting Global Advisory Board Board of Directors articulated in our Corporate Vision—to be (Several outside directors) to the Board of Directors (Senior Advisor, Honorary Chairman, Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corporation) Internal Audit and (As of November 21, 2013) the world's most trusted financial group— Compliance Committee and Engagement MUFG treats the development and Advice Executive Report Risk Committee Members of the Global Advisory Board Committee Mr. John C. Dugan maintenance of a properly functioning President Committees reporting to Nomination and Compensation Committee (Partner, Covington Burling LLP/ Former Comptroller of the Currency, United States 報告 Report Treasury Department) corporate governance system as one of & CEO the Executive Committee Dr. Victor K. Fung (Group Chairman, Fung Group, Hong Kong/ Former Honorary Chairman, management's highest priorities. the International Chamber of Commerce) Audit Ambassador John V. Roos Corporate Integrated Corporate Risk Management Internal Audit (Former the United States Ambassador to Japan) Business Group Staff Units Units Division Lord (James) Sassoon, Kt (Director, Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited/ Former Commercial Secretary to the Treasury, United Kingdom) MUFG Governance Functions of the Holding Company Internal Audit and Compliance Committees of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Associate Professor Simon S.C. Tay Trust and Banking, Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings and Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS (Chairman of the Singapore Institute of International Affairs/Former Member The holding company (MUFG) has established a fair and of Parliament, Singapore) Does not include external members Includes external members Dr. Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell transparent corporate governance system including a board (Member of Supervisory Board, Österreichische Bundesbahnen-Holding AG/ Former Member of Executive Board, European Central Bank) of corporate auditors and voluntary committees from exter(As of October 1, 2013) nal viewpoints. We are making every effort to enhance the Overview of Internal Audit and Compliance Committee, Risk Committee, and Nomination and Compensation Committee system. In keeping with provisions specified by Japan's MUFG Governance System of the Whole Group Committee Scope of Committee Deliberations Members financial instruments exchanges, including the Tokyo Stock Name The holding company fulfills the function of overseeing the Exchange, two out of the 15 members of the Board of DirecMatters related to internal audits Chairperson: Ryuji Araki (Outside director) management of each member company by introducing a and statutory compliance at the Members: Kazuhiro Watanabe tors are designated as independent directors from outside Internal Audit h o l d in g c o m p any an d G ro u p (Outside director) group-wide risk management, compliance and internal audit subsidiaries Shin Kikuchi the company; also in keeping with these provisions, a majorand (External expert/attorney at law) structure, and by dispatching senior management to the Compliance Akira Yamate ity of the five-member Board of Corporate Auditors is comCommittee (External expert/certified major subsidiaries, including BTMU, MUTB, MUSHD and public accountant) prised of independent outside auditors. We also have an Tatsuo Wakabayashi MUN. The board of directors of each company includes (Deputy Chairman and Chief Internal Audit and Compliance Committee, a Risk CommitAudit Officer, MUFG) external directors. The internal audit and compliance committee, and a Nomination and Compensation Committee under Matters related to the status, Chairperson: Yuko Kawamoto tees for each company are composed of a majority of extercontrol and management of all (Outside director*) the Board of Directors; the majority of their members are types of risk Members: Ryuji Araki (Outside director) nal members, and these committees report to each comAkira Ariyoshi from outside the company. The holding company also has an Risk (External expert/professor, pany's Board of Directors. Committee Ph.D) Advisory Board and a Global Advisory Board of external Akihiko Kagawa (Managing Director and Chief experts, which provide advice to the Executive CommitComplianceand Risk Officer, MUFG) tee (which deliberates and decides on important busiMatters related to the selection of Chairperson: Kazuhiro Watanabe ness matters). Nomination candidates for directorships at the (Outside director) and holding company, important personMembers: Ryuji Araki (Outside director) Compensanel affairs at the holding company and Yuko Kawamoto tion Group subsidiaries, and remuneration (Outside director*) Committee for senior management of the holding Nobuyuki Hirano company and Group subsidiaries (President and CEO) * Not an outside director as defined by Article 2, Item 15, (As of July 1, 2013) of the Company Law Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2013 15 The Board of Directors determines risk management policies Risk Management based on the discussions held by these committees and councils. The holding company seeks to unify risk awareness within We comprehensively monitor the Group, to improve the Group's risk management frameGovernance, Commitments, and manage various risks work and related methods, to maintain asset quality through to maintain sound financial health. risk management and to eliminate concentrations of specific and Engagement risks, among other objectives. MUFG maintains and implements its own risk management framework in line with MUFG Risk Management Policy Group-wide risk management policy determined by the holdIn this ever-changing business environment marked by finaning company. cial deregulation, globalization, and advances in information technology, MUFG aims to be one of the world's foremost Risk Management System comprehensive financial groups, housing a diverse array of companies—including commercial banking, trust banking, Holding Company (Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group) securities businesses—all under one roof. The risks these Risk Committee businesses are subjected to are growing in size and scope, Board of Directors giving risk management an increasingly important role in our Corporate Risk Management Planning Management Executive Committee line of work. Committee Committee (includes ALM) (includes crisis MUFG comprehensively identifies the various risks that arise management) from business operations using uniform criteria and adopts Corporate Risk Market Risk, Group Credit Management Division Liquidity Risk, an integrated risk management approach as a basic policy for Management (Coordinates Operational Risk, Committee risk management) and Operations Risk maximizing shareholder value while safeguarding business operations. Under these policies, a wide variety of risks are Credit & Investment Credit Risk Management Division identified, measured, controlled, and monitored with the goal Corporate Risk of posting stable returns commensurate with risk, maintainManagement Division, Information Asset Risk Operations & Systems ing an appropriate capital structure, and optimally allocating Planning Division resources. Public Relations Division Reputation Risk MUFG Risk Management System Discuss Establish fundamental policy Discuss Chief risk management officers and risk management and report Guidance and advice and report divisions at the holding company (Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Companies Group) and major Group companies work closely to manage risks on a Group level. Various committees and councils are BTMU, MUTB, MUSHD, MUN, other subsidiaries also tasked with actively managing risk for the Group from both qualitative and quantitative approaches. These committees and councils monitor the status of each type of risk and discuss important matters pertaining to their management. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2013 16 Committee (a majority of which consist of external memimplement diverse measures toward improvement. The FY Compliance bers), for the deliberation of important compliance issues. We have also established a Group CCO Committee compris2013 survey will confirm the awareness and spread of the Principles of Ethics and Conduct. ing the Chief Compliance Officer and Deputy Chief CompliWe go to great lengths to ensure full compliance Internal Reporting Systems Governance, Commitments, ance Officers of the holding company. The Group CCO Comthroughout MUFG, guided by our Corporate mittee deliberates important compliance issues as well as Vision, which emphasizes strict compliance with issues that require a common understanding throughout the MUFG has established internal reporting systems that aim to and Engagement Group, shares problematic issues for the Group as a whole, identify compliance issues early so that any problems can be laws and regulations and the conduct of and works to prevent problems from occurring. Expanded quickly rectified. This system includes an independent exterbusiness in a transparent manner, to gain the Group CCO Committee meetings, with additional members, nal compliance hotline. Furthermore, the holding company public's trust and confidence. are held for deliberations on compliance issues that are in has set up an MUFG Compliance Helpline that supplements common among multiple Group companies. Group-companies' internal reporting systems and provides a Compliance Framework reporting channel for directors and employees of Group comGroup-wide Efforts panies. Compliance Framework Holding Company (MUFG) MUFG revised our Principles of Ethics and Conduct in Board of Directors Internal Audit December 2012. Specifically, we combined and revised the Board of and Compliance Committee Corporate former Ethical Framework and Code of Conduct into a single Auditors Executive Committee Group Compliance Committee set of principles as specific judgment and action standards under the Corporate Vision introduced in April 2012. The CCO Group CCO Committee (Chief Compliance Officer) Principles were compiled by organizing a dedicated project team from the concerned units which exchanged opinions Compliance Division (coordinates compliance issues) with about 60 domestic and overseas branches. In addition, we focused on making the Principles easy to understand and Consultation and report Guidance, advice and instruction easy to embody, considering the opinions given in the compliance awareness survey discussed below. Upon introducBTMU, MUTB, MUSHD, MUN, other subsidiaries Group Companies tion, a booklet explaining the content was distributed to all directors and employees worldwide, DVDs and e-learning materials were prepared for trainings, and other efforts were Compliance Divisions are in place at the holding company made to spread understanding of the Principles of Ethics and (MUFG), as well as at BTMU, MUTB, MUSHD and MUN. Conduct throughout the Group. The Compliance Divisions at each company promote compliMUFG also carries out regular compliance awareness ance policies and measures by developing compliance surveys of all Group directors and employees. The FY 2012 programs and offering training, etc., and report the status of survey received responses from around 80,000 Group direccompliance to the Executive Committee and to the Boards tors and employees which confirmed that there is still a high of Directors of the respective companies. All five companies level of awareness regarding compliance and the customerhave also established voluntary committees, such as a Comfirst approach. Individual Group companies also grasp and pliance Committee and an Internal Audit and Compliance analyze their own issues by raising their own questions, and Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2013 17 Major Compliance Policies and Measures actions between MUFG and clients could arise MUFG Response to Anti-Social Elements Examples for Managed Businesses include: MUFG has announced a Basic Policy regarding Anti-Social Conflicts of Interest Management M&A advisory, Securitization of Assets/Receivables, Loan Elements, which includes organized crime exclusion clauses in MUFG MUFG has established a system whereby items that might pose a Syndication, Principal Investment, Equity and Debt Undercontracts, transaction terms and other agreements, and is reinwriting, and Bond Management Governance, Commitments, conflict of interest are centrally managed at the holding company forcing efforts to ensure that anti-social elements cannot take to prevent any untoward damages to customer interests. We have 3. Companies with Requirement for Conflicts of advantage of the financial system. also announced a Policy for Conflicts of Interest Management, and Interest Management MUFG companies conducting Managed Businesses shall be and Engagement conduct trainings for the education of officers and employees as MUFG Basic Policy regarding Anti-Social Elements required to develop appropriate management system for MUFG has adopted the following Basic Policy regarding Antiwell as periodic reviews of the management system. conflicts of interest. Social Elements, and our officers and employees are striving to Policy for Conflicts of Interest Management Examples of companies with requirement for conflicts of ensure the propriety and safety of all Group operations by observMitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, the holding company, and interest management include: ing this Basic Policy. its subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively, MUFG ) shall The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Mitsubishi UFJ Trust establish the following policy for conflicts of interest manand Banking Corporation, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley 1. Response as an Organization agement and take all necessary actions to ensure all Securities Co., Ltd., kabu.com Securities Co., Ltd., The Taisho In relation to anti-social elements, the Company has estabofficers and employees to comply with the policy and not to Bank, Ltd., and The Chukyo Bank, Ltd. lished the foundation of express provisions in the Principles of falsely harm clients' interest. 4. Management System for Conflicts of Interest Ethics and Conduct and Internal Rules, etc., and will respond 1. Conflicts of Interest MUFG shall centralize the management of conflicts of interest as an entire organization, from the top management downA conflict of interest means the situation where an MUFG's by establishing divisions responsible for management and ward. In addition, the Company will guarantee the safety of client's interest conflicts with MUFG's or one MUFG's client's control of conflicts of interest at each company under a legal employees who would respond to anti-social elements. interest conflicts with other MUFG's clients'. duty to establish management system for conflicts of interest. 2. Cooperation with External Specialist Organizations While such conflicts of interest occur on a day-to-day basis as a MUFG shall comply with applicable laws and regulations Under normal circumstances, the Company endeavors to result of conglomerations of financial institutions and diversificarelated to conflicts of interest and maintain appropriate manestablish a close cooperative relationship with external spetion of financial trading, MUFG shall establish appropriate busiagement for conflicts of interest. cialist organizations such as the police, the Centers for the ness management and compliance system to prevent 5. Measures for Management of Conflicts of Interest Elimination of Boryokudan, and lawyers. adverse effects from conflicts of interest within the Group. With the following measures MUFG shall prevent adverse 3. Blocking of Relationships, including Business 2. Identif ying Transactions with Potential Risk of effects from conflicts of interest issues and avoid falsely damTransactions Adverse Effects from Conflicts of Interest aging clients' interest. The Company shall block all relationships with anti-social MUFG shall identify in advance businesses, which require (1) Separating a division/company conducting a transaction elements, including business relationships. special management ( Managed Businesses ), from busiwith potential risk of adverse effects by conflicts of interest 4. Civil and Criminal Legal Responses in Times of Emergency nesses in the following situations. MUFG shall intensively from other divisions/companies The Company shall reject improper demands from antimanage transactions with potential risk of adverse effects (2) Changing the conditions/methods of either/both transacsocial elements, and take legal actions on both a civil and from conflicts of interest in performing the Managed Busitions with potential risk of adverse effects by conflicts of interest criminal basis, as the need arises. nesses, taking into consideration reputation risk. (3) Terminating either one of transactions with potential risk 5. Prohibition of Secret Deals and Provision of Funds (1) Situations where a client reasonably expects MUFG to of adverse effects by conflicts of interest The Company shall absolutely not engage in secret deals with prioritize the client's best interest (e.g., advisory service) (4) Notifying clients of potential risk of adverse effects anti-social elements. (2) Situations where MUFG could inappropriately benefit in the by conflicts of interest The Company shall absolutely not provide funds to anti-social market using information obtained from transactions with clients elements. (3) Situations where high reputation risk resulting from transGovernance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2013 18 BTMU Security Measures for Internet Banking BTMU Assistance for Victims of Fraudulent Withdrawals Financial Crime MUTB We are protecting customers' valuable information by using advanced encryption technologies for Internet banking transMUTB BTMU and MUTB compensate victims for losses suffered from the use of forged or stolen cash cards, stolen Countermeasures actions. We have established 24-hour monitoring systems MUMSS passbooks, and Internet bank fraud withdrawals based on Governance, Commitments, for Internet-based attacks, and remain vigilant with solid Japan's Depositor Protection Act and on an arrangement security systems to address a variety of risks, including unauannounced by the Japanese Bankers Association in February MUFG is implementing diverse countermeasures thorized third-party access, information leaks, impersonation 2008. and Engagement against malicious financial crimes such as of contractors, and so on. Based on a resolution of the board of directors of the Japan money transfer and investment fraud, as well as Securities Dealers A ssociation, MUMS S provides victim assistance measures, and more. BTMU Security Measures to Reduce Losses from Phishing compensation to victims of unauthorized withdrawals that We have adopted an electronic signature system which were made using forged or stolen cards. MUTB displays a warning message when the e-mail contents have Financial Crime Countermeasures and Victim been tampered with during transmission and allows customAssistance ers to confirm the message sender. We have also made arrangements so that customers can easily verify that they BTMU Loss Prevention from Money Transfer and are connected to the authentic Internet server when conInvestment Fraud ducting direct banking from their personal computers. MUTB We take numerous measures to make customers aware of the criminal methods used in money transfer and MUN Introduction of PCIDSS to Prevent Illicit Card Use investment fraud. Such measures include placing posters Throughout the company, MUN is advancing conformity in branch offices and displaying warnings on ATM with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard screens, and so on. Attendants frequently remind custom(PCIDSS), which is an international credit card industry secuers to take precautions or to verify the details of transacrity standard established for the safe handling of credit card tions. We also confirm identity and intended use when member data. In September 2010, MUN acquired certificanew bank accounts are opened, to ensure that accounts tion of conformity with the EC Card Settlement System are not used for criminal purposes. In some cases, we which provides Internet card settlement. MUN has been must refuse to open a new account, and on these occasteadily expanding the range of applications since then, and sions we request the customer's understanding. will continue working to improve security levels. BTMU Preventing Losses from Forged or Stolen ATM Cards BTMU Assistance for Victims of Money Transfer Fraud We have been introducing technologies to verify user idenBased on Japan's Act on Damage Recovery Benefit DistribMUTB MUTB tity, such as electronic IC cards and biometric authentication, uted from Fund in Bank Accounts Used for Crimes, which to prevent losses from cash card forgery and theft. We are entered into force in June 2008, we repay victims with funds also implementing countermeasures to prevent strangers arising from criminal damages and remaining in financial instifrom learning or guessing passwords, such as installing reartutions' bank accounts if they were used for criminal view mirrors for ATM users, installing polarized film on ATM purposes. screens, and displaying reminders about password management on ATM screens. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2013 19 long-term, sustainable relationships with our customers to illegal or improper activities such as money laundering, fraud, Major Policies help them meet their goals. 1-1. Acting with Honesty and Integrity or financing terrorist activities. 2-3. Commitment to Social Sustainability We always place our diverse customers at the center of all We respect the history, culture, and customs of local Governance, Commitments, activities and act with honesty and integrity in all of our communities and strive to contribute to their development MUFG's CSR activities are guided by a set of dealings with them. We protect customer assets, including and the protection of the environment through our corporate principles, policies, and rules. their personal information, and strive at all times not to activities and employee volunteer efforts. and Engagement damage their interests. Chapter 3 Ethical and Dynamic Workplace MUFG Principles of Ethics and Conduct 1-2. Controlling Quality We are committed to creating a working environment that These Principles of Ethics and Conduct establish clear and In order to earn the lasting trust and confidence of our fosters mutual respect among MUFG employees, supports consistent standards for all MUFG employees to guide customers, we maintain thorough quality control of our the full expression of our individuality as professionals, decisions and actions. They reflect and support the MUFG products and services in all aspects from product design and promotes the power of teamwork, honors diversity, Corporate Vision. development to delivery, and continually improve our transcends differences, and embraces new challenges. The principles are organized in three sections. Chapter 1 processes to provide accurate and secure transactions. 3-1. Stimulating Workplace presents the attitude that we adopt with our customers, to 1-3. Exceeding Customer Expectations We strive to enhance our knowledge and expertise, focus on act with honesty and integrity and pursue their best We strive to satisfy the diverse needs of our customers maximizing the value of teamwork, and view changes in the interests, which is a core component of our business worldwide and to exceed their expectations through the business environment as opportunities to launch new practices. highest standards of professionalism and by effectively initiatives. Chapter 2 presents a set of standards to help us fulfill our leveraging our global network and consolidated strength. 3-2. Ethical Workplace responsibilities as a good corporate citizen. MUFG's Chapter 2 Responsibility as a Corporate Citizen We respect the diversity and human rights of all MUFG reputation depends upon the trust and confidence of our As a member of MUFG with global operations, we act employees. We do not engage in or tolerate discrimination, customers and other stakeholders, including local honorably, with honesty and integrity, and comply at all times harassment, intimidation, or any other behavior or activity communities, and we are responsible to society on a global with laws, regulations, rules, and internal policies globally. that is inconsistent with these core beliefs. We report any level. We strive to maintain stability and confidence in the global violations of laws and rules, and we manage corporate Chapter 3 describes the actions and mindset that will create financial system and to contribute to the sound growth and assets appropriately. a stimulating and supportive working environment as MUFG development of society. We behave in a manner that continues to grow. Our success depends on building and supports and strengthens the trust and confidence that maintaining a dynamic workplace where all employees can MUFG has built up over the years. reach their full potential in ways that support our customers 2-1. Adherence to Laws and Regulations and contribute to society as a whole. We always judge and act with honesty and integrity, do what Chapter 1 Customer Focus is right, and comply with both the letter and the spirit of the We place our diverse customers at the center of all our laws, regulations, and rules that apply to us. We avoid insider activities and always act in their best interests. MUFG is trading, do not engage in anti-competitive conduct or any able to thrive today because of the trust and confidence form of corrupt activity, and publicly disclose corporate that customers have placed in us—the result of years of information in an appropriate manner. fair, transparent, and honorable dealings. Our business 2-2. Combating Criminal Activity culture is not driven by the prospect of short-term, immediWe do not conduct business with criminal elements. We do ate gains. Instead, we place a premium on supporting not allow our financial products and services to be used for Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2013 20 MUFG Personal Information Protection Policy 8. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will continually review ronmental statement and policy and help raise awareness of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group believes it is the Group's and improve its management systems to protect personal environmental issues through extensive communication. social responsibility to handle customers' personal informainformation. tion properly under Corporate Vision. The following is our MUFG Our Approach to Addressing Biological Diversity ConGovernance, Commitments, Personal Information Protection Policy. We intend to do our MUFG MUFG Environmental Statement servation best to protect our customers' personal information by We, the directors and employees of MUFG, recognize that Biological diversity, or biodiversity, is considered to have three ensuring that every executive and employee complies with protection of the global environment is the responsibility of dimensions: ecosystem diversity, species (interspecies) diverand Engagement this Policy. all human beings and, as a good corporate citizen, MUFG sity, and intra-species (genetic) diversity. It is said that biodi1. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will comply with laws and fulfills its social responsibility by working actively towards versity is facing three crises: reduction and extermination of regulations regarding the proper handling of the customers' the realization of a sustainable environment. species due to human activities (development and overharpersonal information. Through our business activities, we will support environvesting), deterioration in the quality of nature due to insuffi2. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will acquire personal mental protection efforts by both industry and individuals cient care for woodlands, and disruption of ecosystems from information properly. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will that contribute to realizing a sustainable society. influences such as invasive species and chemical substances. notify and/or disclose the purpose of such personal inforIn recognition of the importance of conserving the biological mation to customers and will not use it beyond the MUFG MUFG Environmental Policy diversity that supports the global environment, MUFG disclosed purpose except as permitted by law. In accordance with the spirit and philosophy outlined in its intends to pursue efforts based on the following approaches: 3. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will educate all of its Environmental Statement, We, the directors and employ(1) Active engagement executives and employees so that they understand the ees of MUFG will: Raise awareness among corporate officers and employees importance of protecting personal information and handle 1. Comply with all laws and regulations related to environabout biological diversity, linking them to voluntary and customers' personal information properly. mental protection and other requirements to which Group company-wide activities. 4. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will take necessary and companies subscribe; (2) Promotion of social contribution activities that make use appropriate measures to ensure the security of personal 2. Support business activities that contribute to the protection of financial products and services information and will endeavor to prevent improper access and improvement of the environment through the provision of Support biodiversity conservation projects through the to, alteration, loss and/or leakage of personal information. high-quality financial products and services, and aim to provision of integrated financial services. Make use of the 5. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will not supply any reduce environmental risks; expanding business base and other resources of MUFG to personal information to third parties (including parties in 3. Recognize the environmental burden caused by consumpsupport social contribution activities. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group) without the prior consent tion of resources and release of waste from our own busi(3) Linkages with communities and society of the individual concerned, except as permitted by law. ness activities and aim to protect the environment through In order to conserve biodiversity, link and cooperate with a 6. When outsourcing the handling of personal information resource recycling as well as efficient use of energy and wide variety of partners, including international organizato other institutions, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will resources; tions, national government, communities, and non-profit monitor the institutions concerned to ensure that appropri4. Monitor the effects of our activities on the environment organizations. ate measures are taken to protect customers' personal and work towards continuous improvement and pollution (4) Considerations related to purchasing activities information. prevention; Consider biodiversity protection when purchasing materials 7. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will establish procedures for 5. Provide in-house environmental education and support and for business operations. correcting and disclosing personal information of customers. promote environmental protection activities of individual (5) Information disclosure and communications Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group is also willing to receive opindirectors and employees both during and outside working Share information about our activities widely with society, ions and inquiries regarding the handling of such personal hours; contributing to the development of society's overall efforts information. 6. Inform the entire Group and the general public of our envito conserve biodiversity. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2013 21 BTMU Activities against Cluster Bombs Initiatives to Facilitate Financing BTMU Designated Dispute Resolution Organization System Cluster bombs contain multiple smaller bombs that scatDesignated dispute resolution organizations are dispute resoMUTB MUTB ter over a wide area. As they have often affected civilians, BTMU The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ lution bodies designated by government authorities. From a the international community has expressed humanitarian BTMU has adopted Management Principles to Facilitate fair and neutral standpoint, they are to deal with complaints Governance, Commitments, concerns about the impacts of these munitions. Japanese Financing as a basic policy to promote smoother financing, and requests from customers for dispute resolution concernlegislation, in principle, prohibits the production and pospositioned the facilitation of financing as one of its most ing the actions of financial institutions. The following desigsession of cluster bombs. Based on the enactment of that important roles in society, and is working toward its realization. nated dispute resolution organizations have been contracted and Engagement legislation, and in accordance with the spirit of its own To establish and maintain an appropriate management strucby BTMU and MUTB for these matters. Charter of Corporate Conduct, the Japanese Bankers ture to facilitate financing, BTMU has appointed a Director in The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU) Association, recognizing the importance of the banking Charge of Facilitating Financing, has established an Office to Organization Japanese Bankers Association industry's public role, agreed in October 2010 that JapaFacilitate Financing and a Small & Medium Enterprise Credit JBA Customer Relations Center nese banks shall not provide financing for the manufacture Office, and has appointed Managers to Facilitate Financing Contact 0570-017109 or 03-5252-3772 of cluster bombs in Japan or overseas. at each sales branch office. The entire bank is working to Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking (MUTB) BTMU and MUTB are full members of the Japanese strengthen initiatives to facilitate financing. Please visit the Organization Japanese Bankers Association Bankers Association. Both clearly stipulate in their credit following BTMU website for the status of initiatives to faciliJBA Customer Relations Center policies and financing checksheets that the provision of tate financing (number of loans and amounts): Contact 0570-017109 or 03-5252-3772 financing for the manufacture of cluster bombs is prohibhttp://www.bk.mufg.jp/info/kinyu_enkatsuka/index.html (in ited. Both companies strictly observe these procedures. Japanese) Organization Trust Companies Association of Japan Trust Consultation Center Contact Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking 0120-817335 or 03-3241-7335 MUTB MUTB has established a Management Policy to Facilitate * The Japanese Bankers Association is a designated dispute resolution organization under the Banking Act and the Norinchukin Bank Act. Financing, which specifies the basic policy for facilitating * The Trust Companies Association of Japan is a designated dispute resolution organization under the Trust Business Act and the Act on Provision, etc. of Trust Business by Financial financing as well as Management Regulations to Facilitate Institutions. Financing, which specify the basic items and internal systems for management to facilitate financing. The company has also appointed a Director in Charge of Facilitating Financing as well as Managers to Facilitate Financing at each branch, and established a Smooth Retail Financing Office, a Smooth Corporate Financing Office, an Office to Facilitate Financing and a Management Office to Facilitate Financing at headquarters as specialized units to facilitate financing. The company's officers and employees are united in implementing works to facilitate financing, with the active involvement of corporate management. Please visit the following website for the status of our initiatives to facilitate financing (number of loans and amounts). http://www.tr.mufg.jp/ippan/soudan/kinyu_soudan_joukyou .html (in Japanese) Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2013 22 CSR Structure MUFG has established a CSR structure Governance, Commitments, integrated with its management strategies. and Engagement MUFG CSR Promotion Structure of MUFG MUFG has established a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (meets twice per year) to promote CSR activities throughout the Group, consisting mostly of members CSR Structure of MUFG of the Executive Committee of the holding company. The Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. committee discusses the Group's CSR policies, develops strategies for the entire Group, and works to strengthen Executive Committee cooperation between member companies. MUFG is engaged in CSR activities and maximizes the special charCorporate Social Responsibility acteristics of MUFG along with the Group policy. During FY Committee 2012, the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee met CSR Promotion Division in November and January, and discussed future directions for activities based on the current status of CSR activities in the Group, as well as other topics. The Bank of Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. Banking Corporation Holdings Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Executive Committee/ Executive Committee/ Management Committee/ Executive Committee CSR Promotion Committee CSR Committee MUSHD Group CSR Committee CSR Office, Corporate Corporate Communications CSR Promotion Office, CSR Promotion Division Planning Division Division Corporate Planning Department Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2013 23 impacts even after financing support has been rendered. To efforts of financial institutions. The Principles include seven Participation in show that our EP implementation is reliable, we have disclosed our internal EP procedures and information on items for best-effort actions by the financial industry to create a sustainable society, and guidelines for each subInitiatives financed projects to an independent third party and have industry to put the principles into action. We will continue to Governance, Commitments, obtained its assurance report for disclosed information actively consider the environment and society based on related to EP implementation in FY 2012. these principles. MUFG participates in a variety of initiatives to Note: The Equator Principles are guidelines established by the financial industry to assess and manage social and environmental risks associated with project financing from the identify, promote and realize the adoption of and Engagement planning stage, in order to avert and mitigate the environmental impacts of development MUFG Participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) projects. BTMU and 78 other financial institutions in 35 countries worldwide have adopted the best environmental and sustainability the Equator Principles as of July 2013. The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a project run by instipractices. tutional investors from around the world that urges corporaBTMU Participating in the United Nations Environment Protions to disclose their strategies on climate change as well as gramme Finance Initiative detailed data on their emissions of greenhouse gases. MUTB MUFG UN Global Compact BTMU and MUTB are signatories to the United Nations EnviMUFG has been participating in this effort since 2004 and MUFG has endorsed the United Nations Global Compact. ronment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). This is a since 20 07 has been sponsoring the publication of A voluntary code of conduct advocated in 1999 by the global partnership between UNEP and the financial sector Japanese-language versions of CDP reports. then-Secretary General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, with the mission to identify, promote, and realize the adopit calls for corporations and organizations around the world tion of the best environmental and sustainability practice at BTMU Exhibit at MESSE NAGOYA 2012 to work within their respective spheres of influence to all levels of financial institution operations. The MESSE NAGOYA 2012, one of Japan's largest crosssupport internationally recognized standards for human industrial trade exhibitions, was held in Nagoya in November rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption and to MUTB Promotion of Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) 2012. The theme this year was Environment & Energy, act based on them. MUFG, as a financial group that UNEP FI and the UN Global Compact jointly promote the Safety & Security and New Manufacturing. This was the upholds the philosophy of contributing to the realization of Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), which were seventh such exhibition and drew more than 60,000 visitors. a sustainable society, endorses the principles of the announced in 2006. The PRI are intended to address BTMU put a major effort into this exhibition by introducing Global Compact, and works to fulfill its duties as a global decision-making issues related to environmental and social MUFG's environmental and social contribution activities citizen. responsibility and corporate governance (ESG) for investusing video, panel displays, and mini-seminars. ments within the scope of an organization's fiduciary responsibility, and to improve the long-term results of investments. In May 2006, MUTB was among the first organizations in Japan to endorse these Principles, and actively participates in the PRI Japan Network, which promotes PRI and responsible investments in Japan. BTMU The Equator Principles BTMU Signing of Principles for Financial Action for the 21st BTMU has adopted the Equator Principles (EP) (see Note) as Century MUTB a framework to ensure that social and environmental considBTMU and MUTB signed the Principles for Financial Action erations are made when financing large-scale development towards a Sustainable Society (also known as Principles for projects. We advise our clients to take due care in complying Financial Action for the 21st Century) when they were first with international standards, and also monitor environmental announced in November 2011, developed mainly through the Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2013 24 Our Stakeholders and MUFG Governance, Commitments, MUFG's business activities are founded on the support of our various stakeholders in Japan, Environment Shareholders and Engagement M U F G indirec tl y influenc es the MUFG is listed on the Tokyo, Osaka, across Asia, and worldwide. environmental impacts of our customNagoya and New York stock exchanges, ers' operations through financing and and has approximately 760,000 instituWe will continue working to maintain mutually the provision of various financial tional and individual shareholders. services. We also use electricity, gas, harmonious and prosperous relations with all water and other resources, and emit our stakeholders and to contribute to the CO 2 and waste from our business activities and offices. realization of a sustainable society. Local and International Communities MUFG operates in hundreds of communities in Japan and overseas, with 78 8 Customers domestic retail branches, 316 domestic MUFG provides services to approxicorporate branches and 555 branches in over 40 countries worldwide (see Note). MUFG mately 40 million individual customers and 500,000 corporate customers. We While we are active in the international have about 132 trillion yen in deposits community as a global financial group, our and 91 trillion yen in loans outstanding. employees at each location are also in contact with many people as members of their local communities. Employees Business Partners MUFG has 220 consolidated subsidMUFG has diverse business partners iaries with about 120,000 employees in c lu d in g p rov i d e r s of f in a n c i al in total on a consolidated basis. products and services and partners in business alliances. Note: Total number of the branches and offices of BTMU, MUTB and MUSHD. (As of March 31, 2013) Relations with Shareholders and Investors MUFG CSR Report 2013 25 Capital Management and IR MUFG Shareholder Composition (Common Shares) Relations with Appropriate Management of Capital Financial Products Traders 2.2% National or Local Governments 0.0% Shareholders and Investors MUFG Other Investors In our aim to raise corporate value, our capital management (Individuals and Others) emphasizes balance between maintaining sufficient equity 15.6% Overseas Corporations capital, further enhancing shareholder returns, and utilizing 34.6% We strive to increase our corporate value by capital for increased earning power. improving our reliability as a financial group, Other Corporations Relations with Shareholders manifesting our comprehensive strengths as a MUFG Basic Stance on Investor Relations 15.7% Group, and responding to the expectations of Today, the quality and appropriateness of information disclocustomers and society. sure have become essential issues from the viewpoint of and Investors investor protection. MUFG undertakes investor relations We are also striving to enhance two-way activities that fairly and promptly provide the market with communication with our shareholders. Financial Institutions 31.6% accurate information on our financial conditions and business Excluding treasury shares; percentages calculated to the first decimal point. strategies, and boost shareholder value by reflecting market (As of March 31, 2013) Medium-term Business Plan perception into the management process. The MUFG website has won high acclaim, including awards as an outstandMUFG MUFG Selected for SRI Indexes MUFG Strategies Aimed at Growth ing website from two external rating companies. In recent years, socially responsible investment (SRI) has MUFG took the strategic moves toward future growth in FY www.mufg.jp/english/ become increasingly popular in the world of asset 2012 as the first year of our three-year medium-term busimanagement as a standard for investment decisions that are ness plan. In the corporate customer business, we expanded MUFG IR Activities for Institutional Investors based not only on financial perspectives, but also the broader our network through a capital and business alliance with VietWe proactively provide information to domestic and foreign views of society including environmental considerations and nam Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade institutional investors by holding investor meetings regarding social contributions. MUFG has been selected for inclusion ( VietinBank ), one of the top state-owned banks in Vietnam. our financial results and using various other channels. We in SRI indexes, such as the DJSI Asia Pacific, FTSE4Good In the individual customer business, we worked to make also carry out diverse activities such as responding to Index Series, the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Internet banking more convenient and strengthened our requests for interviews and regularly visiting investors. Global, and MS-SRI (as of July 31, 2013). sales system using tablet computers. Additionally, a Risk Committee and a Global Advisory Board were established to MUFG Shareholder Benefit Program (MUFG Shareholder Club) reinforce governance and management foundations. The MUFG Shareholder Club provides preferential services making use of the comprehensive strengths of MUFG MUFG Maintaining Sound Financial Foundations including preferential interest rates on time deposits and Under the Basel III regulatory frameworks for capital and discounted stock trading commissions. liquidity introduced in March 2013, Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio which shows the percentage of core capital MUFG General Shareholders Meeting (capital and retained earnings) is sufficient at 11.70%. The The eighth Annual General Meeting of Shareholders was non-performing loan ratio remains low at 1.80% (as of held in June 2013 at the Nippon Budokan (Tokyo). A webMarch 31, 2013). For details, see the MUFG website. cast of the meeting can be viewed at the following site: http://www.mufg.jp/english/ir/fs/ http://www.mufg.jp/investors/movie/ (in Japanese) Relations with Business Partners MUFG CSR Report 2013 26 Examples of Major Business Partnerships 3. Secure Management of Confidential Information Relations with Business We securely manage all confidential information about suppliers that we obtain through purchasing activities. Date Business Partner MUFG Details Concluded operating alliance Partners 4. Environmental Considerations We consider environmental implications, such as mitigation May 2012 Mercer Japan MUTB agreement on global pension consulting. Initiated service of cloud-type JR East of global warming and biodiversity protection, when making Jul. 2012 Mechatronics Co. MUN joint multi-payment processing system J-Mups. MUFG works with a wide range of business purchasing decisions. In principle, we only purchase office partners, including institutions that provide paper which is produced using appropriate forest manageAug. 2012 Banco Mercantil BTMU Concluded memorandum on operating alliance. del Nolte Relations with Business Partners financial products and services, and business ment practices and is otherwise manufactured in an ecoalliance partners. friendly manner. We respect companies that have obtained Oct. 2012 Investe São Paulo BTMU Concluded memorandum on operating alliance. We strive for fairness in all interactions with environmental certifications and otherwise try to protect the Initiated joint business with environment, and work to deepen our partnerships with Mitsubishi these business partners, and work to create Corporation MUL Chinese construction equipment leasing company. such companies. value through collaboration. Dec. 2012 5. Requesting Cooperation from Suppliers Vietnam Joint Concluded equity Stock Commercial Bank BTMU underwriting agreement and We ask that our suppliers maintain fair and sound business for Industry and Trade operating alliance agreement. MUFG Fairness in Business practices. This includes respect for basic human rights, comJointly developed Poke Pos for J-Mups, an iOS-based MUFG has included three items in its Principles of Ethics and pliance with laws and regulations, environmental considerJan. 2013 Clementec Co. MUN settlement application for smartphones and tablets. Conduct to create and sustain healthy relationships with ations, and elimination of business with anti-social, corrupt, business partners— acting with honesty and integrity, or criminal elements. Signed memorandum on Feb. 2013 Canadia Bank BTMU operating alliance. adherence to laws and regulations and combating criminal 6. Maintaining Partnerships with Suppliers activity. We maintain fairness in business by carefully We respect all companies that we do business with as partConcluded operating alliance Mar. 2013 Co-operative Bank BTMU observing the law under all circumstances, and by building ners, and we strive to maintain relationships of trust and agreement. fair and sound partnerships, while ensuring that we do not cooperation by treating them with honesty and as equals. Graduate School of Endowed a next-generation support anti-social, corrupt, or criminal elements. We do not use a dominant bargaining position to demand or Apr. 2013 Information Science MUN personal identification and Technology, technology course at the receive unfair benefits. The University of Tokyo school. MUFG Approach to Purchasing Activity Butterfield Fulcrum Group MUFG purchases paper and other materials in accordance MUFG Creating New Societal Value through Collaboration (overseas funds Absorbed as subsidiary after acquiring all outstanding Sep. 2013 management MUTB with the principles discussed below. Collaboration with business partners holds the potential for company, currently shares of the holding company. Mitsubishi UFJ Fund 1. Fair and Honest Selection and Treatment of Suppliers creating new societal value by making the most of the merits Services) We determine suppliers fairly and honestly based on ecoof each company's core businesses. We strive to develop nomic common sense. We do not give special treatment to relationships with our business partners based on this specific suppliers without any appropriate reasons, nor do understanding not only to provide services and products that we treat any suppliers unfairly. are more useful to society, but also to contribute to the 2. Compliance with Laws and Social Norms development of healthy financial markets and the When purchasing goods, we comply with all related laws, construction and development of social infrastructure. regulations and rules, and act based on high ethical standards. Environmental Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 27 work to raise the level of its environmental efforts, based on MUFG Independent Assurance Report Environmental Policies an awareness of the special role that it can play as a comprehensive financial services group, through the provision of MUFG has obtained an Independent Assurance Report for the greenhouse gas emissions (GHG indicators) of compaand Initiatives products and services that mobilize financial flows for the benefit of the environment. nies and major subsidiaries included in the CSR report for the reporting period from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013. Note: Environmental Project Teams: Cross-cutting teams within MUFG that address environmental activities based on customer segments or themes (for individuals, domestic We work to reduce negative impacts on corporations, trust assets, overseas, etc.). the environment through our core business as a financial institution, such as the financing MUFG ISO 14001 Certification of environmentally friendly business. ISO 14001 is an international standard for management systems that aim to reduce environmental impacts. This standard requires that the environmental impacts of busiEnvironmental Policies and Basic Policies and Structures ness activities continually be reduced. The following locations in MUFG have acquired ISO 14001 certification: ・The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. Initiatives Reducing environmental impacts and helping create a sustainable society are key concerns for MUFG. To address —Marunouchi Head Office, Nagoya Building, Osaka Building these concerns in a unified way, in March 2006 we formu・Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation lated the MUFG Environmental Statement and Policy. Based —Marunouchi Head Office, Konan Building on a shared awareness within MUFG of the critical nature of ・Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. (see global environmental challenges, in June 2008 we also Note) adopted the MUFG Environmental Action Policy, which —Mejirodai Building (including Clean Energy Finance Diviprovides guidelines for concrete actions to deal with environsion in Toyosu Front Building) mental issues. Our efforts relating to the environment are ・Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Co., Ltd. based on the philosophy and principles outlined in these poli—Head Office Building cies. ・Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance Company Ltd. (The MUFG Environmental Statement and Policy and the —All locations in Japan and affiliate companies (MUL BusiMUFG Environmental Action Policy can be found on pages ness Company Ltd. and MUL Eco-Business Co., Ltd.) Note: Obtained certification in April 2013. 20 and 7, respectively.) MUFG Actions Based on the MUFG Environmental Action Policy Cross-cutting Environmental Project Teams (see Note) have been created to advance concrete actions in their respective fields based on our Environmental Action Policy. The MUFG Environmental Action Policy Promotion Committee, which includes officials responsible from each company, holds quarterly meetings to periodically follow the progress of efforts by each team. In this way, MUFG continues to Environmental Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 28 BTMU Independent Assurance Report on Equator Principles In December 2005, BTMU adopted the Equator Principles (EP), which encourage financial institutions to conduct prior assessments of the environmental and social impacts of the development projects they fund, to avert and mitigate those impacts, and to monitor performance. We have applied the EP to many resource and infrastructure development projects. Investors, NGOs and other stakeholders have called for improvements in reliability and transparency of the EP. In response to those demands, we have disclosed our internal EP procedures and information on financed projects to an Environmental Policies and independent third party and have obtained its assurance report for disclosed information (see Note) related to EP Initiatives implementation in FY 2012. Note: http://www.bk.mufg.jp/global/csr/eco/implementing.html Environmental Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 29 Actual CO 2 Emissions of Four MUFG Companies MUFG Reducing Environmental Impacts of Our Offices To reduce greenhouse gas emissions and mitigate global CO2 emissions (1,000 tons) 298 (baseline emissions) 300 warming, MUFG actively seeks reductions in CO2 emissions 298 from business activities and employee travel. Core Group 280 companies (MUFG, BTMU, MUTB, MUMSS, MUN) contin260 274 34% reduction ued to measure environmental impact data and CO2 emis(102,000 tons) sions in FY 2012. 240 MUFG aims to reduce CO 2 emissions from the four core 223 (25% reduction target) 220 Group companies (not including MUN) by at least 25% by 9% more FY 2012, using FY 2000 as the baseline year. Thanks to conthan target 200 204 202 tinued efforts to conserve energy, total CO2 emissions from 191 196 (FY 2012 actual) these four MUFG companies in FY 2012 surpassed the 180 Environmental Policies and target emissions by 9 percentage points; the target was 160 approximately 223,000 tons of CO2, which is 25% below the Initiatives baseline 298,000 tons in FY 2000, while the actual emis0 FY2000 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 sions were approximately 196,000 tons (based on adjusted emission factors), a 34% reduction from the baseline. Note that a portion of increases in MUFG's CO2 emissions in FY In consideration of transparency, data is classified in accor2012 due to changes in electricity emission factors were dance with ISO 14064 (standards for calculation, reporting, offset using certified emission reduction (CER) credits and verification of greenhouse gas emissions and reducamounting to approximately 37,000 tons, owned by MUFG tions). To increase the reliability of information disclosed, this companies under the Clean Development Mechanism. fiscal year we continued using the services of Ernst & Young Sustainability Co. Ltd. (a subsidiary of Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC) to verify, based on ISAE 3000 (International Standard on Assurance Engagements), that environmental impact data and greenhouse gas emissions have been correctly calculated in accordance with ISO 14064 standards. Going forward, we plan to expand further the measurement of environmental impact data and improve its accuracy. Environmental Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 30 MUFG Environmental Impact Data and Greenhouse Gas Emissions*1 *1 Measurement totals include five companies: MUFG, BTMU, MUTB, MUMSS and FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 MUN. Data for MUMSS includes data for MUSHD, with the exception of energy Item (GRI Indicators*2) Units MUFG 4 Companies MUFG Total MUFG 4 Companies MUFG Total MUFG 4 Companies MUFG Total consumption for employee travel and road transportation (EN29). Indicator Accuracy*3 Indicator Accuracy*3 Indicator Accuracy*3 Indicator Accuracy*3 Indicator Accuracy*3 Indicator Accuracy*3 * The environmental numbers (EN) shown here indicate the performance indicators 2 and protocols outlined in the 2006 Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Total floor space*4 1,000m2 2,255 2,348 2,225 2,319 2,234 2,327 Institute (GRI). (www.globalreporting.org) Floor space monitored 1,000m2 1,974 2,069 2,086 2,180 2,154 2,248 * Margins of error are indicated as follows: ★★★ indicates that highly accurate data 3 have been collected from most offices (error within ±3%); ★★☆ indicates that Coverage rate*5 ％ 87.5％ 88.1％ 93.8％ 94.0％ 96.4％ 96.6％ highly accurate data have been collected from major offices (error within ±7.5%); ★ Direct energy consumption (EN3) ☆☆ indicates a wider range of measurements and data requiring greater precision (error greater than 7.5%). City gas 1,000m2 4,276 ★ ★ ★ 4,393 ★★★ 5,347 ★★★ 5,429 ★ ★ ★ 4,595 ★★★ 4,680 ★★★ * In FY 2012, the total area of floor space occupied was 1,749,000 square meters for 4 Heavy oil kl 1,714 ★ ★ ★ 1,714 ★★★ 1,417 ★★★ 1,417 ★ ★ ★ 1,359 ★★★ 1,359 ★★★ MUFG and BTMU combined; 360,000 square meters for MUTB; 124,000 square meters for MUMSS; and 93,000 square meters for MUN. Kerosene kl 134 ★ ★ ★ 134 ★★★ 137 ★★★ 137 ★ ★ ★ 140 ★★★ 140 ★★★ * The coverage rate represents the percentage of floor space for which data is 5 Indirect energy consumption (EN4) collected relative to the total floor space; this rate is used to calculate the weighted average of greenhouse gas emissions for each category of environmental impact Electricity 1,000kWh 505,865 ★ ★ ★ 531,761 ★★★ 434,924 ★★★ 457,522 ★ ★ ★ 434,243 ★★★ 455,947 ★★★ data. Steam GJ 33,290 ★ ★ ★ 34,122 ★★★ 32,142 ★★★ 32,972 ★ ★ ★ 29,360 ★★★ 29,958 ★★★ *6 CO 2 emission factors are presented based on the factors used in Japan's Ministerial Environmental Policies and Hot water GJ 3,910 ★ ★ ★ 4,090 ★★★ 3,041 ★★★ 3,239 ★ ★ ★ 2,716 ★★★ 3,031 ★★★ Ordinance Concerning Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Arising from Business Activities of Specified Emitters. CO 2 emissions are categorized following Cold water GJ 29,962 ★ ★ ★ 35,372 ★★★ 21,381 ★★★ 26,374 ★ ★ ★ 18,871 ★★★ 23,624 ★★★ the five greenhouse gas inventor y components defined in ISO 14 0 6 4 Par t 1 Energy use from employee travel and ( Specification with guidance at the organization level for quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and removals ). Initiatives transportation (EN29) *7 CO 2 emissions associated with EN3 (direct energy consumption). Air routes (international routes) 1,000km 56,827 ★ ★ ☆ 56,982 ★★☆ 66,886 ★★☆ 67,185 ★ ★ ☆ 77,633 ★★☆ 78,148 ★★☆ *8 CO 2 emissions associated with EN4 (indirect energy consumption). Calculations of Automobiles (gasoline) kl 3,575 ★ ★ ★ 3,615 ★★★ 3,499 ★★★ 3,537 ★ ★ ★ 3,231 ★★★ 3,277 ★★★ CO 2 emissions from indirect purchases of energy through electricity are divided into Water usage efficiency (EN8) two categories: those based on adjusted emission factors announced by each electric power provider (which subtract Kyoto Protocol-related credits and other Tap water 1,000㎥ 2,098 ★ ★ ☆ 2,225 ★★☆ 1,921 ★★★ 2,036 ★ ★ ☆ 1,753 ★★★ 1,841 ★★★ adjustments based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures), Waste water 1,000㎥ 1,554 ★ ★ ☆ 1,633 ★★☆ 1,479 ★★★ 1,552 ★ ★ ☆ 1,466 ★★★ 1,553 ★★★ and those based on actual (non-adjusted) emission factors. *9 Includes CO 2 emissions from energy consumption associated with transporting Carbon dioxide emissions*6 company officers and employees, including domestic travel by road (gasoline) and Direct CO2 emissions (EN16)*7 t 14,538 ★ ★ ★ 14,802 ★★★ 16,134 ★★★ 16,317 ★ ★ ★ 14,301 ★★★ 14,492 ★★★ overseas air travel (EN29) and efficient water use (EN8). *10 Adjusted emission factors are emission factors calculated by power utilities based Indirect CO2 emissions (EN16)*8 t 199,622 ★ ★ ★ 210,191 ★★★ 167,840 ★★★ 176,858 ★ ★ ★ 207,122 ★★★ 217,688 ★★★ on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, by deducting from (Adjusted emission factors) (EN16)*8 t 171,506 ★ ★ ★ 180,648 ★★★ 158,295 ★★★ 166,933 ★ ★ ★ 201,759 ★★★ 212,143 ★★★ actual CO 2 emissions such items as credits under the Kyoto Protocol. * These are offsets based on certified emission reduction (CER) credits owned by 11 Other indirect CO2 emissions t 15,702 ★ ★ ☆ 15,875 ★★☆ 16,571 ★★☆ 16,747 ★ ★ ☆ 17,098 ★★☆ 17,320 ★★☆ MUFG companies, under the Clean Development Mechanism. They are subtracted (EN17)*9 from CO 2 emissions. Offsets using CDM credits*11 t 37,026 ★★★ 37,026 ★★★ Total CO2 emissions t 229,863 ★ ★ ★ 240,868 ★★★ 200,546 ★★★ 209,922 ★ ★ ★ 201,496 ★★★ 212,473 ★★★ (actual emission factors) (Adjusted emission factors)*10 t 201,747 ★ ★ ★ 211,324 ★★★ 191,000 ★★★ 199,997 ★ ★ ★ 196,132 ★★★ 206,928 ★★★ CO2 emissions per unit of floor t/1,000㎡ 102 103 90 91 90 91 space (actual emission factors) (Adjusted emission factors)*10 t/1,000㎡ 89 90 86 86 88 89 Units: 1,000 m = thousand square meters; 1,000 m3 = thousand cubic meters; kl = kiloliters; 1,000 kWh = thousand kilowatt-hours; GJ = gigajoules; t = tons 2 Environmental Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 31 Reducing Our Environmental Impacts through energy conservation and other activities under its ries at its Konan Building. environmental management systems, as well as by MUFG is implementing plans for phasing in more environpurchasing emission credits to offset the greenhouse gas BTMU Leading the Banking Industry in Adopting Electric mentally friendly equipment at its offices and sales outlets. emissions associated with its operations. Vehicles MUTB Efforts are also being made to reduce CO 2 emissions, BTMU has acquired 30,000 tons of emission credits to date In FY 2009, BTMU and MUTB became the first companies including greater attention to turn off lights when not in 2012 and utilized them as carbon offsets. in Japan's banking industry to introduce electric vehicles for needed, promoting casual (cooler) attire in the summerMUMSS receives a portion of its compensation for CDM official business use. Currently over 70 electric vehicles are time, exercising restraint in the use of air conditioning and consulting services in the form of emission credits, which used at their offices and branches. These eco-friendly heating, and having staff turn off their computers and moniare applied as offsets. vehicles (i-MiEVs) produce no CO 2 emissions when opertors when they leave their desks. ated, and have total emissions (including CO 2 emissions MUMSS Recycling Waste Cooking Oil from the electricity used for charging) that are only 30% of Reducing CO2 Emissions MUMSS recycles cooking oil used in the cafeteria of its the level of emissions from gasoline vehicles in the same Environmental Policies and MUFG BTMU is making an effort to utilize renewable energy, and Mejirodai Building. The waste oil is collected by a waste class. has installed solar and wind power generation equipment processing company and converted into biodiesel fuel, an Initiatives for its Nagoya Building. In addition, BTMU is working to alternative to petroleum-derived diesel for use in diesel MUFG Eco-Friendly Promotional Goods reduce electricity consumption by installing upgraded heatengines. Biodiesel fuel is a clean energy source, largely free MUFG also gives consideration to the environment in coning systems and automatic lighting controls at each of its of the air pollutants (sulfur oxides) that cause childhood nection to the promotional items that are presented to cusbuildings. asthma, atopic dermatitis, and other health problems. In the tomers, by using PVC-free materials, and other measures. MUTB is reducing energy consumption by installing roughly one year since the cafeteria's opening, 0.4 tons of MUMSS provides Blue Dolphin's Natural Soap (a 100% energy-efficient lighting equipment and updating HVAC used cooking oil have been collected and all recycled. natural, additive-free soap) as an environmentally friendly equipment and transformer equipment at its main buildings promotional item. This soap is made by a social services and branches. The company is also saving energy by MUFG Reducing Paper Consumption organization that supports the independence of disabled increasing monitoring of energy consumption at some of its MUFG works to reduce the amount of copy paper used in persons, and is sold by a non-profit organization that main buildings. its offices, and also to recycle used paper. To the extent promotes an appreciation of the global environment MUMSS's Mejirodai Building is designed with the potential possible, the Group is also switching to Forest Stewardship through awareness of dolphins and whales. to be highly energy efficient. Its design includes considerCouncil (FSC)-certified paper and environmentally friendly ation of whether or not it will qualify to apply for status as a inks (such as vegetable-based ink) for brochures and top-level facility under the Tokyo Metropolitan Governprinted materials distributed at branches. ment's measures against global warming. MUN conserves energy by utilizing a universal plan office MUFG Reducing Waste layout having no pillars or dividers in a space of 140 square MUFG is working actively to separate and recycle waste. meters. This leads to improved efficiency for air conditionBTMU's Head Offices in Tokyo, Nagoya, and Osaka have ing and lighting systems, and allows employees to share a acquired ISO 14001 certification; these offices separate smaller number of facsimile machines, copiers, and other waste into 13 categories and recycle more than 95% of types of office equipment. their waste. To actively promote recycling, MUMSS sorts waste into six MUFG Carbon Offsets categories at its Mejirodai Building, and MUTB separates MUFG is working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions waste into 19 categories at its Head Office and 17 categoEnvironmental Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 32 UB Union Bank's Efforts to Reduce Environmental Impacts financing projects generated a total of 13,971 megawatts of points and sort into different types: paper, cardboard, plasUnion Bank believes that a socially responsible business renewable energy and contributed to a reduction in environtic, glass and general waste. must be mindful of its resource consumption and impact on mental impacts. These achievements led us to be shortlisted for a City of the world. In the first half of 2009, we announced our goal Note: The ENERGY STAR certification is a symbol the national government uses to signify London 'Sustainable Building' award presented by the Lord superior energy efficiency, greenhouse gas reduction, and other forms of environmental of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 9% within five responsibility of buildings and products, etc. For a building to qualify, it must perform Mayor of London. We are also recognized by our Landlord better in a series of energy-efficiency criteria than 75 percent of similar types of buildings. years (from base year 2008). In 2012, we successfully and building manager— Since occupation BTMU have reduced our environmental impact in several key areas proactively supported the buildings sustainability initiatives, compared to the previous year. Direct emissions from natuBTMU Environmental Initiatives in Europe adapting their own policies to support us where required. ral gas, diesel fuel, and propane fell by 7.5%, solid waste BTMU took the lease at Ropemaker Place, in May 2009 They have consistently been the highest performing recydisposal by 11%, and water consumption by 3.2%. Also in and spent that summer working with architects looking for cler in the building and have embraced new initiatives, 2012, Union Bank launched a bank-wide solid waste mansustainable solutions. The building is designed to be one of being the first to use an on site food digester which was agement and recycling program. Created as a joint effort the most sustainable buildings ever developed in the City of installed this year and to adopt a chemical free cleaning Environmental Policies and between the bank's Environmental Stewardship DepartLondon. To reduce our energy consumption, doubledsystem which we rolled out last month. BTMU consistently ment and Corporate Real Estate division, with support from glazed tilting facades were installed which reduce the engage with me on sustainability issues and drive continInitiatives a private vendor, the program has reduced the amount of energy required to cool the building by up to 27%. A policy ued improvement. They are the Occupier I use to demonwaste we send to landfills, by promoting the use of mixed was implemented whereby no PCs are kept at desks within strate best practice in regards to waste management. recycling containers with uniform signage at more than 175 our office space as this generates a huge amount of heat in Saloni Sanassy, Broadgate Estates bank facilities. offices—which would then require additional cooling. For In 2012, Union Bank became the first bank in the United the energy we do need for heating water and space comes States to promote ridesharing through a partnership with from renewable resources; the biomass boiler and solar Zimride, a private ridesharing social network. Participants panels. These photovoltaic roof panels generate around can sign up as a driver or passenger and split the cost of 12,000kWh of power per year— enough to run 14,000 commuting with their Union Bank colleagues. This resulted washing machine cycles. in fewer cars on the road, less greenhouse gas emissions, The London office has 30,000 sq. ft. of green roof space, and new relationships among employees. The program's where we work hard to enhance biodiversit y, with first year resulted in a total of 985 participants, an estienvironment-friendly planting to encourage native wildlife, mated US$226,172 in savings for commuting costs, and plus bee hotels, insect boxes, bird boxes and bird baths. To conservation of more than 16,126 gallons (about 62,000 reduce water use a rainwater harvesting system is used to liters) of fuel. flush many of the WCs. Together with other water-efficient Some 31 of our retail branches throughout California earned devices, this saves enough water to fill 10,000 bath tubs ENERGY STAR certification (see Note) from the U.S. Envieach year. ronmental Protection Agency in 2012—one of the largest Reducing waste is a key area of the sustainabilit y numbers of branches for any financial institution in the programme. All the carpets are recyclable and the special United States. panel design creates less wastage on installation and In 2012, we provided US$5.1 billion in financing for green means hard-wear areas can easily be patched rather than businesses such as renewable energy and waste managerequiring wholesale replacement. BTMU has been the top ment. This represents a 24.4% increase from our 2011 recycler in the building since occupation. The 'no bin' policy environmental finance totals. Overall, our sustainable motivates staff to take their waste to central recycling Environmental Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 33 BTMU Environmental Targets and Results MUTB Environmental Targets and Results MUMSS Environmental Targets and Results Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction of Copy-paper Use Reduction of Copy Paper Use Mediumto Reduce FY 2012 greenhouse gas emissions by 25% from FY 2012 target at Manage the volume of copy paper used at the Firmly establish system to reduce copy paper F Y 2012 targets long-term plan the FY 2000 level. Head Office Head Office. use at the Mejirodai Building. Reduce FY 2012 greenhouse gas emissions by 25% from Copy paper purchases for Head Office: Approx. Consumption of copy paper at the Mejirodai BuildFY 2012 targets the FY 2000 level. 293 tons (7.7% increase compared to previous F Y 2012 results ing in FY 2012 was about 78 tons, an increase of fiscal year). 39% over the previous year (total for Mejirodai Results Electricity conservation and the partial use of emission N ote : C o ntinu e d ef fo r t s re sul te d in 3 5% re d u c ti o n Building, Mitsubishi Building, and Marunouchi Results credits helped reduce FY 2012 GHG emissions by 34% compared to F Y 20 0 6, the year before acquiring ISO Building was about 115 tons, a decrease of 4% in compared to base year 2000. 14001 certification. quantity, and decrease of 0.7% per person, from the previous year). Reducing and Greening Paper Consumption Waste Recycling Reduction of Electricity Use Mediumto FY 2012 target at Implement waste sor ting programs at Head Reduce use of copy paper. Head Office Office. Reduce CO 2 emissions from electricity use in FY Environmental Policies and long-term plan F Y 2012 targets 2012 by all MUMSS offices by 25% from base FY 2012 targets Purchase less copy paper than in previous year. Checked compliance with waste-sorting rules at year 2000. Results each Head Office division and office in August Achieved a reduction in purchases compared to the previ2012 and February 2013. Emissions from actual electricit y use at all Initiatives Results ous year, thanks to regular feedback on purchasing MUMSS offices in FY 2012 were only 13% below volumes and awareness-raising. Reduction of Energy Use F Y 2012 results the base year 2000, but we achieved our target by using our own emission credits to offset the quanWaste Reduction FY 2012 target at Implement program to reduce energy use at tity that exceeded our target. Head Office Head Office. Mediumto Firmly establish zero emissions efforts (a recycling rate of long-term plan at least 95%). Made internal announcements on the use of air conditioning outside of business hours, by floor of MUN Environmental Impact Reduction Targets FY 2012 targets Achieve a recycling rate of at least 95% for waste. the Head Office. Clearly indicated which switches Results Reduction of Electricity Use control which lights in the offices of Head Office Achieved recycling rates of at least 95% through careful and promoted awareness about diligently turning FY 2012 company-wide Reduce by 9% compared to FY 2010. sorting of waste: off lights. target Results Head Office: 97% Nagoya Building: 98% Achieved target thanks to year-round electricityOsaka Building: 95% Results conservation efforts. Prevention of Air Pollution Reduction of Copy-paper Use Mediumto FY 2012 company-wide Reduce by 6% compared to FY 2010. Work at reducing air pollution from vehicle emissions. long-term plan target Reduce number of sales vehicles; promote shift to Did not achieve target, but did reduce by 0.3% FY 2012 targets Results compact vehicles. compared to the previous year. Reduced by about 20 vehicles and shifted to about 80 Results compact vehicles. Introduced about 70 electric vehicles. Environmental Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 34 Environmental Accounting Information for Our Offices Trends of Costs for Environmental Measures (see Note) MUFG MUFG introduced and began announcing the results of (million yen) (million kWh) 9,000 540 environmental accounting from FY 2009, as part of environmentally conscious business activities, for the quantitative 7,000 7,721 500 7,455 532 management of environmental efforts. Table 1 (Costs for 458 5,000 5,857 460 Environmental Measures) presents the aggregate results for the costs for Group environmental measures. MUFG 4,119 3,000 420 measures and reports environmental impact data and 2,943 456 1,000 1,916 380 greenhouse gas emissions quantities for all core Group companies. Table 2 (Benefits of Environmental Measures) 0 0 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 presents data regarding the benefits of these environmen(2 periods prior) (previous period) (current period) tal measures, including the consumption of fuel, electricity Environmental Policies and Legend and heat, and other factors, as well as CO2 emissions. Costs for environmental measures (investments): Million yen Investments in cost for environmental measures in FY 2012 Costs for environmental measures (expense): Million yen Initiatives increased by 266 million yen compared to the previous Benefits of environmental measures (electricity consumption): Million kWh year, to 7.721 billion yen, while the expense increased by Note: The figures on the line indicate electricity consumption as the benefit of environ1.737 billion yen, to 5.857 billion yen. The largest share of mental measures. investments in cost for environmental measures was for global environmental protection, mainly for installation of straight line method for a service life of five years (with no energy-efficient air conditioning and lighting equipment. residual value). The service life is set at five years as the Electricity consumption is the main environmental perforperiod during which repairs and improvements are required mance indicator for environmental benefits relating to following the introduction of environmental equipment. resources invested into business activities. Thanks to conAs for standards for the posting of compound costs, items tinued investment for global environmental protection, elecrelated to environmental preservation are calculated followtricity consumption declined to 456 million kWh, a reducing Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005, published tion of 14% from FY 2010. by Japan's Ministry of the Environment. We aim to further enhance the Group's environmental measures and build upon the benefits, as demonstrated through this environmental accounting, of the environmental actions taken by the Group's core companies. Period covered: April 1, 2012 through March 31, 2013 Companies included: Core Group companies (MUFG, BTMU, MUTB, MUMSS and MUN). Accounting method: Based on Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005, published by Japan's Ministry of the Environment. As for the method of calculation, the depreciation expenses on investment amounts are included in expenses using the Environmental Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 35 Table 1. Costs for Environmental Measures (Million yen) Cost for environmental FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 measures compared Category Details to FY 2011 Investment Expense Investment Expense Investment Expense Investment Expense 1. Operation area costs 2,935 1,488 7,448 3,651 7,695 5,312 247 1,660 1-1. Costs for pollution Costs for asbestos surveys, removal, prevention measurement and inspection, etc. 321 83 626 543 1-2. Costs for addressing Investments: Installation of energy-efficient lighting and air conditioning equipment, etc. Details global environmental Costs: Depreciation for energy-efficient 2,935 1,102 7,448 3,217 7,695 4,359 247 1,141 issues equipment, etc. 1-3. Costs for reuse of Disposal of general and industrial waste 65 351 327 -24 resources 2. Upstream/downstream costs Development/operation of environmental 3. Costs for management Environmental Policies and management systems, environmental information 8 320 7 279 26 389 19 110 activities disclosure, etc. 4. Costs for research and development 5. Social activity costs Charitable contributions related to 108 189 156 -33 Initiatives environmental conservation, etc. 6. Environmental remediation costs Total 2,943 1,916 7,455 4,119 7,721 5,857 266 1,737 Table 2. Benefits of Environmental Measures Environmental Category Environmental performance indicators (Units) FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 benefits compared to FY 2011 City gas 1,000 m3 4,393 5,429 4,680 749 Oil kl 1,714 1,417 1,359 58 Kerosene kl 134 137 140 -3 Environmental benefits related to resource inputs Electricity 1,000kWh 531,761 457,522 455,947 1,575 for business activities Steam GJ 34,122 32,972 29,958 3,014 Cold water GJ 35,372 26,374 23,624 2,750 Tap water 1,000 m3 2,225 2,036 1,841 195 Environmental benefits GHG emissions based on actual emission t-CO 2 factors (see Note) 240,868 209,922 212,473 2,551 related to goods and services produced through business activities Waste water 1,000 m3 1,633 1,552 1,553 -1 Energy consumption associated with travel for executives and employees: air travel 1,000 km 56,982 67,185 78,148 -10,963 Other environmental (international routes) benefits Energy consumption associated with road kl 3,615 3,537 3,277 259 travel for executives and employees: gasoline Note: GHG emissions based on actual emission factors are CO 2 emissions from indirect energy purchases through electricity, calculated using actual emission factors published by power utilities, which do not subtract the Kyoto Protocol-related credits and other adjustments based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. Environmental Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 36 Environmentally Friendly Products and Services access via personal computers and smartphones to up to 25 MUN is working to expand its service by which customers months of deposits and withdrawals, and also allows cuscan view their account statements online instead of relying BTMU Supporting Purchases of Eco-friendly Homes tomers to save notes about transactions to assist them in on printed statements sent by mail. By reducing the amount BTMU and MUTB support the greater use of renewable managing their household budgets. Because paper-based of paper used for statements, we can reduce CO2 emissions MUTB energy by offering a reduction in interest from posted rates passbooks are not issued, customers do not need to record by about 500 grams per item mailed. Also, a portion of costs that apply to each type of mortgage for a customer who transactions, and there is no need to worry about losing the saved by customers signing up to check their MUFG CARD builds or purchases an eco-friendly home meeting BTMU or passbook. Eco Notification is a service through which online statements online will be donated to organizations engaged MUTB criteria by having a photovoltaic system installed, and status updates are provided by the bank, including notificain environmental protection. so on. tions of mutual fund transactions and the maturation of time deposits. When a new notification is posted, an e-mail is MUFG Promoting SRI Funds BTMU Environmentally Friendly Home Improvement Loans sent to the registered e-mail address, allowing the customer Socially responsible investment (SRI) is a style of investing Responding to a growing awareness about climate change to efficiently manage the account and eliminating any worthat helps create a better society by selecting corporations Environmental Policies and and other environmental issues, BTMU offers incentives ries about unrecorded transactions. Our efforts to go paperbased not only on the conventional measures of growth and such as preferential interest rates on home improvement less are progressing steadily, with more than 400,000 cusprofitability, but also by considering their initiatives for the Initiatives loans for eco-friendly improvements. tomers applying for the Eco Bank Book and more than environment and society, and so on. We offer financing at interest rates with a 0.5% reduction 200,000 for Eco Notification, by the end July 2013. The Mitsubishi UFJ Global Environmental Stock Fund below posted rates for regular unsecured loans of Net DE Through Internet banking, MUTB offers electronic delivery (dubbed Future Vision ) is an investment trust (SRI fund) Home Improvement Loans and Super Renovation Loans, that allows customers to view various documents relating to that invests in shares of companies making an effort to not only for eco-friendly projects like installing photovoltaic investment trust transactions that would otherwise be sent increase profits and competitiveness while also seeing envisystems, but also projects such as barrier free renovations by mail. One benefit of this method is the reduction of environmental solutions and the resolution of environmental to make homes more people-friendly (as of September ronmental impacts, by eliminating the need to print and mail problems as business opportunities. It has been operating 2013). the documents, as they can be received and saved by a since July 2008. personal computer. MUTB stores electronic versions of MUN Service via Credit Cards some paper pamphlets, such as prospectuses for mutual MUTB Initiatives for ESG Investment MUN offers a service in which customers can contribute to funds being sold in branches, and has introduced the capabilGlobal pension funds and other investors pursuing stable the environment by using points accumulated with credit ity to print and bind such booklets on demand using copiers. investment returns consider the business outlook and cards (MUFG CARD, DC, or NICOS). This approach reduces the use of paper that would otherfinancial data when evaluating companies but are also The MUN points program offers a Charity option giving cuswise have been wasted when branches had to dispose of increasingly looking at a company's extra-financial informatomers the option of making a five-yen donation per point— surplus pamphlets when revisions were made. tion such as environmental and social responsibility and to research for environmental protection and conservation MUMSS is working to expand a service that allows customcorporate governance (ESG). A way of thinking is starting through tree planting and forest management, or to a variety ers to view electronically by Internet (in PDF format) about to take hold that investing in companies with clear social of volunteer organizations engaged in capacity building. 60 types of documents the company sends out, including responsibility policies and programs and strong corporate transaction statements and account statements. Since 2012, governance systems can increase returns over the medium MUFG Paperless Initiatives we have repeated our e-post sign-up campaign every half to long-term and reduce risk. To reduce CO2 emissions by going paperless, BTMU introyear. For every account signed up for this service during the Drawing on its experience as a pioneer in ESG-based corpoduced Eco Bank Book and Eco Notification in May 2012, campaigns, we donate 100 yen to the MUFG NFUAJ East rate assessment and investing, MUTB is working on creating providing account information to customers anywhere and at Japan Earthquake Recovery and Scholarship Fund. The camand managing funds with equities that are expected to expeany time through the Internet. The Eco Bank Book provides paign was done for the third time in the first half of 2013. rience sustained growth. Through seminars and other events, Environmental Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 37 we also educate participants on methods of selecting comsubsidy type) that make use of Japan's Ministry of the ● CSR Support Loans / CO2 Reduction Support Loans panies for investment based on ESG principles, and work to Environment's interest subsidy program for financing busiMUTB offers its own original products to support the CSR promote broader use of corporate assessment methods nesses that encourage environment friendly management. activities and CO 2 emission reduction efforts of corporate that make use of extra-financial information. We also In August and September 2012, financing was provided for customers working actively for CSR and reducing CO 2 became a signatory to the international Principles for a wide range of companies that attained environmental emissions in order to fight global warming. Responsible Investment (PRI) (see Note) to propagate ratings for having progressive environmental management ● CSR Support Loan PRI-based investing activities in Japan. and acceptable initiatives, including Fujiwara Co., Ltd. Loan with preferential interest rate for customers who have Note: Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) were announced by the then-Secretary (Aichi Prefecture), Nippon Resibon Corporation (Osaka Precommitted to targets for improving their CSR performance General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, in 2006. The PRI are intended to address decision-making issues related to ESG for investments, to improve the long-term results fecture), and Warabeya Nichiyo Co. Ltd. (Tokyo). in specific areas (three to five targets). of investments, and to reduce risk. The Ministry of the Environment's interest subsidy program ● CO2 Reduction Support Loan offers a maximum 1% interest subsidy for up to five years Loan with preferential interest rate for customers who have Supporting Funds-procurement for Customers Promotfor the interest on loans made to install environmentally committed to reducing their CO2 emissions. Environmental Policies and BTMU ing Environmental Efforts friendly equipment and facilities, provided the borrower has Both the CSR Support Loans and CO2 Reduction Support MUTB BTMU and MUTB provide extensive support—from supacquired a certain environmental rating, and has made a Loans require a prior declaration of targets, but prior rating Initiatives port for planning environmental initiatives to the provision of declaration to reduce CO2 emissions and achieved results. work is not required. Even if the targets are not achieved, it financing—for customers who engage in environmental ● Energy Conservation Support Loans is still possible to make a social or environmental contribubusinesses and for customer initiatives that aim to reduce BTMU also offers Energy Conservation Support Loan (with tion, such as by donating to an external organization the greenhouse gas emissions from business activities. 1% interest subsidized) using the Ministry of Economy, amount of interest subsidized by the government, and it is To support funds-procurement, all branches are making use Trade and Industry's subsidy program for promotion of also possible for customers to publicize their CSR and enviof BTMU's strengths in the banking sector by actively upgrading facilities for energy efficiency. These are used by ronmental initiatives. promoting financing to meet the demand for capital expenmany customers when they invest to upgrade to energyditures required for facilities to contribute to energy conserefficient facilities and introduce top-runner equipment, etc. MUMSS CDM Consulting Activities vation. In addition, the Environmental Business Office The subsidy program for promotion of upgrading facilities The Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) is a market provides broad support for customers looking to introduce for energy efficiency is an interest subsidy program under mechanism defined in Article 12 of the Kyoto Protocol to the energy-efficient technologies in their factory, office buildMETI. Applicants can receive an interest subsidy for up to United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change ing, retail store, or other location and for projects that ten years of up to 1% of the interest used for installation of (UNFCCC). Under the CDM, developed countries with a involve solar power or other renewable energy systems. energy-efficient equipment. greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction targets provide MUTB also offers environmental financing schemes to sup● ECO Accreditation Support Loans technical or financial assistance to greenhouse gas emission port corporate efforts to address climate change. BTMU is developing products and services that support mitigation projects to promote sustainable development in ● Environmental Management Support Loans smalland medium-sized enterprises working to reduce developing counties. The United Nations certifies the resultBTMU works with Mitsubishi UFJ Research & Consulting their impacts on the environment. We offer ECO Accreditaing GHG emissions reductions and developed countries are to evaluate environmental management initiatives of corpotion Support Loans, which provide 100,000 yen in financing allowed to count these reductions towards their own targets. rate customers, and depending on the results, can offer to cover a portion of accreditation costs of customers who Knowledge of the CDM process and expertise in baseline Environmental Management Support Loans (CSR type) to have already acquired or are working to acquire ISO 14001, and monitoring methodologies development is essential to finance them. Many customers have used these loans EcoAction 21, or some other type of environmental certifithe successful implementation of projects under the CDM since we started offering them in April 2011. cation, such as Eco Stage (see Note). scheme. Also, through this type of financing, we promote the use of Note: Japan-specific environmental management standards administered by the Eco Stage MUMSS became engaged early on in providing CDM Institute. Environmental Management Support Loans (1% interest consulting services, and has been involved in over 100 Environmental Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 38 projects so far, including a biomass power project in Kandal GHG mitigation with the participation of all countries, that we coordinated financing as mandated lead arranger of a Province in Cambodia that utilizes waste rice husks as fuel. will come into effect from 2020. With the international total of C$795 million for a renewable energy project*2 As of June 2013, 72 of these projects have been registered negotiations getting underway, the Japanese government involving three wind farms and two solar power plants. by the United Nations. has proposed a new mechanism to supplement the existIn the wind sector, we acted as mandated lead arranger for ● Landfill Methane Recovery Project in Myanmar ing Kyoto Mechanisms, called Joint Crediting Mechanism financing the construction and operation of two wind farm One of the CDM projects being undertaken by MUMSS is a (JCM). As of July 2013, six countries, including Mongolia, projects in Scotland*3 with a maximum generation capacity methane recovery project at a landfill in Yangon, a major Bangladesh, Kenya, and Vietnam, have signed intergovernof 75.9 MW and 41.4 MW, respectively. In South Australia, center of commerce in the Republic of the Union of Myanmental memoranda with Japan on the JCM. we worked as lead arranger of the 111-MW Waterloo Wind mar. The six million residents of Yangon generate about 1,500 Since FY 2010, the Japanese government has been inviting Farm project, providing a total of A$140.6 million. tons of urban waste each day. The waste is brought to three new proposals for JCM projects under its Feasibility StudThe active involvement of BTMU and Union Bank in these landfills; however, due to inadequate treatment facilities, landies Program for Establishing Joint Crediting Mechanisms. and other projects resulted in us being ranked the world's fill gas (see Note) is generated from the waste decomposiMUMSS has been an active participant in this process and leading provider of project finance debt to renewable Environmental Policies and tion. The city has been awaiting for a long time the introduchas been involved more than 40 projects so far. energy projects in 2012*4, as well as the world's largest tion of gas-recovery facilities to deal with the worsening probThe JCM can support activities in various sectors, including provider of project financing overall. We will continue to Initiatives lems of water pollution, as well as odours caused by the gas. streamlining urban transport, energy-saving buildings and utilize our arrangement experience and know-how in driving The site covered by this CDM projects is the largest landfill appliances or water-saving sanitation equipment that faced renewable energy growth in countries around the world in Yangon. The Yangon City Development Committee numerous challenges under the existing CDM framework. that are promoting sustainable development. (YCDC) has been promoting a project involving the comOther activities include mobilization of know-how acquired *1 Total generation capacity of 97.5 MW (the third-largest worldwide) spread across nine locations with enough electricity to power 10,000 households. plete cover of the landfill with polyethylene sheet, installathrough the experience with the CDM to advance climate *2 A project to build and operate wind farms (248 MW) and solar power plants (20 MW) in Ontario and British Columbia for 20 years. tion of piping through the sediment, as well as the construcchange solutions on a global scale, in ways that will benefit *3 Construction of the Mid Hill Wind Farm in Aberdeenshire and the Rothes II Wind Farm in Moray, an expansion project. We arranged a combined GBP151 million to finance these two projects. tion of facilities to flare the recovered gas. MUMSS has both Japan and developing world. *4 Results of survey by Infrastructure Journal, a project finance magazine. completed an initial CDM study and is engaged in discusRenewable Energy Project Finance MLA 2012 sion with YCDC regarding the next steps. The gas recovery BTMU Project Finance for Renewable Energy project is expected not only to mitigate urban environmental Governments around the world are initiating steps to support Total Market Rank Company (US$ million) Share(%) and sanitation problems, but also to help create employthe growth of renewable energy sources as environmentally 1 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group 1,416.62 7.38 ment and stimulate the local economy. MUMSS will conclean alternatives to fossil fuels. Through its role as a project tinue supporting this initiative under the CDM framework. finance lender and provider of other financial services, BTMU 2 Deutsche Bank 1,198.98 6.25 Note: Landfill gas is generated from municipal solid waste decomposition. Methane is a proactive supporter in the global development of renew3 Grupo Santander 980.20 5.11 (about 60% of total gas composition) has a greenhouse effect 25 times higher than that of CO 2. Other major components of landfill gas include CO 2 (about 30%), nitrogen, oxygen, able energy for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and sup4 SMBC 806.13 4.20 and hydrogen sulfide and others. porting the future of industries and modern lifestyles. Renew5 Rabobank 754.02 3.93 able sectors where BTMU and its group companies, including 6 Standard Bank 665.25 3.47 MUMSS Initiatives under the Joint Crediting Mechanism (JCM) Union Bank in the United States, have provided debt finance The 18th Conference of the Parties (COP 18) to the United include wind, solar, and biomass power generation. 7 Mizuho Financial Group 586.71 3.06 Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change In the solar sector, BTMU served as mandated lead arranger 8 UniCredit 535.64 2.79 (UNFCCC) was held in Doha, Qatar in November and in a group of four Japanese banks underwriting approxi9 Morgan Stanley 482.00 2.51 December 2012. At this meeting, the Doha Climate Gatemately C$400 million in total for the Aurora Solar Project, a 10 KfW 463.75 2.42 way (Doha Agreement) was adopted, a commitment to project in Ontario, Canada, to acquire one of the largest reach agreement by 2015 on a new legal framework for power generation facilities in the world.*1 Also in Canada, Source: Infrastructure Journal League Tables (www.ijonline.com) Environmental Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 39 MUL Various Services ● Renewable Energy Initiatives tomer. MUL is using these acquired Tradable Green CertifiMUL is engaged in a variety of other initiatives and services MUL has been actively promoting renewable energy projects. cates for green leases, which connect customers who want to address climate change. One example is a joint solar power project using land owned to invest in the environment with customers who want to ● ESCO Services by a corporate customer in Japan (efforts began in April reduce CO2 emissions by using green power. Energy service company (ESCO) projects can assist large 2013.) All electricity generated will be sold to the local ● Used Equipment Trading Services consumers of energy—including commercial facilities such power utility. Taking advantage of being a leasing company that deals with as buildings, factories, and hotels and public facilities such as MUL is also contributing to solutions for global environmenphysical assets in the course of daily business, MUL is aware street light systems—to achieve greater energy efficiency. tal protection and energy issues through other renewable of its various roles and responsibilities relating to topics such An ESCO project provides a package of services (which can energy initiatives, such as a solar power project using the as waste reduction, and has for years been trading in used include energy audits, proposals for project planning and rooftops of rental apartments, and participation in what is equipment. For example, office equipment is reused and facilities upgrades, and validation of results after construcexpected to be Japan's largest megasolar project, to be built recycled through MUL Eco-Business Co., Ltd., which has a tion) that achieve reductions in environmental impacts while in Tahara City, Aichi Prefecture. complete in-house system for secure data destruction, and Environmental Policies and also reducing costs. ● Carbon Offset Services approaches Zero emissions (see Note) in its operations. Because all of the costs associated with an ESCO project, MUL offers the Offset Partner Service (a trust service for Note: Zero emissions refers to systems in society that employ reuse and various other means to result in almost no net emissions or waste. Initiatives including facility upgrades, can be recouped through future carbon offsets) to support from procurement to managereductions in energy costs resulting from improved energy ment of carbon offsets. This service supports customers' efficiency, ESCO projects require essentially no investment environmental initiatives in a variety of scenarios, such as MUTB The Wild Bird and Greenery Trust Fund for Environmental of new funds. After the initial investment has been recovdevelopment of products that come with carbon emission Conservation ered, the reduced energy costs remaining after subtracting credits and provision of carbon offsets for exhibition events MUTB created the Wild Bird and Greenery Trust fund as a maintenance and management costs are counted as cusand manufacturing plants. financial vehicle to support environmental conservation tomer profit. Another positive feature is that even if the Our Carbon Natural Lease (lease bundled with carbon emisactivities; income from this trust fund is donated to a public ESCO project produces a smaller reduction in energy consion credits) offsets the CO2 that will be emitted in connection interest incorporated foundation, the Wild Bird Society of sumption than originally expected, no additional burden is with the lease using carbon emission credits. Customers can, Japan. When payments are made to this society, MUTB placed on the customer. Also, being within a comprehensive in effect, be engaged in environmental activities without provides a matching contribution from its own funds (a miniESCO framework facilitates the use of subsidies in many having to do the cumbersome paperwork or accounting. mum of 500,000 yen, and maximum of 2.5 million yen, countries, thereby reducing total investment costs. ● Green Leases and Tradable Green Certification Services semi-annually), further meeting our customers' desire to MUL was one of the first companies in Japan to provide services A Green Lease is a leasing service that covers a portion of the protect the environment. As of March 2013, the trust fund's for ESCO projects and is recognized for its top-class perforelectricity consumed by leased equipment, by using green contract balance was 252.69 million yen. In FY 2012, donamance in the field, having been involved in 414 ESCO projects so electricity generated using natural energy sources that have a tions from the trust fund and matching donations from far (as of March 31, 2013). In the process, MUL has become a low environmental impact, such as wind or solar power. CusMUTB totaled 1.11 million yen. one-stop provider of coordinated energy efficiency solutions. tomers can easily use green power by applying Tradable ● Bird Sanctuary Created for Red-crowned Crane Habitat ● Financial Services for Environmental Businesses Green Certificates to their lease contracts, thereby certifying In March 2008, MUTB contributed funds to the Wild Bird MUL provides total support for achieving business plans by the environmental value of the renewable energy used. Society of Japan to acquire land to permanently protect from offering finance services to customers engaged in energy In July 2010, MUL was authorized as an issuer of Tradable development the nesting grounds of the red-crowned crane conservation and renewable energy. Besides providing Green Certificates, and launched a Tradable Green Certifica(also known as the Japanese crane) in Japan. The society corporate financing, we also offer diverse financial services tion service, by which MUL purchases from a customer the purchased a 34.9-hectare parcel of wetlands in Nemuro City, that match projects and operations, such as by using project environmental value of the renewable energy generated Hokkaido, and established the Wild Bird Society of Japanfinancing methods that rely on profitability and stability. from the use of photovoltaic equipment leased to the cusMUTB Rakuyo Bird Sanctuary. Environmental Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 40 BTMU Seminars on Energy Conservation, Electricity Saving gate them. BTMU and MUL also explained financing methIn cooperation with Group companies, including Mitsubishi ods. In the future MUFG will continue to work in an inteMUL UFJ Research and Consulting, MUL, Mitsubishi Research grated way to support photovoltaic and other renewable Institute, and Mitsubishi Research Institute DCS, BTMU energy projects. organized seminars in Tokyo, Nagoya, and Osaka, to suppor t energy conser vation and electricit y saving as responses to electricity shortages and potential energy cost increases after the Great East Japan Earthquake. At the seminars, Regional Bureaus of Economy, Trade and Industry provided explanations about various support programs. Presentations were given on the latest trends in energy-efficient equipment and other noteworthy informaEnvironmental Policies and tion from ENERES Co., Ltd., Shinryo Corporation, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Initiatives Engine Systems Co., Ltd., and Takasago Thermal Engineering Co., Ltd. In addition, the organizing Group companies presented information in response to possible increases in energy costs, including energy trends and the latest energy-conservation and electricity-saving methods, webbased cloud solutions, and ways to use energy conservation subsidies. A total of 116 companies participated at the three venues. We will continue to promote the effective use of information from government and the latest trends. BTMU Photovoltaic Project Support Seminars Japan's national Feed-in Tariff scheme was launched in MUL July 2012. To respond to the resulting heightened interest of many of our customers in photovoltaic projects, we organized Photovoltaic Project Support Seminars in Tokyo, Nagoya, Osaka, and Fukuoka. A total of 113 companies at the four venues heard explanations about application procedures for photovoltaic projects under this new system, as well as topics such as project risk and financing methods. At the seminars, Regional Bureaus of Economy, Trade and Industry gave an overview and explained regional differences in how to make applications, and NTT Facilities, Inc., which already has a major track record in this field in Japan, explained the risks of photovoltaic projects and how to mitiEnvironmental Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 41 BTMU Environmental Accounting —Finance to Reduce Envithe quantity of substances that have environmental strive to quantify the reduction of use of substances that ronmental Impacts impacts, and means that it would cost 4.415 billion yen to have environmental impacts and to calculate economic BTMU indirectly supports activities that reduce impacts on obtain the same benefit. benefits of these efforts. the environment by financing customers' environmentally BTMU will continue to contribute to environmentally con*1 Maximum Abatement Cost Method: Oka, T., M. Ishikawa, Y. Fujii, G. Huppes. 2005. Calculating Cost-effectiveness for Activities with Multiple Environmental Effects Using the friendly projects. To better understand the benefits of scious projects of our customers, and at the same time will Maximum Abatement Cost Method, Journal of Industrial Ecology 9(4):97-103. financing provided for projects that consider the environment, we determine the reduced emissions of CO 2 and other environmentally-polluting substances, and estimate CO2 Emission Reductions through Financing Environmental Finance Projects by Type, 2004-2012 the economic value of these reductions. Our assessments Line and scale on right indicate the value of environmental impact reductions achieved*2 Types of Environmental of the benefits of environmentally friendly projects have (1,000 tons CO 2) (Million yen) Finance Projects CO2 reduction amount covered the installation of alternative energy equipment 500 5,000 Monetary value 453.7 Alternative energy reduction amount 1% such as wind power, recycling facilities for industrial waste, (wind power, etc.) Environmental Policies and 371.0 375.8 396.9 4,415 1% factories or facilities such as melting furnaces and landfills 400 351.0 4,000 Recycling 20% with proper waste processing, installation of energy-saving 314.7 3,763 3,802 3,969 (construction debris, etc.) 15% 16% 293.6 3,568 6% Initiatives equipment and materials at factories and other buildings, 300 3,000 Proper processing 51% and disposal of waste 2,940 15% 41% and the construction of energy-efficient buildings. 2,619 (landfills, etc.) 22% 200 2,000 Installation of energyTo ensure the transparency of the estimation process, 158.7 efficient equipment/materials BTMU's environmental assessments follow the ISO 14040 (electrical parts, materials, etc.) 27% 1,503 100 1,000 Energy-efficient building series of standards for lifecycle assessment, through which construction (shopping malls, we can identify the reduction of environmental impacts as a office buildings, etc.) 0 0 result of designing projects to be more environmentally Before FY 2005 FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 friendly. As an example of the methodology used, in the *2 Reductions in value of environmental impacts and for CO 2 are based on facilities' operations plans. case of equipment that use alternative energy, the reduced environmental impact resulting from the equipment introEvaluation Coefficients for Maximum Abatement Cost Method duction is represented by the reduction in greenhouse gas Reduction of Target Substances (1,000 tons) (top line)*3 Type emissions, compared to emissions from conventional Cumulative Monetary Value (Million yen) (in parentheses, bottom line)*4 Coefficient Methodology for power generation equipment. To estimate the reduced Before (1,000 yen/ton) Estimation of Coefficients FY 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 environmental impact in monetary terms, BTMU uses 158.7 293.6 314.7 351 371 375.8 396.9 453.7 Highest-cost measures required to evaluation coefficients from the Maximum Abatement Cost CO 2 (1,111) (2,055) (2,203) (2,457) (2,597) (2,630) (2,779) (3,176) 7 achieve targets under the Kyoto Protocol Method,*1 estimated from reduction measures currently 0.0834 0.1445 0.2079 0.3569 0.3748 0.3769 0.3843 0.4034 Estimated from costs of Automobile being taken in Japan for substances that have environmenNOx 2,500 Subs tanc e (208) (361) (520) (892) (937) (942) (961) (1,009) NOx Law tal impacts. SOx 0.0482 0.0713 0.0811 0.0989 0.1128 0.1152 0.1218 0.1373 43 Estimated from flue gas desulfuriza(2) (3) (3) (4) (5) (5) (5) (6) tion costs for thermal power plants Cumulative CO2 emission reductions in FY 2012 amounted 0.0067 0.0074 0.0098 0.0098 0.0118 0.0118 0.0118 0.0118 Estimated from wastewater to about 454,000 tons, about 2.3 times MUFG's CO2 emisCOD 5,100 treatment costs for Lake Biwa (Japan) (34) (38) (50) (50) (60) (60) (60) (60) sions of 196,000 tons (based on adjusted emission factors) Total 0.0088 0.0097 0.0098 0.0098 0.0098 0.0098 0.0098 0.0098 16,745 Estimated from wastewater Nitrogen (147) (162) (164) (164) (164) (164) (164) (164) treatment costs for Lake Biwa (Japan) in FY 2012. The cumulative benefit of the economic value Total (1,503) (2,619) (2,940) (3,568) (3,763) (3,802) (3,969) (4,415) of environmental impact reductions in FY 2012 amounted *3 Reduction: Total amount of reduction (1,000 tons/year) for each substance reduced by environmentally friendly projects (fiscal year totals). to 4.415 billion yen. This was achieved by efforts to reduce *4 Monetary Value: Reduction amount (1,000 tons/year) x coefficient of Maximum Abatement Cost Method (1,000 yen/ton). Employee Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 42 ■Status of Employees (new criteria) FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 Employee Policies and Number of Employees*1 Of these, overseas local hires 34,902 5,532 34,797 6,084 35,480 6,814 36,499 7,535 Initiatives The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Contract employees Temporary employees*2 2,008 14,392 2,000 12,795 1,896 12,262 1,815 12,166 Average age 37 yrs. 6 mo. 37 yrs. 10 mo. 38 yrs. 1 mo. 38 yrs. 2 mo. Average years of continuous service 14 yrs. 6 mo. 14 yrs. 9 mo. 14 yrs. 11 mo. 14 yrs. 11 mo. We strive to create work environments that Number of employees*3 7,144 7,090 6,999 6,889 foster an effective approach towards work. Of these, contract salespersons 858 821 749 697 Mitsubishi UFJ Of these, overseas local hires 212 206 214 233 Trust and Banking Temporary employees 1,963 1,676 1,471 1,367 Average age*4 40 yrs. 4 mo. 40 yrs. 6 mo. 40 yrs. 8 mo. 41 yrs. 1 mo. Basic Policies and Structures Average years of continuous service 15 yrs. 1 mo. 15 yrs. 5 mo. 15 yrs. 8 mo. 16 yrs. 3 mo. Number of employees*3 6,750 6,587 4,707 4,536 MUFG believes that higher employee satisfaction is Of these, overseas local hires*5 4 0 0 0 reflected in work performance, and leads to increased cusMitsubishi UFJ Temporary employees Avg. 349 Avg. 191 Avg. 187 Avg. 272 Morgan Stanley Securities tomer satisfaction. The Group also believes that employAverage age 38 yrs. 9 mo. 39 yrs. 7 mo. 39 yrs. 10 mo. 40 yrs. 8 mo. Employee Policies and Initiatives ees' job fulfillment is reflected in society and at home, Average years of continuous service 12 yrs. 1 mo. 13 yrs. 1 mo. 12 yrs. 8 mo. 13 yrs. 5 mo. Number of employees*6 3,732 3,742 3,420 3,454 fostering better communities. Based on these beliefs, we Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Average age 38 yrs. 4 mo. 38 yrs. 8 mo. 38 yrs. 9 mo. 39 yrs. 7 mo. listen to employees' ideas to create more fulfilling workAverage years of continuous service 14 yrs. 4 mo. 15 yrs. 1 mo. 15 yrs. 2 mo. 15 yrs. 6 mo. places. *1 Does not include executive officers, excludes BTMU employees seconded to other companies, includes employees of other companies seconded to BTMU. *2 Includes temporary staff. *3 Does not include executive officers. *4 Excludes executive officers, employees seconded from other companies and employees hired by overseas subsidiaries. *5 Employees hired by the Beijing office. ■Number of Employees Using Support Systems and Leave *6 Does not include executive officers, seconded employees, contract employees and temporary staff. FY 2011 FY 2012 Childcare leave 1,503 (198 men) 1,974 (222 men) ■Number of Hires*1 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 Shorter work hours for childcare 654 845 The Bank of Main Career Track 350 507 578 598 Nursing care leave 131 (24 men) 142 (25 men) Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ 159 104 158 Relocation recruitment system 79 148 The Bank of Main Career Track (specific) 247 Family care leave 16 10 Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Area-Specific Track 147 245 591 612 Childcare leave 178 196 Total 656 856 1,327 1,457 Mitsubishi UFJ Shorter work hours 137 166 Track G 177 147 144 119 Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Subsidy for childcare expenses 208 216 Track B 191 103 56 28 Trust and Banking Use of maiden name 120 152 Total 368 250 200 147 Childcare leave 138 (3 men) 115 (4 men) Main Career Track 84 148 47 138 Mitsubishi UFJ Shorter work hours for childcare 112 89 Area-Specific Main Career Track ー ー ー 39 Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Family care leave 0 0 Regional Track 48 50 0 0 Morgan Stanley Securities Relocation requests (see Note) 3 3 Total 132 198 47 177 Females among new hires for Note: Total for fiscal year. Main Career Track*2 ー 27.7% 31.9% 31.2% Main Career 52 42 20 28 Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Regular Service 103 70 0 20 *1 These join the company on April 1 each fiscal year (only new graduates). *2 There were 41 female Main Career Track employees in FY 2010 and 15 in FY 2011. Employee Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 43 Promoting Work-life Balance 6. Voluntary flex-time system they return to work. The company also offers diversity7. Re-challenge Plan (rehiring program) management training for management-level employees to MUFG Certification under the Act on Advancement of Measures 8. Use of maiden name learn methods for developing and managing a diverse workto Support Raising Next-generation Children 9. Awareness-raising seminars to boost productivity and force that includes working mothers. MUFG has obtained certification under the Act on Advancepromote work-life balance, including time management trainment of Measures to Support Raising Next-generation Chilings, etc. BTMU Childcare Leave with Partial Pay dren. Employers satisfying certain requirements, such as 10. Awareness-raising for management level personnel, etc. In response to requests by male employees to take childcare MUTB having a proper employer action plan in place and supporting In recognition of these efforts, under the Ministry of Health, leave and be involved in raising their children, BTMU and the work-life balance of employees, are able to obtain certificaLabour and Welfare's Corporate Achievement Awards for SupMUMSS MUMSS allow male employees to take up to 10 days of paid tion from the directors general of prefectural labor departporting Gender Equality and Work-life Balance, in FY 2010 childcare leave, while MUTB offers male employees up to two ments. Going forward, MUFG will continue to provide addiMUTB was given the Minister's Awards of Excellence for both weeks of paid childcare leave. These options encourage male tional support to enable employees to balance work and family promoting equality in the workplace, and for being a familyemployees to take childcare leave, as part of MUFG's efforts to life. friendly company. create a corporate culture conducive to realizing work-life balance. BTMU Merihari Work & Life MUN Reduction of Working Hours Employee Policies and Initiatives BTMU is carrying out a program to further enhance the workMUN promotes employees' work-life balance by reducing long MUMSS Expanding Maternity and Childcare Support Programs life balance of employees. Named the Merihari Work & Life working hours, and encouraging employees to take consecuMUMSS supports its employees' work-life balance and is (meaning Improve work efficiency and balance and Reduce tive days of paid annual leave. In addition to promoting a No enhancing family-friendly work systems, through efforts such working hours ) Campaign, this program aims to promote lively Overtime Day once each week at all company offices, all as a system allowing employees to shorten their work hours to working styles by adding tips and improvements to what are employees are encouraged to leave early on July 7 in conjuncallow more time for childcare, partially-paid childcare leave, and already highly-productive working styles and efficient uses of tion with Cool Earth Day and on bonus payment days, and to a new leave program for parents of children entering elementime. Going home signs (Kaeru Fuda) were distributed to go home early all week long for the Japanese traditional annual tary school. So that employees can prepare toward returning to offices and branches that requested the signs, and using the Obon holidays before and after August 15, and two weeks in work even before taking leave, MUMSS has also published signs, employees could announce the time that they planned November in association with Family Week. In addition, MUN Prenatal, Postnatal, and Childcare Leave—A Guide, a booklet to finish work and go home. A number of offices are serving as has established a system for employees to take five consecudistributed to both employees and supervisors. model offices to show how work can be carried out more tive days of paid annual leave each year, as well as anniversary efficiently. leave, which encourages employees to take paid leave on MUN Childcare Support private anniversaries. In FY 2012, 97.2% of employees took In FY 2010, MUN introduced a Return to Work Program comMUTB Work-life Balance 10 Personnel System five consecutive days of paid annual leave. As a result, 67.5% prising at-home learning and a class upon their return to work To further promote a good work-life balance for its employees, of overall annual leave days (13.0 days) were taken in FY 2012. for employees taking childcare or family care leave. This MUTB has established a personnel system called Work-life program helps these employees maintain their skills and feel Balance 10. This system consists of ten components comBTMU Programs to Support Employees' Return to Work confident upon returning to work when their period of leave bined into one overall program: BTMU supports women who wish to use their full abilities ends. In addition, to support diverse working styles, the scope 1. Expanded childcare leave system (two weeks of paid leave) while balancing work with child-raising. Examples include trainof employees considered to be raising children was expanded 2. Shorter work hours system (up to three hours) ings and interviews for expecting mothers before they take to include an individual with a child up until the end of the fiscal 3. Hospital care leave system (one paid day of leave per month) maternity leave, the Internet-based wiwiw support program year when the child is in the third grade of elementary school. 4. Subsidy for childcare expenses that helps employees on childcare leave prepare for return to The half-day leave program was expanded to allow employees 5. Interview on return from childcare leave work, and career-awareness and skills training programs once to take a half-day off up to 20 times per year. Employee Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 44 BTMU Kagaya Kids' Day Offering an Open Workplace counselors to help employees with any mental health BTMU held Kagaya Kids' Day at head offices in Tokyo, issues they face. The offices also send a monthly newsletNagoya, and Osaka, and at other offices and branches. Its MUFG Listening to Our Employees ter to employees containing information about physical and aims were to introduce employees' children to their In FY 2012, MUFG in Japan again utilized intranet systems mental health. parents' workplaces and to teach them about the role to gather opinions from employees and conduct employee MUTB has established the Employees Counselors Division, finance plays in society. Each venue made arrangements satisfaction surveys in order to ensure that employees' which works with medical advisors and counselors to for an enjoyable experience for both parents and children. opinions are reflected in both operations and company syspromote the physical and mental health of employees. The Feedback from employees included comments that the tems. offices work to maintain employee health, for example, by events improved communication with their children. BTMU has introduced a system on its intranet called OPEN launching counseling services, offering health advice based which provides a channel for employees to share their opinon routine medical exams, and providing health-related MUN Family Visit Day ions anonymously or using their real names. As part of eminformation. In August 2012, MUN held Family Visit Day at the Head ployee and staff satisfaction surveys, in principle, once At the Healthcare Center of MUMSS, medical doctors and Office Building. This was an event for employees' family each year an anonymous survey of all employees in Japan occupational health nurses provide healthcare support to members to learn about their parents' workplace and about is conducted for the purpose of developing corporate employees based on the results of routine medical exams, credit cards. On the day, they gained an understanding of culture. and also work to improve the working environment by Employee Policies and Initiatives the company through workplace tours, practice exchanging MUTB conducts an annual employee satisfaction survey meeting with employees about overwork, and managing business cards, and a visit to the Card Gallery. MUN aims (ES Survey) of all its employees in Japan. Survey results the Health Committee. The Health Promotion Division also to continue providing opportunities to strengthen ties and employees' opinions are communicated to managepublishes a newsletter, lends audio CDs for relaxation and between family members and to boost employees' comment and employees alike in order to build a shared underotherwise disseminates useful information about managing pany loyalty and work motivation. standing, and are also used to improve the working environand improving one's health in a timely manner. With ment. MUTB plans to continually make improvements respect to mental health, professional counseling is MUTB Children's Visiting Day around issues that are raised by the survey. provided by clinical psychologists who work closely with In August 2012, MUTB held its sixth Children's Visiting Day MUMSS implements an employee satisfaction survey once physicians, and employees are encouraged to become at its Head Office Building. The event featured workplace per year, with the findings used by management and in more aware of mental health issues through activities such tours, quizzes about trust banking, the opportunity to feel initiatives to improve corporate culture. as managerial-level trainings and seminars open to all emhow much 10 0 million yen weighs, and a chance to MUN has been conducting an employee awareness survey ployees. exchange business cards with the company president, (morale survey) that targets all employees, including partAt MUN, a full-time supervising medical advisor in the head among other activities. Feedback included many comtimers and temporary workers, since FY 2008. A comparaoffice works closely with part-time medical advisors in ments that the event let children see another side of their tive analysis of the most recent survey with past surveys offices throughout the country. Follow-up measures after parents, and helped them feel closer. MUTB will continue helps the company monitor changes in awareness. The medical exams, mental healthcare, meetings with employin the future to promote events to raise awareness about survey also helps identify unresolved issues and shape ees about overwork, and other measures are used to work-life balance. future policy decisions, the results of which are shared with promote employee health management. Through both a all managers and employees. checklist that allows employees to determine the degree of their accumulated fatigue, as well as through the company MUFG Employee Health Promotion bulletin, employees are educated about the importance of Three BTMU offices (the Marunouchi Head Office, proactively managing their own health. Nagoya, and Osaka Buildings) are equipped with Health Consultation Offices, where they work with doctors and Employee Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 45 Developing Human Resources boost personal capacity and the level of expertise. ing a system to allow changes in career track between Main Since FY 2011, MUN has been working to restructure its Career Track, Main Career Track (specific) and Area Specific MUFG Enhancing Training Programs human resources development framework, an effort that led to (AS) tracks; a Relocation Posting System combined with conBTMU divides human resources development for all employthe creation of an internal institute for the training of all MUN sideration of circumstances such as job transfer of a spouse, or ees into two main categories, one being personal capacity, and employees, called MUN Academy. The academy focuses on the need to care for a family member; and a system that allows the other skills and expertise. While human resources developthree key metrics (expertise, strategy, and personal capacity), non-permanent staff (contract employees, etc.) to become ment is based on reinforcement through daily work, in order to and develops measures for each employment rank and objecregular employees. bolster the personal capacity of employees, training is impletive. It also implements trainings for all employees at all ranks, MUTB implements in-house recruiting two to four times per mented on a company-wide basis according to rank. In addiworking to strengthen personnel capacity so that individuals year based on the Job Challenge (an in-house recruitment tion, skills-training programs are provided for each division, with can transform their own awareness and behavior. system) for all employees who wish to change their careers in the aim of raising the level of employees' skills and expertise, the company and the Post Challenge system for managerialwhich are necessary in order to provide superior financial BTMU Preparing Ourselves for Globalization level employees. As part of the Job Challenge system, MUTB services. Furthermore, a full palette of self-enrichment support BTMU organizes and implements a variety of training courses offers the Global Challenge Course for employees to transfer systems is offered to all employees, providing them with under MUFG Global Academy to give employees the skills to overseas offices and domestic offices that require foreign opportunities for self-directed learning. BTMU believes that they need in order to succeed on the global stage. For language ability. There have been cases of employees hired as Employee Policies and Initiatives enhancing these training programs helps employees think example, the Global Rotation Training Program provides locally area-specific employees transferring to overseas offices to take about their own aptitude and orientation at each juncture in hired staff in our overseas operations with a year of on-the-job on new responsibilities at branches and offices. In FY 2010, as their careers, to blaze their own trail for their careers, to training in another country, while the MUFG Corporate Finance part of MUTB's efforts to help employees build their careers, enhance their personal capacity, and to develop as individuals. Seminar brings home staff and locally hired staff to Hong Kong the Active Career Challenge System was established, putting MUTB provides training catered to each individual's position, to study corporate finance. By increasing opportunities for in place a framework whereby employees can choose how rank, and occupation, and through its Personnel Development more employees to acquire skills regardless of nationalities, they want to work until the age of 65. Going forward, MUTB Program in each field of business, conducts practical job rotageographic areas and cultures, BTMU aims to develop human will continue to develop systems in response to employees' tion, carries out training for the specific work responsibilities of resources that can meet customers' needs which have been own motivation and desire to challenge themselves. each division, and supports employee efforts to attain jobglobalized and diversified. In FY 2012, MUMSS established an Area-Specific Main Career related qualifications with the aim of strengthening its human Track, in addition to the Specific-Track, for employees wanting resources. In addition, the bank is expanding the range of eduMUFG Changes in Career Track and In-house Recruiting to work in a broader capacity like Main Career Track employcational opportunities for employees seeking to independently MUFG has put in place systems that allow employees to ees. Every year, many employees at MUMSS take the test to develop their careers by offering classes that cover such subchange their particular occupation or career track, as well as switch from a regional track to an Area-Specific Main Career jects as time management and logical thinking. in-house job-posting systems that let employees apply for Track, or from an Area-Specific Main Career Track to a Main MUMSS provides both rank-specific and function-specific traindifferent jobs that they want to try. As one example of this, in Career Track under the company's existing system to allow ing to all employees, from new hires to corporate directors. The order to support independent career development of each and changes in career track. company also supports employees' efforts to develop personal every employee, BTMU has created an in-house recruiting MUN has a system that allows Regular Service to change to qualities and skills and attain work-related qualifications. To system that permits employees to apply for jobs they desire. the Main Career, and vice versa. In the five years since this strengthen compliance, monthly training sessions focusing on They can apply for a variety of posts at branches and offices in system was launched in 2008, 59 employees have changed a common, company-wide topic are held in each division, and Japan and overseas as well as at the Head Office, and many tracks and are now working with a new set of responsibilities employees are tested on what they learned every six months. employees respond when job openings are announced several and in new workplaces. Going forward, we will actively hire MUMSS established a human resources development frametimes a year. We have also added CSR approaches as a comtalented employees with a desire to change career tracks and work in FY 2012, and is working on reforms, including ways to pany that respects the work-life balance, for example, by offeraim to put in place systems that emphasize a work-life balance. Employee Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 46 BTMU Corporate Citizenship Project Promoting Diversity MUTB Promoting Female Employment Since FY 2007, BTMU has included volunteer work in the An active supporter of women in the workplace, MUTB training programs for new employees. By having them BTMU Supporting the Career Development of Female Emholds seminars for female college students where it takes participate in volunteer activities in the local community, ployees an innovative approach to helping women paint a clear this program aims to help employees become aware of To support the career development of female employees, picture of the careers they could have after joining the comtheir roles as members of society and to have them adopt BTMU has set numerical targets (see Note) and actively pany. One such approach is passing out pamphlets that the basic attitude of serving society and proactively offering recruits female workers. New numerical targets were set in illustrate the day-to-day lives of female employees striving what they can to people and society in general. April 2011, and BTMU is working to develop female managto balance work with personal or family life. Efforts like this Under this hands-on training program, called the Corporate ers in domestic commercial banking offices, overseas have led to an expansion in the roles of women hired, with Citizenship Project, and in cooperation with the Tokyo branches and headquarters that have not had many female women making up around 30% of those hired by the comVoluntary Action Center and other volunteer centers in managers over the past years. BTMU is also promoting its pany under its General Track, which sets no restrictions on Tokyo, 593 new employees visited 166 facilities in two programs to allow employees to change their career track work location. days in the Tokyo area, including facilities for seniors and and support contract employees who want to become persons with disabilities. regular employees. MUMSS Promoting the Full Use of Women's Abilities in the The entire process, including the pre-visit orientation, doing In addition, the Main Career Track (specific) and Area SpeWorkplace Employee Policies and Initiatives the actual work, and post-activity review, gave the new emcific (AS) Track Relocation Recruitment System allows MUMSS launched the Project to Promote the Full Use of ployees a chance to realize a lot about the role of the bank Main Career Track (specific) and AS Track employees, who Women's Abilities in the Workplace in April 2011. As part of as a corporate citizen and their own role as an individual. At would normally not be given a job transfer that requires the project, in-house publications and the Women's Abilithe conclusion of the training, the new hires discussed their them to change their place of residence, to request a transties Promotion Newsletter are delivered to all, including experiences, with some commenting that the program was fer to another area for reasons such as the work relocation male employees, with articles about successful working a good opportunity to think about what they can do as a of a spouse or to provide care for family members. BTMU women and suggestions on career development. The member of society and others saying that it helped them to also introduced a system giving employees shorter working project aims to raise awareness across the company and understand the importance of thinking about things from hours for maternity, child care, or family care. These meacreate a workplace environment where female employees someone else's point of view. Just as importantly, the sures enable certain employees to continue their careers can better attain their full potential. Also, starting in FY 2013 program allowed newly-hired employees to recognize their without interruption. for the first time, new university graduates were hired for significance as members of society. Area-Specific Main Career Track positions that will not Support for Women's Career Development (Targets and Results) require job transfers to new locations, and the ratio of Targets (by the end of March 2015) (Reference) Results as of April 2013 women joining the company rose to a new level of 45% of Total number of line hires. management positions 300 315 Top management 80 43 MUN Supporting Female Employees' Work-life Balance Middle management 220 272 To help achieve a better work-life balance, MUN offers a Female manager ratio 15% 13.6% longer period of time during which women can work Note: The target is aiming for promoting 300 female workers to line management reduced hours when raising a child, and introduced a positions by the end of the current Medium-term Business Plan (March 2015). program to help employees on childcare or nursing-care leave return to work. As of March 2013, approximately 220 employees are utilizing these programs aimed at building a more supportive work environment. Employee Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 47 BTMU Employing Persons with Disabilities Within MUFG, employees with disabilities are actively MUTB working in various offices. MUFG works closely with employees to match their duties to each individual's skills and aptitudes. BTMU has two special subsidiaries, MU Business Aid Co., Ltd. and MU Business Partner Co., Ltd., which promote the hiring of persons with disabilities. These companies are hiring many persons with disabilities to work on bank operations on an outsourcing basis. In September 2012, BTMU received the Minister’s Award for Outstanding Offices of Employment for Persons with Disabilities in FY 2012 from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in recognition of BTMU as a company that actively employs persons with disabilities. MUTB works with special subsidiary Ryoshin Data Co., Employee Policies and Initiatives Ltd., which specializes in data entry operations, to create employment for persons with hearing and other disabilities. The company has hired a cumulative total of 120 persons with disabilities over the past 30 years, and as of June 2013, 49 such employees were engaged in a wide range of operations, such as data entry and creating electronic versions of manuals. MUFG Continuing Employment of Retirees To support workers who wish to remain active after passing the mandatory retirement age, MUFG has introduced systems for ongoing employment of qualified employees who wish to remain employed with the company. Human Rights Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 48 Office in its offices in Tokyo, Nagoya and Osaka. All employand a pleasant and discrimination-free workplace. Six Human Rights Policies ees, including temporary staff, can consult the Office about human rights issues such as sexual harassment and other slogans were awarded in-house—three each in the employee and family categories. and Initiatives abuses of power. The Office also visits branches and offices for in-person interviews, and carries out human rights awareness activities as part of efforts to create friendly workMUFG recognizes respect for basic human places. rights as an important management theme, MUTB has established a Human Rights Awareness Promoand has established the Principles of Ethics and tion Office in the Personnel Division. All employees, includConduct and compliance manuals. ing temporary staff, can consult the Human Rights Aware(The Principles of Ethics and Conduct are listed on page 19.) ness Promotion Office about human rights issues such as sexual harassment and other abuses of power in a variety of ways, including in person, over the phone, or via e-mail. The Human Rights Initiatives Human Rights Awareness Promotion Office also carries out human rights awareness activities as part of its efforts to MUFG recognizes respect for basic human rights as an create friendly workplaces. important management theme, and has established the MUMSS has started hotlines both inside and outside of the Principles of Ethics and Conduct and compliance manuals company to receive and handle consultations from employas part of its efforts to eliminate discrimination and create ees about human rights issues such as sexual harassment Human Rights Policies and Initiatives friendly work-places. We declare that, in the spirit of human and other abuses of power in the workplace, and is also respect, we shall not discriminate against people or violate starting to offer trainings for all employees. human rights on the basis of race, nationality, beliefs, religion, MUN has established a telephone consultation center in the gender, or other grounds. Compliance Supervising Department and an external teleMore specifically, in Group subsidiaries we have estabphone consultation center as help lines to receive and handle lished human rights awareness promotion entities, which consultations from employees about human rights issues conduct awareness-raising trainings for executives and such as sexual harassment and abuse of authority in the employees of every rank, and work to promote the correct workplace. understanding and appreciation of the human rights issues by each and every employee. BTMU Human Rights Awareness Slogan In addition, each company offers a place where employees The three companies BTMU, MUTB and MUN are actively MUTB can consult with professional staff about harassmentengaged in human rights awareness activities, each year related behavior in the workplace, including sexual harassMUN calling for suggestions for human rights awareness slogans ment and abuses of power. With this arrangement, we for the Japanese Bankers Association and the Industrial show no tolerance for this type of behavior and aim to Federation for Human Rights, Tokyo. prevent it. In connection with Human Rights Week (December 4 to 10), MUN made a broad appeal for slogan ideas from executives, MUFG Consultation Systems at MUFG employees and their families, with the aim of securing a solid BTMU has established a Bank Employees' Consultation foundation of a corporate culture of respect for human rights Local Community Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 49 ders of the natural environment and biodiversity and to pated in a group discussion with other participants. Here are Local Community develop an interest in sustainability through learning, discovery and action. examples of their impressions of the program: It changed my image of what work is really like. I realized how important it Policies and Initiatives http://www.unesco-esd.jp/ (in Japanese) is for me to learn English and how to operate computers. MUFG Next Generation Leaders Training Program for Asia and MUFG Hosting Internships We encourage a range of social contribution the Pacific MUFG hosts opportunities for college students to pursue activities based on employee participation, Since FY 2008, MUFG and a public interest incorporated internships while they undertake their academic studies. as a member of the communities where we foundation, the Organization for Industrial, Spiritual and These internships provide students with work experiences interact with many people, in Japan and Cultural Advancement (OISCA) International, have jointly that allow them to make use of their talents, while providing around the world. conducted the Next Generation Leaders Program for Asia them with a variety of insights. and the Pacific. This program brings youths from Asian developing countries to OISCA's training center in Fukuoka MUFG Hosting the MUFG Graduation Memorial Cup Soccer Basic Policies and Structures City, Fukuoka Prefecture, where they receive one year of Tournament training in management and environmentally friendly organic Each year, MUFG hosts the MUFG Cup, a youth soccer tourWe recognize that the very existence of MUFG is sustained farming techniques, to prepare them to serve as leaders in nament for sixth-grade students about to graduate from by society as a whole and that we have a duty to consider their home countries after their return. elementary school in Tokyo, Aichi, and Osaka. The concept the key issues facing society. We have therefore identified for this tournament is to use sports as a way to foster friendAddressing Global Environmental Issues and Nurturing MUFG Economic/Financial Education Program Let's Learn ships among soon-to-graduate students and to develop an Society's Next Generation as the two priority themes to be about Finance and Economy appreciation of others. The Sixth MUFG Cup was held from addressed by the entire Group. We undertake our environIn collaboration with Tsukuba University, MUFG has develFebruary to March 2013, assisted by volunteers including mental and social contribution efforts in keeping with this oped this educational support program to help students MUFG employees. A total of more than 9,000 children have Local Community Policies and basic policy and philosophy. (The Group CSR Priority enjoy learning about the importance of money and the participated since the first annual tournament. Themes are listed on page 6.) mechanisms of finance. This program is used in elementary school classes throughout the country. MUFG employees MUFG MUFG Girls' Soccer Invitational Tournament Initiatives Major Initiatives host field trips to branch offices, where they use this program With the aim of providing a forum for children's healthy to provide explanations to teachers and students. development through sports, the MUFG Girls' Soccer InvitaMUFG Environmental Education Project Save Our Common tional Tournament was held at the Ajinomoto Stadium in Treasures of the Earth MUFG Job Shadowing Work Experience Program Tokyo in September and October 2012. In all, 800 girls from MUFG and the Mitsubishi UFJ Environment Foundation, in Every year since FY 2007, we have conducted a Job Shad85 elementary and junior high school teams participated. collaboration with the National Federation of UNESCO Assoowing Work Experience Program, through which high Many other activities were offered in addition to the soccer ciations in Japan, are engaged in an educational project, school students pair up with employees to learn firsthand matches themselves, such as mini-games, making it a fun named Save Our Common Treasures of the Earth. The projabout the challenges and joys of the work experience; this day of soccer for all. ect's aim is to help ensure that humanity's shared treasures helps participating students to think about their future are passed on to future generations. The first five-year phase careers and employment options. In the FY 2012 program, of the project ended in FY 2012, and the second phase 99 students from metropolitan high schools experienced began from FY 2013. This project is designed to give the what it would be like to work at MUFG, BTMU, MUTB, next generation of children opportunities to know the wonMUMSS, MUN, and MUL Head Offices, and later particiLocal Community Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 50 MUFG Gifts for the Future TV Program MUFG MUFG-CARF Industry-academia Joint Seminar Environmental Innovators. MUMSS is still responsible for MUFG has been sponsoring the TV program Gifts for the MUFG and the Center for Advanced Research and Finance the Designing Environmental Business segment and reguFuture (broadcast every Saturday from 10 p.m. to 10:54 (CARF), the University of Tokyo held the seminar Verifying larly hosts graduate student interns. Through its activities, p.m. on BS-TBS TV) since May 2009 as part of our CSR the effect of global, non-traditional monetary easing policy MUMSS aims at creating the environment and nurturing activities. This documentary-style program features corpoand summary of issues as an industry-academia joint projthe highly skilled environmental specialists that will lead the rations and other organizations that address social issues ect in April 2013. The seminar drew about 100 participants way to a low-carbon society. through their business activities; more than 110 companies from business, finance and academic circles. The presentaand organizations have been profiled so far. Past episodes tion included a lively debate on Abenomics financial policies of the program are available online through the MUFG webat a panel discussion with University of Tokyo Professor MUN Hosting Training Programs for Educators at Private Comsite http://www.mufg.jp/csr/movies/ (in Japanese). Kazuo Ueda and Professor Kiyohiko Nishimura (former panies Deputy Governor, Bank of Japan). MUN takes part in the Trainings Program for Educators at MUTB Peter Rabbit TM Forest for the Future Environmental Private Companies implemented by Keizai Koho Center Conservation Activities BTMU Supporting the Activities of UNESCO Associated toward promoting communications between the business MUTB signed the Saitama Prefecture Afforestation AgreeSchools world and academia. MUN has hosted trainees a total of 11 ment with Nagatoro Town in Saitama Prefecture in May The basic view of Education for Sustainable Development times since 1999, presenting trainings developed in house. 2009; based on this, forest conservation activities were initi(ESD) is to foster each individual to take part in creating a In FY 2012, the training was presented in August for nine ated for a community forest (about one hectare in size) on sustainable society. BTMU has been collaborating with a members of the Tokyo Board of Education. Hodo Mountain in Nagatoro Town. Because MUTB has public interest incorporated association, the National Federabeen adopting Peter RabbitTM as its mascot since 1988, this tion of UNESCO Associations in Japan to support the activiBTMU Mitsubishi UFJ Foundation forest on Hodo Mountain has been named the Peter Rabties of UNESCO Associated Schools, which serve as cenMitsubishi UFJ Foundation promotes international bitTM Forest for the Future. Employees and their families ters for the promotion of ESD. In FY 2012, about 120 exchanges in Asian and other countries. To foster human participate in tree planting and weeding activities every year. schools received grants from the newly established resources development in Japan and overseas, the FoundaLocal Community Policies and UNESCO Associated Schools ESD Assistance Project. The tion provides financial assistance to a variety of international MUTB Teaching as Part of Industry-academia Partnerships ESD International Exchange Program was launched in exchange programs and offers scholarships to students in Since April 2007, MUTB has participated in joint industryFY2011 to send high school students from UNESCO AssoJapan and overseas. The Foundation paid scholarships for 16 MUMSS Initiatives academia courses in cooperation with the Graduate School ciated Schools to Germany and France, providing them with graduate students and three university students from overof Engineering at the University of Tokyo. Employees provide ESD-related learning opportunities based on international seas to study in Japan, and also for about 550 local students lectures on subjects they are working on, sharing the latest exchange (12 students dispatched in FY 2012). at 26 universities in eight Asian countries, including China, information in their fields. In FY 2013, four sessions were Thailand, and Vietnam. The Foundation also holds networkheld, starting in May. MUMSS Fostering Environmental Leaders ing events for exchange students studying in Japan and Each year, MUMSS employees participate in special lectures The transition to a low-carbon society is essential to curb employees several times a year. organized by Nagoya University for graduate students. This global warming and realize a sustainable economy. lecture was intended not only to promote an appreciation of MUMSS participated in the development of the Designing the role played by mathematics in the financial sector, but a Low-carbon Society course offered since FY 2009 by also to interest science and engineering students in the field Keio University's Graduate School and was responsible for of finance. delivering its Designing Environmental Business component. Starting with spring 2011, this course has been updated and re-launched as the International Program for Local Community Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 51 BTMU Mitsubishi UFJ Environment Foundation Foundation provided a total of 32.6 million yen for 56 opera, BTMU Culture Support Project: Shiki Theatre Company's The Mitsubishi UFJ Environment Foundation plays a key role orchestral and other performances. Between the time it was Kokorono Gekijou in MUFG's efforts to address environmental and social conestablished and FY 2012, the Foundation has provided a total Since 2007, BTMU has cosponsored the Shiki Theatre Comcerns, supporting a wide range of efforts. These include of 1.5533 billion yen to 1,367 performances. pany's culture support project, Kokorono Gekijou, which activities to improve the natural environment, especially seeks to share stories about the things that are important in through tree planting (a total of 1.04 million trees have been MUTB The Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Cultural Foundation human lives, such as instilling in children's hearts the value of planted so far), village forest conservation, and the creation This Foundation was established in 1989 to support organilife, caring for others, and the joys of trusting in one another. of biotopes (natural habitat areas) at schools; organizing the zations that contribute to the promotion of local culture in the In FY 2012, 560,000 children attended these performances Midori-no-e Concour (held in 2013 for the 38th time); offerfields of music, art, theatre, and traditional arts. It supports a nationwide. BTMU also donated 450 complimentary tickets ing sponsored lectures at universities and other environmenwide range of causes, including ongoing amateur musical to 21 children's nursing facilities, so that children from these tal education events; and undertaking the Headwaters and theatre groups active at the local level, exhibitions that facilities could attend performances of productions including Forest project, which has involved participants in hands-on present notable works of art and opportunities for viewing by Great Adventures of Gamba. reforestation and nature observation activities in the Tone local communities, the preservation and passing on of tradiRiver watershed. tional arts, and performances to train people to carry on tradiMUFG Mitsubishi Asian Children's Enikki Festa tions. In FY 2012, the Foundation provided 22.9 million yen Since 1990, the Mitsubishi Public Affairs Committee MUTB The Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Scholarship Foundation to 59 projects. Between the time it was established and FY (MPAC), comprised of 39 Mitsubishi Group companies, has The Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Scholarship Foundation was estab2012, it has provided a total of 600 million yen to 1,159 collaborated with the Asian-Pacific Federation of UNESCO lished in 1953 to provide scholarships and funding to foster performances and activities. Clubs and Associations and the National Federation of human resources development and advance academic UNESCO Associations in Japan to organize an Asian research. In FY 2012, the Foundation paid a total of 177.91 BTMU Mitsubishi UFJ Technology Development Foundation children's illustrated diary festival known as the Mitsubishi million yen in scholarships for 347 students, including The Mitsubishi UFJ Technology Development Foundation Asian Children's Enikki Festa. The festival has drawn the exchange students. Between the time it was established (known as MU-TECH), created in 1983, has been a pioneer participation of 24 Asian countries and regions—and the subLocal Community Policies and and FY 2012, it has paid out a total of approximately 4.964 in providing support for private sector ventures in Japan. To mission of 635,511 works of art so far. This festival seeks to billion yen in scholarships to 5,582 students (including comprehensively foster the development of the technologydeepen cultural exchange and mutual understanding among exchange students). The number of designated universities oriented smalland medium-sized enterprises (especially Asian countries and to support increased literacy rates. Initiatives for the scholarships increased by two, from 46 schools until venture businesses) that are so vital for Japan's economic last year to 48 universities in FY 2013. development, the Foundation provides a wide range of assisBTMU Sewing Volunteers Besides the scholarship programs, since the Foundation was tance, including research and development grants, informaTo benefit children living in orphanages, BTMU calls on their established it has also been implementing a technology tion, and consulting services. In FY 2012, MU-TECH employees to serve as sewing volunteers, to make and research funding program, and by FY 2012 had provided provided 10 million yen in grants for a total of ten projects, donate items that all Japanese students need at the start of 232.41 million yen to 45 organizations. including projects making significant contributions in the each school year. In FY 2012, 78 kit bags and shoe bags environmental field. In April 2012, the Foundation became were donated. MUTB The Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Foundation for the Arts registered as a public interest incorporated foundation in The Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Foundation for the Arts was estabJapan and at the same time began holding equity in small lished in 1987 to support the advancement and dynamism of and medium-sized enterprises that have received the Founarts and culture, and provides funding for performances by dation's grant assistance or loan guarantees. In May 2013, Japanese groups such as operas and orchestras that have the Foundation invested in one company. attained a certain level of artistic standard. In FY 2012, the Local Community Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 52 MUFG Supporting Volunteer Activities by Employees other fire and disaster-prevention activities in the Akihabara a total of more than 150 million yen in seven years. This year To support the desire on the part of their employees to condistrict of Tokyo. Employees also participate in lifesaving the tournament returned to the Oarai Golf Club for the first tribute to society in various ways, BTMU, MUTB, MUMSS training and firefighting exercises. In recognition of these time in four years. The theme of the tournament included the and MUN all have programs to provide employees with inforefforts, in January 2009 MUN became certified under the recovery of Oarai, which suffered tsunami damage in the mation about volunteering, in addition to instituting volunteer Fire and Disaster Management Agency's Fire Brigade SupGreat East Japan Earthquake. leave systems and volunteer grants programs. In order to port Business Certification System. MUN held its Charity Lottery once again at the 2013 tournasupport the social contribution activities undertaken by its ment and collected 545,000 yen in donations to support employees, in June 2011 MUN introduced a volunteer leave MUN Sponsorship of the JAL Honolulu Marathon charity activities. system (for up to five days per fiscal year). A total of 60 Since 1994, MUN has been a co-sponsor of the JAL Honoemployees used this system in FY 2012. lulu Marathon, the world's sixth largest city marathon. This is one of the four top marathons in the United States, with BTMU Sponsoring and Volunteering in the Special Olympics about 31,100 runners participating in 2012 (including about Nippon 16,300 Japanese). MUN offers a photo service and other MUTB BTMU and MUTB are sponsors of a public-interest incorpoassistance contributing to participants' fond memories of the rated foundation, Special Olympics Nippon, an international event, as well as special events arranged for cardholders. sports organization that provides support for persons with mental and developmental disabilities to participate in sociMUFG Participation in FIT For Charity Run 2012 ety by creating opportunities to train for and compete in MUFG helps to organize the Financial Industry in Tokyo (FIT) sports competitions. Since 2007, MUTB employees have For Charity Run, through which sponsored runners and participated as volunteer staff in basketball competitions walkers raise donations for charity. The eighth of these sponsored by the Special Olympics Nippon Tokyo. Employevents was held during FY 2012 with the participation of ees and their families have also participated in the Special some 7,000 employees and their family members of 106 Local Community Policies and Olympics Nippon—Tokyo Walk & Run Festival, interacting Tokyo-based financial sector companies. Approximately 740 with athletes with developmental disabilities in activities runners and volunteers participated from 25 MUFG compaincluding running around the Imperial Palace. nies. Donations collected go to non-profit organizations that Initiatives are engaged in meaningful community-based activities but MUMSS Supporting Neighborhood Cleanup Rally lack sufficient funds because they are not well known. In FY MUMSS supports the Furusato-seiso neighborhood 2012, money was given to eight organizations. cleanup rally that engages workplaces and schools in efforts to beautify Japan; MUMSS has been calling on employees MUN Sponsorship of Diamond Cup Golf Tournament 2013 at all of its branch offices nationwide to participate since FY The Diamond Cup Golf tournament is an annual event on the 2009. To date, 201 employees from 12 branch offices and Japan Golf Tour. The tournament has a 44-year history in headquarters departments participated in neighborhood which Mitsubishi Group companies have played a central cleanups. role as sponsors. The Charity Fund of the Mitsubishi Diamond Cup Golf Tournament was established in 2003 to MUN Fire Brigade Support Business Certification foster junior golfers, and to contribute to the community MUN employees have joined the Kanda Fire Station as locally and internationally through various charity events held volunteer firefighters, and participate in nighttime patrols and on the same day as the tournament. The Fund has collected Local Community Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 53 Local Community Involvement by Branch Employees Based on the recognition that MUFG is supported by society and the people in local communiIn FY 2012, employees played a key role at local branch offices of the Group, and engaged in a ties in which we operate, employees in local branches showed appreciation by participating in wide variety of activities, such as cleanup events, planting of flower beds in front of branches, local community activities. tree planting, educational support, company visits, seminars, and charitable projects. BTMU Community Involvement Activities by BTMU Branches Branch Activities Branch Activities Held workplace experience programs for overseas employees of affiliated companies and students from BTMU (Brazil) Organized Cinema for All―to give a true cinema experience to children who have never seen a film. Head Office areas that suffered damages in the Great East Japan Earthquake. Employees volunteered at the Japan Festival and introduced the bank's recovery efforts in areas affected by the BTMU (Holland) Public & Institutional Great East Japan Earthquake. Presented finance lectures together with universities to foster the next generation of leaders in society. Business Division Brussels Branch Volunteers continued their support for CREBs, a facility for disabled children. They spent the day brightening up Strategic Investment Division Provided financial and economic education to trainees from local banks, including study visits to the dealing room. the center by repairing the walls and ceilings, clearing the windows and bringing donated furniture. Retail Banking Customer Sold cookies together with facilities for persons with disabilities, and collected PET bottle caps. Chennai Branch Donated desks and chairs to a public girls' high school with an inadequate learning environment, and held an Service Center (Tokyo) origami workshop. Participated in a Nihonbashi Bridge cleaning event hosted by Meikyo Nihonbashi Hozonkai (the More than 200 walkers from MUFG and our clients participated in Walk for Millions, a charity event hosted by Nihonbashi Area Hong Kong Branch Nihonbashi Preservation Society). the Community Chest of Hong Kong. Held workplace experience programs, carried out financial and economic activities, collected PET bottle New York Okubo Branch NY office partnered with Operation Hope―Banking on Our Future to deliver financial education to high school students. caps and used telephone cards. Headquarters Hongo Branch, Hongo Focused on financial and economic education and workplace experience programs, and also planned study JCBD Chicago Donated more than 400 pounds of food and US$2,000 to the local food bank. Commercial Banking Office visits to the call center and other offices. Karachi Branch Volunteers provided basic supplies in support of a facility for the mentally and physically challenged. Kohoku New-Town Branch Conducted cleanup activities with all employees at a nearby plaza every Monday. As part of UNESCO's Education for Sustainable Development, volunteers hosted Japanese high school students to Niigata Branch Volunteered at the Niigata Festival minyo nagashi folk dance. Paris Branch meet bank employees and discuss what it's like to work in a Japanese company in France. Conducted financial and economic activities and workplace experience programs together with other Local Community Policies and Branch employees volunteered at the annual Bon-odori festival to engage the local community with Japanese food Nagoya Main Office branches, spread information regarding BTMU and financing to a wide range of people—students Madrid Branch and culture. (elementary school to university), foreign nationals, and others. Bangkok Branch Planted 500 mangrove trees and released 80 blue swimmer crabs at the Sirindhorn International Environment Park. Anjo Branch Volunteered at the 59th Anjo Tanabata Festival. Auckland Branch Collected non-perishable food items and children's Christmas gifts and donated them to the Auckland City Mission. Initiatives Inuyama Branch Held periodic financial and economic education and other seminars together with local middle schools. Made donations to a brand new library at an elementary school in an impoverished area. Volunteers participated at Handa Branch, Handa Regularly participated in local economic promotion meetings together with the chamber of commerce and Guangzhou Branch the library's opening ceremony and educated students on the best ways to use its resources. Commercial Banking Office industry, and advanced plans for local revitalization. At Kick it for Japan 2, people gathered at an indoor soccer field in Toronto to participate in activities and games Juso Branch Cooperated with abandoned bicycle and motorcycle removal around Juso Station. BTMU (Canada) while raising funds for disaster relief in Japan. The event raised C$13,000, including more than C$2,000 from Shinsaibashi Branch, BTMU Canada. Shinsaibashi Commercial Volunteered at the Mitsu Hachimangu Shrine summer festival. Banking Office PRCBD collected donations and bought holiday gifts for a family of eight (mother, father, six children) in partnership PRCBD Los Angeles with The Salvation Army. Morishoji Branch Participated in the Senbayashi Festival sponsored by the Senbayashi Shopping Street Promotion Association. Toyonaka Branch Conducted periodic cleanup activities around Hankyu Toyonaka Station. Tanabe Branch Volunteered at the Benkei Festival, which is the largest event in the Tanabe region. Hiroshima Branch, In partnership with the Hiroshima prefectural government, held a hot-air balloon-riding event for local Hiroshima Commercial residents. Banking Office Miyazaki Commercial Banking Office Held the Secret of Money children's summer classes jointly with MUTB and affiliated companies. Hiroshima Branch, Nihonbashi Area Chennai Branch Hiroshima Commercial Banking Office Local Community Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 54 MUTB Community Involvement Activities by MUTB Branches Activities by overseas MUSHD subsidiaries Branch Activities Branch Activities Sapporo Branch Planted trees at Nakajima Park in Sapporo City, and attended a lecture about greening of Sapporo City. • Held internship, business traineeship, and workplace experience programs. Ueno Branch Invited court stenographer as a lecturer and held a seminar on adult guardianship. • Donated funds collected at charity events, such as charity marathons, parties, Christmas charity lottery sales, to homeless support groups and other organizations. Senju Branch Advised customers at lobby ATMs how to prevent bank transfer fraud. • Gave packaged gifts to senior citizens at Christmas lunch in a care facility. MUSI Corporate Agency Business Unit Conducted forest conservation activities at the Ome-no-Mori forest. • Implemented Movember (see Note) campaign, in which male employees grow their moustaches to ask for Systems Administration donations) Participated in cleanup of Tokyo Port Wild Bird Park, volunteered in bamboo grove thinning. Note: A campaign to boost health and awareness about diseases that only affect men, having male employees grow Division their moustaches during November. This is carried out in Australia, New Zealand, Ireland, South Africa, England, the Tsudanuma Branch Volunteered at a table tennis tournament organized by Special Olympics Nippon Tokyo. United States, Canada and other countries. Movember is coined from a combination of moustache and November. Kashiwa Branch Held workplace tour and experience program for students at Minami-Nagareyama Elementary School in • Held Casual Friday where employees can come to work on Friday wearing jeans if they donate US$5 and gave the Nagareyama City. MUS collected funds to an educational assistance program. Urawa Branch Arranged a special site for blood donations in front of Urawa Station and collected donations from (USA) • Sold charity lottery tickets for a Red Cross donation to the victims of Hurricane Sandy. Donated clothing, food, and employees and the general public. equipment to clean up and remove debris. Utsunomiya Branch Invited a lecturer from the Utsunomiya City Volunteer Center to increase employee understanding of • Nine employees participated in the 2012 SGX Bull Charge 5k Charity Fun Run (see Note). people with reduced mobility. MUS Note: The Bull Charge is a charity marathon for financial institutions and companies listed on the Singapore Exchange Mito Branch Participated in Ibaraki Eco-challenge 2012 sponsored by the prefecture, and worked at energy conservation. (Singapore) (SGX), hosted by SGX each November since 2004. The event has raised a total of S$1.7 million in its first nine years through 2012. 6 Offices in Nagoya Area, Held a handball trial class for children at a foster home. • 21 MUS Hong Kong employees participated in the Walk for Millions 2013 (see Note) 10-kilometer route, together Gifu Branch with executives and employees from BTMU Hong Kong. Kyoto Branch Sponsored flower project along Oike Dori road, and participated in voluntary planting activities. Note: Walk for Millions is a charity walk event held each January by the Community Chest of Hong Kong. 5 Offices in Osaka Area Participated in bamboo grove grooming activities hosted by the Shimamoto Forest Club. MUS • Held Casual Friday where employees can come to work on Friday wearing jeans and a T-shirt if they donate HK$10 (Hong Kong) to the Community Chest of Hong Kong. Nara Branch Dug holes and planted trees donated to facilities by the Mitsubishi UFJ Environment Foundation. • Separated trash, changed to reusable cutlery in cafeteria, collected recyclable batteries, implemented a paper-free Okayama Branch Registered as a Baby Station for the childrearing support initiative in Okayama City. campaign. Hiroshima Branch Participated in cleanup activities at Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park. Local Community Policies and Miyazaki Branch Invited 30 elementary school students for a branch tour and provided cooperation for financial education. London Branch Participated in a charity walk and raised money for a cancer research fund. MUN Community Involvement Activities by MUN Branches Branch Activities Initiatives 2 Offices in Akihabara and Held blood donation campaigns in cooperation with the Japanese Red Cross Society. Higashi Nihonbashi Tokyo Regional Collection & Recovered PET bottle caps for recycling, supported vaccine purchases and employment of persons with Administration Department disabilities. Utsunomiya Branch 5 Offices in Osaka Area London Branch MUMSS Community Involvement Activities by MUSHD Group companies Activities by MUMSS Branch Activities Hiroshima Branch Conducted cleanup activities at Peace Memorial Park in Hiroshima City. Sapporo Branch Planted trees at Nakajima Park in Sapporo City. Toyama Branch Conducted cleanup activities at the Iwasehama seashore in Toyama City. Local Community Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 55 Local and International Community Initiatives The human resources team at the London Branch particialive. The BTMU Foundation also gave US$535,500 in the pated in an event to increase employability together with areas of community development, education, and human BTMU Community Involvement Activities in EMEA Crisis, a national charity for single homeless people. The services targeting low-income communities. In Europe, the Middle East, and Africa, BTMU has developed team also provided instruction and practice on preparing The Foundation also sponsored a five-city Japan tour by the a new CSR policy, recognizing the impact that large financial resumes and interview skills, together with the charitable Orpheus Chamber Orchestra of the United States with groups have on the economy. This policy focuses on the organization Kith and Kids, which supports people with learnJapanese-American violinist Ryu Goto. At a performance in triple bottom line of a sustainable business—people, planet, ing disabilities or autism. These platforms give participants a the Tohoku region, which was ravaged by the tsunami in and profit. To encourage sustained employee involvement in chance to try out their interview skills in a safe and friendly 2011, the group introduced a new piece for the residents and CSR activities, we have introduced a two-day volunteering environment and strengthened their self-confidence for played alongside middle school student musicians. In other policy enabling employees across the region to volunteer in future interview opportunities. efforts, in a joint project with Morgan Stanley, more than 140 their local community on company time with full pay. Working with a local international school, the employees of BTMU volunteers stuffed and sewed hundreds of Happy We have entered into a partnership with Junior Achievethe Duesseldorf Branch hosted a program on the important Dolls that children decorate and that travel the world to other ment, an international organization that inspires and prepares roles that banks play in the global economy. Participating children with messages of hope. In the United States, the young people to succeed in a global economy, to build a students commented that The lecture on the Japanese BTMU Los Angeles Branch bought a family of eight Christregion-wide program aimed at developing disadvantaged economy was most interesting and The dealing room was mas gifts to brighten their holidays, in partnership with the youth through business skills. Ensuring that our future genvery impressive. Salvation Army. erations have access to quality practical programs is a key BTMU's representative office in Kazakhstan worked with the BTMU Canada held Kick It for Japan 2, an event designed to pillar of our community investment strategy. Topics include Kazakhstan-Japan Center for Human Development to deliver raise funds for disaster relief. Activities and games at an economics, money management, developing soft skills for lectures to local Kazakhstani students. These students, indoor soccer field raised a total of C$13,000, including more employability, and starting a business. Our goal for the first having studied Japanese for a number of years, had the than C$2,000 from BTMU Canada. year is to reach 750 young people across ten countries. opportunity to practice their Japanese and engage in discusSkills-based volunteering like we will be doing with BTMU is sions on issues of culture and BTMU's business. BTMU Community Involvement Activities in Asia Local Community Policies and a critical success factor in this kind of education. Young BTMU Taipei Branch staff participated in the International people learn more about skills needed in the workplace and BTMU Community Involvement Activities in the United States Coastal Clean-up Day activities organized by The Society of gain self-confidence. We are thrilled to have this opportunity BTMU's employees in the United States volunteer their time Wilderness and cleared more than 2,000 kilograms of Initiatives to work with BTMU in so many locations. —Caroline Jenner, and energy to a wide range of community involvement activiwaste from the Wazihwei Nature Reserve. This activity has CEO Junior Achievement-Young Enterprise Europe. ties. In New York and New Jersey, 330 employees volunhelped raise greater awareness of how harmful trash can BTMU London employees have been awarded a Gold Payteered nearly 3,000 hours on 37 projects, including projects be to wildlife. roll Giving Quality Mark for participating in a program that with specific departments. BTMU's Headquarters for the BTMU staff from the Taipei, New Delhi, and Hanoi Branches deducts contributions directly from salaries. Over 10% of the Americas (HQA) also contributed to major civic and cultural hosted oneto two-day onsite programs for students from staff donated to charitable organizations through the institutions like the Brazil Foundation and the Japanese the Taipei Japanese School in Taipei, the Japanese School in program. American National Museum in Los Angeles. Corporate conVasant Kunj, New Delhi, and the Hanoi Foreign Trade UniIn the Middle East region, BTMU offices participated in Earth tributions for the arts, Japan relations, employee matching versity, and gave them opportunities to experience a real Day for the first time, and demonstrated support for environgrants, and other activities totaled more than US$1 million. work place and learn about the operations of a bank. mental conservation activities by turning off lighting for one The BTMU Foundation increased funding for quality arts A total of 102 staff from the Tianjin Branch participated in hour. Earth Day raises awareness about the importance of education by working with community-based non-profits like planting 84 trees. More staff participated this time than on preserving the natural environment and the business-related the Apollo Theater Foundation and Marquis Studios in New past occasions, a sign of rising social awareness among and environmental benefits of saving energy. York that work with public school students to keep the arts staff. The Chinese government is putting greater emphasis Local Community Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 56 on environmental protection, and this activity carried out nese songs and dances. hand in buying their first home, thanks to a pair of assistance twice a year was highly valued and appreciated by the local programs administered with help from Union Bank. The community. UB Community Activities at Union Bank Workforce Initiative Subsidy for Homeownership (WISH) BTMU Ho Chi Minh City Branch organized activities to give ● Supporting Multicultural Lending allows eligible borrowers to receive up to US$15,000 for the staff's children a lesson in basic banking as well as how To support multicultural lending, Union Bank formed relationdown payment and closing costs, matched at US$3 for every they can save wisely. ships with a variety of respected organizations in Hispanic, US$1 the borrower contributes. Both programs are managed BTMU Hanoi offered internships to students of Hanoi Asian, African-American, and other communities. These relaby the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco. Foreign Trade University. tionships also included non-profit organizations and minority Union Bank expanded its involvement with these programs in Continuing the tradition of rewarding and recognizing the top real estate trade organizations such as the Asian Real Estate 2012, joining non-profit partners such as Habitat for Humanity students in New Delhi, BTMU New Delhi has for the 16th Association of America (AREAA), the National Association of and Cabrillo Economic Development Corporation (CEDC), year, awarded 24 students from two universities with scholHispanic Real Estate Professionals (NAHREP), and the which help prepare the program application and provide finanarships. National Association of Real Estate Brokers (NAREB). Union cial education for participating homebuyers. BTMU Chennai also gave out scholarships to 16 meritorious Bank also doubled its number of Community Loan Officers, Union Bank and Santa Barbara Bank & Trust supported 78 students of Anna University. who work in lowand moderate-income and multicultural borrowers in 2012, helping them secure US$1.1 million in BTMU Sydney Branch donated A$10,000 to the Macquarie communities, with plans to continue that expansion in 2013. WISH down payment assistance in 2012. University Faculty of Business and Economics Dean's ExcelUnion Bank dedicated more than US$3.6 billion to community● Bringing the Fresno Place-based Initiative to Life lence Awards to support an annual prize for the best student related loans and activities, including loans to small busiUnion Bank's community commitments are shaped by our of Japanese economics. BTMU's support will help further nesses, financing for affordable housing, and supply sourcing ten-member Community Advisory Board (CAB). During the the faculty's aim of developing world-class graduates and from minorityand women-owned businesses. course in 2012, the CAB played an essential role in shaping improve teaching and research for industry and the economy ● Economic Opportunity Mortgage our Fresno Community Economic Development Initiative, in Australia. In 2012, Union Bank greatly expanded its Economic Opporcreating the blueprint for the project and working closely with BTMU Manila Branch organized the Running for a Cause tunity Mortgage (EOM) program to increase homeownerlocal government, community-based organizations, busiLocal Community Policies and marathon in February. Staff and customers ran together to ship opportunities in lowand moderate-income and multinesses, and others. raise more than 30,000 pesos for the Philippine Red Cross to cultural communities. The EOM program provides special At a community meeting convened by Fresno Mayor Ashley help typhoon victims in the southern Philippines. assistance to those looking to buy or refinance a home Swearengin, more than two dozen bank executives, board Initiatives BTMU Singapore Branch held lunch-time fund raising events located in specified census tracts and with income below a members and CAB members joined 40 local stakeholders to where staff shopped for souvenirs and accessories. Money certain threshold. The EOM is a 95 percent loan-to-value discuss mutually beneficial priorities and opportunities. raised from sales were donated to the Red Cross and Patient portfolio loan product that does not require costly private That meeting was an essential step leading to the bank's Care Centre, a non-profit organization providing assistance to mortgage insurance and considers alternate credit histories three-year action plan and overall commitment of US$7.5 those suffering HIV and AIDS by helping them find work. such as rent and utility payments for applicants who do not million per year, which includes grants, loans, and technical A team of 97 employees from BTMU Malaysia and BTMU have an established traditional credit history. Marketing assistance. Each year, the bank will evaluate its performance (Labuan) visited the Klang Special School (KSS) in June activities were also strengthened to boost awareness of the against published benchmarks, and will continue its dialogue where they painted the school walls, cleaned the school program. As a result, the bank originated 1,553 EOM loans with community leaders to ensure that dollars are being used compound, and repaired and cleaned the swimming pool. totaling US$324 million—a steep rise from 2011, when we in the best manner possible. The bank welcomes other Underprivileged children at the Shelter Don Bosco and originated 889 loans totaling US$183 million. Union Bank will corporate partners to the table to enable our efforts to go Happy Home School for the Blind at Worli, Mumbai welcontinue to expand the EOM program in 2013. even wider. comed staff from the BTMU Mumbai Branch when they ● First-time Homebuyers Make a WISH visited. The staff played games and taught the children JapaLow-income individuals and families are receiving a helping Local Community Policies and Initiatives MUFG CSR Report 2013 57 Contributions to Local Communities years from MUTB and affiliated company officers, employBTMU The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Money Museum ees, former employees, and their families to make donaThe highly-acclaimed The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ MUN Social Contribution Credit Cards tions to social welfare organizations nationwide. In FY 2012, Money Museum (Nagoya City, Aichi Prefecture) presents MUN issues credit cards designed to benefit society in a a total of 7.5 million yen was collected from 6,996 memorganized displays of roughly 10,000 rare items from the variety of ways. A percentage of purchases is donated to partbers. These voluntary membership fees and donations history of Japanese and global currency from more than ner welfareand health-related organizations. Examples of collected were given to 25 social welfare facilities, including two thousand years ago to the present. It is Japan's largest credit cards that are helping more people participate in social those for the aged and children. private collection of monetary artifacts. Visitors can enjoy welfare programs are the Bone Marrow Bank Card, the Red displays on the history of money and ukiyo-e woodblock Cross DC Card, and the Japan Guide Dog Association DC Card. MUMSS Employee Donations Account prints from the Edo period, including a collection of prints In October 2007, MUMSS opened an account for collecting by Hiroshige Utagawa, famous for the Fifty-three Stages of MUFG Emergency Disaster Assistance employee donations. MUMSS matches the funds donated the Tokaido. BTMU and MUTB have a system in place to quickly provide by employees each year (from July through June). From its support when a large natural disaster occurs in Japan or establishment through July 2012, the account has donated MUN Card Gallery elsewhere in the world. When an earthquake, flood or other a total of roughly 2.2 million yen to two organizations. MUN has a display called Card Gallery on the theme of disaster strikes, we work with non-profit organizations and credit cards, placed in front of the company's head office others to set up special bank accounts to collect donations MUN Supporting Environmental Protection through OISCA reception desk on the sixteenth floor of the Akihabara UDX for relief efforts. International building in Tokyo. The gallery's history section presents the Five MUFG companies (BTMU, MUTB, MUSHD, MUL, and Since 2009, MUN has been donating a portion of expenses development of credit cards in Japan over the past 60 Union Bank) donated a combined US$500,000 to the Amerisaved in the shift to paperless statements and a portion of years, from the coupon system which was the predecessor can Red Cross and other organizations as relief aid following the money used to convert ecopoints into gift cards to the to credit cards in Japan, to the dawn of credit cards, and Hurricane Sandy in the United States in November 2012. Organization for Industrial, Spiritual and Cultural Advanceonward to the present. It also includes a display of 1,000 BTMU also made a monetary donation of 100,000 Chinese ment (OISCA) International, a public interest incorporated credit cards issued from the 1960s to today. The display Local Community Policies and yuan in response to the Sichuan earthquake in April 2013. foundation that promotes a wide variety of environmental allows visitors to glimpse how credit cards in Japan have protection initiatives. In FY 2012, approximately 18 million changed over the years. Visitors can also enjoy demonstraBTMU Club for You Social Contribution Fund yen were donated to support school-managed forests, the tions of the latest cloud-type joint multi-payment processInitiatives In August 2007, BTMU launched the Club for You social conCoastal Forest Restoration Project, and other projects ing systems and smart phone settlement systems. tribution fund which gives money to organizations addressing promoted by OISCA International. social issues, using funds donated by company executives and BTMU Expenditures for Social Contribution Activities employees through deductions from their salaries each month UB Charity Drives for Environmental Protection (Million yen) MUTB combined with matching contributions from the bank. With the Promoting environmental sustainability is one of the four Categories FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 new additions, employees can now choose from 23 recipient strategic priorities of the Union Bank Foundation, which MUMSS Education & culture 179 199 231 organizations. In FY 2012 (through June 2013), approximately funds organizations that promote green building and susSocial welfare & environmental 71 157 167 4,500 employees participated, contributing about 75 million tainable community development, remediate brown fields conservation yen for the year, including the bank's matching contributions. in urban neighborhoods, promote public education and Community contributions, 819 2,221 833 awareness of sustainability issues, create green-collar international exchange, others MUTB Kakehashi-Shintaku Ai-no-Kikin Fund jobs, and pursue other environmental objectives. In 2012, Total (see Note) 1,069 2,576 1,231 The Kakehashi-Shintaku Ai-no-Kikin Fund established in the Union Bank Foundation's environment-related giving Note: Combined totals for BTMU, MUTB, MUSHD, MUMSS Totals may not equal item sums, due to rounding. Also, figures do not include 1977 has been collecting membership fees for over 30 grew to US$753,250, up from US$467,900 in 2011. donations for the Great East Japan Earthquake. Relations with Customers MUFG CSR Report 2013 58 customer satisfaction surveys and works to make improvework manuals and working steadily to improve service qualRelations with ments based on the findings. Manner Standards for appearance and service behavior, video teaching materials, and ity and increase customer satisfaction. Customers other tools help us make improvements. For elderly and disabled customers, we also strive to continuously improve BTMU Putting the Customer-first Approach into Practice Creating systems for service improvements that reflect the MUTB customer satisfaction levels by using the Japanese Bankers opinions of customers and employees who interact with We aim to satisfy our customers by providing Association's handbook on being barrier-free banks. MUN them is an important management theme. top-quality services that respond to their input As a customer satisfaction policy, MUTB has adopted the BTMU's CSR Promotion Committee, attended by the comand expectations. slogan, All executives and employees constantly think about pany president and headquarters department heads, meets and take action on ways to boost customer approval ratings, regularly to discuss measures to continuously enhance cusand is working to make improvements in each department, tomer and employee satisfaction and creates systems to We treat customers' input and requests as a valuable by developing new products based on customer input and by incorporate operational improvements in response to cusresource that helps us to provide higher-quality services. We simplifying procedures. tomer input and complaints. seriously confront the issues that are the root causes of cusMUMSS provides all employees a Business Manner HandSeeing improvements in customer evaluations as one of the tomer feedback and requests, and we use this feedback to book summarizing the expected behavior when serving cusmost important topics for management, MUTB promotes improve our products, services, business processes, and tomers. It also issues a monthly newsletter entitled Business customer satisfaction as an integral part of its business stratother facets of our work. Manner Monthly, with the aim of raising awareness about egy. Executives, including the president, hold regular meetsuch things as speaking to customers and personal appearings with each division in order to discuss initiatives to boost MUFG Our Approach: Reflecting Customer Views ance. customer satisfaction. Through these efforts, MUTB is workAs a basic guide for customer satisfaction activities, MUN ing to improve operations from the customer's perspective. Create products and services from customer's perspective has adopted the slogan, Boosting customer satisfaction At MUN, important management issues relating to customer through continuous improvement of products and services, satisfaction are discussed at the CS Committee chaired by Plan by listening to customer feedback. We also have a customer the president. MUN also has a Customer Focus Committee, Work together to Prepare system exceed customer satisfaction code of conduct that encourages all employees which works to improve operations based on customer expectations to sincerely listen to customers, then think for themselves input. Provide and take action to enhance customer satisfaction. Improving Relations with Customers Review by higherManageAct Product and Do quality ment Service Quality products BTMU ISO 9001 Certification and services As one initiative to boost customer satisfaction, BTMU has MUN raised service levels by acquiring ISO 9001 certification Employee under the International Standard for Quality Management Check Check training, etc. Systems. BTMU has acquired ISO 9001 certification for all branch Evaluation from customers offices and related headquarters in Japan as a unified, company-wide framework that facilitates initiatives to MUFG Initiatives to Improve Customer Satisfaction enhance customer satisfaction. To help us offer products and services with a customer-first The MUN Customer Relations Office has also acquired this management approach, BTMU conducts various types of certification. The company is working to improve service Relations with Customers MUFG CSR Report 2013 59 Protecting Customer Information developing and providing products and services. insurance and nursing care insurance products are being offered at 475 BTMU branches to meet the wide-ranging MUMSS Information Security/Protecting Customer Information MUN Introduction of System to Analyze and Share Customer needs of customers. (Numbers of products and branches (ISO/IEC 27001 Certification) Opinions are as of March 31, 2013.) MUN MUMSS has acquired the internationally-recognized ISO/IEC MUN introduced the CSnavi information system to analyze All MUTB branches handle 15 annuity insurance, whole life 27001 certification for information security management and share customer opinions received at call centers and insurance, and nursing care insurance products, and make systems at its call centers, and continues working to protect other locations and link these to specific operational improveproposals to meet the needs of trust bank customers. customers' personal information. ments. With this system, customer opinions regarding (Number of products as of June 30, 2013.) MUN has acquired ISO/IEC 27001 certification for all operatoperations can be viewed at terminals in each department ing divisions engaged in NICOS brand operations to increase and used to improve products and services. The company MUMSS Installation of Computers for Internet Trading at Each the security of customer information and transaction settlewill continue using CSnavi to respond to customer dissatisBranch ment systems. faction and requests. To respond to customers unfamiliar with Internet trading, MUMSS has installed computers for customers to experiExamples of Improvements and Services for IndiMUN Acquisition of ISO 10002 Certification ence Internet trading at each branch and assigned staff to vidual Customers MUN has been working to improve quality in responding to assist them. With this staff support, even customers who customer complaints with the acquisition of ISO 9001 certifiare not accustomed to using computers can conduct InterBTMU Customer Opinion Cards and Branch Action cation. To further boost customer satisfaction, in 2012 MUN net trading with confidence through guided, hands-on use of Customer opinion cards are distributed at all BTMU and acquired certification under ISO 10002, the international the computers stationed at each branch. This system has MUTB MUTB branches to broadly solicit customer input and standard for complaints-handling management systems. The been well received by customers. requests to improve our products and services. Branches company will continue striving to improve administrative respond promptly to customer opinion card items that can be quality to respond to customer needs. addressed at the office or branch level. The improvements being advanced at each branch include providing loaner BTMU Support for Visually Impaired Customers umbrellas for sudden downpours, furnishing special seats for At BTMU and MUTB, customers who have difficulties using MUTB senior citizens, and providing magnifying glasses and eyeATMs because of visual disabilities can send funds transfers glasses for customer use. Each branch is working to elimiat bank teller counters for the same fees charged at ATMs. Relations with Customers nate inconvenience by providing for customers that require For customers who have difficulty reading or filling out special consideration. forms, employees will read and fill out forms on their behalf, with another employee present as a witness. BTMU and MUN Efforts to Maintain and Improve Quality of Operations MUTB hold seminars at each office and branch, and are MUN is acting to maintain and improve the quality of operastriving to provide comprehensive service. tions as a cornerstone for building long-term customer reliance and trust. Beginning from full legal compliance, BTMU Insurance Products MUN is working to step up efforts at consumer protection All BTMU branches handle 12 annuity insurance products MUTB and responding to customer needs to the next stage, and eight single-premium whole life insurance products, in strengthen collection of customer opinions, improve response to requests from customers who want to consult responses, and otherwise thoroughly manage, maintain and about insurance along with asset management. Moreover, improve the quality of operations in all processes in planning, 23 additional products including equal-payment whole life Relations with Customers MUFG CSR Report 2013 60 MUN Notification of Suspension of Card Transactions to Precard members to automatically earn as much as 25 times for Internet shopping. The service can be used in the same vent Fraud the regular points when they shop at POINT Meijin.com, a manner as a credit card. MUN has introduced a system to detect fraudulent use of members-only online shopping site. The service has been e-saifu is a prepaid service that opens an Internet account for credit cards, to protect customers from malicious credit card made easier to use with a simple login function, whereby the customer and provides an exclusive e-saifu number that crimes. The system monitors customer card use for unusual card members do not have to log in every time they access can be used like a credit card at shops that accept Visa activity 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. With this system, the site for a certain period, and the preparation of a smart within the range of the prepaid charge (50,000 yen or less). transactions are sometimes suspended when cards are phone version. e-saifu numbers can be assigned to a family member and used, until we can confirm the identity of the cardholder. In In addition to providing points to card members, the service used as an educational tool in families with minors to teach response to customer requests asking for advance notificacontributes to increased sales of participating merchants by proper credit card usage, with amount settings (total withtion that there are such cases, MUN now regularly prints giving them access to one of the largest membership drawal, monthly withdrawal, and single withdrawal limits). information on efforts to prevent fraud in its members maganetworks in the market. MUN is responding to customers' diverse needs by offering zine and on postcards explaining fees. e-saifu as a new payment style. MUN MUFG Company Services for MUFG CARD Members MUN Enhanced Website Information MUN provides MUFG CARD members with special services MUN Cloud-type Joint Multi-payment Processing System MUN has developed the NEWS+PLUS service, which and benefits from MUFG companies. J-Mups sends advance announcements of courtesy store informaExamples of Services: Together with JR East Mechatronics Co., Ltd., MUN jointly tion and limited-time offers exclusively for card members, ・Free use of ATMs both day and night at BTMU as well as developed a cloud-type joint multi-payment processing and is otherwise working to provide information to meet convenience stores that are part of the BTMU network system J-Mups, which supports credit cards, UnionPay wide-ranging customer needs. Efforts are also being made (BTMU) cards and electronic money, and began full-scale operations to improve the website usability. The NEWS+PLUS and ・Preferential rates on purchases of foreign currency through from July 2012. login pages for individual card brands have been integrated World Currency Shop (Tokyo Credit Services) The advantages of J-Mups include scalability whereby point, so that all services are now accessible once customers login ・Point rewards for MUTB direct membership registration coupon and other applications can be freely added, cost to NEWS+PLUS. MUN is striving to improve the user envi(Internet banking) and new housing loans (MUTB) reduction at merchant side, and higher security and speed ronment for all types of card holders. MUN supports card members in their daily lives and during processing. MUN has positioned J-Mups as an innovative emergencies with services from MUFG companies. new infrastructure for the card settlement environment, and BTMU Improvements to Branches and Facilities is broadly calling on member stores to introduce J-Mups. Relations with Customers MUFG is improving facilities to make it more accessible to MUTB Private Account Service MUTB elderly customers and customers with disabilities. MUTB provides the Private Account (Asset Management For example, BTMU and MUTB are improving in-branch Account) for the management of accounts with financial signage with large letters in easy-to-see color contrast, assets of at least 50 million yen. Private Account provides installing ramps, and changing the color and materials of individualized investment planning proposals, execution and steps to make them more noticeable. They are also installing reporting by a portfolio manager. Private Account supports guide blocks for the visually impaired at the main entrances customer asset conservation and growth from a long-term of branches. BTMU is installing automatic doors, and has perspective, and is aimed at building long and deep relationprovided wheelchairs at almost all branches nationwide. ships of mutual trust with customers. MUN POINT Meijin.com Service MUN New Prepaid Settlement Service e-saifu MUN operates the POINT Meijin.com service that allows MUN has launched the e-saifu prepaid settlement service Relations with Customers MUFG CSR Report 2013 61 MUN Research on Next-generation Personal Identification Wills are an effective tool for succession planning and the amount) Technology smooth disposal of assets, but they require expertise and ・Security function 2: For one's family (lump-sum receipt) While electronic settlement over the Internet is convenient, it know-how regarding laws, tax regulations and other diverse ・Security function 3: For one's family (periodic receipt of a is less than perfect from a security standpoint with credit factors. fixed amount) card fraud and other problems. Toward resolving these MUFG holds seminars where specialists use concrete Zutto Anshin solidly protects deposited funds so funds issues, MUN worked together with the Graduate School of examples to provide explanations and advice on wills and owners and their families can receive funds systematically. Information Science and Technology, University of Tokyo and inheritance planning strategies. It also provides support in The product was revised in March 2013, making it possible endowed a Next-generation Personal Identification Technolline with the individual conditions of each customer, for to design means of receiving funds more freely and in ogy course at the school. MUN is donating a total of 250 smooth property succession. greater detail by the three security functions. million yen over five years toward realizing international stanPersonal Trust is a made-to-order trust product under which dards for this technology and safe and secure e-commerce. BTMU Quality Life Club the funds management and payment methods of the The Quality Life Club is a membership organization operated entrusted funds can be freely set for customers and their MUFG Guidelines for the Preparation of Customer Publications by BTMU which provides services around the themes of the families. For example, in combination with a testamentary and Forms richness of the mind and heart, physical and mental health, trust, Personal Trust can be set up to begin funds manageMUFG established Guidelines for the Preparation of Cusand economic affluence to help customers improve their ment and investment for the family after inheritance. Kazoku tomer Publications and Forms in October 2010 to ensure quality of life. Members receive many benefits including Anshin Trust is a product that delivers valuable funds to famithat our increasingly complex and diverse products and invitations to seminars and events, and support services lies in portions, rather than all at once, after inheritance. services are introduced to customers in ways that are easier related to travel, health and leisure. to understand. In May 2012, we prepared a collection of MUTB Specified Donation Trust case studies of concrete improvements made based on the MUN Health Care Consultation Services Specified Donation Trust is an arrangement whereby the Guidelines. Also, through joint MUFG seminars, we shared MUN provides services to support customers and their famifunds entrusted by a customer and their operating profits are positive case studies of efforts within the Group to make lies who require health care or nursing care. These services donated over time to non-profit foundations or other recipiimprovements from the customer perspective. offer health, medicine and nursing telephone consultations ents designated by the customer. As tax benefits, the operWhile a wide variety of publications and forms is viewed by by dedicated staff 24 hours a day, 365 days a year for MUFG ating profits from the trust are not taxed while the customer customers, each one is an important communications tool Platinum and Gold Prestige Card holders and other gold card can take tax deductions on the portion of the donations that between MUFG and our customers. MUFG makes use of members. MUN also provides overseas medical treatment comes from the principal each year. Relations with Customers these Guidelines, undergoes external checks by consumer consultation, medical institution information and other groups for certain items, and is otherwise striving to provide services to certain card members. (see Note) MUTB Guardianship System Support Trust customer publications and forms that are easy to read, easy Note: The services provided vary according to the type of card. In February 2012, MUTB launched Guardianship System to understand, and easy to fill out from the customer's Support Trust that is based on examinations by the Family perspective. MUTB Zutto Anshin Trust, Personal Trust and Kazoku Anshin Bureau of the General Secretariat of the Supreme Court, Civil Trust Affairs Bureau at the Ministry of Justice, and the Trust ComResponse to Japan's Aging Population and Low MUTB offers a range of property management and asset panies Association of Japan. This product is designed for Birth Rate succession trust products, so customers and their families management of the property of individuals (wards) under the can always feel secure. guardian system. It conserves deposits and other property MUFG MUFG Property Succession Seminars Zutto Anshin is a self-managed trust product which provides using the trust framework, based on instructions issued by The need for estate planning or succession planning is more the following three security functions. family courts. In the trust compensation, no management common than many people think, and could arise for anyone. ・Security function 1: For oneself (periodic receipt of a fixed fees are charged. Relations with Customers MUFG CSR Report 2013 62 MUTB Educational Fund Gift Trust MUTB CSR-related Business Plans Presentation Conference for the exercise of voting rights at shareholders' meetings. MUTB has begun sales of the Educational Fund Gift Trust MUTB has been holding the CSR-related Business Plans (nicknamed Magoyorokobu, which means happy grandPresentation Conference since 2009 as one means of supMUTB Trust Type Employee Incentive Plans ESOP Trust, BIP child ), a new trust product that supports the donation of porting the growth of enterprises engaged in CSR-related Trust educational funds to respond to the needs of customers businesses. At the conference, presenters explain their busiMUTB has been offering Employee Stock Ownership Plans who want their assets to help with the educational expenses ness plans to venture capitalists and operating companies, and (ESOP) Trusts, which apply an employee stock ownership of their grandchildren. This product complies with the may find new investors and business partners. Plans are being framework, since 2009, and began offering Stock Grant Exemption on Gifts for Education in Lump Sum under the FY advanced to draw a greater number of participants in FY 2013. ESOP Trusts, which give employees gratis shares of their 2013 revision of the tax system, with gifts up to 15 million own companies, from 2011. Since 2012 MUTB has also yen tax free. The recipients are limited to children, grandchilMUTB Shareholder Relations Support Services for Our Cusbeen handling the Board Incentive Plan Trust which grants dren, great grandchildren and other direct descendants less tomers shares of company stock to board members as an incentive. than 30 years old. The gifted funds can be used for school Utilizing our wealth of experience in the provision of shareBoth of these trusts boost the incentives of corporate cusentry fees and tuition, and for preparatory schools, private holder services, MUTB responds to the diverse investor tomer directors and employees and contribute to capital politutors, and sports, music, painting and other lessons. strategy needs of customers. This includes providing tools cies while also helping to expand employee welfare systems Because Magoyorokobu can pay up front for educational and comprehensive support for shareholder relations (SR) and to strengthen corporate governance, which is of great expenses, parents do not need to advance their own funds. strategies, which are designed to build relationships of trust concern to institutional investors. Also, the passbook can contain the names and handwritten with shareholders. messages from the grandparents, who are the donors. ● SR NAVI MUTB Proposals for Environment and Energy Conservation of SR NAVI, a system arising from the needs of individual shareReal Estate Holdings Services for Corporate Customers holder satisfaction, converts information from a shareholder MUTB makes proposals for environmental improvements register into a database that can be accessed online. It also and energy conservation to boost the value of customers' MUFG Hosting the Large-scale Business Conferences Busiallows for data analysis from a variety of angles, making it real estate holdings. Specifically, MUTB makes diverse ness Link Shobai Hanjo possible to analyze the composition of shareholders in terms proposals in line with customer needs while introducing MUFG has been hosting the annual Business Link Shobai of time series, shareholding period, and many other criteria. providers and collaborating with partner companies. Hanjo conference since 2005, supporting its customers to over● Shareholder Surveys Examples of ideas proposed include creation of smoking and come their business challenges. The tenth conference was held By conducting shareholder surveys and analyzing the results, non-smoking areas in office buildings and facilities, strategies Relations with Customers at the Makuhari Messe conference center in Chiba Prefecture in which makes it possible to grasp the attributes of individual for CO 2 reduction and energy conservation, and developFebruary 2013. Some 2,700 companies attended the event, and investors, we provide comprehensive support for sharement of business continuity plans. more than 6,100 business-matching discussions were held. holder relations and investor relations strategies targeting This year's conference took on an international dimension, as individual shareholders. MUL Private Finance Initiatives (PFI) discussions were also held with companies from two Asian ● Institutional Investor Services MUL has been actively promoting Private Finance Initiatives. countries outside Japan. Some businesses were also able to MUTB has arranged a system to comprehensively support PFIs are designed to provide the dual benefits of higher qualfind suitable technologies to match their own. We will concustomers' shareholder relations and investor relations strateity service and lower project cost, by utilizing financing and tinue to actively support companies throughout Japan and gies toward institutional investors through its affiliate Japan know-how from the private sector for the construction, mainthe world with more of these kinds of open exchanges Shareholder Services. MUTB provides support with a specialtenance and operation of public buildings and facilities. MUL which seek to lower the barriers—in terms of sectors, operaized menu of services, including surveys of the holdings of has received orders for a total of 50 PFI projects so far, and tional scales, and regions—that come between companies, customer's shares by domestic and overseas institutional has served as the lead company for 15 of these projects (as thus facilitating encounters that create value. investors (shareholder identification surveys) and preparations of March 31, 2013). Relations with Customers MUFG CSR Report 2013 63 Boosting Customer Satisfaction BTMU ● The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (corporate customers) BTMU conducts corporate customer satisfaction surveys once a year. MUFG Customer Satisfaction Surveys The bank is sharing customer opinions obtained by branch bankers from surveys and customer MUFG carries out surveys to further boost customer satisfaction and enhance its financial interviews with all employees, discussing improvements, and working to boost customer satisservices. We are working to incorporate customer responses into our product development and faction at its commercial banking offices. services, so that customers can enjoy a high level of satisfaction with our branches and services. Corporate Customer Satisfaction Survey Results (BTMU) (%) Satisfied Somewhat satisfied Not sure Somewhat dissatisfied Dissatisfied No response BTMU ● The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (individual customers) 0 20 40 60 80 100 ％ In a survey conducted in October 2012, nearly 70% of respondents indicated they were satisDevelopment of new sales 15.0 24.8 45.0 7.9 6.3 1.0 fied or somewhat satisfied overall with BTMU. Risk reduction for interest rate and other financial risks 19.8 25.0 43.5 5.8 4.6 1.2 Improved efficiency of Individual Customer Satisfaction Survey: Survey Outline Satisfied Somewhat satisfied Not sure domestic settlements 19.2 23.1 48.9 3.2 3.8 1.9 Somewhat dissatisfied Dissatisfied/No response Preparation of Respondents Individual customers selected at random financial strategies 15.8 18.9 53.7 3.7 6.4 1.4 0 20 40 60 80 100 Distribution method Mail % Cost reductions 10.7 14.5 61.0 6.4 5.7 1.7 Quantity distributed 8,000 35.8 31.7 27.3 3.4 M&A strategies and other advice 11.4 17.6 56.0 5.4 8.1 1.4 Quantity of responses 2,500 Measures for 1.8 18.6 25.3 46.0 4.4 3.7 2.1 business succession Overseas marketing surveys 17.2 20.5 51.5 2.8 6.9 1.1 Customer Satisfaction Survey Results (BTMU) Acquisition and sale of land 12.5 17.7 54.7 6.9 6.3 1.9 Preparation of (%) overseas strategies 17.3 21.1 50.4 3.6 6.7 1.0 90 High Drafting business strategies 17.1 14.1 55.5 5.0 6.8 1.5 Credibility as a financial institution Improved efficiency of foreign 80 16.4 18.5 51.5 4.8 6.2 2.5 trade and global settlements Employee Employee attitude appearance toward customers Asset management Sound management matching risk profiles 10.5 15.0 59.5 6.2 6.8 2.1 70 Internet, cell phone and other transactions overall Capital strategy planning 24.4 20.9 47.7 3.5 3.5 0.0 Satisfaction with BTMU Skill and accuracy in clerical procedures 60 Aesthetics and cleanliness Ease of understanding employee explanations Response to IFRS 13.6 8.5 69.5 3.4 3.4 1.7 at the branches (excluding ATMs) Diligent attitude toward compliance including Employee approachability information management BCP preparation support 9.7 5.2 68.9 4.9 9.4 1.9 50 Aesthetics and cleanliness of ATM Employee understanding of customers Secure transactions, including for cash cards, etc. Reduction of country risk 22.0 15.3 54.2 3.4 5.1 0.0 40 (and their needs) Employee product knowledge Debt management 10.0 9.4 67.4 4.2 6.8 2.3 Relations with Customers Branch locations ATM hours 30 Reduction of financial risk due to weather and earthquakes 9.8 17.6 60.8 7.8 3.9 0.0 Employee ability to offer suggestions Waiting time at ATMs Social contribution efforts ATM locations Environmental response 10.2 6.8 67.8 4.9 8.3 1.9 20 Branch hours Waiting time at branches 10 (Conducted May-June 2013) Corporate Customer Satisfaction Survey: Survey Outline Respondents: Corporate customers selected at random Low 0 Distribution method: Mail Low Importance in bank selection High Quantity distributed: 25,000 companies Quantity of responses: 4,873 companies (Conducted in Oct. 2012) Relations with Customers MUFG CSR Report 2013 64 MUTB ● Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation MUMSS ● Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities In a survey conducted in November 2012, over 70% of respondents indicated they were satisA survey by MUMSS in October 2012 showed that customer satisfaction overall remained fied or somewhat satisfied overall with MUTB. Among reasons customers emphasize for around the same level as the previous year. Scores for skill and accuracy in clerical procedures selecting a trust bank, MUTB received high scores for credibility as a financial institution, and employee manners were relatively high. Issues arose with other items, however, so employee attitude towards customers, and prompt response to customer consultations. We MUMSS is working hard to make improvements, in order to be a securities company that mainrecognize the need for greater efforts on items which received low ratings, and will continue tains long-term relations with customers. striving to make further improvements. Corporate Customer Satisfaction Survey: Survey Outline Satisfied Somewhat satisfied Not sure Individual customers selected at random Somewhat dissatisfied Dissatisfied/No response Customer Satisfaction Survey: Survey Outline Satisfied Somewhat satisfied Not sure Respondents in three categories of managed assets Somewhat dissatisfied Dissatisfied/No response 0 20 40 60 80 100 Respondents Individual customers selected at random Distribution method Mail ％ 0 20 40 60 80 100 17.6 35.3 30.5 11.8 Distribution method Mail Quantity distributed 2,500 ％ Quantity distributed Approx.6,000 25.4 45.6 22.6 4.4 Quantity of responses 728 4.8 Quantity of responses Approx. 2,000 2.0 Customer Satisfaction Survey Results (MUMSS) Customer Satisfaction Survey Results (MUTB) (%) Credibility as a financial 90 Attitude of employees (i.e., tellers—same below) toward customers (%) Skill and accuracy in clerical procedures institution High 90 High Prompt response to customer consultations 80 Sound Employee understanding of customers Aesthetics and cleanliness at the branches management (and their needs) 80 Skill and accuracy in clerical procedures Ease of understanding employee explanations 70 Employee understanding of customers (and their needs) Employee product Employee manners Prompt response to Satisfaction with MUMSS 70 Employee reliability knowledge customer consultations 60 Branch locations Satisfaction with MUTB Employee ability to offer suggestions 60 Ease of understanding employee explanations Employee product knowledge Waiting time at branches 50 Provision of information on products, services and campaigns 50 Employee ability to offer suggestions Preferential services 40 Range of promotional goods 40 Ease of using telephone trading Range of investment trust products and services Range of savings products 30 and services Abundant asset management information Adequacy of information on economic 30 and market conditions Website content Level of other fees 20 (comparing to other banks) Level of other fees 20 10 Relations with Customers Ease of using Internet trading Provision of information on products, 10 services and campaigns Low 0 Low 0 Low Importance in securities company selection High Low Importance in trust bank selection High (Conducted in Nov. 2012) (Conducted in Nov. 2012) Relations with Customers MUFG CSR Report 2013 65 MUN ● Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS In a customer satisfaction survey conducted in FY 2012, 65% of customers responded that they are satisfied or somewhat satisfied overall. MUN received a high score in ease of use inside Japan. For items where the company did not receive high ratings, MUN is striving to improve products and services to satisfy customers. Corporate Customer Satisfaction Survey: Survey Outline Satisfied Somewhat satisfied Not sure Brand (non-affiliated) credit card Somewhat dissatisfied Dissatisfied/No response Respondents users of MUFG CARD, DC, and NICOS 0 20 40 60 80 100 Distribution method Mail ％ 22.6 42.4 29.1 Quantity distributed 4,000 Quantity of responses 1,662 5.4 0.5 Customer Satisfaction Survey Results (MUN) (%) 90 High 80 Ease of use inside Japan 70 Ease of use outside Japan Corporate image Satisfaction with MUN Credit limit for shopping 60 Security functions, etc. Traveler's accident insurance, etc. 50 Range of payment options Platinum concierge service Point program 40 Options for receiving statements Website Low annual fee 30 Can be proud of being Call center a card member Service and annual fee 20 10 Relations with Customers Low 0 Low Importance in credit card company selection High (Conducted in Oct. 2012) Third Party Comment MUFG CSR Report 2013 66 It is often easy to aim criticism at CSR outcomes, saying You have directive has been proposed to incorporate environmental and Third Party Comment the right idea, but the results are still inadequate. This report shows, however, that MUFG exceeded by nearly ten percentage social extra-financial factors into financial reports. In the United States as well, the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board points its target for carbon dioxide (CO2) emission reductions as a (SASB), a private-sector organization, is promoting the creation of measure against global warming, and the Group has also made Key Performance Indicators (KPI) for extra-financial information that some progress in promoting foreign nationals and women in the should be disclosed by the financial industry in financial reports. workplace—issues shared by the entire corporate world in Japan. Some of the items MUFG used in this report—such as financing to For two years running, the Group has also continued to take the top reduce environmental impacts, financing based on the Equator spot as a global player in the market of project finance for renewPrinciples, and the development of environmental finance able energy. products—are being envisioned as possible KPIs for the proposed Many men and women at MUFG probably have a clearer sense standards. than last year of the linkages between CSR and the core business. The context for these demands to integrate and merge reporting They probably also have a certain understanding of the challenges standards is that year by year it is becoming increasingly difficult to Prof. Yoshihiro Fujii involved. Based on that assumption, I would now like to go beyond obtain a true evaluation of corporate value from financial evaluaGraduate School of Global specific issue-by-issue observations and mention the next big tions alone. One estimate in the United States found that about Environmental Studies, Sophia University steps I hope MUFG will take as a financial company. 80% of the corporate value of major companies listed on the stock That is, going beyond the idea of connecting —to integrating or market is comprised of extra-financial aspects such as the value of This year's MUFG CSR Report was prepared based on MUFG's merging the core business and CSR. The key point here is that environmental and social factors, and intellectual property rights. Corporate Vision, and the Principles of Ethics and Conduct, while the core business itself enriches society, an awareness of This trend could be a phenomenon related to globalization. If so, adopted in April and December, 2012, respectively. The report CSR raises corporate profit. Actually, this report introduces a good initiatives to evaluate, ascertain, and establish as corporate value articulates the business perspective through a global Vision on a example of that approach being put into practice. the monetary value of environmental and social extra-financial mediumand long-term time scale, and through Principles, the The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ is a business that has for years value of business partners (in other words, the value of CSR) have three vectors of which are Customer, Society, and Workplace. One reduced environmental impacts through the financing it has the potential to become an increasingly important topic for any could say that with all of these combined, the framework to link provided. The cumulative CO 2 emission reductions in FY 2012 financial group that is active in the global market. corporate management and CSR together is now nearly complete. through that business are two or three times more than the abovePeople count on MUFG to exhibit professionalism, teamwork of I commend MUFG for the careful consideration that went into mentioned emission reductions the Group achieved. This is an human resources, and comprehensive strength within the Group. I separation of the Highlights Edition and Full Edition of this report. example of the inherent financing function of the industry not only look forward to observing more initiatives befitting of MUFG based The Highlights Edition is based on structures and actions intended earning a business profit, but also supporting the environmental on the Group's Vision and Principles, leading to further increases in to raise customer confidence for the entire Group, and presents efforts of customers and being able to contribute to society. The customer and investor confidence, even if these things take time. specific efforts with the words and faces of persons responsible national government has a similar framework—a subsidy system Third Party Comment for the Group's CSR priority themes: Addressing Global Environfor global warming countermeasures—but the MUFG initiative ment Issues and Nurturing Society's Next Generation. The Full started before that, and compared to the government system, has Edition provides comprehensive and detailed examples (though probably garnered greater confidence from the companies being there is room for further improvement) of activities oriented toward financed and better results on the ground. each stakeholder in terms of governance, financial crime prevenThere is a global trend to merge financial and extra-financial affairs. tion, environment, employees, human rights, local communities, The International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) is one and support for reconstruction after the Great East Japan Earthexample of a number of attempts now underway to integrate quake, etc. reporting standards in the private sector. In the European Union, a T h e M i t s u b i s h i U FJ F i n a n c i a l Group has launched a Facebook page focused on our CSR activities . P le ase c he c k us out and don't forget to Like us! www.facebook.com / MUFG.CSR (Issued December 2013) Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. CSR Promotion Division 2-7-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8330, Japan Tel: +81-3-3240-8111 Fax: +81-3-3240-6631 www.mufg.jp/english Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group's CSR Theme Song The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ supports This report has obtained Color Universal Design OrgaOur concept for corporate social responsibilit y is Education for Sustainable Development nization (CUD) certification. CUD is based on the “Hope, for tomorrow.” Our theme song was created to bring our message and passion for our initiatives to (ESD), a global initiative to include key universal design approach, which aims to create publieven more people. sustainable development issues in teachcations that are easy to view and read by as many Title: Ima wo Ikite, by Aoi Teshima ing and learning. persons as possible.
