2013 Sustainability Report China Mobile Communications Corporation A New With perfect sincerity and integrity, we will strive to fulfill our triple-sided Dream with You responsibilities: our economic responsibility, our social responsibility and our environmental responsibility A Touchable Future www.fsc.org China Mobile Communications Corporation FSC-ACC-015 Address: NO.29, Jinrong Avenue, Xicheng District, Beijing, P.R.China Post Code: 100033 Website for Report Download: www.10086.cn All copyrights reserved. No reproduction by any means is allowed without acknowledgement. Chairman’s Statement You AND China Mobile, Creating the Future Together From Broadband China, information consumption, to the issuance of 4G operating license, we have witnessed the burgeoning of Mobile Internet during 2013. Ground-breaking changes and scenes only existing in our dreams just a few years ago, have started to unfold right in front of our eyes. Our mobile phones are playing more roles in our lives, from communication tools to cameras, books, maps, and even wallets, enabling us to not only extend our capabilities, but also to make changes happen. In the era of Mobile Internet, traditional ways of consumption, service and production are continuously being disrupted and reshaped. “Adapt or Perish” has become an issue of vital significance for businesses in telecommunications, financial, service, industrial, and commercial sectors. As the world’s largest mobile operator both in network scale and customer base, China Mobile cannot afford to ignore this trend. The development Mr. XI Guohua of Mobile Internet has brought enormous challenges for telecommunication operators. Growth of traditional Committee Secretary & Chairman, services such as text message, multimedia message, and voice has stagnated or even fallen. Our profit declined China Mobile Communications Corporation in Q3 2013 for the first time in history, due to these challenges, and because of our increasing investments in 4G infrastructure and in other necessary resources we require for the future. Facing the inevitable evolution trends of technology and industry, we have chosen to embrace this new era with strategic restruction and innovative reforms. On December 4, 2013, we were issued the 4G (TD-LTE standard) license. On December 18, we launched our new service brand for the 4G era – “and!”. “and!” symbolizes our commitment to enabling people to connect and communicate with each other ever more closely with our world-leading mobile telecommunication technology, superior network quality, rich product choices, and customized services. “and!” also symbolizes the proactive attitude, equal communication, and open mind of China Mobile in working together with our stakeholders, to fulfill our long-term commitment to creating and sharing values in a sustainable way. “A New Dream with You” symbolizes that we strive to serve our customers with seamless services, to create beautiful lives for them, and to realize their digital dreams together. “A New Dream with You” also symbolizes a new harmonious and win-win industry ecosystem that we wish to create with our value chain partners, where we shoulder responsibilities and share values together in a sustainable way. Finally, “A New Dream with You”, symbolizes that we are committed to making the “China Dream” come true by building better communities, caring for the environment, and supporting charitable causes. Throughout 2013, China Mobile has been building “A New Dream with You”. Following our strategic vision of “Mobile Changes Life” and focusing on our stakeholders’ needs, we implemented a sustainability strategy and created shared values for our stakeholders. For our shareholders and investors, we continuously created value for them by pursuing an ethical and healthy way to develop, accelerating the transformation and restruction of our business, innovating on 4G technologies and promoting 4G commercialization. For our partners, we worked together to promote sustainable development of the telecommunications industry, by spearheading the development of the TD value chain and building a responsible supply chain. For our customers, we were committed to winning their trust with optimized services that addressed customer concerns about network quality, information security, privacy protection, and tariff. For our employees, we were dedicated to helping them realize their values, by focusing on their needs during the time of change, and providing them with care, respect, and career development support. In particular, we selected and recognized employee role models as the “Most Admirable Mobilers” for the first time. For our communities, we responded to their needs, supported community development, and extended our helps to vulnerable groups. To protect the environment, we strictly managed our environmental impact, and developed ICT solutions to address climate change. Based on our efforts, China Mobile was listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) for the sixth consecutive year. Our sustainability practice was recognized by the UN Global Compact as a Best Practice in China. The year of 2014 is a crucial year for our 4G deployment. China Mobile will continue to fulfill our responsibilities with the utmost sincerity, as we implement our strategic restruction to overcome challenges, and as we create a bright information-enhanced future together with you! 1 March 2014 Contents 8 A New Dream with Shareholders 1 Chairman’s Statement 9 Feature: 4G Era, A New Dream with You 3 About China Mobile 10 Transformative Development 11 Integrity and Anti-corruption 3 Company Profile 3 Sustainability Commitment 3 Honors and Recognitions 4 Sustainability Strategy and Management 4 Sustainability Strategy 12 A New Dream with 4 Sustainability Management Value Chain Partners 5 Stakeholder Engagement 13 Shared Growth 7 Materiality Analysis 15 Shared Responsibility 18 A New Dream with Customers 19 Ensuring Network Stability 20 Guaranteeing Informed Consumption 21 Protecting Customer Privacy 22 Preventing Malicious Nuisances 23 Offering Options to Choose 23 Providing Convenient Services 24 Improving Customer Communication 25 A New Dream with Employees 26 Safety and Health 41 Feature: A Better 27 Training and Career Development Future with 28 Respect and Recognition Information for All 29 Feature: Most Admirable Mobilers 42 Universally Accessible Services 44 Life-changing Applications 48 Sustainability 30 A New Dream with Performance Summary Communities 54 Looking Forward 31 Enhancing EMF Management 32 Supporting Poverty Alleviation 56 Key Stakeholder 33 Supporting Equal Education Opportunities Commentary 34 Caring for Vulnerable Groups 35 Encouraging Volunteer Services 57 About This Report 58 Report Rating 60 Feedback 36 A New Dream with 61 Report Disclosure the Environment Indexes 37 Environmental Strategy and Management 38 Green Network 39 Green Business 40 Green with Society 2 About Company Profile China Mobile wholly owns China Mobile (Hong Kong) Group Limited. China Mobile Limited (the Listed China Company for short) , which is under China Mobile (Hong Kong) Group Limited, has set up wholly owned subsidiaries in 31 provinces (autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government) Mobile and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, and got listed in Hong Kong and New York stock exchanges. With mobile telephony, data, IP telephony and multimedia services as major lines of business, we also have the right to operate Internet services and international communications access services. In recent years, through advancing strategic transformation, promoting reform and innovation, as well as accelerating working pattern and structure adjustment, we maintained favorable momentum and stable operation performance, and China Mobile released new business brand and in 2013. For years, we stick to the ideologies that Quality is the lifeline of Communications a communications company and Customers, Our Priority; Quality Service, Our Principle , and continuously About China Mobile Corporation ( China improve quality and services. As a result, we lead the industry in customer satisfaction and have the lowest complaint rate per million customers throughout the whole industry for several years. Mobile , the Group or we for short) was established on April 20, 2000. With registered capital of 300 billion yuan and assets exceeding 1 trillion yuan, China Mobile is the largest mobile operator in the world by network scale and subscriber base. Number of Customers (million) Operating Revenue (billion yuan) 767 661.9 Sustainability Commitment By upholding our core value of Responsibility Makes Perfection and insisting on our corporate responsibility value of With perfect sincerity and integrity, we will strive to fulfill our triple-side responsibilities: our economic responsibility, our social responsibility and our environmental responsibility , we focus on achieving economic, social and environmental sustainability and strike a balance between ourselves and our stakeholders. We are an official member of the UN Global Compact, recognizing and striving to comply with its 10 universally accepted principles. As one of the first group of Chinese companies being selected as Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Organizational Stakeholders, we participate in GRI knowledge share program as an enterprise representative, and join G4 Pioneer Program as the only participant from Mainland China. Honors and Recognitions (2013) Received Grade A for nine consecutive years on the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC) operating performance assessment for executives of state-owned enterprises Listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) for the sixth consecutive year, also listed in the Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Index Series for the fourth consecutive year Granted China Charity Award , the top goverment prize in charity field, for the fifth consecutive year Ranked 71st in the Fortune 500, ten ranks higher than 2012 Ranked 29th in the Global 2000 Leading Companies by Forbes, moving from 31st last year Ranked 14th in the Financial Times (FT) Global 500 Ranked tenth in the BrandZ TOP100 by Millward Brown and Financial Times, which is the eighth consecutive year to be listed, as the top one in China Granted the Sustainability Management Model for 2013 Management Improvement Initiative of State-owned Enterprises by the SASAC Ranked fifth in the Chinese Enterprises TOP 100 Sustaintbility Development Index by Chinese Academy 3 of Social Sciences (CASS), and ranked the first in telecom industry SustainaSustainability Strategy Sustainability has been coherently integrated into our strategy. From 2011 to 2015, we have been and will be fully bility committed to following our strategic vision of “Mobile Changes Life” and pursuing our sustainability strategy with the goal of “becoming a global industry leader both in business and sustainability” by meeting expectations upon us from Strategy shareholders and investors, government and regulators, employees, value chain partners, customers, communities and the environment. In order to create and share a sustainable future, we mainly focus on three sustainability priorities: “A Healthier and More Stable China Mobile”, “More Satisfied Stakeholders” and “An Information-Enhanced Future”. and ManageAn InformationExpanding universal access to our services Share a Sustainable Future Future Enhanced Future Creating life-changing applications ment China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report Ensuring green operation to build ecological civilization Contributing to community development for harmonious society More Satisfied Us Stakeholders Enhancing customer right protection for trust China Mobile Win-win partnership and partnership for responsibility understands that Respecting employee rights and supporting career sustainability development means we need to cooperate closely A Healthier and Commiting to transformation and adhering to with our stakeholders Me More Stable compliance and anti-corruption China Mobile to integrate our economic, social and environmental responsibilities into our strategy and operation, to manage our own Sustainability Management A Touchable Future A New Dream with You impacts effectively, Since 2007, we have made a variety of efforts to integrate strategic sustainability management into our business to maximize shared strategy, which means following global corporate social responsibility (CSR) standards and best practices, developing values for our sustainability indicator system, and benchmarking on DJSI sustainability leaders. Our efforts led us to achieve good sustainability performances. stakeholders and us, and to achieve Organizational Structure economic, social It takes both leadership and organization-wide participation to manage an organization’s social responsibility effectiveand environmental ly. Since the establishment of CSR Steering Committee in 2008, we have founded a well-organized CSR management sustainability system that effectively involves top management, headquarters departments and all subsidiaries. together. CSR Steering Chaired by the Chairman of the Company, with other Committee members from CSR related headquarters departments, (Decisionthe CSR Steering Committee is in charge of reviewing Making) and authorizing CSR strategy, targets, programs and other major decisions. Under our Department of Development Strategy, the CSR Office CSR Office is responsible for organizing and coordinating sustainability issues for headquarters departments (Organization) and provincial subsidiaries to ensure the effective implementation of our sustainability strategy and goals. Headquarters departments manage specific sustainability Headquarters issues, following the closed-loop management process Departments of Plan-Do-Check. and Provincial Strategic management departments at our provincial Subsidiaries subsidiaries are responsible for implementing CSR (Implementation) management with virtual teams spanning over 4 departments and management layers. Management Improvement Management Overview Progress in 2013 Module Strategy Set CSR goals, priorities and Improved CSR management in five key issue aspects, and our provincial Management implementation methods subsidiaries implemented 148 improvement measures according to corporate Optimized CSR management system and process, and formulated China CSR strategy, to guide all Mobile Corporate Social Responsibility Managing Policy (2013 version) business units to fulfill social Conducted researches on key CSR issues and innovated on CSR practices of Sustainability Strategy and Management responsibility these issues Execution Increase CSR awareness, Conducted trainings for CSR managers from provincial subsidiaries. 131,350 Management improve key issue management, person-times attended in 2013 and integrate CSR into our Analyzed 22 issues, 114 topics and 546 questions of 2013 DJSI questionnaire, operations through CSR improved our performance based on benchmarking results, and continued to trainings, CSR benchmarking, be listed in DJSI and CSR information collection and monitoring Performance Assess our sustainability efforts Completed 2012 Sustainability Capability Evaluation, evaluated four Management and CSR practices internally sustainability criteria for all business units, and used them as guidance to and externally, advocate best improve management weaknesses. The third-party survey included in the practices and improve CSR evaluation covered 50,340 samples performance accordingly Held 2013 CSR Practices Competition with expanded stakeholder participation, including 1.89 million Internet hits significantly higher over 2012 Published Selection of China Mobile Best CSR Practices to promote best CSR practices Communication Publish sustainability report Corporate top management hosted the launch event of sustainability report Management regularly based on Chinese for seven years consecutively. Our 2012 report was awarded 2013 UN Global and international standards Compact China Best Practice, Golden Bee 2013 Excellent CSR Report Leading to increase transparency; Enterprise Award, and 2013 Public Transparent Enterprise Model Award develop interactive stakeholder among others communication mechanism Became one of the first group of Chinese companies being selected as Global and organize key stakeholder Reporting Initiative (GRI) Organizational Stakeholders, participated in GRI engagement events knowledge share program as an enterprise representative, and joined G4 Pioneer Program as the only participant from Mainland China Stakeholder Engagement Thorough communication is the cornerstone for China Mobile to comprehensively understand our impacts and fulfill our social responsibility. In 2013, we conducted regular and thorough communication with our six main stakeholder groups, including employees, shareholders and investors, government and regulators, customers, value chain partners, and communities and the environment. Furthermore, we use new media as a platform to communicate and interact with our stakeholders more effectively. CEO Mailbox: Direct Communication with Top New Media Platforms: Real-time Communication Management In 2013, we enhanced our communication with the public by using new media CEO Mailbox (CEO@chinamobile.com) was launched in November platforms such as Weibo (Microblog) and Wechat. We selected the topics carefully to 2010. It was further opened to customers and partners in May focus on public concerns and established a centralized mechanism to handle inquiries 2011. In 2013, the CEO Mailbox received 2,194 emails with and complaints effectively and timely. suggestions and complaints about corporate management, business development, network construction, employee development, Over 7.37 million followers on 5 major new media platforms customer rights, etc. All of them were handled appropriately and Over 22 million comments and reposts accumulatively on Weibo, near 1,100 responded timely in accordance with a standard procedure. individual inquiries received per month. We were recognized as the Best Weibo Operation Case of Chinese Enterprises Launched official Wechat public account in August 2013 CEO Mailbox Standard Procedure Automatically Mailbox administrator Relevant departments Executives give Mailbox administrator generates Mail sorts mails and verify and handle directions and writes back according Processing Order upon submits opinions from mails comments to results receiving mails to senior executives within 10 working days 5 Stakeholders Expectations We released 126 issues multimedia message Engagement (MMS) internal magazine Mobile Weekly which Employee Representative Approaches mainly targets to employees. The average reach Conferences rate was 87% Periodic Trainings We hosted the “Most Admirable Mobilers” event 2013 Highlights Performance Communication for the first time in 2013. The event lasted for 8 MMS Magazine Mobile Weekly months. A total of 18 employees and teams who Model Employee Recognition work on frontline were awarded the title of the “Most Admirable Mobilers”. 260 thousands votes were received during the event Communication and Engagement Annual Reports and Fair Treatment Announcements Occupational Health and SASAC Work Reports In 2013, the Listed Company participated in a Safety Roadshows and total of 13 investor conferences. We also met 759 Training and Promotion Reverse Roadshows investment institutions, which counted for 1,015 Recognition and Respect person-times Transparency Risk Management The Listed Company showed investors the TD-LTE Business Ethics and construction and pre-commercial trial progress in Emp Integrity Hangzhou and Shenzhen, so as to create strong, loyee s Sustainable Value and interactive ties between investors and the Company with better understanding Creation rs de rs ol to eh es ar nv Sh d I an In August 2013, we invited experts and Routine Reports representatives from Bureau of Research of Compliance Specific the SASAC and the CASS to participate in CSR ment Regulatory Policy Researches and Management Research in Fujian. We directly Govern tors Improve Social Meetings communicated with local stakeholders, visited Harmony Relevant Forums innovative CSR programs such as Office on the gula Lead Social Sea, Forest Fire Watch platform, etc., and listened and Re Development to stakeholders’ comments and suggestions In 2013, we carried out 12 “Customer Day” activities, and received 79,970 person-times of Custom Network Quality customers, answered and handled 78,096 inquiries ers Service Quality and complaints, and collected 54,654 suggestions Transparent Customer Day in the process and Reasonable 10086 Hotline We have conducted third-party independent Tariff Online and Mobile surveys on customer satisfaction for 14 years in a Privacy row, which covered more than 300,000 samples Customer Service Protection each year. Our 2013 comprehensive customer Platforms Basic Rights satisfaction rate was 77.75%, 0.25 ppt higher than Customer n Protection the level of the beginning of the year ai Satisfaction Ch rs Survey e lu tne Va Par Standard and Efficient and ities Procurement mun nt In December 2013, we held the Global Partner Com vironme Promising Conference with the topic “Innovating and n the E Opportunities Dreaming Together” in Guangzhou and Win-win Partnership communicated with more than 5,000 participants Green Industrial of ICT industry about the “Openness and Electromagnetic Ecosystem Cooperation, Competition and Development” in Fields (EMF) Safety the 4G era Procurement Rural Development Daily Aiding Vulnerable Communication Groups Trainings and Environmental Assessments Protection Forums and Meetings We launched the group-wide 2013 Energy Conservation Awareness Week event with the theme “Green Creates Future”, in which Community 2.1 million Weibo fans and 2.68 million Fetion Engagement Activities customers were engaged, and 3.5 million Mass Media MMS and 500,000 APP text messages were New Media such as sent. In addition, we held the “2013 Hundred Weibo and Wechat Energy Conserving Employees Selection” and Philanthropy Platforms also launched the “Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction Knowledge Contest” 6 Materiality Analysis Macroeconomic Policies Relevant Standards In 2013, we updated Analyzed government policies Researched on G4, DJSI and other the materiality analysis and other ICT industry standards to understand the framework and regulations to understand global trends of sustainable performed a stakeholder macro policy trend. development and requirements survey to identify and on disclosure. report material issues with Strategy and the highest relevance and Appraisal impact. Analyzed the development strategy of China Mobile and the result of the 2012 Sustainability Strategy and Management Sustainability Capacity Survey to conclude material issues. 01 Best Practices Media and Public Focuses Benchmarked on six global ICT Reviewed public survey results of companies’ sustainability strategy 2012 Sustainability Capacity Survey and management, covering 199 topics and (12,000 samples) and tracked media Identification 1,472 quantitative indicators to identify coverages by focusing on top 1,000 Based on document industry-specific key issues, best news to study public concerns. practices and gaps. anlyasis and external survey, we prioritized 22 topics relevant to China Mobile. 5.99% 4.79% CSR Experts Government and 3.59% 1.80% 02 Regulator Shareholders Community and investors Online Survey Media Customers Evaluation 167 individuals responded, among 8.98% 8.38% them the ratio of internal and external We conducted a stakeholders was about 50% to 50%. special survey among Internal ones (employees) scored the stakeholders. The survey relevance to the Company and external 20.36% Value Chain targeted different ones rated the materiality to themselves. Partners 46.11% categories of stakeholders Employees through channels such as face-to-face meetings, Sample Structure telephone interviews, and an online survey. Stakeholders ranked each sustainability 1 Customer Service (Customers) 17 Marketing Ethics (Value chain partners, Government and regulators) issue according to 2 Network Quality (Customers) 18 EMF Safety (Communities) their materiality and 3 Innovation and Development (Value chain 19 Work-life Balance (Employees) left comments and partners, Government and regulators) 20 Volunteerism (Community, Employees) suggestions. 4 Customer Rights (Customers) 21 Shareholder Engagement (Shareholders and investors) 5 ICT Investment and Development 22 Business Performance (Shareholders and investors) (Shareholders and investors, Value chain partners, Government and regulators) 6 Social Philanthropy (Communities, Value chain Average partners) 7 Anti-corruption (Employees, Shareholders and High 1 investors, Value chain partners, Government and 2 regulators) 3 8 Risk Management (Employees, Shareholders and 10 4 investors, Value chain partners, Government and 9 6 regulators) 11 5 16 7 03 14 8 Importance to Stakeholders 9 Responsible Supply Chain (Value chain partners, 17 13 12 Government and regulators) 20 18 10 ICT Community in City (Wireless City) 15 Prioritization (Customers, Communities) 19 11 Governance (Shareholders and investors, To define report topics Government and regulators) 21 by ranking issues based 12 Employee Rights (Employees) on scoring results and 13 Employee Development (Employees) 22 14 ICT Community in Countryside selecting issues of high (Informatisation in Rural Areas) (Communities, relevance. Government and regulators) 15 Green Operation (Environment, Value chain partners, Government and regulators) Importance to China Mobile High 16 Green Society (Environment, Value chain partners) Note: The number represents the materiality score of the issue in a decending order. 7 A New Dream 4G Era, A New Dream with You with Shareholders A New Dream with In 2013, with the issuance of 4G license which marked the Shareholders China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report dawning of the 4G era, China’s ICT industry officially confronted new opportunities which arise from increasing information Transformative Integrity and consumption as old business models and industrial conditions Development Anti-corruption underwent enormous changes under the impact of Mobile Internet. Our efforts in 2013 were well rewarded: China Mobile overcame a variety of challenges, successfully implemented TD-LTE trial and commercialization of 4G technology, and accelerated the transformation of our business model from a traditional voice-centric service to a data centric service. The Company maintained steady growth as we transformed our business by implementing the “FourNetwork Coordination” strategy, the “Full Service” strategy, and the “Mobile Internet” strategy. We further enhanced our sustainability capacity through forward-looking business planning and resource allocation, organizational reform and management improvement. We committed ourselves to eliminating corruption by taking concrete measures, including developing anti-corruption systems, enhancing supervision, and raising awareness of business ethics and anticorruption measures, to ensure the health of our operations. A Touchable Future A New Dream with You Stakeholder Expectations Our Approaches Our 2013 Achievements Our 2014 Efforts New value creation potential Enhancing networks, sales and Completed 4G trial, and became To develop a full-service 4G value with 4G development marketing, management and the first 4G service provider in chain Stable business growth and organization capability Mainland China To build the largest 4G network. value return Expanding growth potential with Maintained leadership in we plan to build over 500,000 Ethical and healthy three drivers: existing customers customer counts and revenue TD-LTE base stations and provide operations, and corruption and business, data traffic and market shares contiguous 4G coverage in major risk prevention corporate customer services Breakthrough in handset sales, cities Accelerating TD-LTE development significant data traffic growth, To sell approximately 200 million and commercialization with and leading position in overall TD terminals, among which 100 industry partners network quality million are 4G terminals Enhancing business planning Steadily constructed infrastructure To improve effectiveness of and resource allocation, and such as data centers, call centers, professional operations with promoting specialized operation and R&D centers. The first part of the Internet of Things (IOT) and and R&D capability the International Information Port terminals, etc. Systematically preventing was completed and enhanced To accelerate reformation and corruption risks and promoting our Southern Base. Five regional improve efficiency healthy operations through risk logistics centers started operating To improve corruption prevention management and control Improved anti-corruption and investigation, and enhance systems, launched internal audits the health and transparency of and inspections, and increased operation G4-DMA employee awareness of business 8 ethics Feature: 4G Era, 28 5 million 91 A New Dream 28 commercial TD-LTE networks Over 5 million TD-LTE customers The Global TD-LTE Initiative have been deployed in 20 globally (GTI) started by China Mobile with You countries around the world, with is supported by 91 network 40 more planned operators and 67 industry partners On December 4, 2013, the Ministry of Industry and A New Dream with Shareholders Information TD-LTE: From a Follower to a Leader Technology of Owing to the efforts of China Mobile and its industry peers in China, TD-LTE is now one of the mainstream global 4G China (MIIT) standards. issued the LTE/ fourth generation (4G) cellular mobile Follower Innovator Leader telecommunication 1G/2G 3G 4G (TD-LTE) license to us, officially marking the dawning of the 4G era. 4G has brought us not only faster speed, but also infinite possibilities with the Mobile Internet. 4G, Here We Come In 2013, with the newly issued 4G license, we made all-out efforts to tap 4G opportunities in network, terminal, application, and branding areas. Network Terminal Application Our 4G service became Over 30 4G handsets The “and-Vision” highavailable in 16 cities in and data terminals were definition video app was 2013, including Beijing, launched in 2013. We released TD-LTE Shanghai, Guangzhou and published the VoLTE In 2014, we will focus on Long-term Shenzhen Whitepaper, and enabled three content services and Evolution (LTE) is By the end of 2014, we inter-province and applications: HD video, an evolved version plan to build the most international VoLTE voice high-quality music and of 3G technology. widespread 4G network communication and 2Gcloud games for unified There are two in the world, provide 4G switching communication and types of LTE, LTE contiguous 4G coverage We plan to launch over applications TDD and LTE FDD, in major cities, and deploy 200 4G handsets in 2014. differentiated more than 500 thousand VoLTE will be commercially by the different TD-LTE base stations available on our network frequency bands they use. LTE TDD, also known as TD-LTE, is a globally adopted 4G standard Branding developed in China. It On December 18, 2013, we launched a new service brand is one of the “and!” at the China Mobile Global Partner Conference. “and!” most advanced symbolizes our proactive altitude, forward-looking motivation, communication and innovative spirit. Together, you and China Mobile will make “A technologies with New Dream” come true features such as high speed, low latency, and always-online. In 2014, we will further promote the development of the TD-LTE value chain, strengthen our data traffic operation, increase investment in terminals, contribute to shaping an open and healthy Mobile Internet industry, and fulfill the new dream of 4G. 9 767 661.9 108.2 Transformative Development million billion yuan billion yuan Over 767 million customers in Operating revenue reached 661.9 Wireless data traffic revenue total, among which over 190 billion yuan, representing an reached 108.2 billion yuan, In 2013, as the million are 3G customers. (Data of increase of 8.3% YoY. representing an increase of 58.6% government China Mobile Limited) YoY. (Data of China Mobile Limited) actively promoted information Transformative Development consumption and the “Broadband China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report Four-Network Market Management Organizational China” strategy, Coordination Orientation Improvements Reform China Mobile 2G (GSM) Existing business operation Centralized management Organizational development focused on strategic 3G (TD-SCDMA) Data traffic operation Professional operations Structure optimization transformation, 4G (TD-LTE) Corporate customer operation Market-oriented mechanisms Quantitative reform of reform and WLAN Lean organizational structure remuneration Standardization of processes innovation, and healthy development to ensure steady development. Entrepreneurship R&D Innovation International Expansion In 2013, we accelerated the pace of We optimized our R&D our infrastructure construction and infrastructure and established two International business expansion, building many new R&D centers in Suzhou and Business Operations centralized infrastructure facilities Hangzhou respectively. We initiated such as data centers, call centers a layered collaborative system We built a world-class and R&D centers. The first part of for product development and a operation system and the International Information Port Shop-front Model to manage R&D implemented end-to-end management was completed and enhanced our outcomes, ensuring our competency Our innovative 1/2/3 Southern Base. Five regional logistics in independently developing core yuan zone pricing model A Touchable Future A New Dream with You centers started operating. We also intellectual properties. We also significantly lowered improved our mobile marketplace intensified our R&D efforts in international roaming tariff and handset sales and service key technological fields such as Revenue from multinational platform, and actively promoted TD-LTE, Internet of Things (IOT), corporate customers the development of third-party Mobile Internet, Over the Top (OTT) has continued to rapidly electronic service channels. applications, and 5G technology. increase These in turn accelerated rapid Jego, our mobile VoIP instant message application development of related technologies for overseas market was and industries. officially launched Overseas Layout Cloud Computing Big Data Open Platform Established the capital structure and management We developed five products We developed eight products We designed an open architecture system for the International and ten applications including and 17 applications for level-1 top-layer platform, built a groupCompany in 19 overseas the Public Service Cloud, the private clouds, provincial-level wide open core platform, markets National Education Cloud private clouds, local big data and developed a centralized Achieved a fast, costand the Administrative Cloud. centers, and others. We also certification platform and a brand efficient expansion of our We were in charge of the established a cloud & big data new customer identification international network development of two national platform and an open-source management system, to meet infrastructure, and the cloud computing standards Hadoop community the authentication needs of our development of a global electronic channels, self-operated backbone network centerd on Hong Kong, Los businesses, and third-parties Angeles and London 1,192 242 1,300 G We filed 1,192 patent applications Our roaming service now covers As of the end of 2013, our in 2013 with 510 approved 242 countries and regions international communication bandwidth had exceeded 1,300 G, a sharp increase of 200% 10 over 2012 Specifying AntiImproving Policies and Encouraging Integrity and Corruption Regulations Whistleblowing Accountability Anti-corruption We revised the implementation We encouraged both internal and We established an anti-corruption guidelines and categories of the external supervision and set up a accountability system, which “3+1” Decision-making Policy, variety of whistleblowing channels covers both the headquarters and and optimized relevant policies including mail, email, hotline, fax In recent years, the provincial subsidiaries and and implementation procedures and text message to report on any incidents of violations professional operating affiliates. accordingly. We also conducted corruption. We assign received of laws and discipline A total of 10,925 Integrity regular inspections and evaluations materials to relevant departments by some management Commitments were signed over to find gaps in our management for investigation and also cooperate the year, urging managerial staff to system and took corrective actions with judicial investigations if personnel of the accordingly. In 2013, we conducted necessary. Following the principle carry out integrity risk prevention company which A New Dream with Shareholders responsibilities. We incorporated 217 inspections and revised 332 of focusing on implications for had caused serious integrity risk into our Comprehensive policies and regulations in total. similar cases and related processes, adverse impact on Risk Management System, In 2013, we conducted an we used investigation findings to the Company. We and formulated a guidebook, campaign of The Party's Mass Line identify gaps and weaknesses in Implementation Guidelines on Education Practice , insisted on our management systems and take re-examined the Eight-point Code , and combated corrective actions. Promoting Integrity and Preventing cases to explore Corruption Risk, which specifies Formalism, Bureaucratism, their fundamental the principles, implementation Hedonism and Extravagance , reasons and made steps, tasks and requirements of established a cross-departments integrity and antithe system. We also organized joint supervision mechanism to cut integrity risk prevention projects bureaucracy and build an integrity corruption a strategic business environment for all and seminars for business units, priority. In 2013, we and established risk prevention and employees. further intensified our control systems. corruption prevention and discipline system, increased management Encouraging Internal and External Supervision oversight over ethical issues, conducted In recent years, we have continued to strengthen the system and workflow involved with company-wide whistleblowing and discipline inspection. We set up a variety of channels, including mail, email, activities to raise the hotline, fax and text message to handle whistleblowing cases, and assign them promptly to awareness of antidisciplinary staff. corruption processes, and strengthened the handling and 1 We set up a public compliant and 4 If a whistleblowing tip contains vague whistleblowing hotline (010-52616186) information but has an identifiable source, investigation of any and email (jubao@chinamobile.com) to our disciplinary staff will engage the whistlewhistleblowing report report on violations or illegal activities. blower to build trust and to obtain more received. 2 Our CEO Mailbox is also open to both information. employees and the public for such 5 We attach great importance in protecting information. whistle-blower rights and in keeping their 3 For procurement related issues, we list identity confidential, by anonymizing their whistleblowing channels in bidding personal information before assigning the The “3+1” documents and on procurement websites case to relevant parties for disposal. Decisionwhere people can report bidding making Policy irregularities or violations. The “3+1” Decision-making Policy is a regulatory requirement to state-owned enterprises that Enhancing Ethical Education a collective We made business ethics and integrity education as an essential part of management training, using a variety of management channels such as electronic magazines, text/multimedia messages, comics, Weibo, Wechat, videos, advertisements, and discussion and pocket books, to raise anti-corruption awareness. In 2013, we held 3,908 anti-corruption events with 428,146 persondecision should times participation, and held 1,629 education activities of Eight-point Code with 112,187 person-times participation. be made as far as material decisionmaking issues, key personnel appointments or dismissals, material project 332 41,018 428,146 Conducted 217 inspections Signed 41,018 Integrity Conducted 3,908 business ethics arrangements and/or and revised 332 policies and Commitments and integrity education sessions the approval of large regulations with a total participation of amounts of funds. 428,146 person-times 11 A New Dream Shared Growth with Value Chain Partners A New Dream with Value Chain Partners China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report Openness is one of the most important characteristics of the Mobile Internet era. From the rapid growth of the TD industry to Shared the innovations from ICT convergence, collaboration is essential Responsibility to all parties in the value chain. Although the dominance of telecommunication operators in the value chain was challenged by non-traditional competition, China Mobile, with annual procurement contracts valued in billions, still maintains a significant influence over the value chain, spanning from standard research, equipment and handset manufacturing, system integration, application development, to marketing promotion. On one hand, our partners expect us to strategically identify potential opportunities, build fair and win-win partnerships, and establish a more harmonious industrial ecosystem based on an optimized allocation of resources and capacities, bringing us into the fourth stage development of our industry. On the other hand, our stakeholders expect that we drive a healthy and sustainable development of the industry, by promoting a responsibility sharing community while fulfilling our own responsibilities. A Touchable Future A New Dream with You CDMA Stakeholders Expectations Our Approaches Our 2013 Achievements CDMA Our 2014 Efforts More attractive development Accelerating TD industry Led rapid TD industry growth and To lead research, development opportunities development with strategic plans shared hundreds of billions yuan and industrialisation with Fair and win-win partnerships and extensive cooperation with partners, among which 150 the opportunity of TD-LTE Healthy and sustainable industrial Improving procurement million TD-SCDMA handsets commercialization environment management and efficiency were sold To release guides for by enhancing centralized Cooperated with 7,037 supplier communication and procurement regulations, and centralized procurement suppliers management, to gradually apply by establishing communication and assessed all first-level new authentication toolkits, platforms suppliers and assess supplier responsibility Reducing responsibility risks Added responsibility requirement performance and strengthening responsibility into authentication toolkits which To organize training about management by formulating covered 35 categories of firstresponsibility management for supply chain documents, level centralized procurement partners regulations, tools and carrying products To improve and apply energy out authentication procedures Updated a number of energy saving grading standards, and Training external partners and saving grading standards and develop more green cooperation internal authentication officers saved more than 100,000 cubic Supporting suppliers in various metres of timbers through Green ways, including capital, Packaging technology and training, innovating cooperation, G4-DMA and exploring new business opportunities 12 Building a Win-win Ecosystem Shared Growth Since obtaining TD-SCDMA and a total sales volume of over 150 have released a variety of highly(TD), the third-generation mobile million TD handsets. rated mobile services such as mobile telecommunication operation license reading, mobile game, mobile We partnered with over one million in 2009, we have made full efforts video, mobile payment, location enterprises of social channels, To promote mutual on constructing TD-SCDMA network terminals and content providers. based services, smart voice portal, successes and infrastructures nation-wide. We Our Mobile Market has more than etc. drive innovative championed the development of TD 3.8 million registered developers. In 2014, we will further strengthen technology standards and the entire development, China TD value chain including devices, chips We opened major functions to our industry collaboration across Mobile strives to cooperation such as billing, sales, all aspects, including terminals and others. Our TD customer base message services, application and equipment manufacturing, establish a friendly stood in a firm position in China’s hosting, and smart voice cloud. channels, contents, applications and win-win telecommunication market, and we A New Dream with Value Chain Partners We adapted our business models and platforms, and accelerate partnership with our created and shared industry value in to different market segments. For integration of Mobile Internet and hundreds of billions yuan. value chain partners instance, we offered the highest terminal resource, aiming at an with openness and So far, we have more than 400 TD revenue sharing scheme of the open, healthy and collaborative partners, including seven TD-SCDMA industry to video and comics Mobile Internet ecosystem that fairness. commercial chip manufacturers, 17 TDpartners to create a fostering embraces the bright future of the LTE chip manufacturers and 94 new ecology for incubating innovative 4G era together. TD mobile phone manufacturers. There applications and services. Working were over 1,000 models of TD products, together with our partners, we “In the next two years, over 320 billion yuan “As the only Chinese telecommunication of output value would be generated by the TD company operating TD-SCDMA, China Mobile industry directly, including 160 billion yuan from invested hundreds of billions in nationwide 3G network construction investment, 60 billion yuan network construction and greatly promoted the from terminal sales, and 100 billion yuan from development of the TD industrial chain.” telecommunication services revenue.” Luo Wen Yan Xiaofeng President Deputy General Secretary China’s Center for Information Industry Development SASAC 13 Better Cooperation and Stronger Support We actively smoothed communication channels, improved cooperation procedures, and provided financial, technological, and management supports to our partners. Better Cooperation What we have done Effects and results Compiled Supplier Communication Guideline Provided clear guidelines for communication and Supplier Cooperation Guideline and cooperation with suppliers Set up two-tier service windows covering our Responded to supplier demands quickly and China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report entire network and the nine bases effectively Optimized communication interfaces Provided unified and convenient access to of corporate portal, 400 hotline, Fetion communication platform public customer service, email customer Handled suggestions via the message board at service, service center for partners, etc., and the Supplier Portal established an Information Service Platform for Business Partners Faster Contract Signing Faster Payment Shortened contract signing and Shortened payment life-cycle for suppliers authorizing procedures by paying in lump sum to suppliers who have signed centralized procurement contract voluntarily and maintaining proper performance bonds In Guangdong, we launched the Four A Touchable Future A New Dream with You Projects for Better Cooperation Better Logistic Management Smoother Communication Standardized delivery documentation Responded to questions and dealt and communication interfaces, and with complaints promptly using E-line publicized delivery confirmation cycle Platform, a two-way communication and service commitment on Supplier platform between buyers and Portal suppliers Stronger Support In order to improve the quality of cable connect boxes and air conditioners, we engaged professional institutions to send specialists to conduct onsite inspections. We planned to expand this practice to 13 equipment categories in 2014. Technical Assistance In Hubei, we organized In Guangdong, trainings on store-brand we cooperated with TD handset sales for Shanghai Pudong channel agents, briefing Development them on different Training Financial Bank and offered packages and incentive Support Assistance preferential short-term policies, handset contract financing to development, and 39 suppliers. practical suggestions to enhance their sales skills. 14 Improving Procurement Management Shared Responsibility Aiming at a “zero non-compliance and zero violation” procurement process, we commit ourselves to building a healthy, sound and To China Mobile, fair cooperative environment our value chain for all partners with continuous partners are not only improvements in terms of policy, procedure, system, training, partners for benefit, evaluation and supervision with but also partners helps of both internal and external for responsibility. A New Dream with Value Chain Partners authentications and assessments. We are committed In Hubei, we organized the Annual to promoting better Partners Forum on Business Integrity responsibility for the third consecutive year. Our performance of the goal was to raise the awareness of our procurement compliance whole industrial policies and requirements among chain by improving our suppliers. We strictly applied procurement integrity policy to suppliers. management, Any supplier who was found expanding with serious violation would be suspended for three years. responsibility requirements, and promoting green supply chain cooperation. Process Training Supervision To prevent business bribery We provided compliance trainings We organized procurement and unfair competition, we to suppliers to prevent illegal compliance inspections and supply signed Mandatory Integrity business behaviors chain management inspections to Commitment with all suppliers ensure our provincial subsidiaries’ and required all headquarters procurement operations in buyers to sign the Workplace compliance with company Integrity Code of Conduct regulations. Corrective actions were required if problems were detected Policy System Support Performance Review We compiled and issued a series of procurement We applied an electronic We set up KPIs and conducted management policies in 2013, including procurement and bidding comprehensive and professional Management Methods on Procurement system, and standardized compliance reviews of our supply Decision-Making of China Mobile Headquarters full online procurement chain to help our provincial First-Level Centralized Procurement and Group process from publishing subsidiaries establish efficient, clean Procurement Implementation Regulations bidding announcement to and healthy supply chain systems Management Methods on Procurement signing contract, to ensure Documentation transparency, compliance, Provisional Management Methods on and efficiency Operation Management of Regional Logistic Center Provincial Subsidiary Procurement DecisionMaking Guide Procurement Experts Pool Management Methods First-Level Centralized Procurement Demands 100% 47.65% Management Methods Note 1: The first-level procurement carried out by our group and the suppliers are firstlevel suppliers accordingly. 455 first-level suppliers , 100% 1 6,829 second-level suppliers2, Note 2: The second-level procurement carried out by subsidiaries of provinces, are local suppliers 47.65% are local suppliers autonomous regions and directly-administered cities, and the suppliers are second-level 15 suppliers accordingly. China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report Improving Responsibility Requirements To improve responsibility to work together with our performance of our partners suppliers to improve the overall 2013 GSM Antenna Centralized Procurement A Touchable Future A New Dream with You and ourselves, we expanded supply chain responsibility, such Program the responsibility boundary by as supplier authentication and integrating clear requirements supplier assessment with integrated We added the “Corporate Overall Competence” indicator and SA8000 certification status to our procurement criteria to measure into procurement policies and requirements on the environment, the labor conditions, labor rights, and occupational health and partnership management labor, human right and social safety conditions of our suppliers. regulations, and explored ways conducts of suppliers. Policy Tool Capacity In 2013, we compiled Supplier In 2013, we compiled supplier We organized skill trainings Management Methods, authentication toolkits for for supplier authentication which includes the following 19 product categories that personnel at provincial procedures regarding covering 35 categories of firstsubsidiaries on responsibility responsibility management: level centralized procurement performance assessment from Sourcing (Registration) products. The toolkits assess August 27 to 29, 2013 To ensure legal compliance of the performance of suppliers suppliers with authenticated in energy saving and emissions registration information reduction, labor management, collected through the health and safety management Supplier Portal and Supplier and integrity business, and Information Platform require ISO 14001 (the Authentication criteria for an environmental To assess and certify the management system) and eligibility of suppliers and SA8000 (Social Accountability their performance and 8000 International Standard) capability with regard to certifications for potential legal compliance as well as suppliers environmental and social responsibilities Performance Assessment To assess and rate supplier based on their overall 16 performance score Promoting Green Supply Chain Cooperation We promoted green supply chain To effectively save packaging cooperation by actively encouraging materials including metals, plastics, and leading partners to develop paper containers, pallets and crates, eco-friendly technologies and we worked with various equipment products. We also collaborated with manufacturers to explore green our suppliers to develop more green packaging solutions as well as solutions. assessment methods and models for telecommunication equipment. Since we developed the In 2013, we saved over 100,000 m3 telecommunication equipment of timbers in Green Packaging energy conservation grading and were recognized as the Pilot standards in 2009, we have Enterprise of Timber Substitution in A New Dream with Value Chain Partners applied the standards to different Packaging Materials by MIIT. modules such as equipment selection, network access testing, In Shanxi, we required GSM network planning, engineering equipment suppliers to use the design, and network management “paper carton + metal pallet” and maintenance. The standards combination and achieved promoted and led device 100% recycle and reuse of green manufacturers to optimize structure, packaging materials. improve device integration and energy saving performance. Improving Telecommunication Equipment Energy Conservation Grading Standards Compiled Wireless Network Updated Core Network Equipment Updated Transmission Network Added TD-LTE Energy Conservation Equipment Conservation Energy Conservation Grading Equipment Energy Conservation Grading Standard to control the Requirements, adding qualitative Standard, adding grading indicators Grading Standard, adding new relatively high energy consumption requirements for software based and requirements for 2G/3G/4G requirements for OTN equipment of some TD-LTE equipments used on quantitative requirements for core network integration equipment and updating requirements for PTN in the pilot network and ensure equipment to encourage suppliers equipment respectively the overall energy efficiency of 4G to develop energy-efficient software network Green Cable Reel In Anhui, after 24 months of researching, four months of testing and 30 months of piloting, we developed an environmental friendly nano-plastic cable reel with outstanding engineering properties to replace wooden reels in use. It was estimated that 200,000 m3 of timbers (approximately equivalent to avoiding cutting down 24 km2 of forest) could be saved if it was applied group-wide. This solution not only mitigates the negative environmental impact of timbers usage and disposal, but also generates positive environmental benefits and protects biodiversity. “Besides the pollution caused by discarded wooden cable reels, parasites in wood materials may cause pest infestation in forests near the construction sites. Now with the green cable reel product, this hazard becomes well under control.” Wu Feng Deputy Director Bureau of Parks and Woods, Huangshan Management Committee 17 A New Dream Secure Consumption with Customers A New Dream with Convenient Customers Transparent China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report Over 767 million customers are our most valuable asset, and our Consumption Consumption utmost responsibility. Results of the stakeholder survey show that customers are most concerned about network quality, information security, service plan options, and customer communication. As Mobile Internet is integrated into every aspect of people’s lives, our customers expect us to not only provide quality, affordable, and convenient services, but also to make concrete improvements in privacy protection, controlling spam messages, and preventing telecom fraud. In 2013, adhering to our philosophy of focusing on customers and services, we took a series of measures to address customer concerns, including improving network quality, streamlining service plans, lowering tariffs, strengthening privacy protection, and preventing illegal activities, making concrete progress in ensuring security, transparency and convenience for our customers. A Touchable Future A New Dream with You Stakeholder Expectations Our Approaches Our 2013 Achievements Our 2014 Efforts A quality and reliable network Carrying out the “Four-Network Achieved successful connection To boost 4G network Secure consumption and Coordination” strategy to lead in rates of 99.12% with GSM and deployment, strengthen network privacy, implement governance network quality 98.53% with 3G respectively forecasting analysis and capacity, procedures upon receiving Improving emergency support Carried out 4,005 emergency and switch from network harmful information and systems, carrying out emergency support activities, with 465,443 optimization to optimization of infringement drills, and keeping the network person-times involved customer experience and value Transparent tariffs and customer stable during disasters or other Promoted “Vault Mode” To enhance supervision and rights guarantees important events and customer information ensure 100% compliance with Convenient service and timely Protecting customer information anonymization to ensure “Vault Mode” and customer response to customer demands security with technologies, customer information security information anonymization management and platforms Conducted trainings on To focus on existing customers, information security and privacy Enhancing prevention and control data traffic customers and protection with attendance of of malware, spam messages corporate customers, and over 390,000 person-times and telecommunication fraud, improve customer experience Regulated third-party channels restricting partners and avoiding with better services targeting on eight types of behaviors which may damage To maintain the lowest complaint violations customer rights rate per million customers in the Reduced Hong Kong, Macau and Simplifying service plans, industry Taiwan as well as International innovating an international roaming tariff by 46% on average, roaming pricing model, with the biggest cut at over 90% and ensuring consumption Reduced complaint rate per transparency G4-DMA million customers to 32.3, the Communicating online and best in the industry for the fourth offline with customers consecutive year 18 Ensuring Network Stability In 2013, despite the difficulties of large network scale, complexity of A New Dream with Customers network composition and the difficulty of achieving indepth coverage, we continuously carried out the 97.82% 4,005 465,443 Four-Network Coordination strategy and optimized our 3G coverage rate improved from 4,005 emergency support tasks 465,443 person-times for networks in order to 95.43% to 97.82% carried out emergency support improve customer experience with our The successful connection rate of In the 4G era, we will conduct more responsibilities, personnel and networks. our GSM network in 2013 was analyses on consumer network resource allocations, improved 99.12%, about the same as 2012; usage behaviors and data traffic emergency action plans and 3G coverage rate improved from patterns, optimize our capacity drill mechanisms, strengthened 95.43% to 97.82%. Our overall to forecast and allocate network coordination capabilities with network quality improved and we resources, and replace network better information solutions, and maintained industry leadership in oriented management with the enhanced the overall effectiveness voice quality. However, because of optimization of customer experience of our four-tier emergency support poor Mobile Internet experience, and network value. system that operates from group our end-to-end network quality headquarters to regional, provincial, As for emergency support, satisfaction rate declined slightly. In and city levels. we continuously specified some provinces, our leadership had narrowed to certain extents. Responding to Earthquake in Lushan, Sichuan On April 20, 2013, an earthquake hit Lushan, Sichuan province. After the disaster happened, it took us ten minutes to activate emergency plan, and 30 minutes to organize our emergency support team and dispatch the first emergency service vehicle. We successfully restored the connection rate from 11% to 73% within one hour. The situation was still severe: communications in 18 townships were cut, over 1,026 kilometres optical cables were damaged, over 300 base stations stopped functioning, road system was severely damaged, and there were repeated aftershocks. In response, we airdropped emergency supplies and sent emergency support crew to enter the areas on foot. Within two days, we successfully resumed communication to all impacted areas. Within three days, we restored mobile communication for all customers. Our emergency support played an important role in ensuring the smooth implementation of disaster relief efforts. Responding to Flood Disaster in Heilongjiang “China Mobile Gansu Company immediately rushed to disaster areas after the earthquake happened. In August 2013, a serious flood hit Heilongjiang province. China Mobile The Company made great contributions to organized over 120 disaster relief personnel in several teams to provide ensuring communication support for disaster relief emergency communication support. Each team safeguarded two to operations by restoring mobile communication and four base stations around the clock. We also set up 14 emergency setting up mobile service stations.” service stations, which were used by 21,000 local residents and disaster relief workers. From August 15 to September 9, we reinforced 69 Meng Longhou base stations with flooding risks, repaired more than 180 base station Vice Chief malfunctions, inspected over 14,000 kilometres of optical cable, and Armed Police Corps of Gansu Province repaired 62 optical cable disruptions. 19 550 51 32.3 Guaranteeing Informed million million Consumption 550 million SMS usage alerts were “0000” inquiry and Complaint rate per million sent each month on average unsubscription service handled 51 customers declined to 32.3 cases, million inquiries and 13 million remaining the lowest in industry Consumers have unsubscriptions averagely for the fourth consecutive year per month been complaining about unauthorized service subscription China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report and charges. In 2013, Signing Contract Service Charge we took specific We provide new customers Our system automatically sends with interactive short messages SMS reminders to customers measures to protect with introduction of the service before they are charged. The customer rights to package they ordered as well charge will be put on hold if know and improved as service and tariff information 4 the customer has concerns. our service process of the package. The customer can make inquiry about and unsubscribe all to ensure complete value-added services through consumption the “0000” service hotline. transparency, 1 3 We also developed a fast-track including contract dispute handling mechanism that reduced the average time signing, service to handle a complaint by 70%. subscription, usage, and billing. As of the end of 2013, 2 Service Subscription Service Use complaints about Our system requires Customers with no data package will receive SMS alerts unauthorized service “Second Confirmation” about their data traffic usage when they use data services for for all service subscription the first time in each month. Customers with data package subscription had will receive usage alerts as their data traffic usage approach made through our declined by 30% system to take effect. limits. Customers will also be reminded before their accounts compared with the being suspended for insufficient balance or bill overdue. A Touchable Future A New Dream with You number before we took these measures in May 2013. The In Tianjin, we intensified the management of complaints of unauthorized service subscription by implementing complaints about the “Refund First, Investigation Next” policy and the “One Button Refund” practice. Once such a customer unauthorized complaint was filed, the “One Button Refund” system would refund the customer directly and send a refund subscription of notification to the customer at the same time. It took less than a minute for the refund to be transferred to the customer’s account. Meanwhile, the system queried and recorded payment history of the customer to analyze, Wireless Music, track and supervise. Mobile Reading and other services went down the most, by Regulating Social Channels over 40%. In 2013, we carried out a group-wide campaign to regulate social channels, mainly targeting eight types of behaviors that violate customer rights, including fake promise or promotion, unauthorized service subscription or changing service terms, conspiring with outside parties to harm customer interests, illegally obtaining customers’ credits or rewards, selling customer numbers, and leaking customer personal information. During the campaign, 27,000 third-party channels were found with suspicious behaviors, and 4,005 of them were disciplined after their violations were investigated and confirmed. Improving Customer Agreement to Protect Customer Rights In 2013, we revised requirements for real-name system and customer information protection in four customer agreements such as the China Mobile Customer Agreement. The revisions reflected both our business focus and the new requirements of government regulations, and also helped customers to understand their rights and obligations regarding their personal information. Major revisions included: The Customer Agreement, Ownership Transferring Protocol and Supplement Customer Information Protocol all clearly specifies that customers must provide valid identification documents and realname information when processing these transactions. The Customer Agreement, Ownership Transferring Protocol and Supplement Customer Information Protocol all clearly defines the scenarios and principles for collecting and using customer personal information and the corresponding rights of the customers. 20 All four protocols add a clause on customer information protection, specifying that the Company is responsible for protecting all personal information we collected and used. Protecting Enhancing Partnership Management to Protect Customer Information Customer For management approaches, we formulated partnership management methods and required them to sign Information Security Commitment regarding protecting customer information security. For Privacy technological approaches, we improved the security level of sending messages to customers and prohibited partners from directly sending messages to customers. They could only send messages to customers who have subscribed to their services or customers who have actively engaged them. The growing existence of information technology and the Customer Vault Mode Customer Service A New Dream with Customers Internet in our lives further increases Information Security “Five Bans” risks of inadvertently Customer Information Security Vault Mode refers to the Do not disclose or exchange reveal or improper means to prevent customer practice that we restrict customer information; Do information from being all sensitive information not send illegal information use of personal data, operations as how banks used and revealed illegally. or commercial advertisement which is a threat to Customer information operate their vaults. Multiple without customer’s consent; social orders and includes information collected levels of personnel are Do not subscribe or alter public interests. by telecommunication required to perform operation services for customer without China Mobile strictly operators and Internet involving any sensitive customer’s confirmation; Do information service providers customer information not collude with, cover up or adheres to our “Five together. during the process of allow providers of value-added Bans” on customer providing services that can be services to disclose customer service. We took used alone or in combination information, subscribe data various measures with other information to and information services to protect customer obtain the identification and for customers, or do other service usage information of activities that infringe information security the customer, such as name, customer rights; Do not and gain customer date of birth, ID number, collude with, protect or trust. In 2013, we had address, phone number, encourage channel or system no major incident account number, and partners to give out customer of leaking customer password. information, embezzle customer’s payment, transfer information. or close customer’s account without permission, sell phone number information, as well as other activities that infringe customer’s rights. Revised Customer Information Security Protection Management Regulations, Customer Information Security Controlling Matrix, etc., formulated and issued the “Vault Mode” Optimizing and Expanding Requirements, Service Regulations on Customer Information Anonymization on Customer Interface, and Management Methods on Information Security Assessment of China Mobile Internet New Technologies and New Services Systems We anonymize We assess data security customer identification We send SMS alerts risks of new services. As We comprehensively information towards to customers when of the end of 2013, we promot the “Vault outside interfaces sensitive customer had assessed over 140 Mode”, requiring such as sales outlets, data such as detailed new services, found simultaneous third-party channels, call history or caller’s and avoided over 360 operation by two or and banks, to prevent location are requested risks. We also targeted more staff to prevent improper access and Mobile Internet services intentional leak of leaking of customer with significant social customer information privacy by our support impacts and identified by business support personnel and avoided over 30 personnel. Now information security this practice has risks been applied to 36 important systems, covering all major network systems Measures 21 Controlling Malwares Eliminating Harmful Preventing Telecom Information Frauds Preventing With the development of Mobile Malicious Internet and the popularity of As mobile phones and technologies Since September 2013, “Fake smart phones, the number of keep evolving rapidly, harmful Base Station” has caught people’s Nuisances mobile malware keep increasing information also keeps changing and attention. It can scan, capture, significantly. We further improved remains as a tough problem that and send spam or fraud messages our comprehensive defence system affects customer experience. from a disguised number. Many Protecting customers and adopted various measures to of our provincial subsidiaries Supported by China Mobile (Luoyang) from maliciously deal with this threat. had cooperated with local law Information Security Operations enforcement agencies to crack down nuisances is the key As of the end of 2013, we had Center, we carried out the Special on fake base station cases and solved to ensure the safety detected over 75,000 different Action on Protecting Network and a number of fraud cases. of consumption for mobile phone malware, blocked Information Security in 2013. This China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report customers. China 3,467 malicious attacks, issued action targeted at cleaning up and We also carried out clean-up 24 warnings to customers, shutting down ports from where activities against software products Mobile set up a investigated and disqualified 87 spam messages were sent. As of the that were used to disguise caller/ dedicated team and partners involved in malware. end of 2013, we had cleaned up sender identification. We urged platform to prevent Our efforts to eliminate malware over 450,000 ports and shut down eight application markets to delist and deal with such helped us win the recognition of over 30,000 ports. As a result, the such products. We also worked malicious behaviors. “Excellent Contributions Award” daily complaint rate about spam together with other operators to We also carried out by the Anti-Network Virus Alliance messages spread through port had establish long-term cooperation to special campaigns of China (ANVA) as the only declined by 84%. prevent telecom fraud. In addition, to fight harmful telecommunication operator. we streamlined our procedures to information and cooperate and communicate with activities, and maintain law enforcement agencies to target telecom frauds. a safe communication environment. In Fujian, we developed the “Telephone Fraud Voice Alarm Terminal End System” by using behavior analysis Developed security software and data mining technology. The for terminals such as “Mobile system could identify suspected Phone Guard” and “Handset phone numbers, and then warn the Network End Safety Pioneer”, which recipient by voice or text messages. integrate the functions of antiFrom May 2013, when the pilot Established a real-time virus, attack interception, and started, to December 2013, the A Touchable Future A New Dream with You malware monitoring privacy protection. system identified 20,446 suspected system and carried out phone numbers and sent out over 1.8 nationwide coordinated million warnings cumulatively. campaigns to handle and investigate cases of unauthorized subscription of malware. Special Campaign on Spam Messages In 2013, we carried out a group-wide special campaign on spam messages. Led by the Internal Audit Department, a team of 130 employees from related departments worked together for over 2,700 persondays. As a result, the spam message complaint rate kept declining since September 2013, with a significant drop in the period of October and November 2013. Closed-loop Controls of Mobile Pornographic Websites In 2013, we launched a special campaign to clean up pornographic information and websites in compliance with laws and regulations in China. Over 1.08 million websites were reported as suspected pornographic websites. We then monitored and blocked over 40,000 confirmed pornographic websites. Over 870,000 websites had been blocked accumulatively since we started cleaning mobile pornography in 2009. 22 Created a dedicated team to streamline service Offering plans, and the number of on-sale plans was reduced by 32% compared with 2012 Options to Immediately terminated plan bundles with Monternet services, value-added services with profit Choose sharing with SPs, or value-added services with high complaint rate. The number of these plans was reduced by over 54% Optimizing Offered customisable Streamlining Lowered roaming Tariff Tariff plans with options service plans for 242 countries and that customers could regions, and introduced Various service plans customize data traffic the 1/2/3 yuan roaming provide rich choices quota, voice minutes zone pricing model Optimizing A New Dream with Customers for customers, but too and other data services. Offered 18 yuan daily Offering Tariff Lowering many of them might In 2013, such data roaming plan that packages roaming plans had already significantly lowered cause confusion and with more fees attracted over 36 overseas roaming and make it difficult for some options million customers call tariff customers to understand and choose suitable plans. In 2013, China Mobile In 2013, we started offering the innovative 1/2/3 yuan international and Hong Kong, Macau and took optimizing service and Taiwan roaming zone pricing model, achieving an average 46% reduction of average overseas (HK/ plans as one of our focuses Macau/Taiwan and all foreign countries) roaming charges. For some markets, the decrease was even to improve customer over 90%. The new roaming plan helped increase overseas voice traffic by 20%, and bring down experience. customer complaints rate by 70%. The plan was recognized as a best practice by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Data Traffic Services The rapid development of Mobile Internet boosts data traffic service consumption. Offered standard service plan customers with Provided customers with 21 types of Customers are paying options to buy additional data packages, free-of-charge alerts and warnings greater attention to data Data making it easier for them to use data services. against large-amount or irregular services instead of focusing Offered “Alert+Upgrade” service to attract account activities, and provided Traffic more standard service plan customers to on voice services only. In customers with data traffic plans over Services switch to data plans. Exempting standard plan 2013, we carried out a 50 MB with Online Account Info and customers from petty data traffic charges they number of measures to Real-time SMS Usage alert incurred unintentionally improve our data traffic services. We commence building Customers can learn Providing a repair and maintenance about our services, Convenient structure to provide customers with after-sales subscribe service plan, customize handsets, Services consultation, handset Terminal Brick and Mortar and file complaints in repairing and maintenance Maintenance person Outlets services Customers can learn service China Mobile aims to information, subscribe service Customers can access their Service SMS Service 10086 plan, and file complaints provide customers with account information and make inquiries about our services Platform Platforms Hotline through 24-hour customer convenience through through interactive SMSs representatives, automatic rich service channels and voice system, SMS, fax and Mobile Online email simplified service process. Service Service Customers can make inquiries Platform Platform Customers can have full In 2013, we upgraded and submit service requests access to our services online our Business Operation via APP installed on their Supporting System so mobile phones of all major systems such as Android, iOS that the response time and Windows Phone of online business portal was reduced from 4.52 seconds to 3.54 seconds, the response time of SMS service platform was reduced from 12.31 91% 8.5 million We have 1,131 after-sales repair and maintenance Over 8.5 million mobile service platform APPs had been seconds to 8.92 seconds, outlets covering 91% of regions at city and above installed; 2.8 million average active customers with and the rate of timely levels in Mainland China average usage of 23 minutes per month repairing of self-help 23 terminals was increased from 75.3% to 83.3%. 79,970 293,000 77.75% Improving Customer Communication In 2013, we received 79,970 Over 293,000 complaints were In 2013, we kept our industry person-times on Customer Days, handled through our website and leadership in customer handled 78,096 inquiries and Weibo in 2013 satisfaction with a comprehensive We provide collected 54,654 suggestions satisfaction rate of 77.75% customers with various communication In 2013, we integrated and events such as Customer Day to In Zhejiang, we developed a China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report channels, including improved our customer communicate with customers template for preliminary handling physical outlets, communication channels and directly. In addition, we actively of customer complaints over developed a multi-layered collected and analyzed customer overseas roaming tariff and an 10086 hotline, email, interactive platform to engage our feedbacks on concerned issues such express channel for handling and SMS, website, customers both online and offline. as network quality, service tariff, solving customer complaints. With etc., through which We addressed customer complaints and unauthorized charges, and used clear authorization for front-line we interact with and communicated with customers these feedbacks to help us further personnel and full-process tracking, customers by online through our official website improve service quality. these efforts were able to help and Weibo. We also hosted resolve overseas roaming tariff listening to their related complaints quickly. feedbacks and complaints and using these information to further improve our service quality. We engage customers and experts directly Online in the process Website and Weibo to continuously In 2013, we collected over 56,000 customers’ suggestions, issued 2,492 optimize our service notices, communicated with over 10086 hotline. A Touchable Future A New Dream with You 1.9 million people, and handled over Since its launch 293,000 pieces of customer complaints. in July 2013, the new 10086 hotline system received Offline positive feedback Customer Day and significantly In 2013, we organized 12 Customer Day activities, involving 79,970 customers and improved customer 5,750 general managers of subsidiaries perception. at city level or above, handled 78,096 customer inquiries and complaints, and collected 54,654 customer suggestions. Customer Satisfaction Third-party Survey We had been carrying out third-party independent surveys on customer satisfaction for 14 years consecutively, which covered more than 300,000 samples nationwide each year. We used the survey results both in annual subsidiary assessment and improvements of key factors affecting customer satisfaction. In 2013, we identified 19 factors that affected customer experience and developed a customer satisfaction assessment system accordingly. We surveyed customers through various channels, including phone calls, SMSs, website and one-on-one interviews. The results showed that our 2013 comprehensive satisfaction was 77.75%, 0.25 ppt higher than the level of the beginning of the year. In the future, we will keep focusing on and improving customer perception with emphases given to key customer groups such as existing customers, data traffic customers, and corporate customers. 24 A New Dream Safety with Employees A New Dream with Employees A New Dream with Employees Employees are the foundation of China Mobile’s Growth Respect innovation and development, as well as the ones who provide customer service and implement innovative practices. Employees expect a healthy and safe working environment, fair promotion opportunities, promising career paths, and more importantly, respect and appreciation of their value. China Mobile provides a safe, stable, and harmonious working environment to meet employees' needs, while supports career development and carries out employee care to realize growth together. Stakeholder Expectations Our Approaches Our 2013 Achievements Our 2014 Efforts Occupational health and safety Guaranteeing occupational Carried out 1,120 emergency To issue a series of regulations, Fair treatment and a good health and safety, regularly drills with a 85% participation including China Mobile’s Safety career development platform inspecting safety conditions, rate; no safety incidents or Management Regulations Respect, appreciation, and a and improving safety-related casualties in 2013 in Equipment Rooms, Base harmonious work place processes 989,000 person-times of Stations and Sales Outlets Innovating training and employees were trained, with To ensure that at least 92% evaluation methods, and an average training time of 61.2 of employees receive health providing training opportunities hours per employee checkups Carrying out performance-based Performance-based To issue the China Mobile EAP incentives, and giving more remuneration system adopted Development Plan to provide career development options and for all sales and call center guidance for our subsidiaries choices employees and managers; pilot To improve the percentage Comprehensively implementing systems launched for front-line of “Employees’ Homes” the Employee Assistance employees established in provincial Program (EAP), establishing 90.05% employees received subsidiaries and city branches to “Employees’ Homes” to health checkups; EAP covered 75% organize various leisure activities 250,000 employees (including Developing excellent employee contractors); 235,000 awards to recognize model employees participated in employees leisure activities 72% of all subsidiaries and branches established “Model Employees’ Homes” G4-DMA Hosted the “Most Admirable Mobilers” campaign 25 Workplace Safety Physical and Mental Health Safety and In 2013, we carried out two In 2013, we issued four safety Health workplace safety inspections, and implemented on-site safety management guidelines, including We regularly organize our China Mobile’s Management employees to receive health monitoring in 27 provincial Measures on Transportation Safety checkups. In 2013, 90.5% of our subsidiaries, accounting for a and China Mobile’s Management employees had health checkups. China Mobile coverage rate of 87%. Among Measures for Safe Production and We developed the Employee actively adheres to the 15,171 safety hazard cases Work Protection; and explored Assistance Program (EAP) to help discovered, 94% were rectified. and established standardized and employees mitigate work stress and workplace safety All subsidiaries accomplished their centralized safety management improve their mental health. As of practices and internal monitoring. models, such as a pilot program we the end of 2013, our headquarters takes occupational developed in Liaoning, Shanxi and and all provincial subsidiaries had We actively promote a culture of health and safety Tianjin, which involved a centralized implemented EAP, covering over China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report safety, raising safety awareness as a top priority. among employees by hosting frontsafety monitoring and management 250,000 employees (including We are committed line level activities and organizing platform. contractors). to providing various safety training programs and In 2013, no safety accidents or emergency drills. casualties occurred. our employees with a safe and harmonious working 250,000 1,120 environment. Our EAP covered over 250,000 We carried out 1,120 emergency employees (including contractors) safety drills, with a participation rate of 85% A Touchable Future A New Dream with You Advanced training for Organized conference Expanded the scope key EAP trainees for EAP sharing of EAP 60 trainees were selected out of We promoted knowledge We hosted lectures on mental 180 EAP trainees to form a key sharing, learning cutting-edge assets and leadership, provided EAP trainee team and provide theories and trends to further psychological counselling to EAP with talent support. develop our EAP. all employees, and distributed electronic journals about mental health. Guangdong: Mental health salon 26 Beijing: Practising how to use a fire hose Shaanxi: A theme activity of “Showing your dreams” Knowledge Acquisition 989,000 11.5 Training and Career We continually improve our training system and innovate million Development our training practices, aiming 989,000 person-times of Our Online University attracted to enhance the capability of employees received training, with 11.5 million person-times with an our talent with training and an average training time of 61.2 average of 25 studying hours per learning opportunities. hours per employee participant We are committed to providing employees with a supportive career development A New Dream with Employees platform.Various Training Practices training options are We developed the “Mixed Learning Practice on Rapid Development for offered to help our Technicians” program by integrating various study platforms such as face-to-face employees grow. training, our online university, online tests, and mobile learning. This program was awarded the 2013 Best Practice Award by the American Society for Training & Development (ASTD). It is a global showcase program for training and learning. The China Mobile cell phone learning Training Evaluation platform was launched in January We established an “Innovative, Closed-loop Management and Training Evaluation 2013. Nearly System”. 100,000 employees registered, and had logined for 222,000 person-times in using the platform Sharing Resources to study. We centralized group-wide training resources to fully use our resources and increase expertise and efficiency. Career Development We support employee career talent rotation program between system for senior management development and provide our headquarters and affiliated talent, established a management employees with opportunities for institutions; six employees were reserve pool with 153 candidates, growth by improving our promotion selected to participate in this and selected 135 promising young mechanism, our internal position program. We also selected three managers (born after 1975). rotations, and our exchange headquarters employees to work in We also increased the support mechanism. China Mobile International Limited, available for our employees in In 2013, we selected 15 employees further expanding the scope of acquiring professional certifications from our headquarters and position rotations. and in passing tests, in order to dispatched them to seven provincial We provided a variety of career encourage them to continuously subsidiaries to gain first-hand development platforms, such as enhance their professional experience at different positions. recommending employees to capability. In 2013, we organized We also organized seminars participate in the National Special 925 examinations with the to allow first batch of rotated Support Plan, the 100-1000-10000 participation of 190,000 employees. employees to share their experience Talent Program, the China Youth This was respectively 1.6 and and feedback in their new positions Technology Award and others. 6.9 times higher than last year’s in 2012. We organized a special We developed a talent reserve numbers. “The opportunity to work at the front line is precious. I can enrich my experience, gain stronger abilities, and contribute to the development of the provincial subsidiary with my experience. In the new position, I need to face millions of customers directly, so haste and pressure to achieve KPIs becomes a part of life. However, it is also the best place to prove our marketing strategy and my own ability on the front line. I feel rewarded and happy when I see customers smiling.” Zhang Mingwei, Project Manager of Department of Data Services at Headquarters Rotation position: Vice Manager of Marketing Department at China Mobile Shandong Company, Weifang Branch 27 Respect and Rights Protection Recognition On the basis of ensuring Performance-based Employee Collective employee rights Remuneration System Participation Negotiation and of providing development Our performance-based We encourage employees to 100% of our employees have opportunities, we China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report remuneration system was participate in corporate decisionsigned labor contracts and all focus on establishing established on the “Achieve making and supervision through provincial subsidiaries have signed a reasonable More, Earn More” principle. channels such as employee collective agreements. 100% of As of the end of 2013, the representative conferences and all regular employees are labor performance and system had extended to all sales corporate affairs briefings; each union members, and 98% of all remuneration system employees, call center employees, of our provincial subsidiaries holds contractors are union members that would show corporate customer managers employee representative conference either at their direct employers our respect and and telesales managers. We also at least once per year. As to changes or China Mobile. All provincial recognition for our implemented reforms upon frontthat impact employee rights or have subsidiaries conducted collective employees’ value line employees in relation with significant impact on the company, salary negotiations, and over 50% network functions, applying a we would involved employee of them have signed collective and contributions, in quantified performance-based representatives in decision-making salary agreements. order to help them remuneration system to provide process. maintain work-life them with positive incentives. balance. Supporting Work and Life Diversity Balance We pay close attention in With respect to contractors, we We established Employees’ Homes supporting the development of participated in the Deepening Labor at our provincial subsidiaries and A Touchable Future A New Dream with You female employees. We set up the Market Reform survey in 2012. In their city branches, as well as Female Employee Committee (FEC) 2013, we issued the Notification Employees’ Little Homes at some to better protect their rights. We of Carrying out the Revised Labor county-level branches. These are also actively support the career Law to Further Regulate Labor aiming at creating a warm and development of female employees Management. Meanwhile, labor comfortable workplace. In 2013, through activities such as female unions at all levels organized 72% of provincial subsidiaries and worker skill competitions or discussions and collected feedback city branches had established Model innovation competitions. from contractors upon the Provisions Employees’ Homes. Moreover, we on Contractors (Draft). formulated comfort policies on providing support and condolences to employees in straitened circumstances. We organized and encouraged our Organized female Organized trainings Conducted a forum on employees to participate in a variety senior management for Directors of FECs in methods to support of activities, including the Cloud seminars on the strategic provincial subsidiaries to female employee career Image Mobile Phone Photography transformation and enhance female employee development and to protect Exhibition during the first Beijing sustainable development mentoring female employee rights at International Photography Week, of our company the bottom level. Over 70 management staff of FECs bowling games at the World participated Enterprises’ Games, as well as table tennis competitions, bridge games, and internal painting and calligraphy exhibitions. In 2013, employee participation in our organized cultural and sports activities was over 235,000 person-times. 28 Feature: Most 1 2 3 Admirable Mobilers In 2013, to pay homage to those 4 5 6 employees who work in ordinary positions and A New Dream with Employees continuously contribute to our development, we launched our first “Most Admirable Mobilers” campaign. The 7 8 9 selection process lasted for eight months and a total of 260,000 votes were received from all employees (including contractors). Finally, 18 10 11 12 employees and teams were awarded the title of “Most Admirable Mobilers”. 98 employees and teams were nominated and 23 units were granted “Excellent 13 14 15 Organization” awards. Among other things, the couple of Qimei Duoji and Bianba Zhuoma was also awarded in a popular Internet “Loving Hearts Campaign” in 2013. 16 17 18 Serving Customers / 1-4 Ensuring Network Safety / 5-8 Contributing to Society / 9-10 Exploring and Innovating / 11-13 1 Wang Yan, a “headset-wearing 11 Zhou Hui, an expert who pursues Working Hardly / 14-18 angel” dreaming of serving a million technology advantage customers 12 Huang Shaowen, an innovative 2 Li Xiaoya, an excellent team leader like “Superman” who ensures a “Mulan” reliable service network “During the visit to our 3 Tian Fang, the “mobile island queen” 13 The TD-LTE taskforce focused on headquarters, I witnessed the serving in a branch office on a remote technological breakthrough and strong spirit embodied by the Most island in Bohai Sea industrial promotion, a 4G “dream Admirable Mobilers. Their figures 4 Jing Weijuan, a “smiling ambassador” team” are emblazoned in my mind. With on the front lines 14 Qimei Duoji and Bianba Zhuoma (a cohesion, solidarity and capability, 5 Li Zhan, an “Iron rose” who takes couple), operating a China Mobile we are such a great team! I am sure innovation as her mission outlet at the foot of Holy Mount Zhu Zhiwei, a “network guardian” on Kailash that we will do a better job in the 6 the shore of the East China Sea 15 The Sansha network construction future. During this process, let’s Gu Ming, a “network pioneer” who and maintenance team, working hand this spirit to others and work 7 connect lives through optical cables against harsh natural conditions in together towards a better future!” Sansha, South China Sea 8 Qian Shaoyu, a “sturdy fighter” who Yuan Ying devotes himself to the mobile industry 16 Wang Ronghu, a Mobiler who A model employee at faces hardship in working in the 9 Mukedansi, sharing her big love like China Mobile Xizang Company southwest frontier of China mom 17 Ma Xingyi, a die-hard worker 10 Yuan Ying, a model employee working in Xizang 18 Qiu Naidong, a model leader with honesty and self-discipline 29 A New Dream Safety with Communities A New Dream with Communities China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report Communities exert significant influence on corporate development. Various corporate operations and Support Development activities impose potential and long-term influence on communities. Our surveys reveal that the public expect China Mobile to effectively manage EMF, actively participate in community development, repay society with community investment, support social development under the obligations of a large responsible enterprise. In 2013, we further enhanced our dialog with communities and committed to building a glorious homeland through in-depth community engagement and sustainable supports for social charities. A Touchable Future A New Dream with You Stakeholder Expectations Our Approaches Our 2013 Achievements Our 2014 Efforts Safer living environment Optimizing the management Issued Assessment Approaches of To ensure that EMF from our base Community construction and mechanism of EMF, strengthening Electromagnetic Radiation in Base stations is qualified and enhance development support community communication and Stations, completed the detection the disclosure of radiation Public welfare support, value information disclosure of environment impacts on more information sharing with vulnerable groups Supporting poverty alleviation than 120 thousand base stations To provide effective relief works in underdeveloped areas, Invested 40.43 million yuan for measures in impoverished areas and offering additional support poverty alleviation in Xinjiang, To strengthen the evaluation through innovating poverty Xizang, Qinghai, Heilongjiang and of public welfare programs and alleviation models other impoverished areas standardize them in provincial Along with the China Mobile Cumulatively trained 10,795 subsidiaries Charity Foundation, using principals, established 216 To target our available welfare the strength of our provincial China Mobile Libraries and 206 resources into impoverished areas, subsidiaries to promote social multimedia classrooms in 23 with plans to complete trainings harmony by supporting education provinces in the central and for 11,000 principals, donate development, and by aiding western regions of China through 200 libraries and 190 multimedia vulnerable groups the China Mobile “Blue Dream” classrooms, and provide treatment Encouraging our employees to Education Aid Plan for 850 children with congenital do volunteer work, starting a The China Mobile “Heart Caring heart disease volunteer platform to enable all Campaign” provided free To provide volunteer opportunities parties to voluntarily contribute to screening to 5,241 children in for employees and encourage their communities poverty and completed surgeries more people to participate for 748 children diagnosed with congenital heart disease Released the “Guiding Opinions on Further Promoting Volunteering in China Mobile”; employee volunteers reached G4-DMA 98,581, contributing 522 thousand service hours this year 30 Enhancing EMF Management In the process of providing quality communication services to our A New Dream with Communities customers, we pay great attention to protect the health and safety of local communities with strict management of electromagnetic radiation from the Hubei: We organized a telecommunication-themed summer camp and invited students to visit our base stations and network to ensure learn about EMF knowledge. its compliance with national standards. In 2013, we urged our provincial subsidiaries to contract qualified third-party organizations to assess the environmental impacts of our base stations. Over 120,000 base stations were evaluated and more than 99% of them were in compliance with national EMF requirements. The remaining ones passed reevaluation after taking corrective measures. Improving EMF Information Disclosure Raising Awareness of Management on EMF EMF Mechanism Strictly in compliance with the We continuously improve our Provisional Regulation on Public communication with the public We strictly complied with Participation in Environmental to raise their awareness and the requirements of the Impact Assessment, we understanding of EMF related Electromagnetic Fields demonstrated environmental issues with science education. Management Methods and impact information, both before issued Assessment Approaches of Making Educational Videos: and after the construction of a Electromagnetic Radiation in Base We cooperated with China Central base station, to the public to help Stations. In 2013, we conducted Television (CCTV) and All China local communities understand quantitative assessments of EMF Environment Federation (ACEF) how base station works and what management in Jiangsu and other and jointly produced the science its impacts are really like. In 2013, ten provincial subsidiaries. We also education program In Touch we invested 1.8 million yuan and organized trainings and sharing with Electromagnetic Waves and developed an EMF monitoring sessions for front-line personnel a special program, The Truth system. The system was piloted in to learn about risk communication about Base Station Radiation. In Shandong, Henan, Guangxi, and strategy, technical standards, and these programs, we thoroughly Gansu provinces, providing reallaws and regulations related to explained the science, technical time base station EMF data to the EMF. standards and health impact of public. base station radiation. Producing Knowledge Reader: We compiled the Green Base Station, Transparent EMF Information knowledge reader ABC of Mobile Communications and In March 2013, an electronic bulletin board was set up in a residential Electromagnetic Radiation, neighbourhood in West Lake District of Hangzhou, displaying the location provided a comprehensive of base stations in the neighbourhood, their EMF radiation readings, and knowledge and tips regarding EMF radiation. This was a pilot of the Green introduction to EMF related and Harmonious Electromagnetic Environment project that we innovated, policies and regulations, technical and it was the first one of such programs in China. The micro-cellular mobile standards, and health impact. communication technology does not cause harmful radiation. The purpose of this program was to change people’s concern over EMF radiation through 31 “seeing is believing”. In 2013, we actively took great Alleviation Projects and established Gradually, we had phased out efforts on poverty alleviation a three-tier management structure the traditional poverty alleviation Supporting and development support. We to ensure sound financial model centerd on charitable Poverty reshaped and strengthened our poverty alleviation management management, quality control and compliance of poverty alleviation donations and adopted a new model centerd on capacity building Alleviation model, particularly at provincial projects. In 2013, we donated in business, technology, and subsidiary level. We formulated 40.43 million yuan to provide management skills, empowering the Projects and Funds continuous supports for these people to pursue development Management Methods for Poverty programs. with their own efforts. As a large public service corporation, it is our responsibility China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report to support poverty alleviation, and contribute to local Poverty 2013 Annual 2013 Aid development. Alleviation Funding Initiative Regions In order to promote health, agricultural Luopu development and education, we County, Shule 4.5 participated in the rural safe drinking water County, project in Aqike Township, Luopu County; and Aketao built 30 greenhouses in Baren Township, million yuan Shule County; and established a bilingual County kindergarten for Qiaerlong Township, in Xinjiang Aketao County. We participated in a variety of projects to speed up economic growth and improve Gaize County in Xizang 21 infrastructure in Gaize County, including public housing, township-level disaster relief supply A Touchable Future A New Dream with You reserves, rural cultural centers, agricultural million yuan irrigation, township government office, security and traffic checkpoints, and office space for local government. We participated in several projects to improve local education and health care Maqin conditions, including Maqin County Third County in Qinghai 9.45 Primary School Building, Lajia Township Boarding School Building, Lajia Township Hospital In-Patient Housing, Drinking million yuan Water Program in Xiadawu Township, and professional training in Maqin Township. In order to improve transportation and health care conditions, we supported a Huanan County, 5.48 variety of projects, such as safe drinking and Tangyuan water, road and bridge construction, village County in road renovation, village offices, and fitness million yuan facilities. Meanwhile, we provided financial Heilongjiang aids for villagers in need and 100 college students from the two counties. Supporting Community Development in Xizang In Xizang, we actively carried out a variety of poverty alleviation projects at village level, including improving village management, ensuring access to communication, organizing cultural events, conducting trainings, and participating in disaster relief operations. We also conducted in-depth investigation to understand the needs of local villages and helped them solve problems. In the past three years, we had dispatched over 260 employee volunteers in 38 teams, and supported rural development with over 50 aid projects in 18 villages. 32 Blue Dreams, Changing the Future Supporting We launched the China Mobile“Blue areas in central and western China. In Henan, we have been carrying Dream” Education Aid Plan in During the last eight years, we out the “Love Rally” education Equal cooperation with the Ministry had already supported trainings support campaign for eight Education of Education (MOE) and China for 59,000 primary and secondary consecutive years. In 2013, we Education Development Foundation school principals from these regions, provided financial aids to 300 college Opportunities in 2006. We are committed to and donated 1,910 China Mobile students and offered them workhelping improve education quality Libraries and 880 multimedia study opportunities to support their and facilities in underdeveloped classrooms for rural schools in these education. Supporting education areas. is a top priority of our philanthropy A New Dream with Communities investment. We focus on helping Principal Training Libraries and Multimedia Classrooms We organized shadow trainings and remote Schools in under-developed rural areas children in central trainings for primary and secondary school often do not have any library and book and western China to principals from rural areas in central or collection. In 2006, we cooperated with realize their dreams western China to help them broaden the MOE to donate China Mobile Libraries and change their management horizons and improve teaching to primary and secondary schools in central lives through better quality. We arranged for them learn from and western region. In 2009, China Mobile top schools and helped them improve Charity Foundation added multimedia education. their management capability and diagnose classrooms into this program. In 2013, the problems they had back home. In 2013, the program built 216 China Mobile Libraries program trained 1,014 principals through and 206 multimedia classrooms. shadow trainings and 9,781 through remote trainings. Go, Principal! Fang Jiancai is the principal of Xixia Yilong Hope Primary School in Yinchuan, Ningxia. When he took this position, the conditions of the school were extremely poor and he was frustrated and clueless on how to improve. The principal training opportunity was a lifesaver for him, allowing him to gradually reshape his goals during the two weeks of onsite training. Upon his return, Fang started cultivating the sense of belonging from the teachers to their school and their students. The school started changing. It was his belief that hard work would pay off, and their school would become a loving home for both teachers and children. “I am studying and observing everything right in front of my eyes, such as the philosophy and approaches to manage a school. Particularly, how to manage with human touch, with scientific method, and with systems. I am taking everything back with me that can help my school to develop.” Fang Jiancai The principal of Xixia Yilong Hope Primary School IT Trainings IT Competitions Research Funding From 2012 to 2015, we worked We sponsored the nationwide As of the end of 2013, we had and will work with the MOE to School Information Network Cup funded nearly 100 million yuan in participate in the nationwide IT Computer Assembly Contest research funding to universities, competency training program for and the National Primary and including 40 million yuan to primary and secondary school Secondary School Teacher IT Beijing Normal University and teachers in central and western Thesis Competition. Over 5 million Central South University to fund China. The program planned to people participated in the contest the joint research lab with the provide 200,000 teachers with a and assembled over 100,000 MOE on Mobile Learning and minimum of 50 hours of remote pieces of work, and over 100,000 Mobile Health. We allocated trainings each person, and provide teachers participated in the thesis 38 million yuan to fund special 2,000 core teachers with 30 competition. research projects with universities, hours of group trainings. In 2013, we completed the development with 20 programs already been of training materials and online launched. courses. We also conducted three group trainings to 600 core 33 teachers. 17,788 1,341 119.05 Caring for Vulnerable million yuan Groups As of the end of 2013, we We cumulatively sponsored China Mobile Charity Foundation had provided free congenital surgeries for 1,341 children who had donated 119.05 million yuan heart disease screenings for were diagnosed with congenital cumulatively from 2009 to 2013 Assisting vulnerable cumulatively 17,788 children in heart disease poverty groups in need is conducive to upholding Heart Caring Love, by Your Side China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report social justice and promoting social Campaign In Hubei, we continued to carry outlets with chairs and drinking harmony. We took In 2013, we invested 22.5 million out the Care for 10,000 Leftfountains for them. We not only concrete measures yuan to continuously support behind Children Campaign. We helped the workers directly, but that addressed the the China Mobile “Heart Caring collected 200 wishes from leftalso raised the awareness of the special needs of the Campaign” Aid for Children in behind children, among which 100 public to care for the well-being of vulnerable groups. Poverty with Congenital Heart wishes had already been adopted sanitation workers. Disease Program. We continued by business and individual donors. We had also completed our fund In Pakistan, we invested the programs in Henan and raising target of 100 school buses, 1,082,400 Rupee (about 60,000 Liaoning, and launched phase and purchased and delivered the yuan) and cooperated with II programs in both Neimenggu school buses to schools for leftBuksh Foundation to conduct and Liaoning, as well as a new behind children. the “Lighting One Million Lives” program in Shanxi. In 2013, we project in two villages. We provided free screening for 5,241 In Henan, we noticed that it provided 50 rechargeable lanterns children and sponsored 748 was often difficult for sanitation and set up solar mobile charging children who were diagnosed workers to get drinking water stations to help 950 villagers be to receive surgery treatment and a place to rest during their able to enjoy brightness at night. immediately. work. In Puyang city, we set up Love Rest Stops in our sales A Touchable Future A New Dream with You Donations of China Mobile Charity Foundation (Million Yuan) 38.30 26.55 20.20 22.00 12.00 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Since its foundation in 2009, China Mobile Charity Foundation had carried out a series of substantial and influential philanthropic programs in education, environmental protection, vulnerable groups assistance, etc., such as the China Mobile “Blue Dream” Education Aid Plan, Warm China 12.1 Charity Fund China Mobile Care Action, and China Mobile “Heart Caring Campaign”... These programs embodied our love and hope, and witnessed every step along our journey of philanthropy. China Mobile Charity Foundation had already donated 119.05 million yuan since its inception. Its outstanding work helped us win the top philanthropic award in China – China Philanthropy Award, which was awarded by the Ministry of Civil Affairs of China (MCA) – for five consecutive years. In 2013, China Mobile Charity Foundation received an AAA Rating from the National Social Organization Evaluation Commission of the MCA. 34 In the “Blue Dream” Education Aid Plan, to motivate children to read and learn, we held a series of nationwide volunteer activities, such as Donating a Good Book and Dream Classroom. Over 140,000 books were donated Encouraging through these activities. Volunteer In the “Heart Caring Campaign”, the trustees of China Mobile Charity Foundation also served as volunteers to visit the children after surgeries, and brought them gifts and school supplies. In 2013, China Mobile volunteers Services provided over 3,000 hours of volunteer services to the Heart Caring Campaign. We encourage and support our employees to participate in volunteer activities, and A New Dream with Communities guide them to establish employee volunteer organizations. In 2013, we issued the Guiding Opinions on Further Promoting Volunteering in China Mobile to further encourage and regulate employee volunteerism. As of the end of 2013, there Innovating on Wireless Volunteer Platform were 98,581 employee In Shanghai, we developed the “Wireless City · Smart Philanthropy” subsection on the “Wireless City” volunteers and they platform with cooperation of The Communist Youth League of Shanghai and Youth Volunteer Association. We applied IT technology to volunteer organization and management. As of the end of 2013, “Wireless had provided a total City · Smart Philanthropy” had supported 15,000 Youth Volunteer Groups and over 1,500 Volunteer Service of 522,000 hours of Centers. And there were over 400,000 core volunteers had obtained certifications through the platform. volunteer services during 2013. China Mobile 2013 Employee Philanthropy Stars Sharing Big Love Philanthropy, the Best Trickles of Love Made Great Companion for Youth Changes Mukedansi is an customer Wang Yong is an corporate Hu Yumei is a marketing manager account manager at Yili prefecture account manager at Suining at Qilin Branch of China Mobile branch of China Mobile Xinjiang branch of China Mobile Jiangsu Yunnan Company. In the last Company. To help children in Company. In 2007, Wang Yong ten years, she made 16 blood difficult conditions, Mukedansi and some colleagues founded donations. And she organized spent all her savings to build a the charity organization Suining fellow workers regularly to family school, adopted 12 orphans Volunteers Union. During provide volunteer services for local and 20 children from families the following six years, the elderly homes and a school for in poverty, supported three organization organized many children with hearing and speech widowed elderlies, and sponsored volunteer activities, such as fund difficulties. With the trickles of two families with handicapped raising for southwest drought, care and love over time, they have members to build new houses. assisting children with cerebral brought great warmth to the For herself, she leads a frugal life palsy to do rehabilitation trainings, hearts of the vulnerable groups and still uses the handbag the and taking care of left-behind they have been helping. Company issued to her in 1998. children as “social moms”. They had organized 30 volunteer activities with over 600 persontimes participated. 35 A New Dream Green Network with the Environment A New Dream with the Green Environment Green China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report The lingering and thick layer of haze in 2013 made it clear Business Advocacy that environmental pollution was closely related to everyone. There are tough questions for everyone-government agencies, social organizations, enterprises, and individuals-how will we balance the dilemma between economic development and environmental protection, and what concrete actions can we take to mitigate the severe damage to the environment? For China Mobile, it is our responsibility to consistently and strictly manage our environmental impact. More importantly, it is also our responsibility to leverage our industry prowess and advanced technology, making greater contributions in tackling climate changes, building a green ICT industry, and enabling the development of a shared ecological civilization for everyone. A Touchable Future A New Dream with You Stakeholder Expectations Our Approaches Our 2013 Achievements Our 2014 Efforts Responsible operation and Continually implementing Set up the closed-loop To continually carry out inspections effective management to reduce the “Green Action Plan” environmental management to ensure energy conservation and our environmental impact for seven years, improving mechanism, and strictly emissions reduction “Green” services that enable us our environmental strategy implemented energy conservation To promote intelligent power to reduce energy and resource and management system to assessments technology for our network, consumption achieve fully-operating energy Reduced comprehensive including Multiple Carriers Power Platforms and tools built on our conservation and emissions energy consumption per unit of Amplifier (MCPA) technology, and resources; using technological reduction telecommunication traffic by 38% base stations without equipment expertise and our influence to Constructing green network, over 2012; emitted 12.22 million room advocate for public environmental developing and promoting tonnes of CO2 To reduce comprehensive protection energy-saving technologies and 100% recycled 86.98 million energy consumption per unit applications, and improving Ahs discarded lead acid batteries of telecommunication traffic by green protocols and standards to through professional channels 13.5% over 2013, and reduce conserve energy and to reduce Held a total of 942 video per carrier frequency energy emissions conferences in our headquarters, consumption of base stations (not Conducting green business and and handled 82% of our business including LTE) by 5% “Greening” our service with transactions through electronic To innovate on 4G powered ICT paperless documentation and channels environmental solutions electronic channels Supported pollution supervision by Providing green ICT industry using information solutions based solutions, engaging in regular on IOT green advocacy activities, and G4-DMA leveraging our industry prowess and expertise during the process 36 Environmental Strategy and 24,000 340,000 38% Management We completed energy efficiency We have installed the Remote Our comprehensive energy assessments of a total of Power Monitoring System in consumption per unit of 24,000 communication facilities 340,000 base stations, allowing telecommunication traffic was (including 23,000 base stations). us to collect energy consumption reduced by 38% over 2012 Facing the Among them, 70% received data remotely in real-time increasingly Green Star Ratings, while 7.5% severe resource won the highest rating of triple and environmental stars A New Dream with the Environment situation, China Mobile incorporated the Environmental Strategy issues of tackling climate changes and promoting Green energy conservation Network and emissions Green Green reduction into our Green Green Solutions Advocacy Service Office AND business strategy. On one hand, we actively control Managing environmental impact Promoting social environmental protection the environmental impact of our operations from Environmental Management System three aspects: green We have set up a sound Environmental Management System (EMS) by building organizational structure, network, green improving management capability, and optimizing evaluation mechanisms. In 2013, we continued to improve service, and green environmental management through energy conservation and emissions reduction management, statistical office, and work analyzes, and assessments and recognitions. As a result, our power consumption per unit of business decreased by 23% and our comprehensive energy consumption per unit of telecommunication traffic was reduced by 38% with our partners on year to year basis, and we also successfully surpassed our 2013 energy saving target by 15%. to promote a costeffective and green industrial ecology with more energy-efficient Building Promoting Management Optimizing Evaluation equipments and Organizational Capability Mechanism better waste Structure Held seminars and workshops Incorporated energy management. On Established a “Green to share and promote best conservation and emissions the other hand, we Action Plan” leading practices reduction in our Business are committed to team, and set up Organized thematic trainings Performance Evaluation a dedicated office for core personnel, and invited System (KPI), and developed fully utilizing our in charge of daily experts to provide training on 2013 Assessment Methods advantage in ICT management under energy audit and carbon trading. covering four quantitative technology and the Department etc. indicators and 11 key industry influence of Planning at our Set up a communication energy-saving measures headquarters platform and hosted video Monthly collection and to promote Founded leading conferences every two months disclosure of energy innovative green teams at provincial to promote best practices consumption and solutions and subsidiaries, and Established the Case Center conservation statistics of encourage public assigned dedicated for Best Practices in Energy our provincial subsidiaries personnel overseeing Conservation to promote Recognized companies with participation in daily work effective energy-saving measures outstanding performance environmental protection, so as to provide the platforms and tools for society to work Energy Management System together towards Given our energy consumption mainly occurred at numerous but scattered communication facilities such as base a better ecological stations, we chose to take advantage of our existing system resources such as the Wireless Network Management civilization. System (WNMS) and the Power Environment Monitoring System to form a centralized Energy Management Platform, and use the Platform to intelligently gather power usage data, irregularities in power consumption, and power usage effectiveness (PUE) data of all facilities including base stations and equipment rooms. We also 37 formulated China Mobile Energy Management Program Guideline (Energy Data Intelligent Gathering Section) and Technical Specifications, which put forward specific requirements on principles, scale and schedule of intelligent gathering of power consumption data of our provincial subsidiaries. Green Network Green Network Construction Joint Construction and Sharing: In 2013, we reached Network operations, including agreements with relevant operators on jointly constructing eight inter-province trunk cables. Other joint construction network equipments in base and sharing infrastructure projects under construction or in stations and equipment rooms, planning stage included: 42 railway lines, 26 subway lines, account for the majority of our 84 highways, 16 airports, 48 large venues, 31 sight-seeing attractions of nationaland provincial-level, 50 industrial parks, electricity consumption. We have 13 campuses, and 803 residential projects. Joint construction been taking concrete measures on and sharing effectively avoided duplicated construction as well two fronts, network construction as reduced the consumption of resources. China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report and network operation, to Alternative Energy Base Stations: We continued to reduce our energy consumption expand the application of alternative energy technologies and construct alternative energy base stations in resourceby applying energy-saving rich regions. As of the end of 2013, we had built about technologies as well as ensuring 12,000 alternative energy base stations, including better equipment management over 10,000 solar powered (including dual wind-solar models) ones. They allowed us to reduce our electricity and maintenance. consumption by 52 million kWh each year, equivalent to the reduction of CO2 emission by 39,000 tonnes. Base Stations without Equipment Room: In 2013, we built 37,000 base stations without equipment room, which Integrated could reduce electricity consumption by 220 million kWh Alternative Energy each year, equivalent to the reduction of CO2 emission by Base Station 167,000 tonnes. We developed the first Integrated Alternative Energy Base Station in the world that combined wind, solar and water. Green Network Operation Wind and solar modules Equipment Procurement: We attach great generate electricity, eliminating importance to 4G network energy efficiency. the need of utility power and We developed 4G Equipment Energy Efficiency A Touchable Future A New Dream with You achieving zero emission. Grading Standards, and presented our equipment Hydrogen fuel cells and water manufacturers with the Wireless Network Device electrolysis system function Energy Conservation Requirements. We increased the as the core of the energy weight of energy efficiency performance to encourage conversion module, allowing significant improvement in energy efficiency. During energy to be stored and our 2013 centralized TD-LTE equipment procurement, released in an environmentally the biggest reduction of energy consumption of the friendly way without using the baseband unit (BBU) per carrier frequency from last traditional lead-acid batteries. year reached 71%. Equipment Maintenance and Update: In China In 2014, we plan to further Tietong company, we carried out transformation advance our research on action of switches in public and private network Integrated Alternative Energy Base against problems as aging equipment, no spare Station to improve its efficiency, parts, or no technical support. In 2013, we have including the research on more removed 15,000 2M ports and 4,730,000 user ports, advanced water electrolysis approximately saving electricity costs for 19,000,000 technology and hydrogen fuel yuan each year. cell technology, as well as more Smart Electricity-saving Technology: As of the end advanced system integration. of 2013, we had constructed 3.6 million 2G network MCPA carrier frequencies, and deployed 10.31 million 2G and 3G smart power-saving frequency carriers. Promoting Mature Technologies: As of the end of 2013, we had completed energy-saving New Data Center transformation of 180,000 air conditioners, and Pilot Project adjusted the upper limit of base stations’ ambient temperature to 30 and 35 degrees Celsius if allowed. In 2013, the Modular Warehouse Establishing Energy Usage Benchmarks: In IDC Project we constructed in 2013, we selected Jiangsu and other five provincial Heilongjiang won the 2013 subsidiaries as the benchmarks for base station Green Data Center Award from energy consumption. The selection was made by the industry organization DCD taking into consideration of the power ratio of base (Data Center Dynamics). The pilot station equipment, air-conditioning configuration, project achieved great energy temperature conditions and other factors. Other efficiency by utilizing the indirect provincial subsidiaries were encouraged to learn from free cooling capacity from cooling these benchmarks. sources in nature. 38 Full-cycle Paperless Business Green Business Process We intensified our efforts to enabling full-cycle To further reduce our paperless business process at sales outlets and minimizing the use of paper-based business resource consumption documents with a variety of solutions, including in service processing, electronic identity authentication, e-business marketing, daily office work ticket, electronic signature, and electronic billing. In 2013, the percentage of business and other business activities, conducted through e-channels reached 82%. we vigorously advocate electronic and IT solutions A New Dream with the Environment for office work and business processes, and construct green buildings by actively applying energy conservation technology. Video Conference We encourage employees to utilize video conference equipment to reduce unnecessary business travels. In 2013, we optimized our video conference reservation process to further improve the utilization rate of conference rooms. In 2013, 942 high-definition video conferences were held at our headquarters. Green Office Starts from Details We actively carry out detailed green office initiatives to ensure their effectiveness, including energy saving transformation of office space, formulating and improving Employee Code of Conduct for Office Energy Saving, and raising the environmental awareness of employees with energy In Hong Kong, we participated conservation tips. in the campaign of “Green Hong Large-scale adoption of intelligent lighting Kong · Carbon Audit” organized systems by Hong Kong Environmental Reducing energy consumption with inverter technology Protection Department. We signed Shutting off unnecessary powerthe Carbon Reduction Charter to consuming equipment and devices support activities that could reduce Using less paper cups emissions. We promoted using Using biodegradable green office supplies double-sided printing, recycled large Using electronic documents and digital files envelopes, carried out the “Earth Managing paper usage and promoting Hour Lunch” campaign, and posted double-sided printing and paperless energy saving reminders and tips. working We also hosted a “Go Green” Promoting green travel, strengthening vehicle management to reduce energy section on our Intranet to post latest consumption environmental information to raise the environmental awareness of employees and encourage them to 39 go green at work. “Green Boxes” campuses and communities to of our information platforms and promote environmental protection focused our efforts on running Green with We have been implementing and the green philosophy. Our an electronic awareness raising Society the “Green Boxes” campaign since 2005 to recycle obsolete volunteers donated over 100,000 hours and collected over 15,000 campaign. mobile phones and accessories pieces of mobile phone batteries Green Applications by placing collection boxes in our and accessories for disposal. While we made sales outlets. All items collected The development of IOT, cloud active efforts were reused or disposed by Green Advocacy computing and Mobile Internet specialized recycle companies has made real-time sensing and to manage our With the theme of “Green Creates connecting possible. We actively in harmless ways. In June 2013, environment we launched the “Green Boxes” Future”, we carried out a series tapped the potentials of relevant impact, we actively Environmental Volunteer Month of events to promote energy technologies and developed green encourage our campaign. During the campaign, conservation to the public during ICT solutions to enable others to China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report employees to nearly 60,000 China Mobile youth the Energy Conservation Week better protect the environment employees went into streets, in 2013. We took full advantage and conserve energy. participate in various environmental protection activities Author: Zhou Yuxin, the Primary School Affiliated to the Sixth Normal School, Pudong, Shanghai to promote green philosophy to the public. We also utilize our expertise to contribute to environmental protection with information applications and solutions. A Touchable Future A New Dream with You “Green Boxes”, Colourful Impressions Promoting Green Travel In Shanghai, we launched the “‘Green Boxes’, Colourful Impressions” campaign to encourage teenagers to show their “Green Innovation” In Shanxi, we together with their talents. Children could capture moments in life with a cooperated with Taiyuan camera, draw the beautiful street scenes of Shanghai with colourful brush Public Transportation touches, transform old materials into useful things, or promote green Group and developed concept with vivid stories they created. We also set up the “Green Boxes the Dragon City Interactive World” online platform, which has three sections: China Mobile Bicycle APP to help Star Classroom, Hall of Green Practice, and Green Carnival. The platform local residents make attracted many teenagers with its cute, friendly interface, providing them better use of public with a virtual meeting place to learn about environmental protection bicycle rentals. It took knowledge and share tips on how to lead a green life. only one month to attract over 30,000 downloads. As of the end of 2013, the APP had been downloaded Comprehensive Pollution Monitoring over 60,000 times, and In Hebei, we developed the Hebei Environmental Quality and Pollution 20,000 times were used Sources Online Monitoring System to support the Department of each day. Environmental Protection to monitor thousands of businesses with emissions and discharges, such as paper mills and chemical factories. The system also covered hundreds of environmental quality monitoring stations and left no 40 blind spot. Universally Feature: Accessible Services A Better Future with Information for All A Better Future with Information for All Feature: A Better Future with Information for All Everybody expects, and should be able, to enjoy convenience in every aspect of their lives Life-changing enabled by information technologies. As the Applications basic communication needs of urban residents is gradually satisfied, China Mobile strives to expand our communication infrastructure into remote areas. We wish to bridge the digital divide, provide universal access to telephone and broadband services, and develop a rich variety of mobile applications, helping those in cities and the countryside enrich their lives in the wonderful future of the information era. Stakeholder Expectations Our Approaches Our 2013 Achievements Our 2014 Efforts A universally accessible Improving network coverage Newly covered 7,129 remote To expand rural network coverage communication network and and quality in rural areas, villages and helped 9,331 villages and promote broadband and data services implementing the “Village and 1,767 rural schools gain services in rural markets Care for special groups by Connected Project”, and providing access to broadband services To innovate on customized providing customized services that telephone and broadband services Achieved 60.29 million Rural applications and services to address their unique needs to remote villages Information Network customers, address special groups' needs Applications that make life better, Offering customized services and 654 thousand rural sales To tap the potential of 4G safer, easier, and more productive for rural residents, the elderly, outlets technology, realize “Mobile minorities, and the handicapped Covered more than 350 cities and changes Life” and deliver a better Offering a rich variety of over 80 million customers under and more convenient digital life applications through the “Wireless the “Wireless City” platform To accelerate convergence of ICT City” platform and industries, making them more Developing ICT solutions for productive agriculture, oil drilling, mining and forestry, etc and helping to G4-DMA reshape traditional production methods 41 Accessible Network Universally Mobile Age for the Expanding Remote Area Improving Rural Network Remote Tribe Accessible Coverage Quality Services We continuously expand our We took a variety of measures Basha is a 2,000 population tribe in Congjiang county, network coverage. As of the end to improve network in rural Guizhou province. In of 2013, we had operated 1.4 areas to ensure better customer Basha, people still live in Universal service million base stations in total. experience. traditional ways with culture means to provide In 2013, we continue Alleviating Service Congestion: and lifestyle passed down everyone, regardless implementing the “Village We replaced outdated parts in for generations, such as Basha men all carrying rifles of where they are, Connected Project” and newly rural base stations and balanced connected 7,129 natural villages service loads among base stations, and swords with them. with universal China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report with access to telephone service reducing base stations busy ratio At first, Basha residents access to basic and 9,331 administrative villages from 0.05% to 0.03%. were strongly against the telecommunication with access to broadband service. construction of a base Adjusting Base Station Layouts: station near the village. Zhou services at an Meanwhile, we implemented the We adjusted transmission Qinwu, a China Mobile affordable price Rural School Broadband Coverage equipment configuration to better Pilot Project to explore solutions Congjiang county branch (according to OECD fit rural conditions, and optimized employee, remembered to “School Connected Project”, definition). In reality, which would provide broadband base stations with inadequate that “we travelled on foot universal service is coverage. As results, the low almost every day to their connections to rural schools in quality base station ratio went village to have dialogs with often hard to achieve remote areas. Our pilot projects down from 3.3% to 2.1%, and villagers. After we got their due to the barriers in Gansu and other provinces the ratio of base stations with brought broadband access to a permission and the new base such as differences large quality fluctuations went station started operating, total of 1,767 rural schools. in geographical down from 1.92% to 1.21%. they were very excited as location, income, Improving Rural Data Service: they heard voices of relatives education, age, etc. We enhanced our data network and friends from the “little coverage in rural areas, which cubes” for the first time in China Mobile strives brought up our 2G data traffic their lives. They shook my to bring networks ratio from less than 90% to 96%. hands and burst into tears”. and services to all We also actively encouraged rural A villager named Ashuo said groups by building customers to switch to 3G services excitedly: “Ever since Basha 118,236 an inclusive with customer education as well had the base station, we no A Touchable Future A New Dream with You as tariff and handset subsidies. longer have to notify each communication As of the end of 2013, our 3G other in the old fashion way network to serve customers in rural areas reached such as firing rifles, ringing more groups and Helped 118,236 remote villages 62.57 million, and data service bells, or beating drums. Now satisfying their needs gain access to telephone service usage in the rural market kept we can get in line with the with our services. cumulatively increasing. outside world by making a simple phone call. This is 20,544 wonderful!” As Basha attracted more and more tourists, we installed Helped 20,544 administrative WLAN hot spots in Basha villages gain access to so visitors could access the broadband service cumulatively Internet. Xiaoxue, a tourist from Guangdong province, said: “I have been here for three times. The first time, my phone was out of service as I stepped into the mountain. The second time, many villagers already used mobile phones. This time I could even use WLAN to watch movies online.” 42 Feature: A Better Future with Information for All Service Desks for Customers with Hearing or Speech Disabilities China Mobile Xinhua office is the first pilot site with the capability to serve customers with hearing or speech disabilities in Tonghua city, Jilin province. All service representatives learned some basic sign language to serve their special customer group. They said, “Though customers with special needs usually do not spend much, customers are customers. Our services may be special, but the standard is unchanged, which is to give the best services we can!” Inclusive and Customized Services 654,000 We strive to focus on customer needs and lower the barriers to use mobile services, so as to better serve vulnerable groups such as the elderly, ethnic minorities, the disabled, etc., allowing them to enjoy the benefits of ICT equally. 654,000 sales outlets in rural areas Rural Sales Tariff Dedicated Service Minority Language Outlets Subsidies Channels Services We launch the “Five Ones” project We offer the “Two Cities, One We provide dedicated service hotlines We respect the needs of ethnic for the rural market, featuring Home” plan for migrant workers and and service representatives for groups minority customers and set up “One Township, One Village, One the “Great Vacation” plan for college with special needs. For example, our minority language service desks in Sales Outlet, One Staff, and One students, both featuring discounted “12582 Rural Information Network” Mongolian, Uygur and Tibetan. We Network”, ensuring there was a roaming tariff. We offer the “Care hotline is customized to farmers. also worked with local media to offer sales outlet and a sales representative Card” plan for the handicapped, Senior Citizen Hotline accommodates Uygur and Tibetan language mobile in each village to provide convenient which featuring discounted tariff as the needs of the elderly, and the Care news for ethnic minority customers services to customers. well as additional subsidies. Hotline provides dedicated services in Xinjiang and Xizang, bridging to customers with hearing or speech the information gap for minority 43 disabilities. customers in remote areas. Healthier Easier Life-changing Doctor appointment Community services Applications Electronic medical record Transportation Remote diagnosis Mobile payment Emergency rescue Remote education Health monitoring Personal assistance China Mobile is Healthcare subsidy ... committed to realising ... the infinite possibilities of ICT with innovative products and services. In 2013, we utilized China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report our expertise in Mobile Internet, IOT, and cloud computing and developed an growing variety of applications that either enriched the ways how we lived or Safer Smarter changed the ways how Safe city Smart agriculture we worked, bringing Safe campus Smart oilfield our vision “Mobile Safe driving Smart mining Changes Life” to daily ... Smart forestry ... life with convenient and intelligent experience. A Touchable Future A New Dream with You Healthier We innovated on Smart Medical and Mobile Health services and introduced new diagnosis procedures, bringing convenience to both patients and doctors. Doctor Appointment: Patients Remote Diagnosis: In Jiangsu professionals when irregularity can use phone, Mobile Internet and other places, the Smart happens so the patients would Fujian: Mobile phone and text message to make doctor Medical service enables doctors get treatment timely. By allowing now became a “Health appointment at the Wireless City to work together remotely patients to recover from their Consultant” for people platform, allowing them to avoid to conduct joint diagnosis for surgeries at their own home, this the long queue in hospitals. patients with rare or complex service helps ease the pressure on Electronic Medical Record: cases. the limited medical resources at Doctors can file medical records in Emergency Rescue: The China hospitals. electronic format, which is easy to Mobile Information Platform Healthcare Subsidy: In inquire and read, allowing doctors feeds and shares patient data accordance with relevant to track medical history and with the emergency dispatching government policy, we give medical advice timely and centers. The centers then are able developed the “New Rural accurately. to retrieve medical record and Cooperative Medical Information emergency contact information Management Platform”. This immediately, allowing them platform integrated a full to make better preparation range of functions such as data for treatment and contact the management, medical expense patients’ families as early as reimbursement, account settling, In 2013, China Mobile’s New Rural Cooperative Medical System in possible. data statistics, etc. Rural residents Guizhou province built a dedicated medical information network Health Monitoring: We work can use it to conveniently obtain covering five administrative units (province, city, county, township and with medical organizations to reimbursements and subsidies for village). The system covered 79 counties in Guizhou and connected provide in-home monitoring to their medical bills. to 17,737 medical organizations with 10,370 information terminals. monitor the conditions of postWith an archive of the medical records of 32.03 million people, the surgery patients through the system provided real-time reimbursement of medical expense to “Mobile Health” system. The 26.83 million residents use the real-time medical subsidy service. system monitors patients’ health 44 indicators and alarms medical Safer Safe City Safe Campus We cooperate with law enforcement We cooperate with education emergency call button, students authorities to launch the “Safe City” authorities to offer the “Safe of kindergarten and primary project to ensure public security with Campus” project to help parents and secondary schools can press real-time surveillance of traffic and and schools ensure the safety the emergency call button to security situations. of students. With customized talk to their parents for help, “Secure Electronic Card” and and their parents can check smart mobile terminals with builttheir whereabouts and school in GPS, automatic alarm and an attendance through text messages Feature: A Better Future with Information for All or the Safe Campus platform. In Guangxi, we Fight Against Child Trafficking developed the Smart Security Alarm system. To support the campaign of fighting against child trafficking, China When emergencies such Mobile developed the National Child-trafficking Information Platform in as burglary, fire or gas cooperation with the Ministry of Public Security. People can report child leakage, happen, the trafficking through the platform and seek assistance through phone, system automatically text messages and multimedia messages. The positioning system can sends alarms to help track the perpetrator and guide the search of law enforcement homeowners and officers. The inquiry system allows families to use text message to community monitoring retrieve the description of rescued children at the earliest time to identify centers to take prompt if it is their children. The platform connects the victims, their families action and avoid loss. and police together, playing an important role in helping stolen children reunite with their families. Voice Report Text Report Multimedia Mobile 110 Command Law Center Enforcement Report Network Safe Driving “Vehicle Guardian” Anti-theft Application China Mobile led the research on the “Vehicle Guardian” application using the IOT and GPS technology. The system connects to police systems and can be used to track vehicle location, send safety warnings, and track travel routes. This application has already been launched in Jiangsu, Fujian, Shanghai, Jiangxi and Hubei provinces and over 500,000 customers have subscribed to this service. On 10 August 2013, Zhang Wanlin, who worked in Yixing city, Jiangsu province, drove to visit his relatives back home. His car was stolen near his home in Guizhou. Zhang reported to local police, who contacted police department in Yixing. With the help of the China Mobile Vehicle Tracking Platform, the police was able to track down the location of the stolen vehicle and returned it to Mr. Zhang. In Hubei, we developed the “Taxi Go System” to protect the safety of both taxi drivers and passengers with real-time vehicle tracking, travel history, and vehicle positioning. 45 Easier We explore Mobile Internet and IOT technologies to develop mobile applications that give people greater convenience in the areas of community services, transportation, finance, education, etc. Community Services: Wireless NFC payment mobile application City is a mobile platform where “Mobile Wallet”. It integrates all people can get useful information types of cards such as bank cards. Mobile Remittance about their neighbourhood transit cards, membership cards, Opened A New such as dining, housing, bonus cards and key cards into Chapter for Rural China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report transportation, accommodation, one mobile SIM card, making Finance and entertainment information. life much easier as people could It can also helps people pay just swipe their mobile phones to In Hunan, we collaborated utility bills and check medical credit card and online payments, with the Agricultural Bank insurance account balances. Our authenticate their identities, of China and Shanghai Rural Information Network has share information, and exchange Pudong Development Bank already attracted 60,792 villages business cards. and launched the Mobile and 5,492 college student village Remittance Service in rural Remote Education: We initiated areas. People can wire officials as registered members the construction of the National money to others just by the to this large virtual community, Education Resource Public recipient’s mobile phone where people share useful Service Platform, i.e. the National number, and the recipient information about local specialty Education Cloud. Our goal is to can withdraw cash at any products and tourist attractions, build a cloud platform of highlocal bank or China Mobile and their experience in village quality educational resources to sales outlet conveniently and management. solve the imbalance of educational safely. As of the end of 2013, Transportation: We applied the resources between urban and over 160,000 customers had latest IOT and 4G technologies to rural areas. So far, the platform used our mobile remittance the transportation area to make has served over 900 schools service. Altogether, they traveling easier. Drivers could get nationwide, benefiting 5 million had sent near 290,000 real-time traffic information and teachers and students. Students remittances totalled at 1.17 their driving records. People who could use the online resources billion yuan. A Touchable Future A New Dream with You take public transportation can to study, while educators could check bus routes, schedules, and use the platform to explore real-time positions, and they can innovative ways to teach and also buy bus tickets, rent public improve teaching quality. bicycles, reserve taxi pickups, or Meanwhile, we have piloted the book train tickets. So far, such Electronic Schoolbag Program and solutions have already been distributed around 1,000 tablets Senior Home in the launched in provinces such as PCs to over 20 schools in Beijing, Air Jiangsu, Guangxi, Guizhou, and Guangdong, Jiangsu and other six In Shandong, we developed Hainan. provinces. the “12349” community Mobile Payment: Given Personal Assistance: We service platform and installed the vast potential of Near collaborated with iFLYTEK Co., wireless terminals for residents Field Communication (NFC) Ltd. on smart voice assistant over 60 years old for free. technology in mobile payment, “Lingxi”. With the idea of “To free The terminal connected to we collaborated with financial your fingers and live with ease”, our 12349 Service Center organizations and developed the this application can perform a that operated 24/7 and had variety of tasks following the built-in positioning function, interactive voice instructions from allowing seniors to access to users, such as checking account medical emergency help at balance, making calls, navigating any time. Seniors could also directions, checking weather meet their daily requirements information, and surfing the through the platform, such Internet. Lingxi has already had as policy inquiry, weather nearly 10 million active customers. forecast, health information, medication instructions and other household needs. So far, our community service platform in Shandong had served over 126,000 seniors. During this process, we had answered 241,000 calls, distributed over 217,400 pieces of help information, and provided 157 times of emergency medical assistance. 46 Smarter We have developed a variety of information applications for different industries to help them adapt to the new development of information age and change the ways they operate. Feature: A Better Future with Information for All Smart Agriculture Our Rural Information Network provides customers with news and policies, knowledge wiki, books and publications related to agricultural production. We publish monthly reports on market trends for agricultural products such as vegetables, fruits, aquatic products and animal husbandry products, so farmers would know “what to grow or raise, and how”. The Network also provides an electronic trading system for farmers and agricultural businesses. The system displays regional real-time price information and trends for agricultural products, together with supply and demand information to facilitate their trading. As of the end of 2013, our Rural Information Network had attracted 60.29 million customers. Besides, we had also developed a number of IOT applications, such as “Greenhouse Manager”, “Smart Drip Irrigation System”, “Crop Status and Environment Monitoring System”, etc., to help farmers increase both their productivity and income. Smart Oilfield We applied IOT, cloud computing and Mobile Internet technologies into the development and management of oilfield and developed an integrated Smart Oilfield system with functions of data collection, remote measurement, online diagnosis, plan implementation, and onsite control. With this system, managers can conduct quick analysis, diagnose irregularities, provide instructions remotely, and achieve automated control. The system is able to help the oilfield increase its yield and oil recovery rate by 2%-4% and 2%-7% respectively, and it has been deployed in Karamay oilfield in Xinjiang, Daqing oilfield in Heilongjiang, and Shengli oilfield in Shandong. Smart Mining We developed the “Electronic Coal Mine Mobile Information” system for Xinzheng Coal & Electric Company, a subsidiary of Zhengzhou Coal Industry Co., Ltd. in Henan. The system can provide gas alarm, locate personnel positions, manage safety hazards, and collect and report information. With the system, managers were able to gain real-time operational information of the coal mine on their mobile phones, such as gas density, ventilation conditions, and performance of major equipment. With the interconnection of safety information through the mobile platform, the system has significantly improved the safety of coal mines. Smart Forestry We developed the Forest Fire Watch platform in Fujian that helps monitoring fire hazards in forest areas. It integrates the functions of real-time fire hazards monitoring, weather data collection, and temperature data collection together. Since its deployment, the system had successfully detected 325 fire hazards and avoided economic losses of 770 million yuan. Its deployment also reduced the cost of 2.9 million yuan per year for patrols on the ground. We had also built a similar platform called Mobile Forest Patrol platform in Shandong, which protects the safety of forest patrols with real-time position tracking, patrol routes, and deviations from demarcations. 47 Sustainability Performance Summary Economic Performance Corporate Governance Financial Performance In 2013, the board of directors of China Mobile Communications Indicators 2011 2012 2013 China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report Corporation throughly followed SASAC requirements of board Operating revenue operation, enhanced the board’s competence and effectiveness 566.0 611.2 661.9 (billion yuan) to perform, and promoted the healthy development of business operations. So far, our board of directors is composed by nine Wireless data traffic revenue 44.4 68.3 108.2 (billion yuan) members: Mr. Xi Guohua as Chairman, Mr. Li Yue and Madam Huang Wenlin as Directors, Mr. Ding Zhongzhi, Mr. Yu Ning, Mr. Ma Si Hang Tax paid (billion yuan) 62.1 73.9 87.9 Frederick, Mr. Tong Bao’an, Mr. Chen Geng as Outside Directors, and Mr. Li Xiuchuan as Staff Director. Market Presence In 2013, we convened five board meetings, through which we We abide by relevant labor laws and regulations, and our employees’ achieved five board resolutions and reviewed 25 items. We also wages are above minimum wages of locations where we operate. organized 11 special committee meetings and passed 11 special committee reports. The board of directors played a good role in Indirect Economic Impacts decision making and supported our sustainability. Promoting Employment and Entrepreneurship Risk Management: We adopted the control criteria framework set In 2013, we generated more than 2.5 million job opportunities. out in the Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by COSO II We launched Mobile Market (MM) in August 2009, aiming to provide and established an effective and comprehensive risk management an open and cooperated platform for developers and service providers. framework. In 2013, we prevented and controlled professional risks Based on MM, we launched Mobile Market’s Youth Business Startsuch as legal risk, integrity risk and information security risk. We also up Plan in August 2010 to build entrepreneurial incubators for young evaluated important risks for the group, formulated management developers. During the past three years, we have been offering Mobile strategies and measures for confirmed important risks. Periodic review Internet trainings and practice opportunities for approximately 1.72 is another tool to improve our risk prevention and control. million developers, and built entrepreneurial incubators in 100 colleges A Touchable Future A New Dream with You We updated legal risk data on important business areas, re-identified and universities in China. and formulated control measures to risks of information security, realname system, Internet business and bidding activities. Meanwhile, we Indicators 2011 2012 2013 optimized the legal risk information system and instructed subsidiaries Cumulative funding for entrepreneurship to complete system application. support (10,000 yuan) 411 853 1,308 Internal Control: In compliance with section 404 of the U.S. SOX Act Cumulative number of registered developers 364.7 378.2 384.5 of 2002, we established a systematic and standard internal control in MM (10,000) system. This system is led by risk management and integrated with our Cumulative application downloading in MM 6.37 10.73 41.97 business, and explicitly defines business units’ responsibilities. In 2013, (100 million) our non-listed business units launched constructions of internal control policies and systems, and specified the responsible department of Infrastructure Construction internal control in each unit, gradually integrating internal control into In 2013, we continued investing in the Village Connected Project , business operations. Meanwhile, we conducted internal control policy providing communication and information services to remote rural researches in the group-level and provincial subsidiary-level to promote areas and narrowing digital divide. policy improvements and compliance operations. We also consolidated our IT internal control system to ensure its enforcement and efficiency. Internal Audit: The Company and our operating subsidiaries have set up internal audit departments, which independently audit all of our business units. We have established an internal audit framework and carried out risk investigations on an annual basis. Based on the results of the risk investigations, internal audit projects are formulated by the internal audit departments on a rolling and annual basis. The internal audit departments conduct independent and objective supervision and assessment of the appropriateness, level of compliance and effectiveness of all business operations and internal control systems by applying systematic and standardized audit procedures and approaches, thereby assisting in the improvement of the Company’s corporate governance, risk management and control processes. In 2013, the internal audit departments focused on business quality and performance, supervised revision of audited problems. We formulated and published China Mobile Management Approaches on Audit/ Revision/Responsibility, which contains rules of correcting audited problems. 48 Indicators 2011 2012 2013 Indicators 2013 Cumulative number of remote villages covered 100,474 111,107 118,236 Number of contracted service providers 227 Sustainability Performance Summary Cumulative number of administrative villages Percentage of outstanding level SMS partners 11.8 4,031 11,213 20,544 with broadband service Percentage of outstanding level MMS partners 10.4 Cumulative number of natural villages with 54,897 65,530 72,659 telephone service Cumulative number of rural schools with broadband service 1,767 Environmental Performance Number of sales channels in rural areas (10,000) 69.0 69.5 65.4 Overall Number of Rural Information Service users We have been implementing the “Green Action Plan” since 2007, 3,130 4,300 6,029 (10,000) which emphasizes on energy conservation and emissions reduction. Cumulative number of rural information sent In 2013, we invested 330 million yuan in total into the “Green Action via Rural Information Network 42.4 103.4 217.4 (100 million) Plan”. Energy We actively take great efforts on poverty alleviation and development support, carring out assistance and alleviation projects in Xizang, In 2013, we released the Inspecting Approach for Energy Conservation Qinghai, Xinjiang, Heilongjiang and other provinces. In 2013, we and Emissions Reduction to conduct annual self-inspections in invested 40.43 million yuan into these projects. provincial subsidiaries. We completed special inspections for ten provincial subsidiaries, and onsite checks for 100 base stations and 40 equipment rooms in 30 cities. Problems found during inspections were Information Society disclosed group-wide. We also suggested corrective measures to ensure Indicators 2011 2012 2013 the smooth implementation of our various energy-saving activities. Our power consumption per unit of business decreased by 23%, and our Number of School Information Service users (million) 52.32 63.81 81.88 comprehensive energy consumption per unit of telecommunication traffic decreased by 38% compared to 2012. Number of M2M (machine to machine) terminals 12.18 19.94 32.00 (million) Number of 12580 Medical Appointment dialings Energy Consumption 1,100 1,200 (10,000) Indicators 2011 2012 2013 Total electricity consumption (100 GWhs) 134.7 148.9 156.6 Procurement Practices Natural gas consumption (million m3) 6.9 9.0 7.2 Indicators 2013 LPG consumption (100 tonnes) 6.7 7.3 7.1 Number of suppliers1 7,037 Coal gas consumption 2.1 1.5 1.2 Number of first-level suppliers 455 (million m3) Percentage of first-level local suppliers2 100 Coal consumption 2.9 2.4 1.8 (10,000 tonnes) Number of second-level suppliers 6,829 Gasoline consumption Percentage of second-level local suppliers3 47.65 156.5 151.1 152.6 (million litres) Number of assessments on first-level suppliers4 814 Diesel fuel consumption 29.0 24.2 24.1 (million litres) Percentage of assessed suppliers in all confirmed 100 first-level suppliers Purchased heating costs 137.03 151.80 155.81 (million yuan) Number of suppliers that have problem found during audits 86 Among which number of suppliers solved the 2 Alternative Energy Consumption problems Number of suppliers been discontinued cooperation because of quality 0 Indicators 2011 2012 2013 problems found during on-site assessments Alternative energy base Note: 8,970 9,699 11,863 stations total 1 The datum does not include supplier number of our affiliated units, China Tietong Telecommunications Corporation and CMPak Limited. Solar energy 7,057 7,627 8,501 2 Percentage of first-level local suppliers means proportion of domestic suppliers (registered in Mainland China) in all suppliers for the first-level Wind energy 435 600 589 procurements. We did not conduct any international bidding projects in 2013, thus did not include any international suppliers. Solar and wind energy 1,316 1,366 1,765 3 Percentage of second-level local suppliers means proportion of suppliers Others 162 106 1,008 registered in a province for the second-level procurement of that particular China Mobile provincial subsidiary. CO2 emissions reduction from alternative energy 4 Number of assessments on first-level suppliers means number of our 3.0 3.2 3.9 base stations (10,000 tonnes) Shared Procurement Service Center assessed suppliers including those who won the biddings as well as those who didn’t. This number does not cover second-level procurements. 49 Joint Construction and Sharing (2013) Indicators 2011 2012 2013 Discarded lead acid batteries (10,000 Ahs) 9,780 12,808 8,698 Indicators Joint Construction Sharing Rate Rate (%) (%) Lead acid batteries recycled through professional 9,588 12,808 8,698 channels (10,000 Ahs) Towers 72 89 Pole lines 42 93 Waste Recycled by Qualified Third-party (2013) Base stations 64 90 China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report Indicators Weight (Tonnes) Value (10,000 Pipelines 63 91 yuan) Indoor distribution 54 96 Network Wastes 31,528 16,322 Acid batteries 16,462 5,998 Water Communication equipments 11,264 7,929 We encourage the use of recycled water in our operations, and arrange Cables 1,645 1,169 property engineers to inspect water supply system and equipment regularly to ensure there was no leakage. Meanwhile, we extensively Packages 303 175 carry out water conservation education to our employees to raise the Other 1,854 1,051 awareness about water footprint. We maintained almost the same Office Wastes 842 1,401 amount of water usage as of 2012 while expanded network scale. Electronic equipments 641 692 Indicators 2011 2012 2013 Other wastes 201 709 Total amount of water used (million tonnes) 28.72 30.23 30.62 Terminals 13 55 During the reporting period, we did not find any event had significantly Green Business influenced source water areas. Indicators 2011 2012 2013 Biodiversity Percentage of businesses conducted through 76 78 82 e-channels We strictly conduct project evaluation and approval according to relevant provisions to manage those base stations located in nature Green Office A Touchable Future A New Dream with You reserves. In 2013, we did not find any species was materially affected by our operating activities. We encourage our employees to use IT tools such as video conference equipment and our Integrated Information Network to avoid Emissions unnecessary business travels and reduce our carbon footprint. In 2013, we implemented quantitative management on greenhouse gas emissions. Our headquarters and Beijing Company had completed Indicators 2011 2012 2013 verification of CO2 emissions, and submitted our annual sustainability Video conference usage at group level (times) 850 988 942 report to CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) as a response of our information on carbon emissions. In 2014, we are planning to fill out Integrated Information Network visits 2.2 2.0 1.8 the CDP questionnaire to further strengthen our information disclosure (10,000 person-times) on carbon emissions. Daily call duration on Integrated Information Network 43.4 60.0 49.0 (10,000 minutes) Indicators 2011 2012 2013 Daily instant message sent on Integrated 7.2 6.7 6.0 CO2 emissions (million tonnes) 1 10.53 11.63 12.22 Information Network (10,000) Carbon emission intensity (tCO2e/10,000 yuan) 0.186 0.190 0.185 Supplier Environmental Assessment Note: 1 The emissions calculations used the emission factor-based methodology, which We revised our Supplier Management Method in 2013, which relates estimates CO2 emissions by multiplying a level of activity data by an emission to the certification of supplier’s environmental performance during factor. Emission factor for electricity consumption took an average of Electric System Operating Margins and Build Margins reference from 2013 Baseline procurement. We will apply the method to our first-level and secondEmission Factors for Regional Power Grids in China published by National level centralized procurement from 2014, and analyze certification Development and Reform Commission of China. The rest emission factors drew results. reference from Carbon Accounting and Reporting Guidelines for Enterprises and Organizations in Beijing (2013 version) published by Development and Reform In addition, we compiled supplier certification templates for 19 Commission of Beijing. Historical data were revised according to the adjustment factors. products, covering 35 categories of products in first-level centralized procurement. These templates proposed specific requirements to the Effluents and Waste environmental practice for our suppliers on energy conservation and emission reduction, and required our suppliers to be certificated by In 2013, 100% of the wastewater generated in our operation entered ISO14001. into sewer system, no irregularity was found regarding effluents. We comprehensively conducted the green advocacy program “Green Indicators 2013 Boxes” Environmental Volunteering Month Campaign, and collected Number of suppliers assessed on environmental performance in 55 over 15,000 used cell phone batteries and accessories. annual first-level procurement assessment 50 Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Training and Education We receive environmental complaints and grievances through website, We focus on employee trainings to help them improve their capacities, CEO mailbox and other channels. Problems discovered would be and our average training cost per employee continued to rise in 2013. handled quickly to ensure the health and safety of our environment. Training Costs Environmental Compliance Indicators 2011 2012 2013 In 2013, we had no incident of non-compliance with regulations Sustainability Performance Summary Training cost per employee (yuan) 2,359 2,564 2,632 concerning the environment. Employees Trained Social Performance Indicators 2011 2012 2013 Employment Number of persons trained (10,000 person-times) 97.5 98.3 98.9 Employee Age Structure Number of senior management trained 421 438 686 (person-times) Indicators 2011 2012 2013 Number of mid-level management trained Total number of employees 218,253 222,220 231,546 8,901 9,306 15,126 (person-times) Percentage of employees under 30 years old 28.92 25.52 25.12 Number of general employees trained 96.6 97.3 97.9 (10,000 person-times) Percentage of employees between 30-50 64.69 67.34 67.36 years old Percentage of employees attended diploma 5.32 5.24 4.13 courses Percentage of employees above 50 years old 6.39 7.14 7.52 Training Hours We provide employees with insurances and welfare based on labor laws and regulations. Indicators 2011 2012 2013 Average training time per employee (hours) 57.4 59.1 61.2 Employee Turnover Average training time per senior management 56.8 58.5 60.1 Indicators 2011 2012 2013 (hours) Total number of newly hired employees 6,644 8,581 7,555 Average training time per mid-level 60.2 62.0 61.7 management (hours) Number of newly hired female employees 2,532 3,586 3,026 Average training time per general employee Number of newly hired male employees 4,112 4,995 4,529 55.1 56.7 61.8 (hours) Total number of resigned employees 3,196 2,873 2,322 Number of resigned female employees 1,536 1,246 867 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Number of resigned male employees 1,660 1,627 1,455 Gender Composition Total number of dismissed employees 61 76 65 Indicators 2011 2012 2013 Number of dismissed female employees 37 50 31 Percentage of female employees 40.53 40.08 40.92 Number of dismissed male employees 24 26 34 Percentage of female employees at the senior 17.43 17.92 18.17 management level1 We attach great importance to protecting female employees’ Note: reproductive rights, fully respecting their rights of maternity leave. In 1 Senior management refers to anyone at a vice president level or above at provincial subsidiaries and anyone at a department general manager level or 2013, 100% of our female employees in the headquarters returned to above at headquarters. their work after maternity leave. Ethnic Proportion Labor/Management Relations We keep promoting and regulating the system of employee Indicators 2011 2012 2013 representative conference to ensure that employees enjoy their Ethnic minorities as a percentage of total employees 6.56 6.33 6.92 democratic rights. As to changes that impact employee rights or have significant influence upon the company, we will explain to our We actively support local employment in all operating locations. employees through the employee representative conferences and For example, the local employee rate of our Hong Kong Company involve employee representatives in the decision-making process. achieved about 97%, and local management rate at around 93% in Occupational Health and Safety 2013. In 2013, we organized various safety education sessions and emergency drills to improve safety awareness of all employees, and proactively promoted construction of safety management systems to explore a centralized management model. There was no incident of workplace safety or death in line of duty happened in 2013. 51 Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Security Practices We insist on the principles of gender equality and equal remuneration We assure that all our security personnel receive training, and carry for women and men, and we provide employees with equal out strict management to ensure the security team is professional and opportunities. In Hong Kong, we strictly abide by government labor friendly. laws, such as improving employees’ monthly basic salary based on government policy amendment. Indigenous Rights Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices During the process of operation, we did not find any incident that China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report infringed on indigenous rights. In 2013, we revised our Supplier Management Methods. Terms related with authentications on suppliers’ labor practices during procurement process were added. We will apply them to both our firstSupplier Human Rights Assessment level and second-level centralized procurement in 2014 and analyze Our suppliers’ human rights practices were assessed simultaneously authentication results. with labor practices. The detailed performance information could be Moreover, we compiled supplier authentication toolkits for 19 found in the content of Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices. product categories that covered 35 categories of first-level centralized procurement products. The toolkits assess performances of suppliers in Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms labor management and health and safety management, and require We did not receive any human right grievance report in 2013. SA8000 certifications for our suppliers. Local Communities Indicators 2013 Emergency Communication Support Number of first-level suppliers assessed for labor practices in 55 Indicators 2011 2012 2013 annual assessment Number of emergency support 4,671 5,167 4,005 Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms Major political or economic events support 4,028 4,218 3,416 We collect employee grievances through channels such as CEO Significant natural disasters support 223 706 491 Mailbox, the Office of Letters and Calls, etc., and address and respond Significant accidents or catastrophic events them on related problems. In 2013, our Department of Human 224 205 85 support Resources received 26 related letters in total. After investigation, none Public health incidents support 48 8 2 were proved to be valid and all 26 grievances were responded to A Touchable Future A New Dream with You properly. Public safety incidents support 148 30 11 All of our subsidiaries signed collective agreements that protects Number of emergency support vehicles 9,636 6,860 5,127 deployed employee rights of remuneration, working hour and vacation, social insurance, welfare, safety and health, education and training, etc., also Number of emergency support equipment 43,527 47,544 50,741 installed include policies on labor practices grievance mechanism. Persons involved in emergency support 320,866 330,515 465,443 (person-times) Human Rights We joined in the United Nations Global Compact in 2007 and have Philanthropy and Volunteering been supporting the Ten Principles and fully respecting internationally recognized human rights ever since. We donated 67.66 million yuan (in cash) in 2013 which was used in programs nationwide. Among our top-priority programs, the “Blue We strictly abide by labor rules and regulations, sign labor contracts Dream” Education Aid Plan has been implemented in 23 central with our employees, and pay social insurance premiums in full amount and western provinces, and the “Heart Caring Campaign” has been for employees. implemented in four provinces. Non-discrimination Indicators 2011 2012 2013 We show respects to both of our internal and external stakeholders Number of registered employee volunteers and oppose all kinds of discriminative behaviors. 9.00 9.85 (10,000 person) The company is in compliance with the 18th clause of Bidding Law Hours of volunteer services (10,000 hours) 33.0 52.2 of China, which clearly regulates that “the tenderee cannot restrict or Cumulative number of children received free exclude any tenderer based on unjust terms, or discriminate against 6,941 12,547 17,788 congenital heart disease screenings any potential bidder.”. Cumulative number of assisted children in poverty who suffered from congenital heart 202 593 1,341 Respecting Rights disease All China Mobile regular employees have joined labor union, while Cumulative number of China Mobile Libraries 1,510 1,694 1,910 built 98% of contractors are union members at either their direct employers or China Mobile. Cumulative number of multimedia classrooms 500 674 880 built Child Labor and Forced Labor Cumulative number of principals of rural 37,952 48,205 59,000 primary and middle schools trained We strictly forbid to hire of child labor or forced labor. 52 Anti-corruption Network Quality and Reliability In 2013, we inspected Shaanxi provincial subsidiary and International Indicators 2011 2012 2013 Information Port Construction Center on business integrity and workrelated expenditures. Successful connection rate of GSM 99.26 99.26 99.12 network1 (%) Successful connection rate of 3G network 98.99 98.90 98.53 Indicators 2011 2012 2013 (%) Attendance of anti-corruption Call drop rate of GSM network (%)2 0.70 0.48 0.43 Sustainability Performance Summary education and trainings (person175,347 471,200 428,146 Call drop rate of 3G network (%) 0.42 0.29 0.21 times) Number of confirmed and disciplined Note: 26 16 16 1 The successful connections rate is test data; corruption cases 2 The call drop rate is annual average data derived from the network management system. Number of employees dismissed and 37 17 16 disciplined for corruption Customer Privacy Protection In 2013, we had improved customer real information registration Public Policy and customer information protection clauses in four protocols such We proactively participate in industrial regulation researches and as China Mobile’s Customer Agreement based on relevant laws and discussions. In 2013, we advised on drafts of multiple business-related regulations of China. We specified the situations and principles for laws and regulations such as Telecommunication and Internet User collecting and using customer information and related customer rights, Personal Information Protection Policy, Telephone User Real Identity and committed to protecting customer information in the process of Information Policy, Telecommunication Engineering Project Bidding collecting and using such information. Management, etc., and other laws and regulations such as Consumer Based on our “Five Bans”, we actively adopt innovative measures to Rights Protection Law of People‘s Republic of China, Trademark Law, protect customer information security and provide reliable service. Intellectual Property Law, Provisions on Contractor, Policy on Enterprise In 2013, we focused on promoting the establishment of a security Credit Information, etc. assessment system on new technologies and business to reduce risk of information security. We continuously strengthen information Anti-competitive Behaviors security awareness among our employees. In 2013, we provided about 390,000 person-times employee trainings related to customer We regulate our marketing approaches during special promotions, information security and privacy protection. such as campus promotions and holiday promotions, when competitive behaviors are easily caused. For campus marketing, we require full operations and use effective regulation to ensure our provincial Customer Satisfaction subsidiaries stick with rational competitive behaviors and avoid longWe conduct group-wide satisfaction survey for all customers, collecting term or large-scale impact. over 300,000 samples nationwide each year. The survey results are In 2013, we were not charged with any law suit for anti-competitive used in annual subsidiary assessment and improvements of key behaviors. factors related with customer satisfaction. In 2013, our comprehensive customer satisfaction ratio was 77.75%, 0.25 ppt higher than the level of the beginning of the year. Supplier Assessment for Social Impacts Our suppliers’ social impact were assessed together with labor practices. The detailed performance information could be found in Indicators 2011 2012 2013 Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices. Complaint rate per million customers 40.2 31.2 32.3 (cases) Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Number of reported spam messages handled 562 344 435 We did not receive any social impact grievance report in 2013. (10,000 times) Community Health and Safety Compliance We strictly comply with the requirements of the Electro-Magnetic Fields We formulated strict administrative provisions and required all Management Methods and issued the Assessment Approaches of operations to abide by laws and regulations. In 2013, we didn‘t Electromagnetic Radiation in Base Stations to protect public health and identify any major legal disputes. In Hong Kong, we operated base safety. stations in Kowloon City before obtaining approval from Office of the Communication Authority, and it was ruled as a violation and we were Providing Diversified Services fined HKD$80,000. We will review our operations carefully to prevent similar incidents from happening again. Indicators 2011 2012 2013 Number of customers (million) 680.7 710.3 767.2 Number of countries and regions 237 237 242 covered by GSM roaming service Number of countries and regions 187 188 197 covered by GPRS roaming service 53 Looking Forward China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report Issues A New Dream A New Dream A New Dream with with Value with Shareholders Chain Partners Customers Completed 4G trial, Led the TD industry Adopted various measures to obtained the 4G in rapid development improve network quality: the operating license, and and shared industry successful connection rate of became the first 4G value (in billions) with our GSM network in 2013 was service provider in partners, among which 99.12%, about the same as 2012; Mainland China 150 million TD-SCDMA 3G network coverage improved Constructed handsets were sold in from 95.43% to 97.82% 2013 Achievements infrastructures such 2013 Based on the customer service as data centers, call Reduced responsibility “Five Bans”, we implemented centers, and R&D risks and strengthened the “Vault Mode”, customer centers. Completed first responsibility information anonymization, part of the International management of sensitive information inquiry Information Port and the supply chain, by alerts, new service security enhanced our Southern formulating documents assessments. etc Base. Five regional and regulations, and Optimized our service plans: A Touchable Future A New Dream with You logistics centers began implementing tools and reduced the number of plans operating authentications and tariffs, reduced international, Revised policies on Hong Kong, Macau, and Taiwan integrity, initiated roaming tariff by 46% on average, internal audits and with a maximum decrease over inspections, and 90% increased employee Adopted various ways to serve awareness of business and listen to customers; kept the ethics lowest complaint rate per million customers in the industry for the fourth consecutive year To build the largest To seize the To optimize our networks for 4G network, with opportunity of the better customer perception Looking Forward to 2014 over 500,000 TDcommercialization To enhance supervision, and LTE base stations, and of TD-LTE and ensure 100% implementation provide continuous 4G lead researches on of “Vault Mode” and customer coverage in major cities technology standards information anonymization at the end of 2014 and industrialisation To focus on improving customer To build R&D centers in To gradually apply perception of key customer Suzhou and Hangzhou, new authentication groups, such as existing to accelerate strategic templates, assess customers, data traffic customers, transformation, and supplier responsibility corporate customers, etc. explore new business performance, and To optimize service processes opportunities organize trainings and communication channels To improve corruption of responsibility with customers, and keep the prevention and management for lowest complaint rate per million investigation measures, partners. customers in the industry and increase operational transparency 54 关键 可 =持续Forward 发 =展绩效 Looking A New Dream A New Dream A New Dream A Better Future with with with the with Information Employees Communities Environment for All Organized 1,120 Established an Comprehensive energy Newly covered 7,129 emergency drills with EMF management consumption per unit remote villages, helped a participation rate of mechanism, researched of telecommunication 9,331 villages and 1,767 85%; no safety incidents and constructed an EMF traffic decreased by rural schools gain access or casualties occurred in monitoring system to 38% over 2012 to broadband service 2013 increase transparency Built an energy Helped rural residents, 90.5% of the employees The “Blue Dream” management platform the disabled and in the group received covered 23 provinces for smart electricity minorities gain access to health checkups; EAP and trained 10,795 management; newly telecommunication and has covered 250,000 principals from primary built 37,000 base information services employees (including and secondary schools, stations without by offering options contractors); 235,000 built 216 China Mobile equipment room and with lower tariff and person-times participated libraries and 206 3.6 million MCPA customized services in corporate-sponsored multimedia classrooms carriers Covered more than leisure activities in central and western Implemented the 350 cities and 80 72% of all provincial rural areas; the “Heart “Green Boxes” project, million customers under subsidiaries and city Caring Campaign” Energy Conservation the “Wireless City” branches established screened 5,241 children Week, and helped platform Model Employees’ Homes in poverty and provided society save energy with free surgeries for 748 information techniques children diagnosed with congenital heart disease To issue the China To apply more strict To achieve a To continuously Mobile’s Safety EMF management, and comprehensive energy support the “Village Management Regulations strengthen information consumption per unit Connected Project” and in Equipment Rooms, transparency of telecommunication bring telephone and Base Stations and Sales and effective traffic decrease of broadband services to Outlets communication 13.5% over 2013 more remote areas To ensure that at least To complete training To promote the To provide more 92% of employees for 11,000 principals, application of smart effective services to receive health checkups, to donate 200 China electricity-saving vulnerable groups and and issue a China Mobile Mobile Libraries and technology, and to develop more products EAP Development Plan 190 multimedia expand the application which match their that provides guidance classrooms, and to scale of MCPA and needs for our subsidiaries perform surgery for 850 base stations without To develop more To improve the children diagnosed with equipment room applications with 4G percentage of Model congenital heart disease To fully use our technology, apply IOT Employees’ Homes in 2014 technology to increase and Mobile Internet to established in provincial public awareness of more services, and help subsidiaries and city green practices and industry transformation branches to 75% to provide green ICT solutions 55 Key Stakeholder Commentary Responsibility Drives Social Development 2013 marks the beginning of the 4G era in China. The Chinese telecommunication industry was a follower China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report during the 2G era, an innovator during the 3G era, and now has become a leader for the 4G era. Only a few years ago, a mobile phone was more of a luxury, rather than a necessity it is today. Telecommunication services have been integrated into our lives, changing them through projects like the “Village Connected”, the “Wireless City”, universal service for remote areas, and more innovative applications. “Information Consumption” is now a keyword for the current Chinese economy and society. As a regulator, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology fully understands the importance of Mr. LI Guobin corporate social responsibility (CSR). The Department of Policies and Regulations is responsible for supervision and researches on CSR. We believe that a firm should not simply set its goals to increase assets and profits, Inspector, Department of Policies but also to fulfill social responsibility goals, in addition to economic responsibility. For telecommunication and Regulations, operators specifically, good CSR performance includes compliance, industry development assistance, universal Ministry of Industry and quality service, customer rights protections, value chain innovation and growth, energy conservation, and Information Technology emissions reduction, and community development and philanthropy. As we see in this report, China Mobile has taken effective measures with regard to all these topics. It is owing to China Mobile’s efforts to develop and operate TD technology that TD-LTE has eventually evolved from a technology standard in labs into a mainstream 4G standard globally, triggering the construction of a nationwide 4G network, and stimulating the creation of hundreds of billions worth of value along the TD-LTE value chain. It is safe to say that TD-LTE is a good showcase for how a large corporation, as an innovation leader, built a collaborative alliance with other research institutes and businesses. A Touchable Future A New Dream with You Both CSR principles and practices are constantly evolving as businesses grow and stakeholders adjust their expectations. 4G technology plays a catalytic role in speeding up the integration and transformation of telecommunication services into every aspect of society. I anticipate that China Mobile, all mobile operators, and the entire industry will embrace the opportunities and challenges of Mobile Internet, transform their businesses, and fulfill their new responsibilities. Innovative products and services provide conveniences for a safer society, as well as support for a more effective and environmentally friendly industry. This would be the unique responsibility and contribution of the telecommunication industry, both to society and to the “China Dream”. To perform CSR well, a company must develop an awareness of responsibilities and internal standards, establish an effective system, and obtain participation and support from stakeholders. I am glad to see that China Mobile has benchmarked with international standards and best practices, and has established closed-loop procedures and mechanisms for social responsibility management to increase transparency and stakeholder participation, manage social impacts, and respond to stakeholders’ needs. In the future, there will be many challenges awaiting China Mobile, such as accelerating TD-LTE development and controlling spam messages. As the report’s theme indicates, I sincerely hope China Mobile adheres to its mission of “Mobile Changes Life”, integrates social responsibility into its decisionmaking process and operations, creates shared values for the 4G era, and makes a continuous contribution to the sustainable growth of the Chinese telecommunication industry. March 2014 56 Version About This report is written in both Chinese and English and published both online and in print. This This report can be viewed or downloaded at www.10086.cn. Report Furthermore, the Listed Company China Mobile Limited has also disclosed sustainable development performance under the framework of the China Mobile Communications Corporation report. You can visit www.chinamobileltd. com to download or view both Chinese and English reports. Reporting Reference About This Report This Report This report was prepared in accordance with the common sustainability reporting guidelines and developed based is the eighth on industry context and our characteristics. In December 2013, we joined the G4 Pioneer Program and officially Sustainability adopted G4 as our reporting guideline instead of G3.1. The G4 Content Index is listed on Page 61-62. Report about Our 2013 report refers to the following guidelines: China Mobile’s GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines economic, United Nations Global Compact Ten Principles social and ISO 26000 Guideline for Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting issued by The Stock Exchange of Hong environmental Kong Limited performance Chinese CSR Report Preparation Guide (CASS-CSR 3.0) issued by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. related to sustainability Content Selection for the reporting In accordance with the G4 reporting principles of stakeholder engagement, sustainability context, materiality and period from completeness, we performed the “Materiality Analysis” to identify the material issues and their boundaries. High relevance issues are listed below. January 1 to Customer Service (Page 23-24) December 31 Network Quality (Page 19) 2013. Innovation and Development (Page 9-10) Customer Rights (Page 20-22) ICT Investment and Development (Page 12-15) Social Philanthropy (Page 32-35) Anti-corruption (Page 11) Risk Management (Page 48) Report Scope Unless otherwise stated, all cases and data disclosed in this report are collected from China Mobile Communications Corporation and its subsidiaries (See page 3 for information about our subsidiaries). Data Collection and Disclosure Data and information were collected primarily through: China Mobile’s internal data collection system and statistics reports Quarterly provincial CSR best practice reports China Mobile 2013 Best CSR Practices Selection Quantitative and qualitative questionnaires developed based on the reporting framework Currency Unless otherwise specified, all monetary figures shown in this report are expressed in Renminbi (yuan). Report Assurance In 2013, we engaged PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian CPAs Limited Company (special general partnership) to provide an independent assurance report for the Listed Company's 2013 Sustainability Report (page 58-59) for two consecutive years. We also disclosed the assured key performance indicators in the Group report, and the data collection process and calculation method are all in correspondence with the identical indicators disclosed in the listed company report. Acknowledgements Some prize-winning works of China Mobile Communications Corporation's Third Employees Photography Contest were adopted in this report. We would like to thank all these originators! 57 Report Rating Rating Report on China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report Upon the request of China Mobile Communications Corporation, the CSR Research Center of Economics Division of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (hereinafter “Center”) invited experts from China CSR Report Rating Committee to form a rating team. The team rated China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report (hereinafter “the Report”) as follows: China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report 1. Rating Criteria Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises (CASS-CSR 3.0) and Rating Standard on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises (2014). 2. Rating Process (1) Interviewing the department in charge of CSR of China Mobile Communications Corporation. (2) Reviewing relevant information used in the preparation of the Report involving China Mobile Communications Corporation headquarters and provincial subsidiaries on site. (3) Evaluating the process of sustainability report management of China Mobile Communications Corporation. (4) Evaluating the information disclosed by the Report. 3. Rating results: Process Management (★★★★★) The Department of Development Strategy took the lead and formed the reporting team, while senior management involved in project launching, implementation and reviewing. The reporting team identified and prioritized stakeholders, conducted a survey about stakeholders’ opinions, and finally A Touchable Future A New Dream with You defined material issues based on stakeholder feedback, key corporate events, relevant government policies and industry benchmarking results. The Company also prepares to launch the Report with a press conference and makes the Report available in bilingual print and electronic versions, as well as other forms such as the Customer Communication Handbook. The Report has super excellent process management. Materiality (★★★★★) The Report systematically discloses key issues of the telecommunications industry, including “ensuring network stability”, “consumption transparency”, “product and service innovation”, “customer information protection”, “narrowing digital divide”, “joint construction and sharing of base stations”, “EMF management”, etc. The Report has super excellent materiality. Completeness (★★★★☆) With the theme “AND”, the Report discloses key messages on “Sustainability Strategy and Management”, “A New Dream with Shareholders”, “A New Dream with Customers”, “A New Dream with Employees”, “A New Dream with Communities”, “A New Dream with the Environment”, etc., covering 80% of the core indicators of the telecommunications industry. The Report has leading completeness. Balance (★★★★) The Report discloses negative information on “incident of workplace safety”, “law suits charged for anti-competitive behaviors”, “violations of regulation regarding effluent and wastes”, “safety hazard cases discovered”, “safety hazard cases rectified”, etc. The Report has excellent balance. Comparability (★★★★★) The Report discloses historical data of 65 key performance indicators for three consecutive years, and compares “Complaint rate per million customers” with counterparts of the industry. The Report has super excellent comparability. 58 Readability (★★★★★) The Report has a clear structure and logic, appropriate length and fluent language. It adopts a variety of ways of expression such as pictures, diagrams, flow charts, etc. The overall design echoes the Company’s new brand image with distinct characteristics. With the Customer Communication Handbook, the Company makes effort to target some specific stakeholder groups to disclose more relevant information on its CSR performance. The Report has super excellent readability. Report Rating Creativity (★★★★☆) The Report demonstrates stakeholders’ expectations, the Company’s responses, and summaries its efforts at the beginning of each chapter. The feature “A Better Future with Information for All” highlights characteristics of the Company’s social responsibility. Text descriptions are also added in the “Sustainability Performance Summary” to help stakeholders to better understand. The Report has leading creativity. Overall Rating (★★★★★) Through evaluation and deliberations, the rating team agreed to rate China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report as five-star, which is a super excellent corporate social responsibility report. 4. Suggested Improvements (1) Disclose more negative data and negative incident analyses to improve the balance. Rating Team Team Leader: Zhong Hongwu, Director of CSR Research Center, Economics Division, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Team Members: Deng Guosheng, Director of Innovation and Corporate Social Responsibility Research Center, Tsinghua University Liu Weihua, Deputy Chairman and Director of China Committee of Corporate Citizenship Process Evaluations Team: Deng Guosheng, Director of Innovation and Corporate Social Responsibility Research Center, Tsinghua University Zhai Lifeng and Fang Xiaojing, Department of Assessment, CSR Research Center, Economics Division, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Peng Huagang Zhong Hongwu Chairman of China CSR Report Team Leader of the Rating Team Rating Committee Director of the Center Vice President of Executive Council of the Center 59 Feedback Dear reader, Thank you for reading China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report. In order to further improve our sustainability performance and report quality, your comments and suggestions are very much appreciated and we hope you could help us continuously improve our work. China Mobile Report Team China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report April 2014 Please score from 1 to 5 (1 being the lowest and 5 being the highest) for the following questions 1. Your overall opinion on China Mobile Sustainability Report 2. Your opinion on if this report reflects significant economic, social and environmental impacts from China Mobile 3. Your overall opinion on our communication with stakeholders 4. Your overall opinion on information disclosure in this report 5. Your overall opinion on the format and design of this report A Touchable Future A New Dream with You You are welcome to make more comments: Your Contact Information Name: Company: Phone Number: Email: You may send an email to China Mobile 2013 Sustainability Report Team at CR@chinamobile.com, or fax the form to +86-10-52616167. We will take your comments seriously and promise not to disclose your information to third-party. 60 Report Disclosure Indexes GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4) The UN Global Compact’s 10 Principles No. Materiality Pages No. Materiality Pages No. Materiality Pages No. Materiality Pages No. Materiality Pages No. Materiality Pages No. Index Pages STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-38 High 48 ENVIRONMENTAL Compliance G4-DMA High 16, 52 G4-SO2 High 31-35 Human Rights G4-1 High 1 G4-39 High 48 Materials G4-DMA High 50 G4-LA14 High 52 Anti-corruption Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 21,26-28, 42-43,52 G4-2 High 1, 48 G4-40 High G4-DMA Low G4-EN29 High 50 G4-LA15 High 52 G4-DMA High 8, 11 Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 52 Report Disclosure Indexes Report Disclosure Indexes Report Disclosure Indexes ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-41 High G4-EN1 Low Transport Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-SO3 High 11, 53 Labor Standards G4-3 High 3 G4-42 High 4 G4-EN2 Low G4-DMA High 39 G4-DMA High 5, 52 G4-SO4 High 11, 53 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bar28, 52 G4-4 High 3, 9-10, 41-47 G4-43 Medium 5-7 Energy G4-EN30 High 39, 50 G4-LA16 High 52 G4-SO5 High 11, 53 gaining G4-5 High 3, BC G4-44 Medium G4-DMA High 36-37, 49 Overall Human Rights Public Policy Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 52 G4-6 High 3, 10, 53 G4-45 Medium 4-7 G4-EN3 High 49 G4-DMA High 49 Investment G4-DMA Low 53 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor 52 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 28, 52 G4-7 High 3 G4-46 Medium G4-EN4 High G4-EN31 High 49 G4-DMA High 52 G4-SO6 Low Environment G4-8 High 3 G4-47 Medium 5 G4-EN5 High 49 Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-HR1 Medium Anti-competitive Behavior Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 36-37 G4-9 High 3, 10, 48, 51 G4-48 High 4 G4-EN6 High 36-38, 49 G4-DMA High 16, 50 G4-HR2 High G4-DMA High 53 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 37-40 G4-10 High 51 G4-49 High 4-5 G4-EN7 High 38-39 G4-EN32 High 16, 50-51 Non-discrimination G4-SO7 High 53 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 38-40 G4-11 High 28, 52 G4-50 High 48 Water G4-EN33 High 17, 50-51 G4-DMA High 52 Compliance Anti-Corruption G4-12 High 13 G4-51 High G4-DMA Medium 50 Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR3 High 52 G4-DMA High 53 Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 11, 48, 53 G4-13 Low 3, 9-10, 13-16 G4-52 High G4-EN8 Medium 50 G4-DMA High 50 Freedom of Association and G4-SO8 High 53 Collective Bargaining G4-14 High 37 G4-53 Medium G4-EN9 Low 50 G4-EN34 High 50 Supplier Assessment for Impacts on G4-DMA High 28, 52 Society G4-15 High 5, 52, 57 G4-54 Medium G4-EN10 Medium 50 LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK G4-HR4 High 28, 52 G4-DMA High 16, 53 G4-16 High 5, 9, 52 G4-55 Medium Biodiversity Employment IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-DMA Low 50 G4-DMA High 25 Child Labor G4-SO9 High 16, 53 ISO26000 BOUNDARIES G4-DMA High 52 G4-SO10 High 53 G4-56 High 4 G4-EN11 Medium 50 G4-LA1 High 51 G4-17 High 3 G4-HR5 High Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Core Issues Index Pages Core Issues Index Pages G4-57 High 11 G4-EN12 Medium 50 G4-LA2 High 28, 51 Society Organisation Governance 11, 48 Fair 1. Anti-corruption 11, 48, 53 G4-18 High 7, 57 Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-58 High 11 G4-EN13 N/A G4-LA3 High 51 G4-DMA High 53 Operating G4-19 High 7 G4-DMA High 52 Human 1. Due diligence 52 2. Responsible political involvement 53 DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APG4-EN14 N/A Labor/Management Relations Rights Practice G4-SO11 High 53 2. Human rights risk situations 52 3. Fair competition 53 G4-20 High 7, 57, 61-62 PROACH G4-HR6 High Emissions G4-DMA High 28 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 3. Avoidance of complicity 52 4. Promoting social responsibility in 15-17, 50-52 G4-21 High 7, 61-62 G4-DMA High 4-7 Security Practices G4-DMA High 36-37, 50 G4-LA4 High 51 4. Resolving grievances 52 the value chain Customer Health and Safety G4-22 Low 48 ECONOMIC G4-DMA High 52 G4-EN15 High 50 Occupational Health and Safety 5. Discrimination and vulnerable 42-43, 52 5. Respect for property rights 10, 13 G4-DMA High 18-22,31 G4-23 High 57 Economic Performance G4-HR7 High 52 groups Consumer 1. Fair marketing, factual and 20, 23, 53 G4-EN16 High 50 G4-DMA High 25-26 G4-PR1 High 21,31 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-DMA High 8-10 Indigenous Rights 6. Civil and political rights 28, 52 Issues unbiased information and fair G4-EN17 High G4-LA5 High G4-PR2 High 53 contractual practices G4-24 High 6 G4-EC1 High 10, 48-49 G4-DMA Medium 52 7. Economic, social and cultural 28, 42-43, 52 G4-EN18 High 50 G4-LA6 High 26, 51 Product and Service Labelling rights 2. Protecting consumers’ health and 22, 31, 53 G4-25 High 5-6 G4-EC2 Medium 37-39 G4-HR8 Medium 31, 52 safety G4-EN19 High 38, 49 G4-LA7 Medium G4-DMA High 18 8. Fundamental principles and rights 26-28, 51-52 G4-26 High 6-7 G4-EC3 Medium Assessment 3. Sustainable consumption 40 G4-EN20 Low G4-LA8 High 26 at work G4-PR3 High 18-22 G4-27 High 6-7 G4-EC4 High 3 G4-DMA Medium 52 Labor 1. Employment and employment 28, 51 4. Consumer service, support and 6, 23-24, 53 G4-EN21 Low Training and Education G4-PR4 High 23-24 compliant and dispute resolution REPORT PROFILE Market Presence G4-HR9 Medium 52 Practices relationships Effluents and Waste G4-DMA High 25, 27 G4-PR5 High 24, 53 5. Consumer data protection and 21-22, 53 G4-28 High 57 G4-DMA High 48 Supplier Human Rights Assessment 2. Conditions of work and social 26-27, 51-52 G4-DMA High 40, 50 G4-LA9 High 27, 51 protection privacy Marketing G4-29 High 57 G4-EC5 High 48, 52 G4-DMA High 16, 52 6. Access to essential services 42-43 G4-EN22 High 50 G4-LA10 High 27 G4-DMA High 53 3. Social dialogue 5-7, 52 G4-30 High 57 G4-EC6 Medium 51 G4-HR10 High 16, 52 7. Education and awareness 23-24, 31-33, 42 G4-EN23 High 50 G4-LA11 High 25, 28 4. Health and safety at work 26, 51 G4-PR6 High 53 G4-31 High 60 Indirect Economic Impacts G4-HR11 High 17, 52 Community 1. Community involvement 30-35 G4-EN24 N/A Diversity and Equal Opportunity 5. Human development and training 27, 51 G4-PR7 High 53 Involvement G4-32 High 58-59, 61-62 G4-DMA High 12-13, 48 Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms in the workplace 2. Education and culture 31-33, 46 G4-EN25 N/A G4-DMA High 28, 51 and Customer Privacy G4-33 High 58-59 G4-EC7 High 32, 48-49 G4-DMA High 52 Environment 1. Prevention of pollution 17, 38-40, 50 Development 3. Employment creation and skills 13, 32-33, 48 G4-EN26 Low 50 G4-LA12 High 51 G4-DMA High 21, 53 development GOVERNANCE G4-EC8 High 12-14, 32-34, G4-HR12 High 52-53 2. Sustainable resource use 38-40, 49 41-43, 48-49 Products and Services Equal Remuneration for Women and G4-PR8 High 4. Technology development and 13, 33 G4-34 High 48 Men Society 3. Climate change mitigation and 37-40, 50 access Procurement Practices G4-DMA High 36-39 Compliance adaptation G4-35 High 4 G4-DMA High 52 Local Communities 5. Wealth and income creation 32, 46-48 G4-DMA High 12 G4-EN27 High 38-39, 50 G4-DMA High 53 4. Protection of the environment, 40, 50 G4-36 High 4 G4-LA13 High 52 G4-DMA High 30 biodiversity and restoration of 6. Health 31, 34, 44-45 G4-EC9 High 15, 49 G4-EN28 Low 50 G4-PR9 High 53 G4-37 Medium 4-6 Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-SO1 High 52 natural homes 7. Social investment 32-35, 42-43, 49 61 62 63 Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide of the Stock Chinese CSR Report Preparation Guide (CASS-CSR3.0) Exchange of Hong Kong Limited Core Issues Index Pages No. Materiality Pages No. Materiality Pages No. Materiality Pages No. Materiality Page No. Materiality Page No. Materiality Page A. Workplace Quality P. Report Foreword G6.2 High 5-6 S1.8 High 51 S4.6 High 51 E1.11 High 39, 50 E2.18 High 38-39, 50 A1 Working conditions A1.1 Total workforce by employment type, age group and geographical region. 51 P1.1 High 4, 57-59 G6.3 High 5 S2.1 High 28 S4.7 High 51 E1.12 High 50 E2.19 High 50 A1.2 Employee turnover rate by age group and geographical region. 51 P1.2 High 57 G6.4 High 5 S2.2 High 28, 52 S4.8 High 15 E1.13 High 38-39 E3.1 High 50 A2 Health and safety A2.1 Number and rate of work-related fatalities. 26, 51 China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report China Mobile Communications Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report P1.3 High 57 M. Market Performance S2.3 High 28, 51 S4.9 High 30, 32-35 E2.1 High 37 E3.2 High 17, 50 A2.2 Lost days due to work injury. P1.4 High 57 M1.1 High 6, 48 S2.4 High 28, 52 S4.10 High 34 E2.2 High 49 E3.3 High 51 A2.3 Description of occupational health and safety measures adopted, and how they are 26, 51 implemented and monitored. P1.5 High 60, BC M1.2 N/A S2.5 High 52 S4.11 Medium E2.3 High 49 E3.4 High 17, 40 A3 Development and A3.1 The percentage of employees trained by employee category (e.g. senior management, middle 51 P2.1 High M1.3 High 5-6 S2.6 High S4.12 High 52 E2.4 Low 37 E3.5 Low 40, 50 training management, etc.). P2.2 High 7 M1.4 High 10 S2.7 High 26, 28, 52 S4.13 High 35, 52 E2.5 High 38 E3.6 Low 17, 50 A3.2 The average training hours completed per employee by employee category. 51 A4 Labor standards A4.1 Description of measures to review employment practices to avoid child and forced labor. 52 P2.3 High 7 M1.5 High 3,48 S2.8 Medium 51 S4.14 High 52 E2.6 High 49 E4.1 Low 50 A4.2 Description of steps taken to eliminate such practices when discovered. 52 P3.1 High 1 M1.6 High 3,48 S2.9 High 51 E. Green Operation E2.7 N/A E4.2 Low B. Environmental Protection P3.2 High 1 M2.1 High 18 S2.10 Medium E1.1 High 37 E2.8 N/A E4.3 N/A B1 Emissions B1.1 The types of emissions and respective emissions data. 50 P4.1 High 3 M2.2 High 24, 31 S2.11 High E1.2 Low 51 E2.9 Low 50 E4.4 N/A B1.2 Greenhouse gas emissions in total (in tonnes) and where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per unit of 50 P4.2 High 3, 9-10, 41-47 M2.3 High 21, 53 S2.12 High 25-28 E1.3 High 39 E2.10 Low 50 E4.5 High 40, 50 production volume, per facility). B1.3 Total hazardous waste produced (in tonnes) and where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per unit of P4.3 High 3 M2.4 High 20 S2.13 High 51 E1.4 High 37 E2.11 Low 39 A. Report Afterword production volume, per facility). P4.4 High 3, 9-10, 49 M2.5 High 19, 23, 53 S2.14 High 51 E1.5 High 49 E2.12 Low 50 A1 High 54-55 B1.4 Total non-hazardous waste produced (in tonnes) and where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per unit 50 P4.5 High 51 M2.6 High 31 S2.15 High E1.6 High 39-40 E2.13 Medium 38-39 A2 High 56, 58-59 of production volume, per facility). B1.5 Description of measures to mitigate emissions and results achieved. 37-39 P4.6 High 5, 9 M2.7 High 10 S2.16 Medium 51 E1.7 High E2.14 Medium 50 A3 High 61-66 B1.6 Description of how hazardous and non-hazardous wastes are handled, reduction initiatives and 40, 50 P4.7 High 3, 57 M2.8 High 10 S2.17 Medium 26, 51 E1.8 Low 50 E2.15 High 50 A4 High 60 results achieved. P5.1 High 54-55 M2.9 High S2.18 Medium 26 E1.9 High 50-51 E2.16 Low 50 A Touchable Future A New Dream with You A Touchable Future A New Dream with You A Touchable Future A New Dream with You B2 Use of resources B2.1 Direct and/or indirect energy consumption by type (e.g. electricity, gas or oil) in total (kwh in 49 ‘000s) and intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility). P5.2 High 48-53 M2.10 High 10 S2.19 Medium E1.10 High 39 E2.17 Low B2.2 Water consumption in total and intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility). 50 P5.3 High 3, 5 M2.11 High 23 S2.20 High 26, 51 B2.3 Description of energy use efficiency initiatives and results achieved. 37-38 G. Responsibility Management M2.12 High S2.21 High 25-26 B2.4 Description of whether there is any issue in sourcing water that is fit for purpose, water 50 G1.1 High 4 M2.13 High 24, 53 S2.22 High 25 efficiency initiatives and results achieved. G1.2 High 39, 52 M2.14 High 20-24, 53 S2.23 High 26 B2.5 Total packaging material used for finished products (in tonnes), and if applicable, with reference to per unit produced. G1.3 High 4, 7 M3.1 High 12-14 S2.24 High 27 B3 The environment and B3.1 Description of the significant impacts of activities on the environment and natural resources G1.4 High 4-5 M3.2 High 11 S2.25 High 27 37, 50 natural resources and the actions taken to manage them. G2.1 High 4 M3.3 High 15 S2.26 High 25, 27, 51 C. Operating Practice G2.2 High 4-6 M3.4 High S2.27 High 28 C1 Supply chain C1.1 Number of suppliers by geographical region. 15, 49 management G2.3 High 4 M3.5 High 12 S2.28 High 28, 51 C1.2 Description of practices relating to engaging suppliers, number of suppliers where the practices 12, 15-16, 49-50 are being implemented, how they are implemented and monitored. G2.4 High 4 M3.6 High 15-17 S2.29 High 28 C2 Product responsibility C1.2 Description of practices relating to engaging suppliers, number of suppliers where the practices G2.5 High 5 M3.7 High 15-17 S2.30 High are being implemented, how they are implemented and monitored. C2.2 Number of products and service related complaints received and how they are dealt with. 53 G3.1 High 4-5 M3.8 High 15-17 S2.31 High 51 C2.3 Description of practices relating to observing and protecting intellectual property rights. 10 G3.2 High 15-17 M3.9 High 16, 49 S3.1 High 26 C2.4 Description of quality assurance process and recall procedures. 40 G4.1 High 4-5 M3.10 High 16, 50-53 S3.2 High 25-26, 51 C2.5 Description of consumer data protection and privacy policies, how they are implemented and 21, 53 G4.2 High 5 M3.11 High 49 S3.3 High 26, 51 monitored. G4.3 High 5 M3.12 High 16 S3.4 High 25-26 C3 Anti-corruption C3.1 Number of concluded legal cases regarding corrupt practices brought against the issuer or its 11, 53 employees during the reporting period and the outcomes of the cases. G4.4 High 11, 20-22, 53 S. Social Performance S3.5 High C3.2 Description of preventive measures and whistle-blowing procedures, how they are implemented 11 G5.1 High 6 S1.1 High 11, 48 S3.6 High 26, 51 and monitored. G5.2 High 5-6 S1.2 High 11, 53 S3.7 High 26, 51 D. Community Involvement D1 Community D1.1 Focus areas of contribution (e.g. education, environmental concerns, labor needs, health, 30-35, 42 G5.3 High 6 S1.3 High 11 S4.1 Low 31, 38 investment culture, sport). G5.4 High 5-6 S1.4 High 11, 53 S4.2 Low D1.2 Resources contributed (e.g. money or time) to the focus area. 35, 49, 52 G5.5 High 5-6 S1.5 High 48 S4.3 Low G5.6 High 4-6 S1.6 High 53 S4.4 High 32-35 64 65 G6.1 High 5 S1.7 High 48 S4.5 High 51 66
