2012 Social Responsibility Report 1 Contents Learning to build About the Report P. 5 P. 6 Message Mission, Vision, 2012 from the CEO Beliefs and Values Highlights P. 12 P. 14 P. 15 Profile Strategy and Corporate P. 16 Positioning Governance P. 20 P. 30 Academic Economic Relationships Management Performance for Development P. 42 P. 50 P. 56 GRI Index Credits P. 82 P. 90 2 Learning to Build LEARNING TO BUILD Education is an art that involves the processes of teaching and learning within a rich exchange in which the teacher and student are constantly learning and evolving. Throughout its 18 years of history, Anhanguera has collaborated with the education of thousands of young people, who were able to build a career and pursue their goals and dreams using what they learned at the Educational Institution. The truth is that, being one of the largest private institutions of Higher Education in the world, Anhanguera has educated a lot of people, but learned a lot from each one of them as well. It has learned that studying is not easy, but the effort has its reward; that in order to grow it is necessary to value its people, and that as Paulo Freire said so wellto teach is not to transfer knowledge, but create opportunities for its creation. For the 2012 Social Responsibility Report, Anhanguera once again has listened to its different audiences and went beyond its own institutional vision, managing to consolidate different demands that impact and are impacted by the everyday life of the institution. The outcome is recorded in this document produced with the intention of translating Anhanguera Educacional’s reality that has given opportunities to thousands of students throughout Brazil. 4 About the Report ABOUT THE REPORT GRI 3.1, 3.2, 3.3 and 3.5 This is the eighth edition of the Anhanguera Educacional Social Responsibility Report, which includes the major In the elaboration of the 2012 Social Responsibility Report, this consultation was conducted events of the Institution in the economic, social and environmental dimension for the period from January 1 to through two initiatives: GRI 4.15 December 31, 2012. This report has been developed based on the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), an international Face-to-face Stakeholders Panel: on January 31, 2013 a reporting methodology that aims at disclosure of transparent and comparable information on sustainability performance face to face consultation was held with the participation over the years and among organizations from different economic sectors. of 26 stakeholders including students, employees and suppliers who expressed opinions on corporate sustainability dimensions and presented ideas for LEVEL OF APPLICATION improving the performance of the institution. Before the panel, there were group dynamics to stimulate the For the creation of this report Anhanguera Educacional maintained an application level B, in compliance with the sharing of ideas and the creation of commitment and guidelines listed in the table below: synergy among participants. C C+ B B+ A A+ Online Consultation: between February and March 2013, 443 people (distributed among the various levels of Answer all criteria required relationship according to the following chart) answered a questionnaire sent by email, indicating the topics they Answer to items 1.1; for Level C plus: 2.1 to 2.10; The same level consider most relevant among the alternatives listed, focusing on economic, environmental and social dimensions G3 profile. 1.2; 3.1 to 3.8, 3.10 to 3.12 required for Level B. 3.9, 3.13; the latter divided into labor practices, human rights, society and product responsibility. 4.1 to 4.4, 4th14 to 4.15 4.5 to 4.13, 4.16 to 4.17 Form of Information about the Form Form of Management Not required. of Management for each Stakeholders Online Consultation With external verification With external verification With external verification Management of G3. disclosed for each Content of the Report Indicator Category. Indicator Category. Result 3% 6% Answer at least 20 Answer each Teachers and Tutors Indicators of Answer to at least 10 indicators or Performance Indicators, essential indicator of G3 ad the Sectorial 3% including at least one Students Performance of Performance, including Supplement with of each of the following G3 & Indicators at least one of each consideration to performance areas: Employees/Representatives/ of Performance of the Sectorial of the following performance areas: economic, environmental, the following forms (a) answering to 20% 39% Service providers human resources, labor Supplement. social, economic and the indicator or (b) practices society, product environmental. responsibility. explaining the reason Companies in the education sector of omission. Community/Social, Environmental or Educational Entities Others 29% Besides providing GRI indicators, adherence to level B requires a consultation with stakeholders of the Institution, in order to define the most prominent topics on the basis of relevance to these audiences. 6 7 About the Report The combination of both methodologies has brought quantitative and qualitative information for results analysis, and, Environmental Dimension The online consultation addressed the “Community” therefore, is an important tool for the construction of the Report, as well as for the preparation of an action plan that topic in the Society dimension as extremely relevant addresses sustainability in the institution’s strategy. The online consultation raised the topic of “General to the institution, with 61% of interest. Related to this Environmental Management”, with 44% of interest topic, the Panel added the need for the institution to In parallel to the consultation, a working group – composed of Anhanguera employees was engaged to provide and “Use of Materials” with 37% of responses. The disclose more information about its actions with the information regarding the pre-established GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) indicators. These indicators demonstrate Face to Face Panel addressed in a relevant manner Community and engage its audiences more often in their Anhanguera’s development in terms of sustainability relative to levels that the institution wants to achieve. the “Use of Materials” topic, expanding its scope for initiatives, and recommend that the institution expand the development of eco-efficiency programs involving its relationship with cities in order to increase and Upon establishing the most relevant topics and having the answers for GRI indicators, the third phase is started: internal Stakeholders and Anhanguera Educacional’s enhance its actions. collate all information obtained and prepare the report with transparency and honesty. students, considering the use and disposal of waste (paper, recyclable and non-recyclable material) water In “Product Responsibility”, 78% of the Stakeholders management, energy (lighting and air conditioning) who answered the online consultation considered and mobility. the Customer Satisfaction Survey as a topic of major interest. In the face to face consultation, the highlight Training Stakeholder consultation Interviews Working Group Social Dimension was the importance of the quality of graduate professors andresponses (with doctorate and master’s degrees), that determine with Company Online + Face-to-face Panel executives to the GRI Regarding Labor Practices, the subject of major interest the quality of teaching at Anhanguera Educacional. The indicators of the online consultation, with 62% of the answers, Textbook Program (PLT), was mentioned as a synonym was “Education and Training”, which involves Training for high quality by the attendees in the Panel. and Development Programs, Performance Evaluation and Career Planning, among other Human Resources activities. In this sense, the face to face consultation was able to supplement this answer, suggesting improvements in the Human Resources Policies specifically in the Career Plan program. Report The Human Rights dimension raised the topic “Staff and security training on Human Rights”, with 48% of “ interest in the online consultation. The Panel noted the need to disclose to the Institution’s stakeholders the Human Rights issues that impact the business of IT IS VERY IMPORTANT FOR RELEVANT TOPICS Anhanguera Educacional. ANHANGUERA EDUCACIONAL’S In general, the Face-to-face Stakeholders Panel showed that it is very important for Anhanguera Educacional’s employees to better understand the initiatives of the institution in the three dimensions of Corporate Sustainability EMPLOYEES TO BETTER UNDERSTAND and, so that they can propose the creation of systemic programs that focus efforts of the different areas in unique THE INITIATIVES OF THE INSTITUTION “ and strategic ways. Economic Dimension IN THE THREE DIMENSIONS OF “Indirect Economic Impacts,” which relate to investments in infrastructure and development of the communities CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY. where Anhanguera operates, had 51% interest from consulted persons via internet. Panel attendees addressed internal operational and financial issues, relating to, for example, payment by students and teacher pay. 8 9 About the Report Materiality Matrix Reporting Cycle Objectives According to the analysis The development of the 2012 Social Responsibility Report allowed: of the results of the Online • Bring together different areas of Anhanguera Educacional to discuss sustainability as a pillar for the institution’s Consultation, the ten most management and strategy; important topics among • Identify areas for improvement in the monitoring of indicators of sustainability management during the year; respondents were listed. From • Present in an objective and visually friendly manner the commitments, principles and results of Anhanguera this selection, respondents Educacional in an appealing language to its different stakeholders; were segmented into: • Relate and talk to stakeholders, giving representativeness to different audiences, essential in defining the strategy External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders of the Institution; and 36% of the consultation responses, 64% of the consultation responses, • Set goals and action plans for key social, environmental and economic impacts of the Organization. and in this profile, “Students” and “Professors and Tutors” together accounted for 79% of the sample; and accounted for 60% of the sample. Parameters For Analysis In addition to the panel, for analysis purposes we use: In order to understand the convergence of visions of the External Stakeholders and Internal Stakeholders, the Externally: Materiality Matrix of this report was created, with external opinions on the vertical axis and the internal opinions • Stakeholder Panel; on the horizontal axis. GRI 4.17 • Hoper sector analysis; • Website of the Ministry of Education (MEC); 3 • BM&FBOVESPA website. 1. Customer satisfaction surveys Institution Quality (for students) 2. Training and education of employees Internally: 1 • Interviews with Prof. Antonio Carbonari Netto, Chairman of the Board of Directors, Prof. Maria Elisa, 3. Community Programs with the Community 2 Chairwoman of the Social Responsibility Committee; Patricia Abreu, Marketing Officer; Roberto Valerio, Vice External Stakeholders 4. Indirect economic impacts Investments in infrastructure and community development President of Operations; Vitor Pini, Investor Relations Officer, and Ana Maria Costa de Sousa, Vice President 2 for Academics; 3 5. Employment generation • Analysis of the main documents of the Organization, including: codes and policies (Anhanguera Educacional’s 6. General Environmental Management Environmental Management Strategy); Code of Conduct; OPA (HR) Policy; Institutional Evaluation Program (PAI); Earnings Release 4Q12; 1 Extension Policy; Integrated Management Policy; and Purchase Guidelines. 7. Market Presence Presence in markets where it operates 6 8. Training of security personnel on human rights 8 7 5 4 10 9 9. Use of materials (recyclable and non-recyclable) 10. Occupational health and safety 0 1 2 3 Internal Stakeholders Aware of its Mission to contribute to the social inclusion and achievement of young Brazilians’ life plans through affordable and high quality Higher Education, Anhanguera understands that needs to continue improving its internal procedures to evolve in reporting its sustainable actions, building each day a culture of collecting and organizing information relevant to periodic consolidations. The implementation of the Multi-stakeholder Panel decisively contributed, once again, to guiding preparation and information reporting. The Educational Institution has worked and invested in engaging its stakeholders – both on and off campus – therefore renewing its commitment to serve its different stakeholders. 10 11 Message from the CEO MESSAGE FROM THE CEO GRI 1.1 and 1.2 2012 was marked by significant operational challenges Anhanguera’s solid academic model was even better and by the development of major initiatives to integrate all appraised by the latest reviews disclosed by the Ministry newly acquired units in different geographic regions and of Education, in which 100% of the institution’s organic of different sizes and make sure that all these units enter campuses had positive General Course Index IGCs1 (equal not only in the academic model, but also in Anhanguera’s to or greater than three), while the acquired institutions still management model. maturing in the academic model showed 89% positive rates, an increase of 10% compared to the previous evaluation. To accomplish this task, the Educational Institution has invested in technology to create new processes and improve In parallel, Anhanguera hopes to achieve important existing ones, thus significantly enhancing the student improvements in the distribution of its courses, which will experience, as well as optimizing the newly acquired assets. be extremely significant in the medium term. Throughout 2013, the Institution expects to have authorization to extend The results of this effort are seen in initiatives such as the its accredited Centers for Distance Learning, the fastest training of academic departments, scanning of platforms, growing segment in the industry. In addition to the expansion migration from telephone service to service via chat (a of Centers, the distance learning (EAD) course portfolio will strategic decision based on the behavior expressed naturally be expanded with the launch of 100% online courses in the by the students) and the creation of the Student Portal, second semester, which should reach a new group of students an online environment that offers a variety of services to who value convenience. students, reducing wait times and offering more convenience to students. For 2013, the focus of Anhanguera will be, once again, on organic growth and operating performance. The Institution Reflecting this steady growth, the year was also excellent will continue to invest in technology, infrastructure in terms of the installed base. The Institution had a record and academic planning so that young people can study number of registrations in the admission exam, culminating with flexibility, convenience, and content suited to the Ricardo Leonel Scavazza in more than 209 thousand new students, a number 20% requirements of the job market. Anhanguera's Chief Executive Officer higher as compared to 2011. We thank our professionals, students, partners, suppliers, Antonio Carbonari Netto Anhanguera ended the year with strong growth in the overall investors and communities for receiving us with trust in the Anhanguera's Chairman number of students registered, healthy student retention value creation of our business for another year. rates, significant expansion with newly acquired campuses and growth of student body from FIES which surpassed 60 thousand students (whereas in 2011 the number was no more than 24 thousand students) and ProUni over 40 thousand consolidating it as the Educational Institution with the highest number of students with scholarships from FIES and ProUni in Brazil. 12 13 2012 Highlights MISSION, VISION, BELIEFS AND VALUES GRI 4.8 • Anhanguera’s 1,117 community extension or social responsibility projects, developed by 71 units, carried out 1.5 million services throughout Brazil. MISSION VISION • Start of the “Um Pé no Futuro” program, a High School relationship program of partner schools aimed To promote education in an efficient way and with the To be the largest Higher Education Institution in at awakening the desire in students to attend college. necessary quality to allow for high performance in Brazil, providing students with more access to quality students’ future professional activities so that they can education for social inclusion and mobility. • Participation of 1,000 students and 364 guidance competently and ethically develop their life projects counselors in the PIC (Institutional Scientific as informed citizens aware of their rights, duties and HIGHLIGHTS Initiation Program) in 2012, with approval of social responsibilities. 639 projects. Of those, 463 were nominated for GRI 2.9 and 2.10 scholarships and 537 joined as volunteers. BELIEFS AND VALUES • Anhanguera was the Educational Institution that received the most scholarships from Prouni and Fies in 2012 there were over 110 thousand students studying under the financing of government That good education, delivered efficiently and with It also has to be coherently evaluated based on the incentive programs. quality and seriousness, translates into learning that is objectives proposed, in line with the pedagogical effective and useful to students so they can develop their project of each course. • Award of the Brazilian Association of Direct skills and competencies geared toward their life projects. Marketing (ABEMD), the most important event of That the study and practice of ethics should be added Brazilian Direct Marketing, for the campaign “Aqui o That quality higher education, in addition to serving the to formal education in order to produce citizens who seu esforço ganha força”. interests and expectations of students, is based on the are conscious of their duties and rights, for a social life quality of professors and other educational agents who that is based on sharing and solidarity. • Students from the Taubaté unit were awarded in the interact in student training. VI Silvio Tendler Video Contest sponsored by the That students are jointly responsible for efficient and Brazilian Association of Higher Education Supporters That continuous education of faculty, agents of effective learning, showing dedication to purposes, (ABMES) for the video report about Anhanguera’s excellence, as well as their emotional and functional commitments, goals and objectives undertaken. Social Responsibility week. stability, are essential for their qualification, training and updating. That students should develop their abilities and • Anhanguera finished the year with 1,966 followers competencies when motivated by the faculty, who are on Twitter an increase of 662% compared to That good higher education for efficient learning currently seen as learning facilitators. December 2011. should have theoretical and practical foundations, whether through the use of appropriate methodologies That the social responsibility of the Institution • Successful partnership with Catho allowing, already or through the use of educational technologies and comprises the principles of social inclusion and in 2012, free access to thousands of Anhanguera information technology as auxiliary multimedia, as well promotion of equality in rights and opportunities students to the largest online resume and jobs as the systematic use of textbooks in each subject. aimed at the social progress of individuals in a classifieds website in Latin America. globalized society. That the learning process, to be efficient and effective, should be constantly encouraged and implemented. That it is the duty of the Institution and its students to promote respect, the support of human rights, quality of life and the environment. 14 15 Profile 16 Profile PRESENCE GRI 2.5 In 2012, Anhanguera’s educational network consisted of 73 units of Higher Education, distributed in 9 Brazilian states and the Federal District. Goiás and Distrito Federal Anápolis and Valparaíso de Goiás (GO) and Taguatinga (DF) Minas Gerais Belo Horizonte ANHANGUERA GRI 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8 and 3.7 Mato Grosso Cuiabá and Rondonópolis Anhanguera Educacional Participações S.A. (AESA) is The Institution offers courses in different areas and careers the largest private higher education organization in Latin such as business, law, education, engineering, health and America and sustained throughout 2012 an average of technology. In all, Anhanguera offers over 90 different Rio de Janeiro 430 thousand students. With headquarters in Valinhos, courses with 12 Education degrees, 45 bachelor’s degrees, Niterói in upstate São Paulo, the Institution has capital stock of 45 technology courses and 72 postgraduate courses. Mato Grosso do Sul R$1.8 billion according to the trading price of the shares There is also a learning support system for students, which Campo Grande, Dourados, at the close the trading session of BM&FBOVESPA on includes libraries and laboratories. Ponta Porã and Rio Verde December 31, 2012 it is responsible for about 7.6% of São Paulo the Brazilian private education market and was once again All courses are officially authorized and recognized by Bauru, Campinas, Indaiatuba, considered the “most valuable brand in Education” by the Ministry of Education (MEC), according to the Itapecerica da Serra, Jacareí, Brand Analytics / Millward Brown. legislation, generally recognized two years after approval from MEC and prior to the first class graduation as Paraná Jundiaí, Leme, Limeira, Matão, Osasco, Pindamonhangaba, Focused on a target audience composed of adults from usual for all higher Educational Institutions in the country. Curitiba and Cascavel Piracicaba, Rio Claro, Santa Middle and Lower Income groups that work during Diplomas are granted by the institutions maintained by Bárbara d’Oeste, Santo André, the day and study at night, Anhanguera recorded 209 Anhanguera Educacional. São Bernardo do Campo, São thousand registrations in 2012 a figure 20% higher Caetano do Sul, São José dos when compared to 2011. The number of students at the Rio Grande do Sul Santa Catarina Campos, São Paulo, Sertãozinho, Institution reached 411.1 thousand in 2012, being 278.2 Caxias, Passo Fundo, Pelotas Joinville and Jaraguá do Sul Sorocaba, Sumaré, Taboão da thousand on campuses and 132.9 at the distance learning and Rio Grande Serra, Taubaté and Valinhos Centers. To meet the demand, the Educational Institution has a staff of 16,756 million employees. 18 19 Strategy and Positioning Strategy and Positioning BUSINESS STRATEGY Anhanguera Educacional was born with the mission to make higher education accessible to young students and prepare them for the job market. To accomplish this, we established a business strategy to be based on four pillars: QUALITY, FEASIBILITY, Quality INNOVATION and SUPPORT. The Teaching and Learning Plan is a tool that guides the actions of the professor and student learning This consistent performance has enabled Anhanguera in order to maintain and monitor academic quality. to become one of the largest educational groups in the Part of this plan is the constant guidance and world, increasing its responsibility to higher education in training of professors, the standardization of the the country and expanding its operations to every young contents studied in all units and the development of high school student. methodologies that allow students to develop their skills, such as leadership, interpersonal skills, flexibility, The managers of our units throughout the country play a key role in implementing the Group’s strategy. So that time management and initiative. This applies to the Feasibility Supervised Practical Activity for undergrads and the there is alignment on all areas of activity, Anhanguera It is part of the Anhanguera’s DNA to develop tools Professional Challenge for post-graduate students. Educacional promotes regular meetings transmitted and benefits that make higher education feasible for Throughout the course, students are also encouraged via satellite in order to guide, standardize and keep students. This concept applies both under the financial to develop scientific initiation projects and participate employees engaged and aligned to the business strategy point of view, establishing affordable tuition and in conferences and academic symposiums. of the company. assisting students to get student loans, and also under the geographical point of view, by means of the organic units, purchased and distributed throughout Brazil. Innovation Support In the education sector, technology must go beyond software and equipment. Anhanguera maintains its Throughout college, students of educational academic body, composed of specialists, masters institutions maintained by Anhanguera have access and doctors focused on the ongoing development of to benefits that provide the necessary support for innovative pedagogical tools. The result is a teaching the entire academic life. Students can acquire the methodology that makes the student’s higher basic bibliography for their classes with discounts of education experience as close as possible to the reality up to 80% off the final price have bureaucratic issues found in the job market. resolved through the largest self-service platform in the education sector via the Student Portal. 22 23 Strategy and Positioning PROMISING SECTOR Anhanguera constantly evaluates the education sector For the coming years, Hoper expects the continuation The combination of these factors is increasingly in Brazil to monitor the implementation of its business of the consolidation process: out of the 17 potential offering opportunities to young Brazilians who wish to strategy. According to industry analysis from Hoper, consolidators, no more than 12 educational groups should invest in their careers. In Brazil, among families with Brazil is the region with the largest number of private remain, holding over 50% of the market in 2015. incomes greater than five times the minimum wage, the Higher Education Institutions (for-profit) in the world. In percentage of young people between 18 and 24 years the country, industry turnover is approximately R$29.8 According to figures updated in 2011, the 358 thousand (which in 2010 totaled 23.88 million) who attend higher billion annually. (411.1 thousand today) Anhanguera students put the education courses is above 50%. However, in families with institution in 1st place in the ranking of the largest foran average income of less than three minimum wages, the Today, private higher education in Brazil is characterized profit private groups in Brazil in relation to market share, percentage is less than 15%. by the professionalization of the sector and by constant reaching the mark of 7.6% of students registered in higher mergers and acquisitions. Still, according to the analysis, education in Brazil. Opportunity for learners, as well opportunities for those the consolidation of higher education companies in who teach: Brazil has 2.2 million high school graduates Brazil presents an unprecedented development in world Students are among the main beneficiaries of the annually and, in addition, there are over 13 million people history. By studying the movements of the last decade, it changes in the private sector, since in Brazil the public with High School diplomas but no Higher Education. becomes evident that the industry is being transformed sector although free serves social classes with higher All these demands result in a projection of 7.7 million from a highly fragmented business to a business of major purchasing power. students registered in colleges and universities in 2013 players and a high concentration. (according to data from Hoper), being 1.4 million in Between 2000 and 2010, the private sector has Distance Learning and 6.3 million in classroom courses. This movement can be seen in the numbers: 10 years ago, increased the number of openings by 175.6%, absorbing the 20 largest companies were responsible for around 14% 73.2% of higher education students. In 2012, Higher The Hoper study also showed that publicly traded of total students. Currently, these 20 companies hold Education reached more than 6.0 million students, with companies grow at rates well above the national average more than 40% of the education market. 5.4 million on campus and 930 thousand in distance on all items: registered students, freshmen, number of learning (EAD). courses and number of campuses. While the number Several factors have contributed to the continued of freshmen increased approximately 1% on average at growth of large companies, including: more professional Within this expansion scenario, besides the structural Brazilian HEIs (Higher Education Institutions) in 2010, management with greater emphasis on cost control; changes mentioned above, there are the educational the growth in the number of new students at Anhanguera relative economies of scale (evident in the purchase of incentive programs launched by the Federal Government, was 43.2%. educational inputs, integrated back office and academic especially ProUni and FIES. Today, 17% of students use “ standardization); more competitive tuition fees, more financing, a significant number when compared to previous intensive market communication, and more capital years, but understated when compared to other countries availability for investments in expansion. like the U.S., where 72% of university students use some IN BRAZIL, AMONG FAMILIES WITH INCOMES kind of funding (mostly subsidized by the government). The entire process of capital input and participation of GREATER THAN FIVE TIMES THE MINIMUM companies in the financial sector in Education has brought WAGE, THE PERCENTAGE OF YOUNG PEOPLE “ many benefits, such as improved management, the professionalization and qualification of managers, and the motivation for the search for intelligent solutions to old BETWEEN 18 AND 24 YEARS WHO ATTEND problems in the sector. HIGHER EDUCATION COURSES IS ABOVE 50%. 24 25 Strategy and Positioning QUALITY EDUCATION UNIBAN has six master’s and two doctoral programs, with the participation of 67 professors and 288 students, UNIBAN master’s programs highlighting the holding of 14 patents. At UNIBAN, the • Adolescents in Conflict with the Law; professors’ scientific production reached the result of 390 • Biomaterials; UNDERGRADUATE publications, including books, articles and papers registered • Biotechnology and Innovation in Health; in conferences in addition to 255 participations in events • Mathematics Education; Undergraduate courses provide professional rights and for research dissemination. • Pharmacy and Body Balance rehabilitation; prerogatives, and are offered in the form of classroom • Social Inclusion. teaching and distance learning, with a minimum of 75% attendance required. All classroom courses offered by the institution have specific laboratories and appropriate classrooms, in addition to libraries with collections Undergraduate Courses Number of Anhanguera students (in thousands) updated every six months and coordinators. Bachelor’s degrees: 4-6 years duration and 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 graduates general professionals in certain areas Post-graduate 3 7 11 13 16 27 The undergraduate coordinators are the key course of knowledge. managers and responsible for all teaching and pedagogical guidance to students, as well as the supervision of Education degrees: 3-4 years duration and pedagogical projects. All have specific working hours for graduates professionals for teaching. personal assistance to interested parties, with the Student DISTANCE LEARNING Service Center (SAE) installed on each campus. Technology courses: 2-3 years duration and graduates professionals with a specialization. One of the key elements of Anhanguera’s inclusive educational model, Distance Learning has overcome barriers in Brazil providing opportunities for thousands of people who wish to invest in their careers in order to live a better life. According to the analysis from All Consulting, the constant technical developments from Internet access to the increase of knowledge in using the web for research in general have been facilitators for this market, as well as increased access to computers and broadband internet. Number of Anhanguera students (in thousands) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Anhanguera has more than 132 thousand students enrolled in distance learning (EAD – in the Portuguese acronym), Undergraduate 43 123 132 149 218 258 being the 2nd Educational Institution in number of students in this segment in Brazil, according to MEC. This learning format offers financial and geographical advantages and flexible schedules that are attractive to those who want to work and study. Furthermore, the possibility of customizing the learning process helps the student to study according to his/ her pace. POST-GRADUATE COURSES UNIDERP master’s programs Number of Anhanguera students (in thousands) Anhanguera offers Stricto Sensu Post-graduate Programs 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 • Master’s Degree in Environment and at IES Universidade Anhanguera-UNIDERP and Regional Development; Distance Learning 28 35 50 57 88 Universidade Bandeirante Anhanguera (UNIBAN). • Professional Master’s Degree in LFG 77 83 60 56 UNIDERP has two master’s programs with the Agribusiness Production and Management. participation of 21 professors and 116 publications in articles and book chapters. In 2013, the Program will also offer the program at the doctoral level (Scholar Doctorate on Environment and Regional Development). UNIBAN Doctorate Programs • Mathematics Education; • Biotechnology and Innovation in Health. 26 27 Strategy and Positioning “ Learning to Learn The EAD student complies with the same requirements of the classroom model, but has the benefit of having flexible THE EAD STUDENT COMPLIES WITH hours and therefore, can absorb content at their own pace, developing their own learning methodology with full THE BENEFIT OF HAVING FLEXIBLE “ support of nearly a dozen professionals, including professors and coordinators who answer questions in the online environment using the support material. In other words, beyond the syllabus, Distance Learning students “learn to HOURS AND CAN ABSORB CONTENT learn”, a skill that the student brings to life. AT THEIR OWN PACE. Evaluating distance learning at a global level, it is observed that one of the main challenges of this market is the dropout rate; however, while the international rate registered in distance learning is 50%, Anhanguera’s average rate is around 13% to 14%. This outstanding performance is the result of the model adopted by the Institution, which includes, among other things, two classroom days for students. DISTANCE LEARNING Financial Distance Difficult commute Schedule Inclusion Prices more affordable The student can take the Time and money saver Flexibility to attend Study opportunity than classroom courses course from anywhere for students who live in classes and study within for persons with with internet access regions further away from student’s schedules physical disabilities the major centers 28 29 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance MANAGEMENT BOARD OF DIRECTORS GRI 4.1 and 4.3 The Board of Directors is the collegiate decision-making body responsible for creating and implementing the general policies and guidelines of the business, including the Organization’s long-term strategies. It is also responsible for naming and supervising the management of the officers and for hiring the independent auditors. The board members are elected by the general meeting for a unified mandate of two years, are eligible for reelection, and may be removed from office at any time by the company’s shareholders. The board does not have a specific mechanism to evaluate its own performance. As for the Executive Board, it evaluates and monitors its activities and those of its members based on consolidated indicators in the Organization’s scorecard , which are linked to the operational, financial and quality goals and are reviewed and approved annually. On December 31, 2012, Anhanguera’s Board of Directors was composed of: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Member of the Novo Mercado the highest of the three Board of Directors GRI 4.2 and 4.3 classification segments of Corporate Governance created and evaluated by the BM&FBovespa since 2010, Anhanguera has a Name Position Election Date management committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance, aiming to bring benefits such as constant Novo Mercado Antonio Carbonari Netto Chairman 29/04/2011 improvement of the corporate image, increased demand and Implemented in December 2000, Levels 1 and 2 Alexandre Teixeira de Assumpção Saigh Vice Chairman 30/04/2010 share valuation and a lower cost of capital, through transparency, of Differentiated Corporate Governance Practices responsibly, equality and efficiency. Luiz Otavio Reis de Magalhães Member 30/04/2010 and the Novo Mercado are special listing segments created with the objective of providing a trading Maria Elisa Ehrhardt Carbonari Member 30/04/2012 Anhanguera Educacional’s management is comprised of the environment that stimulates both investor interest Board of Directors and the Statutory Executive Board, in and valuation of companies. Olimpio Matarazzo Neto Member 30/04/2010 addition to the Supervisory Committee (non-permanent) and Ricardo Leonel Scavazza Member 29/04/2011 the Audit Committee. Adherence of a company to the Novo Mercado is voluntary and, in doing so, it makes clear Sérgio Vicente Bicicchi Independent Member 30/04/2010 In addition to this structural division, Anhanguera also meets commitments regarding the provision of other Novo Mercado requirements, such as reporting of information to facilitate the monitoring and financial statements according to international standards, Board supervision of administrative acts and controllers of of Directors formed by at least five members with a unified the institution, and the adoption of corporate rules mandate of up to two years, eligible for reelection, and at least designed to balance the rights of all shareholders, 20% of independent members, and tag along of 100% for all regardless of being controllers or investors. shares in case of change in shareholding control. 1. Scorecard is a performance measurement and management methodology developed by professors from Harvard Business School. 32 33 Corporate Governance BOARD OF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS FISCAL COUNCIL The officers are mainly responsible for the management, adopting the policies and general guidelines established by As an independent body from Anhanguera Educacional’s administration and external audit, the Fiscal Council has as its the Board of Directors. The officers are elected by the board for three-year mandates, are eligible for reelection, and main responsibility monitoring the acts of the management, analyzing the financial statements, and reporting its findings may be removed from office at any time. The Organization’s by-laws establish that the Board of Executive Officers to shareholders. The Organization does not have a permanent Fiscal Council; however, it can be installed in any fiscal must consist of a minimum of three and a maximum of ten members, with one Chief Executive, one Vice President year. Currently, Anhanguera has a Fiscal Council installed for the 2012 fiscal year. It is formed by three sitting members of Finance, an Investor Relations Officer, and the remaining members with no specific designation, pursuant to the and three alternate members, as presented below: attributes assigned by the board. On December 31, 2012, Anhanguera’s Board of Executive Officers was composed of: Fiscal Council Name Position Election Date Board of Executive Officers José Antônio Ramos Sitting Member 30/04/2012 Name Position Election date Wagner Mar Sitting Member 30/04/2012 Ricardo Leonel Scavazza Chief Executive 31/10/2011 Walter Machado de Barros Sitting Member 30/04/2012 Vice President of Finance Raul Todão Filho Alternate Member 30/04/2012 José Augusto Gonçalves de Araujo Teixeira 31/10/2011 and Investor Relations Officer Marcello Lopes dos Santos Alternate Member 30/04/2012 Ana Maria Costa de Sousa Vice President for Academics 04/05/2012 José Simone Neto Alternate Member 30/04/2012 Maron Marcel Guimarães Vice President of Administration 04/05/2012 Khalil Kaddissi Vice President of Legal Affairs 04/05/2012 Antonio Augusto de Oliveira Costa Vice President of Operations 15/09/2010 Antonio Fonseca de Carvalho Expansion Officer 15/09/2010 34 35 Corporate Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE TRANSPARENCY AND REPRESENTATIVENESS The Audit Committee of Anhanguera Educacional supervises how the administration monitors the execution of the policies and procedures of risk management and assesses the appropriateness of such structures to the risks faced by the company. It is assisted in its supervisory role by the internal audit, which carries out both periodic reviews and the reviews of control COMMUNICATION CHANNELS GRI 4.4 and procedures of risk management, whose results are reported to the Audit Committee. Anhanguera Educacional maintains differentiated service channels that seek to meet the demands of the Institution’s On December 31, 2012, the members listed in the following table formed the Committee: different stakeholders. Shareholders and investors, which in most cases seek clarification on Anhanguera’s economic, social and environmental performance, may contact the Institution by accessing the site http://www.anhanguera.com/ri. The IR department may also be contacted by email dri@anhanguera.com or by phone at (55) (19) 3517-3771. As a way to ensure more transparent conduct in all its relationships, in 2010 the Ombudsman was created with the Audit Committee objective of encouraging communication between students, professors, employees, and other priority stakeholders, Name Position Election Date contributing to the enforcement of the democratic principle in institutional management. Jorge Michel Lepeltier Chairman 17/06/2011 In addition to the channels mentioned above, complaints, claims, compliments and reports can be manifested through Ricardo Leonel Scavazza Sitting Member 01/07/2010 the Online Service, using the link Contact Us. One-on-one services for students are provided on campus by the Student Service Center (SAE). Telephone contact can be made via the Public Relations Center. José Augusto Gonçalves de Araujo Teixeira Sitting Member 07/10/2011 In each one of the 73 units, there is also the option of placing comments in the Ombudsman suggestion box. The Rogério Dias Sitting Member 25/03/2011 comments received are sent to the responsible sectors by the Ombudsman, which monitors actions, compliance with deadlines and provides feedback to senders. Anhanguera also relates officially with its audiences through Twitter and Facebook, posting relevant content and SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE meeting specific demands. Responsible for monitoring and encouraging social action and projects at the units, the Social Responsibility Committee In addition to the Ombudsman, the employees from technical and administrative areas, as well as the faculty, have the was established in 2012 and consolidates Anhanguera’s commitment with society, permeated by the principles of support of the Corporate Ombudsman under the responsibility of an Ethics Committee, which deals with all statements inclusion and promotion of equality. The agency has as its partner the Instituto de Ação Social e Extensão Comunitária received in a confidential manner: (Institute of Social Action and Community Outreach IASEC), which, in turn, is linked to the management of Marketing, responsible for the operation, coordination and supervision of projects. Led by Professor Maria Elisa Ehrhardt Carbonari, the committee has held 1,500,000 services, by means of more than Services provided by the Ombudsman 1,000 projects developed by students, professors and coordinators, and with the participation of communities around 2010 2011 2012 the units. Information 74,618 58,065 374,405 Complaints 21,466 3,556 39,599 Requests 2,721 369 4,671 TOTAL 98,805 61,990 418,675 NOTE: the significant variation presented in the numbers from 2011 and 2012 is explained by the 2011 acquisitions, which in 2012 came under Anhanguera’s management. 36 37 Corporate Governance Student Portal and assistance via chat DIVIDENDS In 2012 Anhanguera’s students received an important relationship interface: the Student Portal, a virtual space in which The Brazilian Corporation Law is observed for purposes of the Corporation Law, net income is defined students can request and receive a certificate of registration with a digital signature, transcripts, ask questions about shareholders remuneration. According to its by-laws, as the result of the financial year that remains after payments and open inquiries, among many other features (more on page 59). Anhanguera must conduct an Annual General Meeting accumulated losses of previous fiscal years, Income Tax (AGM) by the 30th of April of each year, when and social contribution, and any amounts allocated to the The Company also expanded the service via IVR and invested in assistance via chat, a strategic decision based on shareholders must decide on the distribution of annual employee and management profit sharing. student behavior. dividends to which all are entitled. At the general meeting, shareholders also decide on the proposal of the Board of Directors for the allocation of the net income of the preceding financial year. For the COMPENSATION CRITERIA The compensation levels (fixed and variable) practiced Variable compensation allows for sharing of risks and by Anhanguera Educacional, as well as the indicators results obtained by the Educational Group with senior CONFLICT OF INTEREST GRI 4.6 that act as parameters, are based on market practices, executives. The measure characterizes a transparent work identified in surveys conducted by the Towers Watson relationship, aimed at the achievement of lasting results Corporate governance practices recommended or If any member of the Board of Directors or executive consulting company. Thus, Anhanguera seeks to align its in a strategy that contributes to the perpetuation of the required by legislation are adopted, including those in officer of the Institution who might obtain a potential compensation policy with the market reality and keep it Organization. the regulation of the Novo Mercado segment of the private gain from any decision does not express their focused on achieving results. São Paulo Stock, Commodities and Futures Exchange conflict of interest, any other member of the body to The compensation of the Board of Directors, of statutory (BM&FBOVESPA). which they belong or who has knowledge on the matter Also, in the short term, we believe that this compensation and non-statutory officers and members of the Fiscal may do so. policy attracts new employees and administrators, Council and the Audit Committee is also established The Organization also aims to ensure that all decisions motivating them and keeping the Organization based on market research, being used as an effective that might provide private benefits to any of its managers, The related party transaction policy establishes that the competitive in relation to other companies in the tool to align the interests of executives with those of the their family members, entities or people related to them Board of Directors shall decide, by majority vote, on the market. In the medium and long term, the Organization institution and its shareholders. are made in complete fairness, respecting the interests of execution of all the transactions of the Organization with understands that it can retain its employees and the Institution. Thus, when identifying any occurrence of the related party, regardless of the value. administrators for a longer period of time, obtaining Thus, Anhanguera Educacional seeks to maintain this nature, the managers shall immediately express their return on investments in compensation due to the the balance between internal and external factors to conflict of interest. Additionally, they must refrain from improvement in the performance of its activities and determine salary levels. Additionally, there is a specific discussing the topic and abstain from voting. If requested productivity gains. career plan for faculty members. by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or by the Chief Executive, these managers may participate partially In terms of fixed compensation, the average standards in the discussion in order to provide more information of the market are followed, and in the case of variable about the operation and the parties involved. In this case, compensation, indicators that individually do not exceed they should withdraw from the final discussion, including 30% of the total variable compensation are used. The the process of voting on the subject. indicators gathered in the Organization’s scorecard are linked to operational, financial and quality goals, which are approved annually by the Board of Directors. 38 39 Corporate Governance ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY GRI 4.8 IMAGE AND REPUTATION Anhanguera’s fan page Anhanguera Educacional’s relationship to its strategic stakeholders is further oriented by the Code of Conduct, Facebook and Twitter growth on Facebook a document available on the intranet for all employees. Anhanguera’s fan page ended the year with 43,115 fans, a The code comprises the fundamental principles that reflect the Values of Anhanguera Educacional: transparency, number 1,347% higher as compared to December 31, 2011 LIKE 43,115 honesty, integrity, truth, social responsibility, human solidarity, and respect. The Company believes that a unified when the page had 2,979 fans. Among the fans of the page, culture in touch with stakeholders strengthens Anhanguera Educacional as an institution and as a brand, mitigating risks 63.6% are women, 36.3% men and 0.1% did not inform. and generating value. On Twitter, Anhanguera ended the year with 1,966 followers To enforce compliance with the Code of Conduct, Anhanguera also maintains the Ethics Committee, appointed by the an increase of 662% compared to 258 followers on 2,979 Institution’s board and comprised of representatives from its various areas. December 31, 2011. dec/11 dec/12 RISK MANAGEMENT CODE OF CONDUCT The businesses and initiatives of Anhanguera Educacional are based on procedures consolidated by the Risk Committee, which reports to the Board of Directors, as well as the Audit Committee. The Shared Services Center has been created with the goal of gradually implementing modifications in the back office Information security policy: Media relations: processes to improve their efficiency. guidelines, restrictions, and how to deal with interview requests on security measures; behalf of the Institution; In internal procedures, there are frequent evaluations of viable initiatives to improve controls and processes to allow the provision of good services at the lowest cost. For example, the ratio between tuition versus associated costs is Conflict of interest: Labor relations: reviewed annually. how to proceed in case of gifts how to deal with union demands; sent by suppliers; Treatment of confidential information: Hiring policy: how to deal with this type of information; decisions must be based on qualified administration practices with no influence Guidelines for fighting child and of personal considerations; slave labor. 40 41 Academic Management Academic Management ACADEMIC AND EDUCATIONAL PERFORMANCE Anhanguera’s serious and competent academic management and Technology SETEC/MCT); Daniel Mill (professor at seeks to offer quality education and meet the needs of UFSCar, Ph.D. in distance learning); Claudiney Fullman students at all stages within the Educational Institution. (Ph.D. in Business Administration) and Osvaldo Barbosa de Oliveira (Director of LinkedIn Brazil). With regard to the pedagogical proposal, 2012 was marked by the consolidation of Supervised Practical Activity In 2012, 12 Learning Workshops were to review high (ATPS) in undergraduate and Professional Challenge in school content (Mathematics, Portuguese Language, post-graduation studies. These activities involve challenges Chemistry, Physics and Biology), instrumentation that, with the supervision of a Professor in each discipline, Workshops (Computing and Google Apps, Computer II, encourage students to learn through practical resolution of Financial Mathematics, Portuguese Language II, III ) and TEACHING ADMINISTRATION problems targeting their training or professional activities. Furthermore, it stimulates and develops reading, writing, Contemporary Issues. creativity, research, autonomy and intellectual production. Anhanguera began offering access to the best scientific RADAR journals in the world through the acquisition of EBSCO and Another important point was the improvement of RT Revista dos Tribunais. The free access to both platforms Anhanguera Educacional has adopted a management reports on educational institutions, which by means of any mobile device offers professors and students structured corporate management cycle, accompanied by the results of the Institutional Evaluation an approximate total of 56,000 titles that include all areas supported by three fundamental pillars: Program (PAI), allowed for greater control of the quality of knowledge offered by the Institution. With this new Indicators, Management Rituals, and of the implementation of the model and the academic service, Anhanguera stands out in the quantity and quality of Action Plans. Radar, as it is called, aims to operations of Anhanguera. information available for learning. develop innovative solutions to improve the Demonstrate performance of academic and pedagogical academic The proximity between the institution, students and society performance indicators, with focus on monitoring and in relation to the was enhanced by offering free lectures on Facebook from tracking of results involving all units, regulation (MEC) and prestigious guests in the domestic market, such as Rubens de Institutional Evaluation including course coordinators, directors Program (PAI). Oliveira Martins (advisor to the Secretary of Technological (of units, academic, and commercial), five Development and Innovation of the Ministry of Science departments, members of the Executive Committee and other stakeholders of the sponsor entity. Five concepts of management indicators for monitoring and tracking of all units, academic boards, The first of its kind in the education departments and responsible areas sector, the system allows greater flexibility of the Sponsor entity. in decision making, risk mitigation and greater communication flow. In 2012, Radar management indicators were divided into three levels of academic and pedagogical management: Complementary indicators, each one being directly related to of second level indicator, facilitating the process of identifying the causes and formulation of action plans within Radar management. 44 45 Academic Management PAI GRI PR5 In 2012, almost 400 thousand students participated in the PAI, including the on campus and distance learning When evaluating results of the PAI from 1997 to 2012, an evolution in quality indexes and an increasingly higher formats. In the last evaluation, 89% of students positively participation from students is clear. The results are used to By creating the Institutional Evaluation Program (PAI) in 1997, Anhanguera Educacional anticipated part of the evaluated the practical application of theories and guide actions for management enhancement and teaching legislation of the National Higher Education Assessment System (Sinaes) created in 2004. This is a biannual concepts studied in their course, and 86% of students quality improvement. institutional assessment based on students’ opinions and was carried out in the first and second semester of the 2012 positively evaluated Anhanguera with regards to job academic year. market preparation. In addition to the PAI, other forms of internal evaluation are also applied, such as the self-evaluation coordinated by These scores result in the Student Satisfaction Index (ISD), a value calculated from a standardized normal Furthermore, 93% of students believe that the experience the Adjunct Board of Internal Evaluation and by the Self distribution with the use of arithmetic mean, to evaluate the level of satisfaction of students. The ISD measures as an Anhanguera student enhanced their abilities to Evaluation Committees (CPA) of each unit. services in the areas of department offices, laboratories, Textbook Program (PLT), academic libraries, classrooms, study and learn for themselves, and 94% think that the coordinators and professors. course offers ethics training for professional activities. Job market preparation Improved ability to study and learn by yourself 2% 14% 4% 23% 10% 5% 29% ENADE The National Student Performance Exam (Enade), is part The number of students registered for ENADE in 2012 36% of the National Higher Education Assessment System was 110 thousand freshmen and graduates. However, only 36% 41% (Sinaes) by the Ministry of Education (MEC) and seeks to graduates participate in this examination. measure student performance of undergraduate courses in Terrible Good Terrible Good relation to program content, skills and competencies. Each In order to facilitate communication and establish a tool Poor Excellent Poor Excellent Satisfactory Satisfactory year, MEC monitors a set of courses, with a grading scale to review content, the ENADE Project maintains a portal, ranging from 1 to 5. www.euvoubemnoenade.com.br, offering free access for students, professors and other stakeholders. The PAI recently received investments in the technology area, consolidating self-evaluation in distance learning In order to provide guidance, information and monitor the (EAD) and opening the New PAI Restricted Area, which provided better navigation and easier access to the implementation of activities, Anhanguera carries out the academic community to the indicators. The PAI also gained an application for mobile devices, by which managers ENADE Project, an initiative that offers virtual simulations could track their sample indicators in real time, providing transparency and improved control. and motivational and learning activities, aimed at reviewing the course content. Practical application of the theories and concepts studied in the course Ethics training for professional activities 3% 2% 18% 8% 26% 4% 28% 32% 39% 40% Terrible Good Terrible Good Poor Excellent Poor Excellent Satisfactory Satisfactory 46 47 Academic Management CPC and IGC The Preliminary Course Assessment (CPC) is the score assigned to courses based on ENADE performance, the faculty profile, and perception by students of the Higher SCIENTIFIC PRODUCTION Educational Institution (HEI). The General Course Index The scientific production of Anhanguera is done through the Programa de Iniciação Científica (PIC Scientific (IGC) is the concept of IES obtained from the weighted Initiation Program), and research is developed with the support of the National Foundation for the Development average of its CPC based on the number of students. of Private Higher Education (FUNADESP), in addition to production resulting from strictu-sensu post-graduate courses at Universidade Anhanguera (UNIDERP) and Universidade Bandeirante Anhanguera (UNIBAN). From the data published in 2012, over 90% of Anhanguera institutions had a positive IGC. Only four In 2012, the PIC approved 639 projects, with the participation of 364 advisors and 1,000 students. Of those, institutions did not present satisfactory concepts: a 463 were nominated for scholarships and 537 joined as volunteers. recently acquired Institution still in cultural and academic model transition and an Institution with positive feedback UNIBAN has its own program for Scientific Initiation, PICTEC, which approved 96 projects in 2012, 46 being in the cycle, but with an insufficient number of students nominated for scholarship and 50 volunteer students. At the National Scientific Initiation Congress (CONIC), to reverse the index; and two for not having programs 191 projects were registered with 177 approved. evaluated in 2011. It is estimated that in 2013 these HEIs will also obtain positive concepts. SIGA The agreement established between Anhanguera and FUNADESP allowed for the composition of 33 research groups composed of 151 doctoral researchers and 52 students for Scientific Initiation, distributed in In 2012, the Student Information and Management 47 Institutions of the Anhanguera Group. The research was developed in the various areas of knowledge and System (SIGA) was implemented in order to enable disseminated through publications of books and articles in scientific journals, allowing the recognition of these long-term quantitative research to monitor students researchers at national and international Congresses. from entry up to two years after graduation. With SIGA, it is possible to learn about the real impacts of the educational process on the lives of students, in addition to identifying and understanding the social, family, financial, professional and personal transformations through which students go after graduation. This information will subsidize the planning and development of strategic actions of Anhanguera PEDAGOGICAL WEEK AND ACADEMIC SPACE Educacional. In its first year, the system had the participation of more than 40 thousand freshmen. The Pedagogical Week is held in the beginning of every semester to discuss important academic information for the beginning of the school semester. The event is broadcast via satellite to coordinators, professors and tutors. The Academic Space (also transmitted via satellite) takes place weekly, serving as a venue for addressing the issues related to the development of the Pedagogical Projects of the Courses (PPC), academic routines and clarification of doubts of the academic community. 48 49 Economic Performance 50 Economic Performance The gross margin of the 2010/11 acquired Gross Profit 96.1 26.9% campuses was 24.1% in 2012, compared to (R$ million) 680.7 19.0% in 2011. The remaining campuses’ and Gross Margin (%) 536.5 gross margin reached 47.6% in 2012, 30.1 up 1.8 p.p. compared to 2011. In both cases, the improvements were due to On-campus 31.7% 460.2 three factors: (i) dilution of fixed costs on account of a higher average number 392.4 Gross Margins – On-campus Excluding Acquisitions of students per campus, (up from 3.5 9.1% thousand in 2011 to 4.0 thousand in 2012); 114.0 124.4 Learning Centers (ii) continued improvements to acquired campuses’ cost structures in 2007, 2008, 2011 2012 2010 and 2011; and (iii) the improved profitability of campus programs following the introduction of distance learning methodologies. Gross margin at learning ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI EC1 centers was 51.3% in 2012, a year-overyear reduction of 1.4p.p. Anhanguera’s gross profit totaled R$680.7 million in 2012, up 26.9% compared to 2011, representing gross margin of Net Revenue 42.3%, down 1.2 p.p. year-over-year due to a change in the mix of revenues with a higher concentration of revenues from Anhanguera Educacional’s net revenue totaled R$1,607.4 30.5% 1,607.4 (R$ million) acquisitions that came at 24.8% of the total in 2012 versus 12.9% in 2011. million in 2012, up 30.5% year-over-year due to a 22.2% growth in the average number of students, which reached 1,232.2 242.7 Marketing expenses in 2012 represented 8.7% of net revenue, in line with 2011. In 2012, total Selling expenses were 429 thousand, and an average ticket growth of 6.7%. 12.1% R$246.3 million, or 15.3% of net revenue, 0.9 p.p. higher than in 2011 due to the increase in provision for doubtful M&A accounts due to slightly higher delinquency levels when compared to 2011. General and administrative expenses Student growth was fuelled by the growth of students on 216.5 398.3 corresponded to 9.6% of net revenue in 2012, down 0.3 p.p. year-over-year. campuses due to the continued maturation of programs M&A 158.5 at organic and acquired campuses from 2011 acquisitions. 34.4% On-Campus 966.4 Learning Center students totaled 144.4 thousand in 2012, 857.2 a 7.2% increase yoy. This yoy improvement is explained Learning Centers Operational Expenses by the growth in degree programs (9.0%) as well as 2011 2012 In R$ million 2012 2011 var% non-degree programs (4.5%). It is important to note Gross Profit 680,7 536,5 26,9% that non-degree programs represent a segment in which Average ticket the Company already has a more relevant market share, 22.2% 429.0 (-) Selling Expenses -246,3 -177,2 39,0% hence the lower growth. 351.0 (-) PDA -105,7 -69,7 51,8% On-campus Average ticket growth was fuelled by inflation pass 7.2% 144.3 Students (-) Marketing Expenses -140,5 -107,5 30,7% through as well as the higher concentration of students Learning Centers (-) General and Administrative Expenses -154,3 -122,3 26,1% in the on campus platform, representing 66.4% of total 134.7 Students students, up from 61.6% in 2011. (+/-) Operating Financial Result 41,2 33,5 23,1% 31.6% 284.7 Average 216.4 Ticket EBITDA 321,3 270,4 18,8% EBITDA Margin 20,0% 21,9% -2,0 p.p. 2011 2012 52 53 Economic Performance The operating financial result, defined as revenue from interest and penalties on student debt, net of EBITDA (R$ million) 18,8% CAPITAL MARKETS Bovespa Highlights AESA (AEDU3) collection and billing expenses, was R$41.2 million Tocker AEDU3 Anhanguera Educacional Participações S/A’s shares in 2012. Therefore, Anhanguera Educacional posted (BOVESPA: AEDU3) were quoted at R$34.57 IPO (R$ per share) 18.00 EBITDA of R$321.3 million in 2012, an 18.8% growth at the end of the December 28 trading day, an High (R$ per share) 43.54 over 2011. 321,3 improvement of 72% in 2012. On the same date, Low (R$ per share) 9.00 270,4 the Bovespa index accumulated a 7.4% increase in The non-operating financial result was negative Average 27.55 the year. R$94.0 million in the year, mainly due to interest Last (12/31/2012) (R$ per share) 34.57 expenses. Depreciation and amortization came to The shares were traded in 100.0% of the 2012 Change in 2012 72.0% R$70.4 million in 2012 (4.4% of net revenue, 1.8 p.p. 2011 2012 trading sessions, with total volume of R$5.6 billion down year over year). IBOV Change in 2012 7.4% and ADTV of R$22.8 million. Since IPO 92.10% IBOVESPA since the IPO 38.1% Net Income Average DTV in 2012 (R$ millions) 22.8 In R$ million 2012 2011 var% Market Cap (R$ millions) 5,037 EBITDA 321,3 270,4 18,8% Free Float 99.4% Depreciation and Amortization -70,4 -76,2 -7,5% Total Number of Shares (R$ millions) 145.7 Financial Result -94,0 -51,4 82,6% EPS 2012 (R$) 1.04 Income Tax and Social Contribution -4,9 -26,0 -81,2% Non-recurring Effects -74,7 na Net Income 152,0 42,1 261,0% Income taxes totaled R$4.9 million in 2012. Net income came to R$152 million in 2012, an improvement of 261% AEDU3 Performance on Bovespa vs Ibovespa vs IGC (03/12/2007 12/31/2012) compared to 2011, due to EBITDA improvements and the lack of non-recurring effects related to M&A. (March 12, 2007 = 1) and Average Monthly Volume (in millions) 50.0 There was a cash generation after investments of R$153.9 million in 2012, an 8-fold growth year-over-year. 2.40 45.0 Financing activities consumed R$26.9 million. The Company’s net debt was reduced from R$716 million to R$617 2.20 2.00 40.0 million in 2012. 1.80 35.0 1.60 30.0 1.40 The Company’s Capex during 2012 totaled R$142.3 million, down 26% yoy, composed of: 25.0 1.20 1.00 20.0 CAPEX (R$ million) } 15.5% 0.80 15.0 191,1 % Net Revenue 0.60 10.0 8.9% i) R$33.7 million in campus maintenance 0.40 5.0 142,3 expenditures, including refurbishments, 0.20 14,2 equipment, furniture, content and books; 07 07 07 07 07 08 08 08 08 08 08 09 09 09 09 09 09 10 10 10 10 10 10 11 11 11 11 11 11 12 12 12 12 12 12 26,1 marmayjulsepnovjanmarmayjulsepnovjanmarmayjulsepnovjanmarmayjulsepnovjanmarmayjulsepnovjanmarmayjulsepnovMaintenance ii) R$49.3 million in expansion, including 32,7 20,8 -26% Expansion the construction of new classrooms, labs, 38,4 IT equipment, machinery, books, libraries and other AEDU3 IBOV IGCX Average Monthly Volume 82,9 49,3 Acquisitions Adjustment improvements; and preparation of new greenfield Headquarters Construction campuses to be launched; iii) R$38.4 million in 35,2 33,7 Others investments in technology, especially related to the distance learning platform; iv) R$20.8 million 2011 2012 in others. 54 55 Relations for Development 56 Relations for Development In the curricular component, courses are written and its resources appropriately and major investments are edited by a team of supervisors from different areas of made to constantly improve the operating structure and knowledge that are permanently supported by specific provide adequate infrastructure, including well-equipped coordinators. This group of professionals provides updated laboratories and libraries, as well as tools that bring content and innovative methodologies that propose students closer to the institution and expand use. constant renewal of forms of teaching, always considering the new features available, whether they come from All of this is put into practice through the initiatives academic or technological discoveries. listed below, which are mainly targeted at giving students a solid foundation of knowledge, skills The quality of services provided by the Institution is and abilities for meaningful learning and to prepare associated with trained teams and to a competent, themselves for the future. Providing opportunities for standardized academic project to facilitate learning. students to develop their life plans and grow in their Even charging tuition with values compatible with the careers and as citizens is part of the essence of the needs and realities of students’ lives, Anhanguera uses model adopted by Anhanguera Educacional. STAKEHOLDERS RELATIONSHIP PRACTICES AND STUDENT SUPPORT Anhanguera Educacional understands that maintaining a close relationship with its stakeholders is a primary principle for its sustainable business development. Student Portal Because it is an Educational Institution, Anhanguera seeks to fulfill its social role to democratize quality education to Designed to improve the student experience, the Student Portal has build a more just society in which all people can pursue their life goals. become an important interface for promoting student contact with Anhanguera in a virtual environment. The portal offers a variety of Below are the principles and practices of the Institution applied in its routine operation to maximize the opportunities services to the student with simple and intuitive navigation. arising out of its business and create value for all its stakeholders. Previously, students had only a restricted area on Anhanguera’s site, where they could make simple requests and verify grades and absences; now they can request and receive a certificate of registration with digital signatures, transcripts, ask questions regarding payments, STUDENTS On December 31, open inquiries, and constantly receive information relevant to their 2012, Anhanguera Anhanguera education, among many other services all without The focus of all actions of the Educational Institution, had 411.1 thousand needing to print. In addition, the portal also features AVA Ambiente students – with their needs and ambitions – have a students enrolled. Virtual de Aprendizagem (Virtual Learning Environment), which offers voice and opportunities for expression with Anhanguera. all quick, easy access to virtual academic activities. To evaluate the level of satisfaction of graduates, the institution conducts regular surveys to measure perceptions of their academic training. 58 59 Relations for Development As a result, the Student Portal besides increasing SAE contact with Anhanguera students – concentrated 75% of the students’ requests and reduced office traffic All Anhanguera units feature a Student Service Center (SAE), through which students receive guidance and are by 50%. This means that, besides offering expedited assisted in resolving pedagogical and academic questions or problems. Thus, the institution aims to provide and processes, the new tool allows monitoring of all inquiries maintain favorable conditions for development and student satisfaction through to course completion. and even more precise performance measurements. With this in mind, SAE constantly monitors the demands of students through the following actions: Another important point is offering more facilities and 1. Preparation of the project “Academic Monitoring Program for Student Retention”; convenience for students, as before the creation of the Speed, facility and relationship 2. Diagnosis of the main difficulties of students (academic adjustment) with course coordinators, professors and Portal, they did not have a mechanism to address their SAE and pedagogical coordinators; Using the Student Portal you can: needs in a quick and efficient manner. 3. Survey with course coordinators and students of the features considered important for first year professors; • Verify grades, absences and class schedules 4. Meetings with new SAE coordinators for aligning actions; • Request requirements 5. Reporting, by unit and consolidated, for analysis and evaluation of services. • Access AVA • Check test scores • Access Catho services • Make agreements online Services provided in 2012 Service type Students served Partnership with Catho Real and Virtual Teaching Material Pedagogical 6,081 Focused on its mission of inclusive Besides counting on the Student Portal, since 2011 students and Referral for psychological assistance 426 education, in 2012, the Institution professors now have the support from Google Apps for Business Financial 13,024 established an exclusive partnership (GAB), a tool by which Anhanguera seeks to broaden the scope Scholarship request 2,339 with Catho Online the largest online of teaching materials produced and presented in the classroom. resume and jobs classifieds in Latin Cancellation/Put enrollment on hold 10,349 America so students may have free GAB allows the creation of sites to host, share and access Freshmen welcome service 6,487 access to more than 250 thousand content such as works, texts, tests, complementary texts, reports Total 38,706 open positions. published by the press, videos and audio casts. Apart from applying for positions, the The purpose of the online platform is complemented by thousands of students who used the agreements made between Anhanguera and publishing Anhanguera Accessibility and Inclusion Center service in 2012 could perform selfcompanies, enabling the Institution to offer books with discounts tests and more than 50 courses in of up to 80% off the final price for its students. Created in Anhanguera’s Accessibility and Inclusion Center professional development in the form 2005, the Textbook Program (PLT) encourages reading habits (NAIA) aims to provide the necessary resources so of Distance Learning, also at no cost. among students according to the pedagogical plan of each course that students, in their uniqueness, can receive quality It is also possible to have access to at an affordable price. It also helps combat piracy and stimulates academic training. individualized professional counseling the acquisition of private book collections. services at reduced costs, including In 2012, NAIA developed more actions for the inclusion resume preparation and interview of students with disabilities in academic life, seeking to “ training, among others. ensure access and retention in higher education. “ IT IS ESTIMATED THAT ANHANGUERA’S STUDENTS READ AT LEAST EIGHT BOOKS PER YEAR. 60 61 Relations for Development Among the main initiatives developed are: In 2013, Anhanguera plans to implement new actions through NAIA: • Production of teaching materials and evaluations in accessible formats; 1. Improvement of production of teaching materials appropriate to the needs of students with disabilities; • Training of technical and administrative employees and faculty in practices that enable better service to students 2. Computerized registration system; with disabilities; 3. Proposal for training courses on Inclusive Education for SAE coordinators and academic coordinators of the • Seeking partnerships with other Educational Institutions and specific institutions to serve people with disabilities and EAD learning centers; vocational training centers; 4. Update of the Virtual Vision software licenses; • Identification of resources needed to monitor classes and indication of the most appropriate teaching resources and 5. Training in sign language for faculty and technical and administrative employees; methodologies; 6. Audio description course for scholarship students participating in the scientific initiation project “Monitoring • Selection process of Scientific Initiation project scholarship holders focusing on inclusion; visually impaired students in the practical disciplines of health courses”; • Sharing of key books in the basic bibliography in accessible formats; 7. Development of scientific initiation project; • Provision of equipment for converting text to audio; 8. Participation in training courses and improvement by NAIA members; • Guidelines for service to students with disabilities; 9. Creating partnerships with other Higher Education Institutions, with actions focusing on inclusion; • Installation of Virtual Vision software (screen readers) at units (labs and libraries); 10. Training courses and guidance on service to students with disabilities offered to employees and professors; and • Organization of a basic sign language class for technical and administrative employees and faculty; 11. Preparation of a proposal to carry out the “Conference on inclusive education at Anhanguera Educacional”. • Guidance to students regarding the use of tools and assistance technology resources, and • Support activities for the faculty and technical and administrative employees, with guidance, advice and support. Students with disabilities registered in 2012 Classroom courses and EAD PROFESSORS Type of disability 1 semester st 2 semester nd Anhanguera believes the professor is one of the most Visual 89 115 important pillars of its objectives and business strategy Hearing 75 108 and therefore, it invests in training faculty to enhance Physical 97 138 their skills and, consequently, increase the quality of education. The Organization believes that professors must Pervasive developmental disorder 3 3 see themselves as a people manager and at the same time Dyslexia 3 act as a legitimate representative of the Institution. Intellectual 3 6 Investments in training are made through six projects: Multiple Disabilities 2 Workshop on Evaluation of Student Learning, Total 267 375 Institutional Faculty Qualification Program, Permanent Services provided 2012/2* Professor Training Program, Continuing Education Program, Specific training on EAD and the Institutional Scanning of basic bibliography (partial and complete), in an accessible formats; 120 titles Evaluation Program. Exam adaptation; 30 adaptations Acquisition of scanners (text converters); 53 units Consultations, online, guidance to SAE Coordinators (units) and EAD On average, 800 consultations Academic Coordinators (Learning Centers); Direct service with the student On average, 60 consultations Production of audiobooks; 26 titles Transcript of exams in Braille to ink 18 transcriptions Production of instructional material; 8 productions *Period: June to December 2012, when the project was in operation. 62 63 Relations for Development Workshop on Evaluation of Student Learning Distance Education Programs EMPLOYEES GRI LA1, LA2, LA3, LA6, LA7 and LA8 Employees by Functional Category The Workshop on Evaluation of Student Learning is In the Distance Learning model (EAD) there is the made available to professors to train them specifically Continuing Education Program and Specific Training in Recognized as the largest private Higher Education 138 for the development of multiple-choice exams. In EAD. The Continuing Education Program is available Institution in the country and committed to quality 77 82 education and the continuity of its expansion process, 2012, 209 professors attended the Workshop. During to Distance Learning Course Coordinators, EAD the year, the Selection and Training Course for Tutors Professors, Classroom Tutors, Distance Learning Tutors, Anhanguera Educacional has eager employees aligned 1,343 with its ideological pillars. for on-campus undergraduate study was also offered, Administrative Employees, Managers, Directors and attended by 1,200 professors. Distance Learning Academic Coordinators. The topics As of December 31, 2012, Anhanguera had 16,756 discussed are related to the methodology of the Center employees, with 4,809 or 28.7% working full time PICD for Distance Learning, to the Distance Learning model and 11,947 or 71.3%, working part time, all covered by and issues for the personal and professional growth of collective bargaining agreements according to the The Institutional Faculty Qualification Program entry-level and experienced employees. In Specific (PICD) helps professors at Anhanguera units to Training courses, employees participate in courses region and state in which they work. This total included 14,989 8,586 new hires and 7,779 terminations in the year. conduct workshops in pedagogical training. Professors directly related to their activities at the Center for GRI LA4 e LA5 may request scholarships from the National Distance Learning (CEAD), enabling personal and Foundation for the Development of Private Higher professional improvement and growth. Principal Operational Education (FUNADESP) for strictu-sensu postManagement Apprentices Coordination and Interns graduate (master’s and doctorate) research projects at Institutional Evaluation Program (PAI) any Higher Education Institution in Brazil. PICD also provides a stipend so that professors may participate At the end of each semester, after an evaluation by the in scientific events with the publication of full papers, students and with the results already analyzed, the faculty seeking to create contacts, continue their education discusses their classroom performance and evaluates the Labor Rights and Decent Work GRI LA5 and exchange experiences. Institution’s infrastructure, especially laboratories and library services, as well as course coordination. The occasional operational changes in the organizational structure are communicated an average of two months in PPCD advance through releases to stakeholders. The Permanent Professor Training Program (PPCD) Diversity and Equality GRI LA1 and LA13 encourages the development of Didactics and Teaching Methodology. In 2012, full scholarships for In its code of ethics, the Institution establishes non-discrimination policies related to race, gender, ethnicity, age, undergraduate and post-graduate courses were made and mobility. available to faculty. The latu sensu post-graduation “ course Management and Methodology for Distance Therefore, it has a diverse workforce, providing equal opportunity, access to promotions through meritocracy and Learning, with a 50% discount, was also made available equivalent salaries according to the position held. to all interested professors and attended by 200 ANHANGUERA BELIEVES THAT professors and tutors. Annually, all of Anhanguera’s employees are assessed for their performance and potential and the results establish PROFESSORS MUST SEE THEMSELVES eligibility for promotions and, for some levels of the organizational structure, the development of succession plans. GRI LA12 AS A PEOPLE MANAGER AND AT THE “ SAME TIME ACT AS A LEGITIMATE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INSTITUTION. 64 65 Relations for Development Professional Training Programs: although the institution constantly seeks to expand hiring of people with disabilities, Employees by gender Employees by region it often does not find qualified professionals available in the labor market. Therefore, the institution created a 979 program to select professionals with disabilities to participate in anhanguera educacional recruiting processes, 9,131 6% expanding the recruitment and selection program through partnerships with organizations that train and prepare 7,625 10,476 people with disabilities for the labor market. 46% 5,301 54% 62% 32% Occupational Health and Safety GRI LA6, LA7 and LA8 Anhanguera seeks to foster a culture of promoting preventive Health, Safety and wellbeing of employees through Specialized Services in Safety Engineering and Labor Medicine (SESMT), which offers educational programs, workshops, prevention and risk control, Midwest Male South as well as accident prevention, to staff employees, Female Southeast contractors and service providers. These initiatives are developed and implemented PPRA Employees by functional category based on the Environmental Risk Prevention Program At PPRA, the risks related to the work environment of (PPRA) and Program for Medical Control of the sectors of each Anhanguera Group unit are listed, Functional Category Women Men Total Occupational Health (PCMSO), developed annually considering the role and the activities performed by Principal 55 83 138 by SESMT for each unit in order to identify possible employees, and then preventive and corrective actions Management 33 49 82 preventive actions to preserve health and prevent are defined to prevent work accidents and occupational occupational diseases and work accidents among diseases, implemented, coordinated and monitored by Coordination 762 581 1,343 employees. GRI LA8 SESMT. GRI LA8 Operational 8,132 6,857 14,989 Apprentices and Interns 149 55 204 Under PPRA, occupational risks are monitored, tracked and mitigated in two main areas: physical, chemical, ionizing and biological risks and individual and Anhanguera offers structured programs to promote the hiring and retention of talent and inclusion of people with collective protection. disabilities and minors as apprentices, as presented below. In PCMSO, in addition to routine examinations, PCMSO Opportunities at Anhanguera (OPA): the program includes weekly publication of opportunities, allowing each Anhanguera implements the policy on collective The PCMSO guides the health assessment actions, employee to choose those that they consider most attractive for their growth within the organization. Therefore, opa protection equipment (CPEs) and personal protection such as the preparation of Occupational Medical encourages the growth of its employees and seeks to retain and value professionals with superior performance and equipment (PPes) with prevention measures that Examinations (Pre-Employment Examination, potential, in addition to stimulating self-development in order to ensure more credibility and transparency for the involve x-ray protection, rooms with barium phosphate, Periodic Medical Examination, Change of Function, promotion process. exhaust fans, fume hood, eyewash units, safety Return to Work and Dismissal) and Complementary goggles, thyroid protectors, lead aprons and gloves, Exams (Audiometry, EKG, EEG, Spirometry, Awareness Program: the program promotes awareness of managers, employees and students supported by face protectors, chemistry filter mask respirators, and Radiological Exams, Laboratory Tests , etc.), delivered the presentation of awareness lectures and training courses directed toward several groups and conducted by gloves and boots, among others. to the HR departments of each unit for monitoring professionals recognized in the market and involved in social responsibility projects. The program seeks to promote and tracking. GRI LA8 social integration and minimize discrimination, adding value to people with disabilities in order to contribute to the understanding of issues regarding respect and diversity. 66 67 Relations for Development All employees who have to wear PPEs are trained Intranet facilities allow the department of Specialized Benefits GRI LA3 for their adequate use and maintenance, following Services in Safety Engineering and Labor Medicine the guidelines of the Ministry of Labor. During the (SESMT) to conduct regular campaigns for vaccines In addition to compensation, based on market research, standards for each position and meritocracy, Anhanguera Internal Accident Prevention Weeks (SIPATS)/ against hepatitis and seasonal flu, dengue prevention, also offers its employees a benefits package which includes meal allowances, transportation vouchers (covering NR-5, conducted annually at each Anhanguera unit, blood and bone marrow donation, oral hygiene 96% and 4% of costs, respectively), life insurance, scholarships and uniforms. Anhanguera also covers 90% of the educational lectures are presented on oral hygiene, and prevention of diabetes, high cholesterol and employees’ medical assistance costs; the health plan is extended to terminated employees for one third of the STIs/AIDs and defensive driving (particularly relevant hypertension. Also, SESMT encourages the practice of contribution time, up to a maximum of two years. Fuel cards, private life insurance, cars, housing assistance, and to reduce the number of work related accidents, since workplace exercise in all administrative sectors. stipends are granted only to managers and directors. incidents while commuting account for the majority of GRI LA8 such accidents at Anhanguera), among other topics. GRI LA6 and LA8 Also in the health area, the Medical Profile Program SUPPLIERS GRI EC6 and HR7 includes 100% of employees. For call center employees, Besides the pursuit of continuous risk minimization, operators and other employees, the Hearing At Anhanguera, in addition to market factors With regards to the acquisition of electronic equipment, the Educational Institution develops initiatives to Conservation Program (PCA) was also implemented. such as quality, price and terms, among others, all requirements seek to avoid the purchase of products of promote the health and wellbeing of its employees, decisions regarding selection and hiring of suppliers dubious origin or that might involve the Institution in such as: clinical, physical and psychological are based on ethical criteria such as transparency, cases of irregular importation. evaluations and complementary exams are carried environmental responsibility practices and out according to the risk to which employees are SESMT institutional values. Procurement is responsible for contracting services and exposed. The frequency of the exams depends on the Anhanguera believes that the health and wellbeing purchasing materials, and suppliers are all registered in risk of possible worsening of the health condition. In of its employees are critical to their satisfaction and Companies accused of illegal practices such as child Anhanguera’s management system. the period covered by the report (2012), there was performance, and thus to achieve their objectives. labor, slave labor, or practices similar to slave labor, no record of serious occupational disease among the Accordingly, since 2010, the Company has the for example, are not included in the list of suppliers. The institution also seeks to support the development organization’s employees. Anhanguera Group Health Committee, which In the case of child labor, the only exception allowed of the local economies in which it operates. In 2012, includes representatives of employees from different concerns the young people hired as apprentices, who about 98% of Anhanguera’s expenses were directed to areas and represents all employees of the institution, should be at least 14 years old under current labor local suppliers. legislation. GRI HR7 “ acting in conjunction with the SESMT for the promotion of health and well-being of its employees. The guidelines that regulate and direct conduct in terms of relationships with suppliers are expressed in ANHANGUERA IS A SIGNATORY the Institution’s Code of Conduct, which determines the immediate suspension of any contracts if any OF THE NATIONAL PACT FOR THE Health and safety rates by gender and region 2012 GRI LA7 of the situations listed above are verified or if there ERADICATION OF SLAVE LABOR, “ is disrespect for human dignity, ethical conduct or Region Midwest Southeast environmental preservation. Moreover, these principles Gender Women Men Women Men are expressed in supplier agreements under specific AIMING TO CONTRIBUTE TO ITS Injury rate 0.03 0.03 0.07 0.06 clauses, which also provide for the monitoring of Occupational disease rate 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 compliance with commitments. ABOLITION IN BRAZIL. Total lost days (per employee) 0.35 0.33 1.13 0.92 Total absenteeism (days) 0.21 0.20 0.68 0.56 Total deaths in the period 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Expenses directed to local suppliers GRI EC6 2010 2011* 2012* 100% 98% 98% * The percentage reduction is due to the purchase of imported goods. 68 69 Relations for Development SHAREHOLDERS By adopting good corporate governance practices, additional to those required by law, the Institution’s shares are listed on the Novo Mercado of BM&FBovespa the highest level of corporate governance on the Brazilian stock exchange. Five years ago, Anhanguera became the first educational institution in Latin America to issue shares on the stock Accordingly, Anhanguera seeks to maintain a transparent relationship with its shareholders and investors and to exchange and its shares are traded on the BM&FBOVESPA under the ticker symbol AEDU3. On December 31, ensure this relationship, has an IR area ready to serve them, provide all necessary information and assist in solving 2012, it had 145,690,261 shares composing a capital stock of R$1,876,773,869.63. Its total free float is 25%. specific issues. In addition to traditional communication channels such as telephone and e-mail, Anhanguera maintains an IR site with all the relevant information for investors and shareholders, such as material facts, notices to The Shareholding Structure on December 31, 2012 was as follows: the market and the quarterly earnings releases of the Educational Institution. There is great concern for transparency in the information confidentiality and disclosure criteria when this information can affect the stock price, such as market movements and investment decisions. Moreover, the IR team ensures absolute confidentiality of information, activities, transaction and results that are not yet public knowledge. FEBR FMR BlackRock Outros Quarterly, Anhanguera details and includes additional information on accounting and provides annual financial statements also in English, based on internationally accepted accounting principles. 10.27% 5.36% 5.48% 78.88% COMMUNITIES GRI EC8 and EC9 Anhanguera is an institution recognized by its commitment to personal and professional development of all those involved in the educational process. Responsible for monitoring and encouraging social action and projects in the units, the Social Responsibility Committee was established in 2012 and consolidates Anhanguera’s commitment to society. The Committee Clínica AESA has been working in partnership with Anhanguera’s Anhanguera Instituto de Ação Social e Extensão Comunitária (Social Médica Empreend. Educacional Action and Community Extension Institute IASEC), Anhanguera Imobiliários created in 2010. Ltda. Ltda. Ltda. 100% 100% 100% IASEC, in turn, is responsible for managing the Community Extension Program (PEC), which Seeking to integrate the social development ensures the interaction of professors and students initiatives to its institutional strategy, of the institution with the communities in areas Anhanguera has a Social Responsibility where Anhanguera’s units are located, extending its Committee, responsible for self-assessment, commitment to social development of these groups as data collection and action planning, which, in Anhanguera Empreend. well. PEC also manages student research focused on 2012, began to be chaired by Professor Maria Sociedade Instituto Empreend. Publicações e Imobiliários Instituto Elisa Ehrhardt Carbonari. Educacional Educacional social needs to build deeper citizenship values. Comércio de Imobiliários do da Região Excelência Plínio Leite Prof. Luiz Rosa ABC Ltda. GRI 4.14 Material Metropolitana Ltda. S/S Ltda. Ltda. Didático Ltda. Ltda. 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 70 71 Relations for Development Therefore, its main objectives are to promote: learning based on experience, study and practice of ethics in order to Course analysis is performed by dividing the knowledge in the areas of Communication, Law, Education, create a citizen aware of their duties, rights and responsibilities, and the defense of human rights, the environment Engineering, Sports, Physiotherapy, Management, Health, Social Assistance, Veterinary and Technology. and quality of life of internal and external communities. In addition, the program aims to strengthen the image of Anhanguera as a socially responsible institution. After the analysis, which considers the relationship between the needs of the region and the areas of knowledge taught at the unit, IASEC makes an annual project implementation proposal, which involves analysis and To achieve its objectives, the program was divided into three points: confirmation from IES. If the units wish to suggest projects that meet specific local needs and complementary academic activities, they should send the project via the appropriate form through the project management system for review and approval by IASEC. The main programs and projects undertaken by Anhanguera in 2012 are presented below. Social Responsibility Projects GRI EC8 and EC9 Social Support For McHappy Day 2012 Zico 10 Social Community Academic In partnership with the city and former Brazilian Responsibility On August 25, 2012, 18 units of Anhanguera and Services Events UNIBAN in the metropolitan region of São Paulo took national soccer team player Arthur Antunes Coimbra, Projects part in the 24th edition of McHappy Day, organized by “Zico”, since 2011, Anhanguera has developed the McDonald’s restaurants and sponsored by the Ronald project Zico 10 Social, which aims to stimulate sports McDonald Institute. As occurred in previous years, and contribute to improve the quality of life in the Social Responsibility Projects External community Additional academic on this day the amount collected from the sale of the Valinhos community. The initiative has benefited and Programs with external services throught events focused in the BigMac (excluding taxes), was reverted to institutions approximately 300 children and adolescents aged 7 stakeholders aiming to meet undergraduate and student’s professional caring for children with cancer across the country. In to 13 years old from the São Bento and São Marcos local demands aligned to post-graduate labs. development. São Paulo, the benefited institutions were the Ronald neighborhoods who are enrolled in public schools. institutional interests. McDonald House, TUCCA Association for Children and Adolescents with Cancer and GRAAC Support The project provides sports initiation classes, soccer Group for Children and Adolescents with Cancer. theory classes, tactical training, fitness and many other activities. Students also participate in workshops on The implementation of institutional Community Extension projects originates in the analysis performed by IASEC, Anhanguera students and professors, wearing Ronald citizenship. The activities are always performed during which takes into account, among other factors, the profile of the city where the education unit is located and the McDonald shirts, attended the event conducting periods opposite participants’ school hours. profile of courses offered. free educational activities in the fast-food chain’s restaurants such as storytelling, face painting, balloon The goal is to develop soccer in a healthy and For analysis of the city profile, the following data are taken into account: sculpture, games for children and dance performances. pleasurable manner, contemplating motor, cognitive, • General: number of inhabitants and the number of residents over the age of 50 Furthermore, the Institution sold advance BigMac psychomotor, affective, social and socio-educational • Economy: GDP, per capita income and HDI; tickets to students to be exchanged later for the learning through activities that include general as well • Education: number of schools and students enrolled in public and private schools; sandwich on the day of the event at any restaurant as specific exercises, always respecting the critical • Health: Number of public services versus number of private services where the campaign was being conducted. period of each age group for the development of • Employment: Hiring, layoffs, jobs and businesses specific skills. Personality aspects of students are evaluated by the team coordinator quarterly and the (Consulted sources: IBGE, PNUD and CAGED) possibility of referral to a professional athlete career path is also considered. 72 73 Relations for Development Community Services GRI SO1 Urban Development The forum, held at the Royal Palm Plaza and open to In December 2012 a traffic infrastructure development the public, had as the central theme of the first edition Anhanguera develops more than 1,000 projects project was launched as part of the installation of Sustainability Politics, which is politics for the common providing services to communities that serve more than the new Campinas Unit 5. In all, R$2.5 million will good. The event included the participation of the Chief of 1.5 million beneficiaries each year in the communities be invested in road works, traffic lights and signage Staff of Human Rights Secretariat, Maria do Rosario and surrounding its units: surrounding the property on which the new unit will Minister of the Supreme Court, Ricado Lewandovisk. be installed. The project includes the construction of The Zilda Arns Open Library Tutoring walkways, overpasses, bus stops and other improvements National Citizenship Campaign With the goal of mobilizing communities for literature, Tutoring has been provided to support the development that will affect a significant portion of users living in the Aiming to contribute to the quality of life in the project educates citizens to increasingly intimate of education in public schools since 2004. Since surrounding areas. communities and with the direct participation of with reading. The library, which offers support for the pilot project, initiated in 2001, Anhanguera’s students, professors and employees, the National research and support for professors, specializes in undergraduate and graduate students monitor activities Forum Campinas+21 Citizenship Campaign was held between November children’s and young people’s literature. In 2010, the with public school students, always under the supervision Conceived by Instituto Sustentar, Forum of the 10 and 17, 2012, involving all Anhanguera Educacional program was named the Zilda Arns Open Library, a of professors and course coordinators of areas involved. Americas and Anhanguera Educacional, the “Forum units and serving 143,875 people. tribute to Dr. Zilda Arns Neumann, a physician and In 2012, 5,511 people benefitted from the program. Campinas + 21” aims to create a permanent space for founder of the Pastoral da Criança (Children’s Charity discussion of the future of 22 cities in upstate São The campaign addressed issues such as responsible Commission) nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize in Professional Training for Youths People and Adults Paulo. The event was the first meeting of leaders of the credit (personal finance), the environment (energy, 2006. Dr. Arns died in the earthquake that hit Port-auA professional training program for youths and adults macro-region of Campinas to discuss ideas and plans for water and recyclables) and health (healthy eating and Prince, Haiti, in early 2010. In 2012, the Library offered at Anhanguera units, the program consists of volunteer a sustainable future and aims to consolidate the city as a crack addiction). 9,250 consultations. graduate students offering integrated courses for the region of knowledge. local community. The pilot project was implemented in Open College for the Elderly 2002 at the Leme unit, and effective implementation The purpose of the program is to develop skills among was carried out in 2006. In 2012, 9,389 people this group so that they can enjoy better standards of participated in the program. living while facilitating social inclusion. In 2012, 10,920 people participated in the program. Digital Inclusion Developed within Anhanguera units, the Digital Inclusion Literacy Classes for Youths and Adults GRI SO5 project offers young people and adults the basics of The initiative, started in 2003, is aimed at helping computing. The course, offered since 2004, is taught by illiterate people, or people who find it difficult to graduate students who work as volunteer professors. In organize their writing and follow grammar rules, 2012, 2,564 people benefitted from the program. through the development of a written essay about their experiences with college students. Part of the classes Health Activities are provided by Education students, always under The projects in the physiotherapy, pharmacy, dentistry the supervision of professors. In 2012, 3,212 people and psychology areas are developed in partnership with participated in the program. the Sistema Único de Saúde (Unified Health System SUS) and local hospitals. The aim is to establish prevention, rehabilitation, promotion and maintenance actions in the public health system. 74 75 Relations for Development Medical Assistance to Indigenous and Rural Populations Um Pé no Futuro GRI EC8 GRI SO1 Construindo Legal Project Medical assistance was provided under the supervised A public-private partnership (PPP) established between Launched in October 2012, Um Pé no Futuro (A Step Towards internship activities of Anhanguera-UNIDERP’S Anhanguera University -UNIDERP, through the School the Future) is a relationship project that aims to approximate Medical School, in partnership with the National Health of Architecture and Urbanism, and the Municipal Anhanguera to public high schools to awaken the desire to Foundation (FUNASA) and the Indigenous Health Housing Company (EMHA) of the City of Campo attend college through actions such as job fairs, career guidance Teams (ESI) in the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, a Grande (MS) and the Regional Council of Engineering, tests and ENEM preparation tutoring. region with anthropologic, cultural and social-economic Architecture, and Agronomy of Mato Grosso do Sul peculiarities. There have been 227,550 consultations in (CREA-MS) offered professional technical assistance In November, high school students received the application the last four years. for the construction of houses intended for low-income still on an experimental basis for Anhanguera’s entrance families. There have been 3,478 actions since 1999. examination through the pilot project “Vestibular na Escola” Leisure, Culture and Sports (Entrance Exam at School). The initiative was carried out in 17 These programs aim at initiating community children, National Citizenship Campaign schools and, in addition to the exam to be held in the student’s youth and adults in various sports activities, such as Throughout 2012, the Anhanguera Group promoted environment, exempt from registration, each school board hiking and other activities in public spaces. In 2012, the at its units the National Citizenship Campaign, which released a ranking so that students could see their performance. programs benefitted 150,570 people. acts as a supportive network dedicated to providing free services to the community, with a series of activities The project also aims to strengthen the relationship with school Playroom focused on the needs of families through three themes: teachers, offering meetings with educators, training courses and These are recreational spaces set up at Anhanguera • Responsible credit (personal finance) a 30% scholarship for any Anhanguera post-graduate course. Educacional universities, encouraging educational • Environment (energy, water and recyclables) In addition, Um Pé no Futuro is available to collaborate with recreational and leisure activities. These activities target • Health (healthy eating and crack addiction) school events such as June festivals and intercollegiate fairs, children between the ages of three and twelve years, among others. serving 4,650 in 2012. The Campaign developed lectures in public schools in the cities where the units are located, in which students Even though it was held as a pilot project in 2012, the numbers Veterinary Hospital and Farm School of various courses offered by Anhanguera, guided by already show great acceptance by students: The Veterinary courses involve professors and students their professors, were responsible for the training and • 7,385 students enrolled for the ENEM tutoring; in social projects with small, medium, and large animals. guidance of students, professors and employees at • 7,547 students registered for the job fair; 43,499 consultations and 38,360 clinical examinations participating schools. • 18,000 vocational guidance tests were conducted on the have been conducted. project site; With the National Campaign, besides strengthening its • 7,000 students accessed ENEM preparatory classes. Legal Center – Special Civil Legal Practice Center image and boosting student enrollment, Anhanguera Model Office enables the practice of themes developed in the Anhanguera Educacional’s Legal Assistance Program classroom, generating benefits for quality of life in “ offers free legal assistance and guidance through the communities. In 2012, accounting for all units, 143,875 Special Civil Court (JEC), the Model Office and other people were served. groups. The program is linked to the Legal Practice Center of the Law School, serving 19,466 cases in 2012. UM PÉ NO FUTURO (A STEP TOWARDS THE FUTURE) IS A PROJECT THAT AIMS TO AWAKEN THE DESIRE TO ATTEND COLLEGE IN PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS, AND ALSO STRENGTHEN THE RELATIONSHIP WITH SCHOOL TEACHERS. “ 76 77 Relations for Development ENVIRONMENT Consumption of fossil fuels GRI EN2 and EN3 Anhanguera constantly seeks to reduce its consumption of fossil fuels, thus minimizing emissions and consumption of non-renewable resources. Anhanguera universities seek, through partnerships and projects, to involve professors, students, staff and the Accordingly, most vehicles in the fleet run on ethanol. In the organization headquarters, located in Valinhos, there is surrounding community to contribute to minimizing impacts and promoting environmental conservation on and a chartered bus service offered to employees who live in the municipality and in cities in the region (Campinas and off campus. Itatiba), encouraging the use of public transport instead of the individual and increasing fuel efficiency. Therefore, Anhanguera Educacional conducts its environmental management through the Environmental Program, Biodiversidade launched in 2010 and audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). The program covers Anhanguera’s Integrated Management System (SGI), which complies with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 regulations establishing standards Because they are usually located in urban centers, the operations of Anhanguera do not significantly impact the and procedures for operational and academic activities of the Institution. biodiversity of any ecosystem. Still, the Institution seeks to contribute to the preservation of endangered species. The Arara Azul project was developed by a professor from the Institution, biologist Neiva Guedes, and is a good example of this concern by Anhanguera. The core of the initiative is to fight the extinction of the Blue Macaw, a bird found mainly in the Cerrado and the Pantanal regions and that has become one of the symbols of Brazil’s natural wealth. INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM GRI EN2, EN3 and EN4 The project, started 20 years ago at Anhanguera-UNIDERP University, is an initiative for permanent monitoring The Integrated Management System monitors Anhanguera’s environmental performance, practices and initiatives of those birds in their natural habitats, monitoring natural and artificial nests in an area of more than 400 thousand planned or implemented for the continuous evolution of the indicators monitored in the following aspects: hectares in the Pantanal region of Mato Grosso do Sul, in addition to the work performed in association with a group of local land owners for the conservation of the species. Waste Although most of its daily activities do not generate hazardous waste, the Institution maintains a series of cautions in the disposal of waste generated by medical services, and it also controls the disposal of chemicals used in the laboratories and veterinary clinics. Hazardous waste is from groups A and E (sharps and scarifying materials) and from group B (waste with risk of chemical contamination, and various medications). In 2012, a total of 33,575 kg of these wastes was generated by the Organization. Removal, transportation, treatment, and disposal are executed by contractors and in 2012 Anhanguera invested R$240.9 thousand in this management. Investments in waste management (in t of CO2 equivalent) Type of expense 2010 2011 2012 Waste management plan 145,837 133,192 240,950 NOTE: the significant variation in the 2011 and 2012 figures is explained by the 2011 acquisitions, which came under Anhanguera’s management in 2012. 78 79 Relations for Development Consumption of Materials GRI EN2 In the activities of the Educational Institution, paper is the most commonly consumed material. To minimize the impact of the use and disposal of this material, Anhanguera has increased substitution of plain paper for recycled paper. In 2009, this type of product corresponded to only 20% of all paper consumed, while in 2011 it grew to 85% of the total volume a level maintained in 2012. EVOLUTION IN THE CONSUMPTION OF RECYCLED PAPER GRI EN2 Recycled printing paper (t) Total (t) Percentage of total consumption 2010 187 75% 2011 220 85% 2012 190 85% Power GRI EN3 and EN4 All power acquired is directly supplied by the National Interconnected System (SIN), the main power sources of which are hydroelectric and thermoelectric power plants. In 2012, Anhanguera’s power consumption was 102,492 GJ. Primary energy consumption was 5,580 GJ, being that the main source was diesel. TOTAL ELECTRICITY BOUGHT (GJ) EN4 2010 78,444 2011 81,234 2012 102,492 “ TO MINIMIZE THE IMPACT OF THE USE AND DISPOSAL OF THIS MATERIAL, ANHANGUERA HAS INCREASED “ SUBSTITUTION OF PLAIN PAPER FOR RECYCLED PAPER. 80 81 GRI Index GRI INDEX Cross-reference (pg.) / Direct answer Report Cross-reference (pg.) / Direct answer Report Strategy and Analysis Summary of GRI Content Message from the Chairman of the Administrative 3.12 GRI Index Pg.82 to 88 Complete 1.1 Pg. 12 Complete Council and the Executive President Assurance 1.2 Impacts, risks and opportunities Pg. 23 to 29 and 41 Complete The 2012 Social Responsibility Report Organizational Profile did not undergo an external assurance process. The annual balance sheet 2.1 Name of the organization Pg.18 Complete 3.13 External assurance Complete information (economic-financial data in the 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Pg. 18 to 29 Complete fiscal period), however, was validated by independent auditors. 2.3 Operational structure of the organization Pg. 18 to 29 Complete Governance 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Pg.18 Complete Governance structure of 4.1 Pg. 32 to 41 Complete 2.5 Geographic presence Pg.18 Complete the organization 2.6 Nature of ownership Pg.18 Complete 4.2 Presidency of the governance group Pg. 33 and 34 Complete 2.7 Markets served Pg.18 Complete Number of independent and/or non4.3 executives members in the highest Pg. 33 and 34 Complete 2.8 Scale of the organization Pg. 18 to 29 Complete governance body 2.9 Significant changes in the period covered by the report Pg.18 and 52 to 55 Complete Mechanisms to provide 4.4 Pg. 37 Complete recommendations to governance bodies 2.10 Awards received Pg. 15 Complete At Anhanguera Educacional, the Report Parameters Linkage between compensation and compensation offered to governance positions 4.5 Complete Report Profile economic and social performance is not necessarily based on economic and socio-environmental performance. 3.1 Reporting period Pg. 6 Complete 4.6 Processes to avoid conflict of interest Pg. 39 Complete 3.2 Date of most previous report (If any) 2011 Complete There is no specific process for the 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual Cycle Complete 4.7 Qualification of counselors Complete qualification of counselors. 3.4 Contact point for questions Pg. 90 Complete Values, codes of conduct, and 4.8 Pg. 14, 15 and 40 Complete Report Scope and Boundary internal principles Process for defining report content Pg. 6 to 11 Complete 4.9 Work of the Administrative Council Pg. 33 Complete 3.5 All Anhanguera’s units Anhanguera Educacional does not have a Boundary of the Report Complete Self-evaluation of the 3.6 and subsidiaries 4.10 structured self evaluation process for the Complete Administrative Council members of the Administrative Council. All Anhanguera’s units 3.7 Scope or boundary of the report Complete and subsidiaries 3.8 Basis for the preparation of the report Pg. 6 to 11 Complete 3.9 Measurement techniques and bases of calculation Pg. 6 to 11 Complete 3.10 Effects of re-statements of information There was none Complete 3.11 Significant changes from previous reports There was none Complete 82 83 GRI Index Cross-reference (pg.) / Direct answer Report ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Commitment to External Initiatives Direct economic value generated EC1 Financial Statements Complete Anhanguera Educacional’s risk management and distributed 4.11 Precautionary Principle system is clearly aligned with the Complete Proportion of expenses with EC6 Pg. 69 Complete precautionary principle. local suppliers Since 2010, Anhanguera Educacional has Investments and services been signatory of the United Nations (UN) provided primarily for public benefit EC8 Pg. 71 to 77 Complete Global Compact, of the Pacto Nacional pela through commercial, in-kind, or pro Erradicação do Trabalho Escravo (National bono engagement Pact for the Eradication of Bonded Labor), Significant indirect economic impacts, organized by Ethos Institute, International EC9 Pg. 71 to 77 Partial including the extent of impacts Labor Organization (ILO) and the NGO Letters, principles or initiatives to which Repórter Brasil, and the Pacto Empresarial 4.12 Complete the organization subscribes or endorses pela Integridade e contra a Corrupção (Corporate Pact for Integrity and against Corruption), initiative of UniEthos, Patri Government Relations & Public Policies, ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE United Nations Development Program Materials (Pnud), United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime and the Brazilian Committee of the EN2 Recycled materials Pg. 78 to 80 Complete Global Compact. Direct energy consumption by primary EN3 Pg. 80 Complete Anhanguera Educacional is a member of the energy source Membership in associations Brazilian Association of Higher Education Indirect energy consumption by 4.13 and/or national/international Supporters (ABMES) and the Union of Complete EN4 Pg. 80 Complete primary energy source advocacy organizations Higher Education Supporters of the State of São Paulo (SEMESP). Emissions, Effluents and Waste Stakeholder Engagement Due to the organizational strategy, in 2012, an EN16 Total greenhouse gas emissions by weight Complete inventory of CO2 emissions was not conducted. 4.14 List of stakeholders Pg. 7 Complete Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Due to the organizational strategy, in 2012, an Identification and selection EN17 emissions by weight Complete 4.15 Pg. 7 Complete inventory of CO2 emissions was not conducted. of stakeholders Total weight of waste by type and Group (A+E) = 22,314.53 kg 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Pg. 7 Complete EN22 disposal method Complete Group (B) = 11,261.42 kg Main topics raised by stakeholder General 4.17 engagement and how the organization Pg. 8 and 9 Complete responded to those key topics Total environmental protection In 2012, there were no investments related to EN30 investments and expenditures Complete environmental protection. 84 85 GRI Index SOCIAL PERFORMANCE – LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK SOCIAL PERFORMANCE – HUMAN RIGHTS Employment Non-discrimination Total workforce by employment In 2012, Anhanguera did not report any LA1 type, employment contract and Pg. 65 and 66 Complete Total number of incidents of case of discrimination by race, ethnic origin, HR4 Complete region, by gender discrimination and actions taken gender, religion, ideology, nationality, social origin, or any other factor. Total number and rate of new LA2 employment contracts and employee Pg. 65 and 66 Partial Child Labor turnover by age, gender and region Anhanguera has a Code of Conduct which Benefits for full-time employees not HR6 Operations with risk of child labor provides for the immediate suspension of any Complete LA3 provided to temporary or part-time Pg. 69 Complete contract if slave or child labor is verified. employee by major operations Operations with risk of forced labor or HR7 Pg. 69 Complete Labor/Management Relations compulsory labor Percentage of employees covered by LA4 Pg. 65 Complete collective bargaining agreements Minimum notice periods for LA5 Pg. 65 Complete operational changes Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of workforce LA6 represented in formal worker health and Pg. 67 Complete safety committees Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and LA7 Pg. 68 Partial number of work related fatalities by region and gender Education, prevention, and riskcontrol programs in place to assist LA8 Pg. 68 Complete workforce members, their families or community regarding serious diseases Training and Education Percentage of employees who receive LA12 regular performance and career Pg. 65 Partial development reviews, by gender Composition of governance bodies LA13 and employee diversity profile Pg. 66 Partial 86 87 GRI Index SOCIAL PERFORMANCE – SOCIETY Community Percentage of operations that implemented programs for community SO1 Pg. 75 to 77 Complete involvement, impact evaluation, and development Position on public policies and SO5 participation in the development of Pg. 75 to 77 Partial public policies and lobbying SOCIAL PERFORMANCE – RESPONSIBILITY ON THE PRODUCT Customer’s Health and Safety Practices related to customer PR5 Pg. 46 and 47 Complete satisfaction and survey results Marketing Communications In order to bring transparency to Programs of adherence to laws, communications, all Anhanguera standards and voluntary codes related communication materials always respect the PR6 to marketing communications, guidelines of the legal department, so that they Complete including advertising, promotion is in complete alignment with the Consumer and sponsorship Defense Code and regulatory requirements from MEC. Anhanguera is currently a defendant in about Number of non-compliance incidents six thousand civil litigation suits, mostly filed related to communication of products by students, being convicted in some of them. PR7 and services, including advertising, There are also some lawsuits filed by the Complete promotion, and sponsorship, by type Public Ministry questioning the administrative of result fees, with some are awaiting trial and in others, the Institution won the lawsuits. Customer Privacy Number of substantiated complaints In 2012 there was no case of breach of privacy PR8 Complete regarding breaches of customer privacy of customers (students). Fines for non-compliance related Anhanguera was sentenced in certain lawsuits, PR9 to the provision and use of products mostly in Small Claims Court, with sentences Complete and services of about R$24,880.00. 88 89 CREDITS ANHANGUERA COORDINATION Patrícia Abreu Marketing Director E-mail: patricia.abreu@anhanguera.com Danilo Henrique de Alcântara Project Analyst Instituto de Ação Social e Extensão Comunitária (IASEC) Ph.: +5519 3517 4686 E-mail: danilo.alcantara@anhanguera.com WRITING, TRANSLATION AND GRI CONSULTING RICCA RI www.riccari.com.br PAGE DESIGN, LAYOUT AND ONLINE REPORT PROGRAMMING RICCA RI www.riccari.com.br PHOTOS Marco Flávio Anhanguera Núcleo de Produção Multimídia – NPM and Shutterstock Contact us for questions, suggestions or additional information about the report: Address: Alameda Maria Tereza, 2.000 Dois Córregos – Valinhos – SP ZIP 13278-181 Website: www.anhanguera.com/rsocial GRI 3.4 90 91 www.anhanguera.com
