About Contents Introduction CEO Message 2 This Report Power Industry and KEPCO Overview 4 KEPCO Value System and Sharing Practice 6 2013 Sustainability Management Highlights 8 Creating and Distributing Economic Values 10 The 2014 KEPCO Sustainability Report (hereinafter referred to as the “Report”) contains the Reporting Standards current status and future of KEPCO to realize stakeholder values and sustainable growth The 2014 Sustainability Report is based on the G4 Guideline of GRI (Global Reporting Initiaby utilizing energy solutions. Along with an introduction of KEPCO and mid to long-term tive), ISO 26000, and the principles of the UN Global Compact. The reporting standards and Reporting Methodology strategies for Sustainable Management, the Report includes various activities, performance definitions of financial data are in accordance with the IFRS (International Financial Reportreports, and future plans under the following themes: Realizing customer value, Stabilizing ing Standards). Materiality Assessment and Selection of Major Issues 12 electricity supply and demand, Creating new growth engines for the future, Realizing ecoStakeholder Communication and Participation 14 friendly energy, Coping with climate change, Creating a people-oriented work environment, Reporting Period Meeting the Stakeholder Needs for the Right to Know 15 and Fulfilling our company’s responsibility for sharing and mutual growth. This report contains quantitative performance data from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013, and a part of activities and achievements of great importance performed by June 2014 The three Main Characteristics of the Report are as follows. is also included. No significant change in the corporate size, ownership structure, or business Part 1. Standard Disclosures occurred in the reporting period. 1. Before publishing the Report, KEPCO organized the pool for issues on Sustainable ManPower Industry Trend Reports 18 agement by conducting surveys for stakeholders, analyzing media, and benchmarking the Reporting scope Strategies for Sustainable Management 20 global companies that excel in the area of Sustainable Management and overseas utilities. This report deals with KEPCO’s performance for Sustainable Management. For the content Mid and long-term objectives for sustainable management 21 Based on these activities, we have drawn issues on Materiality Assessment ranging from about the eco-friendliness of the supply chain (environmental investment expense, CO2 emisGovernance Structure 22 January to December in 2013. After classifying these issues into units with meaning, we sions and air pollutants), we have reported data from six GENCOs (Korea Hydro & Nuclear Risk Management 24 divided theses issues into seven themes. Power, Korea South-East Power, Korea Midland Power, Korea Western Power, Korea SouthEthical Management 26 ern Power and Korea East-West Power) whose shares are fully owned by KEPCO. 2. As for the major issues regarding stakeholders in 2013, such as complaints on the conPart 2. Specific Disclosures struction of electricity facilities and crisis management for electricity supply and demand, Report verification we provided full and detailed information by seperately organizing special features. KEPCO has been verified by the Korea Productivity Center, an independent verification instiRealizing Customer Value 30 tution, to secure the report process and data credibility. As for the standard for verification, Stabilizing Electricity Supply and Demand 36 3. This report details the commitment of KEPCO to CSV management. In April 2014, we the AA1000AS (2008) verification standard and AA1000APS verification principle by Account Creating New Growth Engines for the Future 42 announced the plan for introducing CSV management to fulfill value-creating social contriAbility are applied. The result of the verification is included in the Verification Report. Realizing Eco-friendly Energy 52 bution, and the company has realized activities such as establishing CSV planning system, Coping with Climate Change 60 making the ecosystem for CSV and developing CSV business models. Distribution and feedback Creating a People-oriented Work Environment 66 This report is published in Korean and English versions. The feedback for the report from Fulfilling Our Responsibility for Sharing and Mutual Growth 74 KEPCO celebrates its 10th anniversary of publishing the Sustainability Report. stakeholders is being collected through various channels such as our website, e-mail, and telephone. We are waiting for and appreciate your diversified opinions and suggestions. Appendices 84 Since KEPCO published the first Sustainability Report and joined UN Global Compact in 2005 as the first public company to do so in Korea, KEPCO has consistently communicated with <Contact> stakeholders with various perspectives. Website: www.kepco.co.kr E-mail: jisok@kepco.co.kr 2006 Best Award for the 1st Sustainable Management Awards (Seoul School of Integrated Address and telephone Sciences and Technologies) Old Headquarters: 512 Yeongdong-daero, Gangnam-gu, Seoul 135-791 2007 Best award for LOHAS Management Awards (Korea Green Foundation) T) 82-2-3456-3535 Best Award for Korea Sustainable Management Awards (Hanky Ung) New Headquarters: 55, Jeollyeok-ro, Naju-si, Jeollanam-do 520-821 2008 Appointed as the UNGC Notable COP (UN Global Compact) T) 82-61-345-3114 Best Award for the sustainable management sector of Global Green Management Awards (Korea Management Association) <Other Contacts> Best Award for Korea Sustainability Report Awards (Korean Standards Association) Financial information: Financial Office (Itskhy@kepco.co.kr0 2014 Best Award for the sustainability report sector of LACP Vision Awards in the U.S. Ethical management: Audit & Inspection Office (taks@kepco.co.kr) (League of American Communications Professionals) Environmental management: Quality Management Department (moonstar@kepco.co.kr) Social contribution: Labor Management Department (son7455@kepco.co.kr) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 c2 KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 1 CEO Message Dear Stakeholders, KEPCO is striving continuously to communicate with people through energy, create current values for stakeholders, and enhance future values through mutual growth. This report contains KEPCO’s efforts and performance for sustainable energy and a better I really appreciate future, as well as directions that we should follow. Last year, we carried out meaningful activities in various sectors, including sectors for credibility and communication, enhancing company values, and sharing values and mutual growth, based on our core values your unceasing care for stable electricity supply. and interest in KEPCO. First, KEPCO is creating a company on trust by listening to customer opinions and communicating with people in person. We are constantly asking ourselves the question about the essence of the electricity industry, not just depending on our reputation as an energy company leading the 116-years of history of electricity in Korea. The answer was clear to us: without confidence, we cannot have a future in the electricity industry. KEPCO has put in great efforts in making a company based on trust by constantly communicating with stakeholders, including customers, local communities, and relevant institutions. We overcame the crisis in electricity supply and demand last summer through the united efforts of the people, companies, and industries. Overcoming all crisis, the light that lit up the seemingly endless tunnel proved to be Communication, as shown in such instance as the eight-year-long conflict over the construction of Miryang transmission lines, which was resolved through communication with local residents. I really appreciate the local residents who sincerely empathized with our government-led business despite the tough circumstances. KEPCO will become the most trusted Public Company and representative energy company, listening to the voices of stakeholders based on communication and trust, which is the foundation of the electricity industry. Second, KEPCO is enhancing future values by strengthening overseas and new growth businesses. In 2013, we achieved an annual overseas business sales exceeding three trillion won for the first time. Having unrivaled brand value in the overseas market, KEPCO is leading, in the creation of jobs and national wealth by carrying out exports in different ways, such as developing and operating power plants in the UAE, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, and Kazakhstan. KEPCO is currently considering the realization of a world with “Sustainable Energy for All People”. In October last year, we held the Daegu World Energy Congress (WEC) and sought a solution for the “Energy Trilemma” with 7,500 participants from 123 countries, including CEOs of prominent Energy Companies and Energy Ministers from across the world. We have held serious discussions at home and abroad on energy issues such as Climate Change and Resource and Energy Imbalance. In response to these issues, KEPCO is preparing for a new era of creative energy. We will focus on the improvement of efficiency in energy consumption, such as smart grids, energy-saving equipment, high voltage direct current (HVDC), and micro-grids, and produce clean energies for future generations by continually expanding renewable energies, such as solar and wind power. Third, we are spreading love and happiness for all people by sharing the warm energy of hope. KEPCO is creating a warm-hearted energy world by carrying out the “Eye Love Project,” which helps people at home and abroad, threatened with blindness, to recover their eyesight, and expanding energy welfare so that more people can enjoy the basic right of using energy. As well as small and mid-sized companies (SME), social enterprises are engaged in energy conservation activities. In 2013, KEPCO held an Exhibition for Mutual Growth in the electricity industry for the first time in Korea and supported SMEs by expanding their opportunities for entering into the market at home and abroad, pioneering in the overseas market. KEPCO will continually promote programs for mutual growth with SMEs until the small-but-powerful companies can stand on their own feet. Plus, we will create more jobs for the underprivileged by carrying out the business of supporting social enterprises to help them to develop further. KEPCO will open the world of energy with hopes of creating sustainable values together with our partners. In November 2014, KEPCO will start a new century at Naju Innovation City beyond the headquarters at Samseong-dong, Seoul. By moving to new headquarters, we will seek measures for realizing mutual growth with local communities and develop Naju as a New Energy Valley. Your unceasing support will be a great boost for our great future. We will become a Public Company with a modest but aggressive position, keeping to the middle way and encouraging innovation based on creativity. We will gather sincere hearts and energy to create more shared values and communicate much more closely with customers. I hope that you continue to give KEPCO your unceasing support and care. Thank you. KEPCO CEO & President Cho Hwan-Eik 2 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 3 Power Industry & Electric Power Industry Electricity is generated and consumed instantaneously, and the power grid and generation plants essentially have no storage. For Company Overview (as of late December, 2013) KEPCO Overview stable power supply, reserve facilities are critical. The national grid is geopolitically isolated, leaving no chance of importing or Company name Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) Assets 155 exporting electric power, and Korea is highly dependent on imported energy resources (about 96%). Power is generated in southern Headquarters #512, Yeongdong-daero, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea provinces and consumed in the metropolitan areas, which requires long distance transport of electric power. Demand for power is Subsidiaries Korea: 10 subsidiaries including generation companies not easily regulated by the market mechanism, and large investments are necessary to construct electric power facilities in order and group companies to ensure supply capacity. Overseas: 27 subsidiaries including KEPCO-invested trillion won Number of employees 19,644 companies and local offices Industry Structure and Responsibilities of KEPCO Public listing Korea Exchange (1989, KRX), At present, six GENCOs, independent power producers and community energy suppliers, generate electric power. KEPCO purchases New York Stock Exchange (1994, NYSE) Sales electric power via the Korea Power Exchange and sends it through its transmission and distribution grid to end users. KEPCO is a Assets 155 trillion won corporation incorporated under the Korea Electric Power Corporation Act for the purpose of promoting power development, stabilizing power supply and demand, and contributing to the national economy. KEPCO is classified as a market-based Public Corporation under the Act on the Operation of Public Organizations. KEPCO is carrying out the development, generation, transmission, distribuSales Number of employees Volume of electricity sales 54 trillion won 19,644 474.8 billion kWh 54 Volume of electricity sales trillion won tion, and sales of power, technology research and development, overseas business, investment or contributions, and the utilization Shareholders Korea Finance Corporation 29.93% of its real estate assets. Organization Government 21.17% Foreigners 23% Minority shareholders and others 25.90% 4,748 billion kWh KEPCO has two objectives: enhancing public interest through reliable power supply and increasing profitability through efficient resource distribution. We strengthen horizontal cooperation between organizations and departments while focusing our capabilities on core and strategic businesses. Domestic Power Industry Structure and the Role of KEPCO Organizational Structure (as of late June, 2014) Thermal power KEPCO group companies Korean government generation subsidiaries KEPCO Engineering & Construction Company Inc. Korea South-East Power Co., Ltd. KEPCO Plant Service & Engineering Co., Ltd. Korea Midland Power Co., Ltd. KEPCO Nuclear Fuel Co., Ltd. 7 divisions Korea Western Power Co., Ltd. President & CEO Controller & KEPCO Knowledge Data Network Co., Ltd. Relevant business 31 offices Audit General Korea Southern Power Co., Ltd. Supervision 262 business offices Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd. Audit & Inspection Korea Power Office Exchanger Corporate Communications Office Transmission Distribution Hydro and nuclear power generation subsidiary Transformation Korea Hydro & Nuclear Transaction of electricity Power Co., Ltd. Electricity sales & customer service Executive Vice President Executive Vice President for Domestic Operations for Overseas Operations Customers Independent power producers Overseas business Planning CoordinaManagement New Growth Electricity Power Nuclear Project Overseas Business Sales Division tion Division Division Engine Division System Division Division Division Community energy Mineral resources suppliers development KEPCO History Lit the first Founded HanCompleted Korea Electric Completed the Renamed Korea Listed on the Listed on the Won the first Completed the Celebrated Spun off six Commercial Created KEPCO Completed voltage upgrade to 220V Won the Won the first Created KEPCO Began the support for socially Held Daegu WEC (World Energy Transferred electric lamp sung Electric Supung HydroCompany was nation’s first Electric Power Korea Stock New York Stock overseas Jeju-Haenam the comgeneration operation of Social Service for distribution / Started power supEdison Award / nuclear power Rescue Squad responsible companies / Completed Congress) / Surpass 3 trillion headquarters (to in Korea Company electric Power established Kori Nuclear Corporation Exchange as Exchange generation submarine pany’s 100th subsidiaries the first 765kV Team ply to Kaeseong Industrial Complex Established the plant project Jeju Smart Grid Pilot Project / First won in annual overseas sales Bitgaram Innova(GeoncheonPlant (after the inteUnit 1 People’s Share project (Malaya transmission anniversary transmission / Published the first Sustainability independent (UAE) concrete placement for the first unit for the first time / Ranked top tion City, Gwangju, gung Palace gration of Korea No. 2 Thermal Power line (101km) / Completed lines Report / Joined UN Global Compact Business Diviof UAE nuclear power plant for eighth consecutive years Jeollanam-do) in Gyeongbok Electric Power Plant in the Ulchin Units sion system in the integrity survey of the / Received the Palace) Company, Philippines) 3, the Korean Anti-corruption & Civil Rights Vision Awards Gyeongsung Standard NuCommission / Ranked top for for Sustainability Electric Comclear Power the 15th consecutive years in report pany, and South Plant Customer Korea Electric Satisfaction Company) Survey 1897 1898 1944 1961 1978 1982 1989 1994 1995 1997 1998 2001 2002 2004 2005 2006 2009 2010 2012 2013 2014 4 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 5 KEPCO Value System & How can we make a sustainable future and create happiness for human beings? INTERNAL CAPABILITIES SPECIAL FEATURE To lead “warm-hearted growth” by introducing CSV (Creating Shared Value) for the first time as aPublic Company Sharing Practice KEPCO finds the solution in energy. We create new valWorld-class electricity quality / Extensive experiVulnerable to changes in oil price and exchange ues by developing clean and smart energy technologies ence in exporting nuclear rate / Lack of power to plants / Brand power / decide prices / Weak group “Realizing economic profits and social contribution values simultaneously” and contribute to economic and social development by WHAT IS CSV? Credibility as a Public synergy / Isolated electricity entering into the global development track. We also fulCompany network “Fulfilling warm-hearted growth by continually carrying out CSV means pursuing economic profit and sofill our social responsibilities, driven by our love for our a new profit-sharing business model” cial contribution while performing the comfellow men, by sharing energy with all. With unceasing STRENGTHS S W WEAKNESSES pany’s original management activities. This challenges and innovation, KEPCO will create a happier ANALYSIS is a new management paradigm by which a and better future. OPPORTUNITIES O T THREAT PLAN FOR INTRODUCING KEPCO CSV company fulfills its social responsibilities in Slowdown in domestic a new way beyond the existing CSR (CorpoExpanding the scope of demands for electricity / To achieve the realization of public happiness by carrying out value-creating Social Contribution Activities rate Social Responsibility). globalization / Growing Fierce global competition / demands from emerging Intensified conflicts in facilmarkets / Transforming into ity construction / Internal ECONOMIC VALUE SOCIAL VALUE low-carbon energy / Openand external environmental ing the energy market regulations Building the basis for business, Improving energy welfare, securing new profit sources strengthening mutual development EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT Society Business Developing the CSV Establishing the CSV system Making the CSV Ecosystem Business model ESTABLISHMENT To promote stability in electricity supply and demand and contribute to the development of the national economy OBJECTIVE For the first time as a public company, KEPCO has secure new profit sources and improve energy welfare. prepare the foundation for overseas business orders, established the “KEPCO Plan for the Introduction of creating profits by operating a global CSV business. CSV,” which presents a Social Contribution model Rooftop solar power business: In this solar power VISION Global Top Green and Smart Energy Pioneer based on CSV (Creating Shared Value) in April 2014. development business model, rooftops at schools and Electricity facility improvement business for welfare facilities will be utilized. KEPCO manages dedeveloping countries: KEPCO enhances the level of WHY CSV? As one of the most trusted public commands by producing electricity for peak times while energy welfare for the underprivileged in developing CORE VALUE panies in Korea, KEPCO should pursue both public increating profits from operating solar power plants and countries with obsolete electricity facilities by carrying Global Excellence Customer Respect Performance Driven Challenge and Innovation Social Responsibility KEPCO WAY terest and profitability. We have introduced CSV as a reducing CO2 with eco-friendly energy. out electricity infrastructure improvement projects by management paradigm to create a system for creative utilizing the ODA of KOICA. The company will create a economy and mutual growth. Renewable energy farm: KEPCO provides particibasis for massive business orders and make profits by pating residents with profits by carrying out renewable operating ODA businesses. DIRECTION FOR Reinforcing credibility Expanding the scope Creating Fulfilling Social Responsibilities HOW WILL CSV BE ACHIEVED? energy business for supporting local residents in areas MID & LONG-TERM in domestic business of global business new growth engines for electricity business STRATEGIES To launch CSV successfully, KEPCO has established where electricity facilities are constructed. The solar Electricity technology education business for the goal of “Achieving Public Happiness through power energy project in Miryang is a typical example. developing countries: By supporting developing Creating Values.” For a company-wide strategic CSV, countries to foster human resources for electricity we have set up the planning department at the headDeveloping carbon reduction technologies: technology, KEPCO enhances the countries’ capability quarters as the general department for CSV and will KEPCO operates eco-friendly complex plant business to operate electricity business, secures profits from opfirmly establish the CSV system by establishing a CSV (IGCC-SNG), which produces electricity and synthetic erating education programs, and expects to establish a Advisory Group and CSV Business Systems based on natural gas by utilizing low rank carbon, and CCS decooperative network and seek follow-up business. the network among KEPCO, KOICA, and civil groups. velopment business, which compresses, stores, and SPECIAL FEATURE “Vision Plus and Guidebook for Action” for sharing values The company will expand cooperative R&D efforts utilizes CO2 by capturing it with high purity. With these In the future, KEPCO will continually develop new with SMEs, such as the domestication of electricity projects, CO2 can be saved on a national scale and growth business models for sharing profits and createquipment components, and create a CSV system in KEPCO can realize overseas exports and the developing a sustainable energy environment to make win-win Portal site for sharing visions, “Vision Plus” which mutual growth is realized by fostering industryment of cutting-edge clean technologies. relationships with all stakeholders. In December 2013, KEPCO opened “Vision Plus,” a portal site for sharing and internalizing visions for executives academic cooperation clusters. and employees. The site is based on the concept that the completion of visions and strategies comes not from a Providing electricity to remote regions in the superficially good system, but from internalization and action by members. The key to internalization and ensurWHAT KIND OF CSV BUSINESS MODELS ARE overseas countries: KEPCO provides the disadvaning action is the act of sharing. Beginning with this concept, Vision Plus provides participatory content, such as BEING OPERATED BY KEPCO? taged in developing countries with electricity by supeasy and fun video clips for sharing visions, terms for strategies, and articles about Along with carrying out practical CSV businesses, plying a micro-grid, combining cutting-edge technolothese visions. With great support from members, the number of views for the site KEPCO is operating and will continue to operate three gies such as renewable energies and energy storage surpassed 120,000 as of July 2014. domestic and overseas businesses, respectively, to equipment. With the cooperation of KOICA, we will Domestic Business Overseas Business A desirable guidebook for action, “Empathy and Action” Rooftop solar power business Electricity supply for overseas remote regions business Back to the basics! Facing both, the crisis of environmental change and the expectations of a new era, KEPCO executives and employees – Sharing development profits from welfare facilities and schools – Micro-grid with connecting renewable energy and ESS are currently recognizing the importance of the basics again. As a desirable Guidebook for promoting action, “Empathy and Action” contains Renewable energy farm Electricity facilities improvement business for developing countries basic attitudes and a Code of Conduct to create a “warm-hearted” KEPCO, gaining public confidence by innovating corporate culture. For – Profitable business for neighboring electricity facilities – Improving and exchanging aged electricity facilities the headquarters and national business sites, a total of 4,200 copies of the Guidebook were distributed, and it has been accepted as the Developing carbon reduction technologies Electricity technology education business for developing countries guideline for sharing the value system. – Carbon dioxide capture technologies such as IGCC, CCS, etc. – Establishing on-site technology education academies 6 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 7 2013 Sustainability Management Highlight Zero KEPCO overcame the crisis in electricity supply and demand by Smart Grid Station First in the world to establish communicating with the public a Smart Grid Station KEPCO carried out the movement for saving electricity by using SNS with three million people, realized Based on the electricity grid, KEPCO established a zero level for crisis in rolling power cuts by performing an electricity conservation campaign with the Smart Grid Station, which collectively executives and employees, and reduced critical power shortages by 37 days. controls photovoltaic power generation, Energy Storage Systems (ESS), Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI), and systems for charging electric cars, and is leading the expansion of smart grids at home and abroad. 8 11.53 Appointed as the Best Company with anti-corruption Environmental competitiveness for eight consecutive years The only Public Company to achieve this, KEPCO was appointed as the Best Company Management in the Assessment for Anti-corruption Competitiveness by the Anti-corruption and Civil Acquired the Certificate for Environmental Management Rights Commission of Korea for eight consecutive years. World-class electricity quality Based on the performance of saving resources and energy, reducing greenhouse Thanks to the efforts to secure credibility in gas and fulfilling social responsibility for the environment, KEPCO acquired the electricity supply, KEPCO recorded 11.53 Certificate for Green Management system from the Korea Foundation for Quality, minutes in SAIDI and achieved 3.73% in T&D and achieved eco-friendly management performance by obtaining the Global loss rate by using high-efficiency infrastructure Certificate for Energy and Carbon Management from the Carbon Trust Company, UK. and intelligent probability for electricity volume. 15 Dry CO2 Achieved the best level of customer satisfaction Awards for the Best Environmental Company for fifteen consecutive years Ilijan Power Plant received the awards for the Best Environment KEPCO overcame the electricity supply crisis by conducting electricity conservation Management and Best Environmental Company campaigns based on public consensus and achieved the best level of customer Developing technologies satisfaction for fifteen consecutive years by improving its customer-oriented system. for new global values In addition to receiving the best award for environment management from the Ministry of Environment, Philippines, KEPCO was awarded as the Best Environmental Company by the Chamber of Commerce and KEPCO began the construction of Asia’s largest Industry in the Philippines. By winning these awards, KEPCO has once more been identified as a trusted CO2 capture wet plant with 10MW and a CO2 company in the global market. capture dry plant, being the first in the world to implement 10MW. +73% Conflict Management 6 +21.8 % -21 Appointed as the Company with Best % First of the public enterprises to introduce Appointed by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energyas the best case in solving Governance Structure for six Reduced the the program utilizing conflicts over the construction of consecutive years number of safety related accidents KEPCO brand for SMEs transmission and transformation facilities In the Korea Corporate Governance Service’s assessment by 21% by expanding a companyBy utilizing the brand power of At the early stage of selecting sites, KEPCO formed the of the governance structures of 693 companies, KEPCO Increased the company value by 4.3 trillion won, wide Safety Management system was appointed as the Best Public Company for six KEPCO, we have proactively committee for selecting sites by including various stakeholders creating surplus for the first time in six years along with partner firms supported exports by using such as local governments, representatives of residents, and consecutive years. KEPCO improved the management efficiency by disposing assets The number of on-site accidents reduced by 21%, “KEPCO Trusted Partner,” a program academic circles. Based on public opinion, we have and reducing expenses and created a surplus for the first time by expanding safety and health management that uses the KEPCO logo to build successfully carried out the project, and the construction of since 2008, with stock value increasing by 21.8% and market value systems for not only all the primary business trust. Through this effort, export Sinjungbu transmission lines with 765kv. This case was selected by 4.3 trillion won. sites and KEPCO headquarters, but also to all contracts by SMEs increased by as the best case of the year to deal with conflicts by the 587 partner firms. 73% compared to 2012. Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy. 8 KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 9 Creating & Distributing In 2013, KEPCO provided 21,018,000 customer units in Korea with electricity in a stable manner and established a basis for creating social values. In the middle of the economic recession, the electricity sales in 2013 was 474,849GWh, which increased by 1.8% as Economic Values compared to 2012. As for the composition of type of contracts, electricity for industry accounted for 55.9%, regular use for 21.5%, households for 13.9%, and other sectors for 8.7%. In terms of company value in 2013, KEPCO achieved a surplus both in operating profit and net income for the first time in six years since 2007. Based on consolidated financial statements, operating profit was 1 trillion and 519 billion won, while net income was 174.3 billion won. Sales amounted to 54 trillion and 37.8 billion won, which increased by 9.3% compared to last year. With an increase in electricity bills, sales revenues were 50 trillion and 488.4 billion won, which increased by 9.2% compared to last year. In 2013, KEPCO created a surplus, which was achieved by self-supporting efforts worth 2 trillion and 800 billion won in stabilizing fuel Creating economic values (by separate criteria) prices, increasing sales cost, selling shares, and returning wages. To secure public confidence by performing a leading role in reducCategory 2011 2012 2013 ing its debts as a Public Company, KEPCO has established the largest self-help plans on the largest scale in the company’s history Sales volume 455,070 466,592 474,849 and will achieve the goal of debt reduction at an early stage by promoting voluntary participation by all the employees. For these (GWh) objectives, we have organized the Group for Management Innovation, which conducts the role of the control tower for innovation Sales 431,382 493,349 536,924 and reform in the overall management. Under this group, we operate three emergency organizations, including Emergency Planning (100 million won) Committees for debt reduction, preventing lax management and innovating systems and culture. Operating profit 32,952 26,928 2,630 Although we are in a harsh management environment with a slowdown in the growth of electricity demand, continual regulations on (100 million won) electricity price, reinforcement of greenhouse gas reduction, and skyrocketing energy prices, KEPCO will strive to enhance financial Net income 35,141 32,266 2,383 performance by carrying out efficient management by continualy creating new profits and reducing costs and operating reasonable (100 million won) cost systems such as the fuel cost pass-through system. reporting Company value (total market value) Net income (for separate criteria, unit: 100 million won) methodology Increased by Achieved surplus 4.3 trillion won 2,383 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 19.7 trillion won 24 trillion won -777 2012 2013 -14,782 -29,525 -32,266 -35,141 Distributing economic values (for separate criteria, unit: 100 million won) Shareholders Creditors Local community Social Contribution ratio 561 16,036 15,252 Local tax and utility bills 512 14,092 457 443 405 349 278 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Government Affiliated Companies Executives and employees 1,746 Retirement Fringe Payment for purchasing electricity Wage Allowance Benefits Others 452.2 13,101 13,741 12,996 440.5 2011 2012 2013 387.2 1,859 2,073 2,063 1,648 1,745 1,660 19.48 17.86 18.66 1,461 1,643 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 10 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices Materiality Assessment KEPCO has conducted the materiality assessment by complying with the important issues recommended by GRI G4 Guideline such as the process of identifying material aspects and setting the boundaries to select major issues that will be reflected in the report. Materiality Matrix 10.0 and Selection of Major To carry out the materiality assessment process, we identified major issues related to Sustainable Management by utilizing various methods to collect internal and external issues. We decided priorities in line with impacts on stakeholder assessment and the deSignificance : Stability in electricity supply and demand Creating new growth Developing eco-friendly technologies Creating economic values Coping with Importance of economic, enviIssues cision-making process, and the importance of economic, environmental, and social impact in terms of business. We also conducted verification and a deliberation process for effectiveness in compliance with the principles of report consistency. ronmental, and social impacts R&D and innovation engines for the future Creating quality jobs climate changes Stakeholder Strategies for participation Expanding overseas business Mutual growth with partner firms social contribution by KEPCO 8.0 Process for Materiality Assessment and selection of major issues Enhancing efficiency Managing electricity demand Strengthening the capability in operating facilities Eco-friendly management system of executives and employees Identifying Sustainable ManageCustomer safety 1 2 3 Prioritizing Sustainable Effectiveness verification and Reinforcing energy and health Step ment issues & establishing topic Step Step Developing and operating cooperation with countries Management issues review 6.0 Innovation in personnel management and organization overseas nuclear plants Risk management boundaries Reinforcing the responsibility Respecting diversity in governance structure in human resources To identify Sustainable Management issues related to Priorities were decided in order based on business sig• For selected major issues, the company prepared for KEPCO, 34 issues were collected by utilizing various isnificance and stakeholder influence for collected issues. the process of data collection and reviewed whether perEthical management and anti-corruption Establishing strategies and plans for sustainable management Efforts to reduce energy use sue collection mechanisms. Boundaries were decided by • Significance: Identifying economic, environmental, and formance regarding Sustainable Management including Complying with environmental regulations Emergency response plan for disasters Enhancing Preventing on-site understanding the influence level of the sources of issues. social impacts in terms of implementing management positive and negative impacts are reflected in the report 4.0 Building eco-friendly supply chain safety accidents Stabilizing electricity distribution in local communities customer satisfaction (1) Internal management assessment data (mid and longstrategies by KEPCO with a reasonable and balanced perspective. Supporting the sustainability of partner firms Expanding energy welfare Preserving biodiversity term strategies and goals) • Influence: Carrying out stakeholder assessment and • After publishing the report, the company prepares to (2) Media research drawing opinions by using the existing and ongoing parwrite follow-up reports by going through the feedback (3) Global Sustainable Management / benchmarking good ticipation systems process of the stakeholders company practices (In the process of writing the report, a survey was con2.0 (4) International standards for Sustainable Management ducted from July 3 to July 11, 2014) 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 Influence: Impacts on stakeholder assessment and decision-making process Sustainability, Compliance with stakeholders’ Materiality principles, Compliance with parCompleteness, Compliance with participation participation principles ticipation principles by stakeholders principles by stakeholders • Impact Influence & Impact Significance with high importance (ⓐ): Creating economic values, coping with climate changes, stakeholder participation, strategies for social contribution, etc. • Impact Influence with high importance (ⓑ): Preventing on-site safety accidents, efforts to reduce energy use, enhancing customer satisfaction, preserving biodiversity, etc. • Impact Significance with high importance (©): Stability in electricity supply and demand, creating new growth engines for the future, R&D and innovation, expanding overseas business, etc. Identifying Sustainable Management issues and setting boundaries Step KEPCO has not only reviewed the internal data for 2020 mid and long-term strategies and management objectives but 1 also identified the company’s Sustainable Management issues by analyzing media, checking issues in similar good Verification of effectiveness and review Step companies on the global stage, and international standards for Sustainable Management. We have reflected the Factors reflected in the report and the boundaries of major issues drawn by the result of Materiality Assessment are as follows. This current trends on Sustainable Management by adding special announcement issues of the GRI G4 in the international 3 report particularly deals with the Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) and index performances for major issues required in the standards for Sustainable Management, Electricity Utility Index, and benchmarking factors for similar companies. GRI G4 Guideline comprehensively. Through these processes, we have drawn a total of 34 issues. Methods for drawing major issues No Major issues Material Aspect Classification Boundary Limitation Report (connection with GRI G4) based on Internal External Methods for deciding major issues importance Domestic Overseas Subsidiary Customer Local Governmental Cooperative community institution firm Internal data Identifying major issues in economics, environment, and society by analyzing 2020 mid and long-term strategies and management objectives and the 2013 sustainability report 1 Creating economic values Economic performance A ● ● ● ● Creating and Distributing Economic Values p. 10 2 Coping with climate change Emissions A ● ● ● ● Gathering only domestic greenhouse gas data #5 Coping with Climate Change pp. 60-65 Media Analyzing articles related to Sustainable Management from the media in 2013 (304 in total) and categorized articles by common issues (46%), economics (23%), environment (5%), 3 Stakeholder participation Stakeholder engagement A ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Stakeholder Participation p14〜15 and society (27%) → Issues about stakeholder communication, creating economic values, and social contribution were reported with high frequency, while negative issues were also 4 Strategies for Local communities A ● ● ● ● Quantitative performance is only for domestic data, #7 Fulfilling Our Responsibility for Sharing and Mutual social contribution while qualitative performance deals with both domestic and Growth pp. 74〜79 analyzed, including violation cases of environment impact assessment, non-recruitment of the handicapped, and insufficient management of waste utility pole. foreign data. Energy welfare is targeted for customers. 5 Developing ecoEnvironmental product A ● ● ● ● ● Cooperative research tasks with subsidiaries, #3 Creating New Growth Engines for the Future (Reinforcing Benchmarking Comparing and analyzing issues of best global companies for Sustainable Management in the electricity industry → Coping with climate change, strategic social contribution activifriendly technology & Services government institutions, and partner firms Technological Competitiveness for High-added Value) pp. 48〜49 ties, and safety and health were identified as issues with top priority. 6 Creating quality jobs Employment A ● ● ● #6 Creating a People-oriented Work Environment (Open Employment) pp. 66〜68 Global CSR index Drawing major issues in the international standards related to Sustainable Management, such as GRI G4 (including Electricity Utility Index), ISO26000, DJSI, etc. 7 Respecting diversity Diversity & A ● ● ● ● #6 Creating a People-oriented Work Environment (Open Survey Conducting surveys for stakeholders such as executives and employees, external CSR experts, and customers to draw major issues (July 3-11) in human resources equal opportunity management, Happy and Pleasant Workplace) pp. 66〜68, p. 71 8 Strengthening the capacity Training & education A ● ● ● #6 Creating a People-oriented Work Environment  → Stability in electricity supply and creating new growth engines for the future were selected as major issues for executives and employees. External stakeholders take a great interof executives and employees pp. 66〜67, p. 69 est in issues such as stability in electricity supply, electricity demand management, and safety and health according to the analysis. 9 Risk management Risk management A ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Risk management pp. 24〜25 10 Eco-friendly Additional issues other A ● ● ● ● #4 Realizing Eco-friendly Energy management system than GRI G4 aspects (Environmental Management System) pp. 52~54 11 Prevention of on-site Health and safety B ● ● ● ● ● #6 Creating a People-oriented Work Environment safety accidents (Management on Health and Safety) pp. 66~67, p. 73 12 Efforts to reduce Energy B ● ● Quantitative performance is only for domestic data, while #4 Realizing Eco-friendly Energy energy use qualitative performance deals with both domestic and foreign (Improving Environmental Efficiency) pp. 52〜53 ,p. 57 Deciding priorities in Sustainable Management issues data. Campaigns to save energy for all people are carried out. Step Based on the list of major issues, KEPCO conducted a Materiality Assessment for the importance of economic, environ2 13 Preserving biodiversity Biodiversity B ● ● #4 Realizing Eco-friendly Energy (Transportation Stage) pp. 52〜53, p. 57 mental, and social impacts and influence on stakeholders’ decision-making process and focused on considering major 14 Improving customer Product & service labeling B ● ● Satisfaction level is carried out only for domestic #1 Realizing Customer Value pp. 30〜35 issues from the assessment with a balanced perspective. satisfaction customers (the nation). 15 Stabilizing electricity Availability and credibility C Main mission is to stabilize domestic electricity supply. #2 Stabilizing Electricity Supply and Demand pp. 36〜41 As a result of the Materiality Assessment, issues such as creating economic values, coping with climate change, ● ● ● ● ● ● ● stakeholder participation, and social contribution were drawn as issues with high materiality. An especially high level supply and demand of interest was reflected in issues such as KEPCO creating a surplus, which had recorded deficit for five consecutive 16 Creating new growth Additional issues other C ● ● #3 Creating New Growth Engines for the Future pp. 42〜51 engines for the future than GRI G4 aspects years, securing financial soundness (creating economic values), expanding regulations on greenhouse gas (coping with 17 R&D and innovation Research & reliability C ● ● ● ● ● Part of the research tasks is carried out for technological #3 Creating New Growth Engines for the Future climate change), including an emission trading system, and communication with local communities for the construction development by cooperating with government institutions. (Reinforcing Technological Competitiveness for High-added Value) pp. 42〜43, pp. 48〜50 of electricity facilities (stakeholder participation). 18 Expanding Additional issues other C ● ● Reinforcing the support for SMEs to enter into the #3 Creating New Growth Engines for the Future overseas businesses than GRI G4 aspects overseas market (Accelerating the Advancement into the Global Market) pp. 42〜43, pp. 46〜47 12 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 13 Stakeholder Communication and Participation Fulfilling Customers VOC, Information Disclosure KEPCO has carried out various activities to form a consensus on electricity services for the public. We have drawn up measures for “No existence without trust”: This phrase defines the Communication Channels for Stakeholders Stakeholders’ service innovation by conducting diagnosis and assessment for service from various perspectives, such as holding meetings with five consumer groups, including the Green Consumer Network in Korea, operating field experience programs for electricity service management activities by KEPCO in 2013. All the execuRight to Know with 90 CS supporters consisted of college students, and developing new ideas. The company is also operating VOC to ensure the management of service quality meeting customer needs. The operation performance for VOC (Voice of Customer) in 2013 resulted tives and employees at KEPCO focus on trust, which is the foremost requirement for creating values for all stakeUnspecified general public Emphasizing environmental rights & in a total of 21,000 cases. Online communication through SNS, rights to property related to the conholders, and listen to various opinions and advice from website and blogs, Customer service struction and operation of facilities our stakeholders. center, VOC, opening CS supporters Consultative body with experts as the VOC operation performance for 2013 information, notice for integrated committee for selecting sites with the management participation of local governments, Item Cyber Customer center Other systems Telephone Others Total Stakeholders are defined depending on the characteropening electronic information Case 12,204 6,945 1,891 242 199 21,481 istics and impacts of issues, and we are operating custhrough a special support consultative group tomized communication channels meeting stakeholder Performance of information disclosure and needs. KEPCO stakeholders are classified into customIntegrated Management notice in 2013 Meanwhile, KEPCO is proactively carrying out the task of dissemination of information to realize transparent management. 243 cases Customers Local communities ers—people using electricity, shareholders and investors of information on major business plans and bidding with significant impacts on the people’s lives are disclosed on the website prior to focusing on the improvement of company values, local receiving requests from the people. The ICT Planning Office, which is in charge of disseminating information, has increased the ratio Information Disclosure Integrated Management communities with emphasis on the rights to property of external advisors (from 2 external members and 4 internal membersto 3 external members and 3 internal members) to enhance information Notice and environment related to facility construction fairness in deliberating disclosed information, launched the FAQ sector for major non-disclosure cases in the second half of 2013, and Pursuing interest in Leading the public information information Items for Number of and operation, the government, National Asenhancing corporate opinions, deciding operated the Customer Advisory Group for disseminating information. KEPCO is also striving to operate the Integrated Management Government disclosure disclosure notices Notice cases sembly and NGOs—who are the players in values Shareholders Spreading values based on policies Announcement system, by using the ALIO system and external websites. In 2013, a total of 14,572 cases for 49 items were posted, National Assembly requested approved IR, Sales Report, and investors “No existence without trust” Representative/Workand we have put in great efforts to enhance the understanding level of the public on Information Notices, by explaining difficult terms. carrying out policies regarding the electricNGO Corporate Disclosure, ing-level meetings, charging deciding to ity industry, executives and employees—who Shareholders Meetings forums and seminars information disclose create values; and partner firms and groups related Shareholders / Investors–Corporate Disclosure, IR at home and abroad disclosure information to electricity supply and overseas business. To offer reasonable support to the decision-making process for investors, KEPCO is providing financial and non-financial information, 416 378 49 14,572 such as management activities and governance structure, in a timely manner by carrying out various IR activities including Corporate Cooperative Executives and In 2013, KEPCO reinforced online channels by vitalizing companies employees Disclosure. SNS and overhauling the website to secure the founda& subsidiaries Labor union tion for credibility and open communication with stakePerformance of Corporate Disclosure in 2013 holders, shared core current issues in the electricity Producing electricity H/W, S/W, Creating values / representing the Items Regular Fair Disclosure Autonomous Status of group SEC Disclosure Total industry, including the operation of the committee for participating in overseas bid interest of labor union members Disclosure Disclosure companies selecting sites for facility construction, and carried out projects Vision portals, communication educaCases 4 16 28 4 42 94 sustainable value-creating activities with stakeholders by Meetings, on-site and online VOC, tion (T.C.T.), management meetings, signing MOUs, meeting with execuLabor-Management consultative opening transparent information such as information on tives of groups for benchmarking body, etc. electromagnetic fields. Local communities–Creating the Committee for selecting sites and disseminating information on electromagnetic fields In the case of constructing electricity facilities, KEPCO is listening to complaints from candidate regions for facility construction by operating an organization for public discussion and T/F for dealing with complaints from the stage of appointing sites. We are also establishing a basis for mutual confidence and communication with local residents by having the management visit the sites, holding presentation meetings for residents, and operating field experience programs. Thanks to these efforts, we successfully decided the location of the Sinjungbu Substation 2013, and this Stakeholder Major issue Communication for issues and efforts by KEPCO Detailed contents was appointed as the best case for dealing with conflicts by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy. Considering the growing interest in environmental impacts and safety regarding electricity Customers Sharing crises in electricity • Expanding the participation in SNS electricity conservation campaign, promoting electricity saving efforts for all employees Realizing customer value (pp. 30~35) facilities, such as media reports about the safety of electromagnetic fields, KEPCO is operating the Electromagnetic Field Experience Center and providing a measurement service by using the menu supply & demand / (July-August 2013), Implementing demands control system Improving service quality • Meeting with five consumer groups (February 2014), operating and recruiting the group of college student supporters (July 2013), for displaying information on electromagnetic fields on the KEPCO website (www.kepco.co.kr) to resolve anxiety and controversy over electromagnetic fields and provide the people with accurate operating CS leaders (from April 2013), reforming the website by focusing on customers (December 2013) information. We have set up and operated the system for measuring the amount of electromagnetic fields from transmission towers and changes in electromagnetic fields before and after the Shareholders Improving profitability • Enhancing financial soundness by transferring into the surplus and implementing efforts for reducing debts Creating and distributing economic values construction of electricity facilities at six branches in the country to enable the dissemination of information on electromagnetic fields. & investors Risk management • Conducting Shareholder Meetings, IR, and Corporate Disclosure regularly (p.10) Local Rights to property • Establishing and operating the committee for selecting sites with the participation of local residents Fulfilling our responsibility for sharing communities for local community / Procedure for operating the committee for selecting Sinjungbu Substation site: Enacting standards for appointing members and and mutual growth (p. 74) Cooperative companies / subsidiaries – Presentation meetings for mutual growth, VOC, establishing cooperative network Environmental rights, operation → Deciding a candidate band → Appointing candidate sites → Visiting the sites → Reducing the number of In February 2013, KEPCO held a presentation meeting for promoting mutual growth by the CEO for about 700 workers from SMEs to create a system for mutual communication and cooperation safety and health candidates → Deciding the optimal site (July 2013) with SMEs. While carrying out on-site visit programs and communication between the management and SMEs, we have not only discussed the way to pioneer new domestic and foreign sales • Preparing for the enactment of the law on compensation and support for the area near transmission and transformation of electricity facilities and passing the law in the National Assembly (December 2013) channels but also listened to and improved a total of 41 cases of VOC. We are also proactively supporting overseas exports by overhauling the mutual growth website and have solved a total of • Organizing and operating the on-site civil office (with a total of 219 members) for the construction area with facilities (August 2013) 84 cases of complaints through cyber consultations for SMEs. The company is also regularly communicating with J-Power of Japan and State Grid Corporation of China to establish a cooperative • Opening the measured values for electromagnetic fields in transmission lines on the website (November 2013) network with global electricity companies and has signed an MOU for exchanging business information and human resources with European utility companies. Meanwhile, KEPCO is strengthening Cooperative Mutual management • Holding the presentation for policies regarding mutual growth by the CEB (February 2013) and communication with the Fulfilling our responsibility for sharing the cooperative system based on management with autonomous responsibility by electricity company groups. We are carrying out the role of moderatorsby holding meetings with the Presidents companies with partner firms / management by visiting SMEs (three times in total) and mutual growth (p. 74, pp. 81~83) & groups Co-development with • Holding exhibitions for mutual growth with SMEs (April 2013) and consulting periodically to pioneer the sales routes at home and abroad of groups every two months and discussing management information and current affairs. In January 2014, we re-established cooperative relations between KEPCO and its subsidiaries for the cooperative groups • Signing an MOU and benchmarking for exchanging human resources and operating businesses with overseas electricity enhancement of synergy within groups of electricity companies. operators (August, September 2013) • Holding a meeting with presidents from company groups every two months, while establishing a new cooperative system for R&D and performing co-demonstration businesses Government / National Assembly / NGO – Sharing core current issues and establishing a cooperative system Government, Cooperation with the • Sharing issues regularly on conflicts about transmission lines in Miryang, preparing the enactment of the law on compensation and Stabilizing electricity supply and demand KEPCO has shared core current issues in the electricity industry, such as the construction of electricity facilities and electricity supply and demand crisis, with relevant institutions including the National government and National support for the area near transmission and transformation of electricity facilities and passing the law in the National Assembly (December 2013) (pp. 36~41) / Managing regional conflicts government, National Assembly, and NGOs. We have realized the improvement of electricity systems by listening to various opinions and utilizing communication channels, such as consultative Assembly, Assembly / Improving • Holding the Daegu World Energy Congress (WEC) and discussing current affairs including the crisis for electricity supply and demand for facility construction and supporting NGO electricity system / • Establishing the network with civil groups such as Korea NGO’s Energy Network (July 2013), listening to public complaints, attending measures (pp. 80) body with government officials, National Assembly seminars, and civil organization networks. The legal compensation system for fundamentally solving construction complaints was passed in the Solving problems relating meetings for policies and conducting campaigns for energy conservation preparing for the crisis for electricity supply and demand (August 2013) National Assembly (December 2013). The company secured consensus for the cooperation for saving electricity by promoting the crisis for electricty supply and demand and visiting companies to public inconvenience by • Signing an MOU for cooperation between Korea Meteorological Administration and KEPCO to enhance accuracy in predicting electricity with a high level of electricity use and listened to various public complaints by establishing the network for civil groups. Through the cooperative system with relevant institutions, such as signing cooperating with civil groups demands (July 2013), etc. an MOU with the Korea Meteorological Administration (August 2013), we have created cooperation-based performance, including improvement in the accuracy of predicting electricity demands. and public institutions Executives & Making a flexible corporate • Conducting a campaign for abolishing authoritarianism, sending communication mails by the chief (10 times), sharing visions and core Creating a people-oriented work employees/ culture / Company-wide values, communication education (T.C.T, June 2013-Feburary 2014), special lectures by the management (regularly), etc. environment (pp. 66~73) Executives and employees / Labor Union Expanding trust-based two-way communication channels labor union cooperation based on the • Holding Labor-Management workshops and discussion meetings based on business site units (71 times), participating in 50 tasks for KEPCO has implemented communication education (T.C.T.) along with sending communication mails by the CEO to all employees to expand two-way communication channels between the Manageconfidence between Labor efficient management with high intensity based on the consensus between Labor Union and Management Union and Management ment and employees. We are also expanding Labor-Management communication channels by creating a Labor-Management consultative body and holding workshops, while carrying out social for current issues volunteering activities for local communities and participating in fifty tasks for highly efficient management based on the agreement between Labor and Management. 14 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 15 SPECIAL FEATURE Lesson from the long-term conflicts over transmission lines in Miryang It was also important for KEPCO to prepare a reasonable compensation system. Along with arranging a visit to the National Assembly by all the executive members, we had a collective discussion to collect Shin-Kori-North Gyeongnam opinions from stakeholders and experts by holding North Gyeongnam Substation high-voltage transmission lines: 90.5km total 11 general meetings and 20 working-level meetings. Ulsan Through these efforts, the company has proactively Changnyeong-gun Ulju-gun strived to make the “Legislations on the CompensaMiryang Shin-Kori tion and Support for Areas near Transmission and Yangsan Nuclear Power Plant Transformation of Electricity Facilities” for ensuring reasonable compensation, and ultimately, preparing practical measures for compensation. Gijang-gun Busan As of July 2014, the construction of transmission towers in Miryang has entered the final stage without problems. Without the firm decision of residents for the construction as a utility business for the people, this project would not have been realized. In the Part 1 continuous conflicts that lasted nine years since 2005, we have learned the lesson that listening to the opinions of residents who are against the company’s plans is valuable and an important requirement for Standard Disclosure What is the Miryang transmission lines condeveloping the electricity industry further. struction project? Finding ways to communicate beyond conflicts The business involving the construction of Miryang transmission lines is a part of the construction project As a result of overcoming problems and solving them for high-voltage transmission lines between Shin-Kori through communication, KEPCO has found consensus and North Gyeongnam to convey electricity produced with local communities for solving conflicts over three from Shin-Kori Nuclear Power Plant to the Yeongnam businesses other than the Miryang project. region. This project covers a total of 90.5km in five cities and counties, including Ulju, Gijang, Yangsan, In December 2013, we achieved the target of drawing Miryang, and Changnyeong, and involves the a consensus on the construction business for transsustainability construction of a total of 161 units of transmission Face-to-face talk with local residents against the conmission lines between Gusan and Saemangeum in six towers. struction of transmission lines in Miryang years. As for the construction business for Cheongwon Sinjungbu transmission lines and substations, Although the construction for four cities and counties (October to November 2012, three times in total) management the company formed the Committee for site selection, except Miryang was completed in May 2013, the con• Separate consultations held 71 times and consultawhich consists of local governments, representatives struction of 52 units of towers passing four townships tion at visiting huts were held 33 times of residents and experts, from the selection stage. from among a total of 69 units passing Miryang was • Held a Public Hearing (Discussion on validity for We also started an office for dealing with complaints delayed for three years till the beginning of the conthe construction of transmission lines and solutions by dispatching employees on site, which resulted in struction in October 2013 due to complaints against for problems regarding rights to health and wealth in not only making a mutual agreement between KEPCO the construction. As of July 2014, construction is December 2012) and local residents in January 2014, but also being under way across Miryang, and 29 towns among 30 appointed as the Best Case for Dealing with Conflicts towns with units, which equals 97%, have agreed on What was the solution for conflicts in 2013? of the Year by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and the construction. Energy. In terms of the construction business for For 2013, KEPCO strived to listen to on-site opinions transmission lines with 345kV between Sinpocheon What efforts did KEPCO make? and expand the scope of communication for drawing and Sindeok, we resolved the conflict by considering social consensus. As the CEO visited Miryang 26 the stance of residents, and in October 2013, we KEPCO has strived to ensure continuous communicatimes, and the Miryang headquarters with special won the Best Award for the Best Project by the Korea tion and agreement by approaching various organizameasures was launched, we have made great efforts Project Management Association. tions and consultative bodies to solve the conflicts to begin conversations with the local residents. We over Miryang transmission lines. have also continually shown our sincere attitude towards the project by supporting eye surgery for • Formed the committee for dealing with conflicts in residents in Miryang, providing special rest areas, Miryang by the Anti-corruption & Civil Rights Comand carrying out activities to clean the Miryang River. mission of Korea (December 2009 – June 2010, 23 meetings in total) KEPCO has also strived to draw social consensus. • Formed the committee for the improvement of comFrom May to July in 2013, we formed a Consultapensation system by Citizens’ Coalition for Economic tive Body consisting of nine experts recommended Justice (November 2010 – September 2012, nine by the National Assembly, local residents, and the general meetings and 14 working-level meetings), government. From August 2013, we have provided the held meetings seven times (August to October 2011) Consultative Body with special support, comprised of • Held meetings between KEPCO and local residents 21 members including experts for solving conflicts, (May to July 2011, 18 meetings in total) local residents, KEPCO, and the government, and • Working-level consultation with the local Resident drawn a consensus on the plan for providing villages Consensus on the construction of Gunsan-Saemangeum Planning Committee Against Construction project with special business expenses. transmission lines 16 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 17 Power Industry Shifting of Global Energies Environment of the Domestic Power Industry Trend Reports Shifting of economic powers Percentage of mandatory renewable energy generation (%) Focusing on demand management and expanding dispersed generation with renewable energy While advanced countries have struggled with sluggish economies, emerging countries have experienced an increase in population, The 2nd Basic Plan for National Energy, made in January 2014, focuses on the management of the demand and the expansion of diswhich induces larger demands in electricity, water, and food. Non-OCED countries, such as China and India, have started to lead the persed generation with renewable energy. By reforming the system for tax on energy and payment to induce reasonable electricity global economic growth, which signals the beginning of the movement of economic powers. 10.0 consumption, the prospected demand for electricity in 2035 is expected to be reduced by more than 15%. By 2035, dispersed generation systems will account for more than 15% of the total amount of generation, and the goal to supply 11% of renewable energy has Prospect for increasing rate 8.0 been proposed. Through these efforts, it is likely to expand self-generation at locations of dispersing power plants. Meanwhile, the in energy consumption by region (2035) Trends and prospects of global economic growth rates 6.0 proportion of nuclear power will be maintained at 22-29% of total electricity facilities by 2035. 10% Unit: % 3.0 8% 4.0 Domestic policies for coping with climate change and low-carbon energy 3.0 Emerging Major policy directions for coping with climate change include reducing greenhouse gas, expanding renewable energy generation, countries 6% and improving energy efficiency. To reduce greenhouse gas, the carbon emission trading system will be implemented in 2015, and 2.1 2.0 2.0 World the carbon tax on the amount of carbon in fuel is on the agenda for enactment. Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) has been imple4% average 14 16 18 20 22 1.6 1.6 mented from 2012 to expand renewable energy generation. As part of the policy to improve energy efficiency, the Energy Efficiency Advanced 2% Resource Standard (EERS) is expected to be implemented from 2015 to induce the reduction of energy consumption by end users. countries 0% 0.1 Overcoming the electricity supply shortage crisis and its prospect -2% Following the incident in 2012, electricity supply shortage crisis occurred in 2013 once again. Reasons for this crisis include various OECD China India Asia Middle Africa Central & -4% factors, such as electricity demand that exceeded expectations, delay in the planned construction of generators, increased number average East S.America 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 of breakdowns in generators, spike in electricity demand due to inexpensive electricity bills, expansion of businesses with high levels of electricity use, etc. We overcame the crisis in 2013 by carrying out various activities for demand management, including IEA World Energy Outlook 2013 the public campaign for saving energy. After the summer of 2014, the crisis for electricity supply is likely to be mitigated as the Shifting of power in the energy market capacity for supply is expanded. Power in the global energy market is swiftly moving from the Middle East to U.S. regions. U.S.A., Canada, and Brazil are emerging as major oil-producing countries. U.S.A. and Central and South America are major shale gas fields, while Canada is a major oil sand Carrying out construction of electricity facilities based on social consensus field. Due to this power shift in the energy market, major resource importers, including Korea, need a new approach to strategies As conflicts over rights to property and environment regarding the construction of transmission and transformation line facilities are for producing resources. surfacing, material and non-material expenses to solve social conflicts are skyrocketing. People are also expressing their concerns over the additional installment of facilities for processing nuclear waste. To enhance the supply of electricity facilities, KEPCO Shifting of the awareness in energy requires a transparent and fair process for facility construction based on trust with stakeholders and must approach the rights to Human beings are confronting climate change crisis and resource depletion. While the global economy is in the middle of limitaproperty and environment more deeply. tion of growth due to indiscreet consumption of resources, countries such as China, India, the Middle East, and Central and South America are showing a continuous increase in energy demands. Increasing demand for energy is directly connected to greenhouse gas emission, which leads to climate change. Although various movements for coping with climate change in the world are underChallenges for KEPCO way, greenhouse gas emissions are still on the increase and damage due to climate changes such as hurricanes and tsunamis have frequently occurred. Regulations on environment in various countries to prevent climate change have become strong threats as well KEPCO is preparing for the new challenge of realizing sustainable energy for all, by considering global energy trends and environas opportunities to the energy industry. mental changes in the electricity industry at home and abroad. Environment of the Global Power Industry New era of the power industry and new business model KEPCO is establishing business models to prepare for the era of big data and Smart Grid expansion, as well as structural changes in Expanding electricity demands led by emerging countries Expansion of Smart Grid the electricity industry. It is expected to have various effects such as creating a new industrial ecosystem and attracting new market With the global economic crisis and the EU financial crisis, many advanced countries have experienced economic downturn, and the participants by creating new services and jobs. electricity demand by the OECD has shown a slow increase, up only by 0.1%. On the other hand, emerging countries such as China, India, and the Middle East, have a rapidly increasing demand rate, up more than 1.6%. With the focus on emerging economies, it is Preparing for the era of energy storage expected to expand opportunities to enter broader energy markets. KEPCO will invest 650 billion won in developing and vitalizing energy storage systems (ESS) by 2017. With ESS, electricity can be charged at night with low demand for electricity at a cheaper cost, and discharged in the daytime; thus reducing the electricity peak Stepping towards energy efficiency EV-infrastructure Industrial and solving the problem of disturbance in the quality of renewable energy generation. Efficient energy consumption has been realized by drawing solutions for the energy crisis through improving efficiency in the energy type complex type consumption sector and saving energy with innovation in battery technologies. With the expansion of ICT-based demand manageTOC Advancement into the global growth movement Renewable Home-building ment, the era of the Negawatt is coming, which will substitute the establishment of new plants. energy type type KEPCO is carrying out overseas businesses in various sectors including thermal power, nuclear power, and renewable energy generation to overcome limitations on the growth of the domestic electricity market. Based on our extensive experience and knowhow, we Vitalization of policies coping with climate changes will speed our advance toward achieving 40,000 dollars in national income by making the electricity business a high value-added Global attention is growing in environmental regulations for coping with climate change. The EU is preparing measures to vitalize export business. the market and prevent prices for emission rights from plummeting. China has launched the markets for emission trading in seven regions, and the U.S. is operating a plan for coping with climate change. Policies for materializing low-carbon power composition Stakeholder communication and strengthening credibility will continuously appear, such as Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS), Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), Energy Efficiency Resource To construct electricity facilities based on social consensus, KEPCO is preparing to carry out measures to promote stakeholder Standard (EERS), and Carbon Tax. participation in all the stages, from setting up a plan to the actual construction. In addition to reasonable compensation in accordance with the law on compensation and support for the area near transmission and transformation of electricity facilities, which Adjustment of nuclear power plant ratio is prolonged will be implemented from July 2014, we will continuously strive to minimize environmental impact by reinforcing assessments of After the Japanese earthquake and accident at Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant in 2011, the controversy over the safety of nuclear environmental impacts and developing eco-friendly construction methods. power plants has been raised and major advanced countries have given up operating plants. The “Renaissance of Nuclear Power Plants” is on the verge of disappearing. The needs for ensuring the technological safety of nuclear power plants and economics in the overall cycle are increasing, and based on Western European countries, movements for scaling back or abolishing nuclear power plants are carried out. While nuclear power markets in the Middle East, Eastern Europe and South Africa are still actively operated, a new type of market is attracting attention, such as the improvement of decrepit power plants and decommissioning businesses. 18 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 19 Strategies Strategies for sustainable management In 2014, KEPCO redefined the vision for sustainable management, which refers to “Creative Energy Leader for Creating Sustainable Mid and long-term objectives for sustainable management for sustainable Future Values,” and established eight tasks for four main strategic directions. We have analyzed risks and opportunities by drawing core issues based on each task and elaborated the system for sustainable management by presenting core performances and short management and long-term goals. Considering the level of urgency, importance, and impact based on each strategic task for sustainable management in the future, we will make mid and long-term specific plans for sustainable management to create sustainable values with Strategy goal Task for strategy Performance index Goal for 2013 Performance in 2013 Achievement rate Goal for 2014 Mid and long-term objectives customers, local communities, and executives and employees. Year Objective Creating economic Stability in electricity Load rate (%) 75.8 77.1 102% 75 and over 2018 76 and over value supply and demand Reduction in peak time (10,000 kW) 375 606 162% 200 2020 680 and over Creating new growth Capacity for overseas generation facility (GW) 4.3 4.2 98% 4.6 2020 28 engines for the future Construction process rate of nuclear 27.9 27.3 98% 45.4 2020 100 power plants in the UAE (%) Overseas sales (trillion won) 2.9 3.1 107% 4.3 2020 16.6 Stabilizing Expanding Securing core strategic technology 19 19 100% 32 2020 103 -R  einforcing the management of electricity demand electricity Reinforcing integrated environment management system green (cases, total) I mproving energy consumption efficiency supply and Instilling eco-friendly values in supply chain management demand Personnel with capacity in overseas 1,383 1,383 100% 1,513 2020 10% and over business (people) among all employees Realizing Expanding Green Underground wire construction rate (%) 15.6 15.5 99% 15.7 2022 21 and over eco-friendly energy Managemnet T&D loss (%) 3.75 and below 3.73 101% 3.7 and below 2020 3.7 and below I nternalizing overseas busiEnvironment investment (100 million won) 39,000 38,037 98% 39,500 2020 45,000 Creating Realizing Establishing a system for nesses Creating new Coping with Coping with Greenhouse gas emission (CO2-1,000 tons) 2,211 1,439 154% 1,829 2020 1,590 economic eco-friendly carbon management -S  ecuring core strategic growth engines climate climate change CDP (rank) Entering into 3rd rank 100% 2nd rank 2020 1st rank value energy Reducing greenhouse gas technology for the future change one of the major in energy utility in energy utility in energy utility emission Fostering global experts five energy utilities CREATIVE Registering to the UN for CDM business 26 27 104% 28 2020 28 ENERGY LEADER (cases, total) FOR CREATING Strengthening Improving Customer satisfaction (score) 98.3 98.6 100% 98.7 2018 98 and over SUSTAINABLE FUTURE VALUES stakeholder customer value Time for power loss (min.) 11.88 11.53 103% 11.19 2020 8.1 partnerships Fulfilling our Volunteer hours per person (hr./person) 15.5 15.8 102% 16 2020 20 Creating quality jobs I nnovating customer-focused Securing responsibility for Number of volunteer efforts 11,000 11,043 100% 11,500 2020 13,000 Improving Creating a Developing the capability of services Strengthening future-oriented sharing and Support for eyesight recovery operation 100 107 107% 100 2021 1,004 in total customer people-oriented executives and employees I mproving electricity quality stakeholder human mutual growth (people) value work environEnsuring reasonable assesscontinuously partnerships resources ment ment and compensation Rate of purchasing products of SMEs (%) 68.5 69.0 101% 70 2018 70 and over Amount of exports for Overseas Busienss 4,369 6,285 144% 7,542 2018 9,050 (10,000$) Creating a Securing Hours spent in training and education 80 87.8 110% 90 2020 100 Fulfilling our people-oriented future-oriented (hr./person) -S  trengthening social contribution connected to core Creating Spreading the culture of safety and health responsibility for work environment human resources Rate of recruitment for female workers 20 28 140% 20 and over 2020 20 and over capabilities safe and happy Achieving compatibility between work and life sharing & mutual E xpanding mutual growth with SMEs workplaces Respecting diversity of executives and employees (%, employees with 4th position) growth Creating a safe and Accident rate (%) 0.026 0.025 104% 0.023 and below 2020 0.02 and below happy workplaces Employee Satiscation (score) 74.0 74.8 101% 74 and over 2020 76 and over INTERVIEW Son Dong-yeong, Chief of Korea SR Strategy Research Institute Board of Directors What do you think about the conditions for a introduced its management paradigm for CSV environment and stakeholder needs from the sustainable company? (Creating Shared Value). What do you think perspective of CSV, what do you think is the Organizations and tasks for sustainable management about the company’s efforts for social contribufundamental value that KEPCO should pursue Since 2005, KEPCO has operated an organization for CSM (Corporate Sustainability Management) to perform sustainability manA sustainable firm is not just a long-standing compation that creates social value? with CSV? CEO Set directions agement in a systematic way. The Planning Office manages overall tasks related to sustainable management, and the operational ny with financial soundness. A sustainable company organization is composed of 262 business places in 31 offices (departments) as of June 2014. In 2013, we held a workshop for has economic responsibility based on credibility, The ultimate objective of CSV in KEPCO is national The fundamental value from CSV does not come from staff working at major operational departments, and in 2014, we operated customized education programs and workshops for each practices environmental responsibility, demonstrates happiness, which is also the goal for realizing valuemaking a profit. Most people think that the developdepartment three times, reinforcing communication for sharing our directions for sustainable management. In July 2014, KEPCO the resilience to endure various crises such as climate creating social contribution. It can be considered as a ment and success of business models, compatible won the Best Award in the sustainability report sector in the Vision Awards by LACP (League of American Communications Profeschange, and fulfills social responsibilities. Financial combination of the original values of social contribuwith the objectives of CSV, are the ultimate result. As Corporate sionals) in the U.S. soundness does not guartion and economic values. Carrying out volunteering KEPCO has already pointed out, it is more important Planning Department Overall planning antee sustainability: a work is insufficient to persuade all of the company’s to develop an ecosystem for CSV. For example, it is Strategic company should fulfill its stakeholders. The introduction of CSV in KEPCO desirable to expand R&D by cooperating with SMEs Planning Team non-financial elements, has been carried out at the right time with the right and vitalizing industry-academy cooperation clusters. the so called ESG, which content. However, I hope that the ultimate result is Through achievement in these areas, business is composed of environnot a result-oriented paradigm whose only focus is on models can be vitalized and encouraged as well, and Headquarter ment, society, and governthe success or failure of CSV-type business models. this is what I consider the most realistic and practical departments & ance structure. The process itself is much more important. application of CSV. As you can see in the meaning of Implementation offices, District “shared value,” I hope that KEPCO focuses on these Divistions In April 2014, KEPCO In consideration of changes in management efforts with stakeholders. 20 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 21 Governance Structure Composition of the Board of Directors For a sustainable and independent decision-making of the Board of Directors (BOD), KEPCO appoints the majority of BOD members Received ESG A grade in 2013 Best company in 6 consecutive Assessment and Compensation The CEO signs a pact with the Minister of Trade, Industry, and Energy with respect to management objectives and key issues to from experts outside the company. The BOD consists of seven executive (standing) directors including the CEO and eight nonyears be achieved and addressed during his or her tenure. The progress made with regard to this pact is reviewed by the Performance executive (non-standing) directors. The BOD is chaired by a non-standing director in order to ensure a free and fair discussion about Comprehensive assessment for corAppraisal Board for Public Corporations, which is composed of experts from various fields. Executive directors sign a pact with the Performance by the Board of Directors overall business management. The external directors are those experts in the areas of economics, academics, and engineering who porate governance structure, society CEO and are evaluated for performance-based remuneration, while the reappointment of non-executive directors depends on the contribute to sustainability management by providing advice in business management. & environment (Korea Corporate result of assessment for performance. The directors’ remuneration is decided within the range approved at the BOD meeting, and 1st meeting (January 8) for 2013-2017 (tentative •Revised terms and version) Governance Service) non-standing directors receive expenses for their work. conditions for supply and • The 6th long-term plan for supplemented terms (tentatransmission and distribution Appointment and term in office of directors tive version) facility (tentative version) • Settlement of holding The appointment procedure and term in office are specified in the Act on the Operation of Public Organizations and the Articles of Vitalization of BOD 2nd meeting (January 17) companies for NorteⅡ Project Association. When appointing the CEO, KEPCO receives applications for the candidate. The CEO is recommended by the Nomination In order to invigorate the board operation and realize responsible management, KEPCO has established various systems, introducing • Planning for the establishin Mexico (tentative version) ment of ICT center in Naju Committee, consisting of non-standing directors and non-government members, requested by the Minister of Trade, Industry, and self-assessment system for operation performance of the BOD, publishing a monthly brief to strengthen distribution of management (tentative version) 9th meeting (July 18) • Investment of the expense • Revised Articles of AssoEnergy, and finally appointed by the President for a three-year term. With a two-year term, a standing director is appointed by the information, and holding workshops to develop the job capabilities of newly appointed non-executive directors. Based on this operain developing flaming coal ciation (tentative version) mines in Bylong, Australia in • Revised the regulations CEO after the resolution of the shareholders’ meeting. Among the standing directors, those who will also act as audit committee tional system for the BOD, the company has been appointed as the best public company in the assessment of corporate governance 2013 (tentative version) on employment (tentative members are recommended by the Nomination Committee, approved by the Steering Committee, requested by the Minister of Stratby the Korea Corporate Governance Service for six consecutive years. version) 3rd meeting (February 21) • Merged EFI with STM and egy and Finance, and appointed by the President. Non-executive directors also have a two-year term and are recommended by the Maximizing the non-executive directors’ • Provided sponsorship for investment in kind for EFI Nomination Committee, approved by the Steering Committee, requested by the Minister of Strategy and Finance, and appointed by competency AESIEAP (tentative version) new stocks (tentative version) • Set the limit on remu• [Other report] Measures for BOD operation in 2013 neration for directors in 2013 electricity supply and demand the President. To ensure diversity and representativeness of the BOD members, we are diversifying the scope of institutions recom(tentative version) in the summer season mending candidates for external directors by asking the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family to recommend candidates for female Reinforcing Monthly brief & daily mailBOD meetings 14 • Report for the result of annual audit in 2012 10th meeting (August 22) executives. The company reinforces the independence of the committee by excluding the participation of standing directors in the management ing services for providing • Contributed funding for information management information Preliminary deliberation rate 90.3% 4th meeting (March 14) Korea electrical Engineering Nomination Committee and includes and operates the detailed standards for candidates in the operation regulations of the commit• Consolidated and & Science Research Institute tee to ensure professionalism, which includes understanding of the electricity industry and extensive experience in management. Resolutions 56 cases separated the financial state(tentative version) ments and supplementary • Abolished the list of Workshop for Explaining & discussPortion of revised resolution 8.6% documents for the fiscal year shareholders for holding a of 2012 (tentative version) temporary shareholder meetOperation of BOD and prevention of conflict of interests newly appointed ing major tasks such as • Held the 52nd regular ing (tentative version) non-executive electricity transactions & BOD meeting participation 94.1% shareholder meeting (tenta• Reported the result of the The BOD deliberates and votes on important management issues such as management goals, financial management plan, budgets, directors rate systems tive version) first half year for 2013 Non-executive directors’ participation 93.8% • Report for the operation of and electricity tariff in accordance with the Articles of Incorporation and the BOD regulations. Tasks on sustainable management internal accounting manage11th meeting (September 26) are carried out by the Planning Team, and the director of the Planning Coordination Division is in charge of operating the tasks. The Portion of non-executive directors’ comments 80.1% ment system for 2012 • Mid and long-term manConstruction site of nuclear Supporting agement goals for 2014-2018 matters regarding economic, environmental, and social performance are separately reported to the BOD. Major issues regarding power plants in the UAE, 5th meeting (April 18) (tentative version) on-site • Sold remaining sites in • Reported the result of audit sustainable management, such as the current condition of the construction of the Miryang Transmission Lines, reinforcing measures thermal power plants in management Deokso Substation with by Audit Department for the Jordan & the Philippines Composition and operation of the Audit Committee 154kV (tentative version) second quarter to external for safety management, measures for electricity supply, and demand for summer season, are reported to the BOD by the directors of • Established and funded institutions holding companies to operate relevant teams or departments. Related risks are managed by supplementing insufficient elements. If necessary, the BOD invites exThe Audit Committee is charged with the oversight of business management and accounting. The Committee oversees and supports Nghi SonⅡ Project in Vietnam 12th meeting (November 6) perts or any concerned persons to listen to their opinions. A director who has special interest with a resolution is not allowed to vote the BOD to help management’s decision-making maximize corporate value with a system of checks and balances. The Committee (tentative version) • Organized the Nomination • [Other report] Current Committee and standards on the resolution under the BOD regulations. After closing the BOD, we communicate with our stakeholders by creating and posting is composed of and operated by three directors of the BOD: one standing member and two non-standing members, who are acissues and future plan for the for assessing candidates construction of transmission (tentative version) the minutes with the date and time, place, list of participants, resolutions, and vote results. The minutes are disclosed on the KEPCO companied by one accounting or financial expert. The Committee is chaired by a non-standing member to ensure a transparent and lines in Miryang • Closed the list of shareholders for holding a website, excluding confidential management issues. The executive directors may not carry out for-profit activities in accordance reasonable oversight system. In 2013, 11 audit meetings were held in which the committee voted on 13 resolutions including the 6th meeting (May 7) temporary shareholder meet• Abolished the list of ing (tentative version) with the article that prohibits the concurrent holding of more than one office under the Act on the Operation of Public Institutions. annual audit plan for 2013 and received 14 reports for consideration. The appropriateness and performance of the auditing activities shareholders for holding a • Revised the provisions on of standing auditors are evaluated by the Performance Appraisal Board of Public Enterprises. temporary shareholder meetsupply and supplemented ing (tentative version) supply in accordance with • Held the 53rd regular modified electricity bill shareholder meeting (tenta(tentative version) tive version) 13th meeting (November 28) 7th meeting (May 16) • Office reorganization • Contributed to funding of (tentative version) Preliminary deliberation rate Portion of non-executive directors’ comments KEPCO Medical Center • Held the 53rd temporary • Revised the regulations shareholder meeting (tentaComposition Activity Evaluation (One conducted every half-year) on management of salary tive version) BOD Receive resolution Pre-deliberation rate and welfare • Revised the regulations on • Established and funded management of salary and meeting BOD participation rate 90.3% 80.1% overseas corporate body welfare (tentative version) Pre-deliberation Evaluation Portion of remarks to operate the Fujeij Wind D-7 item Executive meeting Notification of Performance of proposals for Power Project in Jordan 14th meeting (December management Non-standing direcmeeting 75.4% (tentative version) 26) Performance of advice on 60.8% 75.2% • Reported the result of • Plans for research and tors’ meeting 58.8% the audit by the Audit Departdevelopment business in Management meeting management ment for the first quarter to 2014 (tentative version) Explanation external institutions • Plans for budget, operaAnalyzing sectors with poor D tion, and loan for external Audit Nomination Expert Feedback performance & establishing Deliberation 8th meeting (June 20) funds in 2014 (tentative Committee Committee Committee & Rolling & implementing complemen• Mid and long-term finanversion) tary measures cial management plan 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Executive directors (Standing members) Executive directors (Non-standing members) As of August 2014 CEO Controller & Audit Executive Vice Executive Vice Chief of Planning Chief of New Growth Chief of Power Grid Economics (Trade) Advanced Technology Research (CommuniPublic sector (Labor) Accounting (Audit) Law (Audit) Energy (Resources) Energy (SuperconCho Hwan-ik General President of Domestic President of Overseas Coordination Division Engine Division Division Jeong Hae-ju (New material) cations) Lee Gang-hee Jo Jeon-hyeok Choi Gyo-il Choi Gi-ryeon ductivity) An Hong-ryeol Operations Operations Paek Seung-jung Kim Byeong-suk Gu Bon-wu Kim Jung-hyun Lim Ju-hwan Seong Tae-hyeon Former Vice Minister Park Gyu-ho Park Jeong-geun Chief of the BOD Chief of Incheon Professor of Lawyer at the law Professor emeritus of the Ministry of Former prosecutor Former Executive Former Chief of Former Chief of MarChairman of Korea Professor of Chemical Visiting professor at branch of Economics at College firm of Energy at Ajou Professor of Electrical Trade, Industry, and of Busan & Daejeon Former Chief of Former Chief of Vice President of Power Technology & keting & Operation Testing & Research Engineering at Yonsei Korea University Korean Contribution of Liberal Arts at University Engineering Energy District Public Planning Coordination Overseas Business Management Support Engineering Division Division Institute University Association Myongji University at Hanyang University Prosecutor´s Office Division Strategy Division Division 22 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 23 Risk Management of crisis. In April 2013, in the middle of a spike in exchange rate and sudden halt of nuclear power plants, the company issued the first stage of the contingency plan, reduced the gap • Management Risk: Deteriorating annual profit performance (Corporate Planning Department) the Disaster Management Team. With the sinking incident of the Sewel Ferry, the company implemented the comprehensive measures for disaster safety management in electricity in cost of capital between KEPCO and its generation subsidiaries, and increased the level of • Disaster: Insufficient electricity supply caused by a spike in demand (Demand Management facilities to strengthen disaster crisis management and strived to operate disaster managethe goal in the budget cut. In June 2013, with the suspension of three units of nuclear power & Optimization Department), disruption in electricity supply due to disaster or catastrophe ment by overhauling disaster response manuals to fit actual emergencies in 268 business plants, we issued the second stage of the contingency plan, carried out the rationalization (Emergency & Security Department), disruption in electricity supply caused by breakdown in offices in the country. Crisis Management System of policies, in which parties accused of causing the halt of nuclear power plant are held electricity grid (Transmission & Substation Operation Department), disruption in electricity KEPCO designates and manages relevant departments in four major sectors (management responsible for compensating all losses, moderated the settlement adjustment coefficient, supply caused by cyber terror attack (Emergency & Security Department) Conflict risk, disaster, promotion, conflict) with nine risk types to prevent crises that may threaten and raised the budget cut goals again. As the suspension of the operation of nuclear power • Public Relation: Denial of Promotion for crisis in the electricity sector, damaging the comConflicts deal with complaints about the construction of transmission lines and substations company management in advance. These departments strengthen responsibility for dealing plants was prolonged, we issued the third stage of the contingency plan in October. The company’s image due to bribery cases on a massive scale involving executives and employees and crisis management with regard to labor and management conflicts. Business branches with crisis by enacting and managing a crisis management manual and enhance efficiency in pany expanded the Special Committee for Improving Finance into the Emergency Planning (Corporate Communications Office) with complaints about the construction of transmission lines and substations hold meetings crisis management by conducting a regular efficiency assessment for a more effective crisis Committee for Improving Finance, carried out measures for increasing electricity bills, selling • Conflict: Conflicts regarding the construction of transmission and substation facilities (Transfor assessing crises with the head of the business branch as chief, and issue warnings for management. Normally, the crisis management organization is composed of Chief Risk Ofassets and returning wages by executives and employees, and further increased budget cut mission & Substation Construction Department), disruption in electricity supply due to social each level of crisis— attention, caution, alert, and serious. In case of crisis levels above cauficer (CRO), general department, office in charge of managing the crisis, and relevant departgoals. Thanks to these self-recovering efforts, we overcame the management crisis, and as elements (Corporate Communications Office) tion, the crisis management team with the chief of business branches is made operational. ment. The chief of the management headquarters plays the role of the executive for crisis of late 2013, we realized the shift into a surplus trend for the first time in six years. To deal with complaints more effectively, conflict management teams were launched in the management. The general department takes the role of managing the emergency safety Meanwhile, from 2005, KEPCO has performed internal control processes suitable for the Sarconstruction agency for transmission lines and substations in the headquarters and every office, which manages overall tasks for crisis management. The office in charge of managbans-Oxley Law, the U.S., and the Law on External Audit for Corporations in Korea to ensure construction business branch as permanent organizations in 2013. The construction project ing the crisis deals with tasks for ten types of risks. Relevant departments support other fiscal transparency and minimize financial risks. We report the current status of operation demand crisis by creating a joint emergency-response system with relevant institutions in for Sinjungbu substation was selected as the best case for conflict management by the Mindepartments by carrying out general affairs and promotion. In a crisis, the organization forms of the internal fiscal management system to the BOD and Audit Committee every business 2013, we are continuously reinforcing our capability to deal with emergency cases. The comistry of Trade, Industry, and Energy. In case of a strike, the team for dealing with the situation a crisis management committee with the CEO as the chief, while a crisis management headyear, and submit the report to the domestic stock exchange market and Financial Services pany established summer and winter seasons with a high level of electricity consumption with the head of management headquarters as the chief issues warnings for each level of quarters at the head office and each business branch are formed with the vice president as Commission. The company is being recognized for its credibility in financial information by as the special period for electricity supply and demand, while striving to achieve a zero level the situation with a shortfall of employees, including attention, caution, alert, and serious, the chief. The level of crisis is divided into four stages, including attention, caution, alert, and submitting the result of the internal control certificate (Attention) by the management and of emergency by carrying out mock exercises for electricity crises. To prepare for heavy rain and the emergency headquarters with all the management manages overall measures. serious. At the attention level, signs of crisis are detected. At the caution level, a cooperative external auditors to foreign countries (U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission). We will and typhoons, we completely checked and reinforced vulnerable facilities at flooded areas, system is formed with the focus on offices in charge of managing the crisis. At the alert level, also carry out the advance of internal control process by completing the establishment of the streams, and steep slopes by dispatching 11,720 employees from business branches in the Promotion measures are established. At the serious level, the headquarters for crisis management are internal control system, meeting the requirements of the U.S. COSO Framework, which was country. While investing 1 trillion and 500 billion won in reinforcing facilities every year to Media response to an electricity supply and demand crisis, and the damage to the company’s made operational. overhauled in 2013, by August 2014. prevent breakdown in electricity facilities, the company is carrying out special safety inspecreputation due to massive corruption incidents by executives and employees are the two mations for stable electricity supply, not only during regular facility checks and the thawing jor crisis management categories defined by KEPCO. When warnings for crisis are issued, the Management risk Disaster season but also at national events. We perform company-wide disaster management drills promotion team, which is composed of the head of promotion department as chief and groups Management risk is defined as deteriorated sales performance and increased debt ratio, and Types of disasters can be classified into a lack of electricity supply due to a spike in demand, to enhance our responses to actual disasters; maintaining the emergency recovery system for broadcast, newspaper, and new media, is organized under the headquarters and performs KEPCO carries out risk management by focusing on the Committee for Dealing with Financial disasters and catastrophes, breakdown in electricity grid, and disruption in electricity supply by carrying out mock exercises for recovering from breakdowns every quarter. For our efforts, missions which are divided for each level of crisis, including attention, caution, alert, and seRisks (Chief: the Head of Planning Team). With the system of prospecting profit and loss, we caused by cyber terror attack. KEPCO always secures materials and equipment for retrieving we were recognized as having the best level at the assessment for disaster management by rious. When an electricity supply and demand crisis happened in 2013 due to a sudden halt of analyze the sensitivity of major variables, including electricity supply and demand, fuel cost, the situation quickly, while operating a real-time situation management system and manuthe government in 2013. We reinforced information security for electricity control facilities nuclear power plants, 20,000 people participated in the movement to promote energy-saving and exchange rate, to our profit and loss. We also operate contingency plans for each stage als for dealing with disasters. After overcoming an unprecedented electricity supply and to prevent cyber terrorism and achieved the best level—a first for a public institution—in efforts by SNS, and the company overcame the crisis by carrying out the promotion for saving the assessment for information security management by the National Intelligence Service electricity, such as broadcasting 130,000 cases of information and 3,700 on-street notices. In by separating networks for jobs and the Internet and totally blocking personal information response to the corruption problem by executives and employees, we operate a manual for leaks. In 2014, we reinforced capabilities and disaster management organizations by formresponding to the case based on the result and status of investigation by dividing the stages Composition of Emergency Response Organization in case of a company-wide crisis ing the emergency planning committee hosted by the domestic vice president and launching of response into four levels, including attention, caution, alert, and serious. Crisis Management Committee System for spreading crisis for electricity supply and demand with the public Head of the Committee: CEO Members: Executives for crisis KEPCO management, executives in charge of managing relevant departments Administrator: Chief of the general department Visiting Operating secondary & calling power for respirators Relevant organizations Spread Crisis Response Headquarters Report Responsible institutions Promotion Team Registering the information Information system Cooperative companies, etc. Business Customers with respirators Cooperation Committee Head: Vice president Cooperation Relevant institutions (Ministry for Emergency on rolling blackouts for customers in blackout Members: Executives in charge of of National Defense, Naoffice managing relevant departments tional Emergency Management Administrator: Chief of the departAgency, Korea Meteorological ment in charge of management Administration, etc.) Preparing for power cut of traffic lights Pre-notification of National Emergency Mansituations Police station agement Agency (NEMA) Situation Management Team Emergency Recovery Team Public Relations Team Administration Support Team External Cooperation Team Department Head Department Head Department Head Department Head Department Head Pre-announcement to the Disadvantaged Standard Local governments connection module Crisis Response Headquarters for each business branch Preparation for black-out Business branch Business branch Business branch Business branch Servers for announcing situations Mobile system for the people (Disaster notification device) 24 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 25 Ethical Management Strategies for ethical management In May 2012, KEPCO shared the best practices for anti-corruption by signing the Joint Agreement for Integrity and Ethics among Electricity Groups with ten subsidiaries such as Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power and strived to expand ethical management practices by jointly holding a festival for realizing integrity and ethical management. We have put in great efforts in establishing an anti-corruption culture in the electricity industry by holding annual meetings for ethical management with the Korea Electrical Contractors Global Top Green & Smart Energy Pioneer 2020 Vision Association and signing an agreement with cooperative firms. In July 2013, we strengthened our efforts to prevent bidding collusion which can lead to social costs (poor quality and social irregularities) by establishing and operating a system for capturing bidding collusion, a first among public companies. Vision for ethical Realizing a trusted and respected KEPCO with integrity management (KEPCO employees symbolized by clean light) Granting items and Catching signs of collusion Bidding Extracting items of interest Response for each level level of warning and follow-up measures Ranked no. 1 in the assessment of public institutions for integrity Goals for 2013 Maintaining the top as the best company in the assessment for competitiveness in antiExtracting bidding data Quantification of collusion Assessing a pattern for -G  ood: Asking Fair Trade Good (four cases): Lawsuits corruption index tender Commission Republic of Kofor Fair Trade Commission Analyzing the latest three Analyzing the latest bids rea to investigate the case Republic of Korea Settling an ethical biddings (eight indexes for three years (seven Fair: Intensive monitoring Fair and Poor (33 cases): Elaboration of Reinforcing the Establishing Four mid and longculture with the including successful bidindexes including bidding Poor: Observation with Intensive management ethical manageefforts for controlstrict corporate term strategies best global ding rate) as a supporter) caution ment system ling corruption discipline standard Assessment for integrity by Anti-corruption & Civil Rights Commission of Korea , assessment for In March 2014, we enacted ten major regulations on ethical conduct for KEPCO executives and employees and provided code of Exchange competitiveness in anti-corruption, diagnosis for ethical level in the government management activities conduct and standards for decisions on ethical issues which all the employees confront frequently. assessment (once a year), self-survey for integrity (once a quarter) Activity for promoting integrity culture Leaders for ethical practice (295 KEPCO spreads our transparent corporate culture by operating various ethical education programs for integrity. In 2013, a total of Organizations Integrity TF & Voluntary CEO/management employees) 56 integrity training programs were provided to 3,620 students of the KEPCO Academy, including those newly employed, and 9,497 in charge of self-audit participation by leadership Staff in charge of operation engines organization employees employees took cyber integrity courses. 98 leaders for anti-corruption were nurtured in the integrity leadership courses, and we Code of Conduct (295 employees) performed direct education by visiting 10,913 employees at business sites in the country. The company prepared a forum to share and exchanges ideas on integrity culture with electricity groups, cooperative firms, and relevant institutions by holding a festival for Result of the assessment for anti-corruption integrity and ethical management competitiveness in 2013 In order to become an ethical company that is respected and trusted by the people, KEPCO has formed a preventive ethical manageTen major regulations on ethical ment environment by expanding our culture of integrity and strengthened corruption control activities. For this goal, we are seeking conduct for employees of KEPCO Performances of ethical education by employees Below the average efficiency in establishing and implementing our anti-corruption policy by the TF for integrity with the CEO and management. We are (14 institutions) also encouraging all employees to voluntarily participate in ethical management, including leaders and staff members in charge of Course Trainees (Unit: Person) the code of ethics in each business office. Thanks to these efforts for ethical management, KEPCO has maintained a high level of Team leader Employee Total Best company for three integrity from 2007. The company was appointed as the Best Public Institution in the assessment for anti-corruption competitiveness consecutive years (4 KEPCO Academy integrity training 981 2,639 3,620 by the Anti-corruption & Civil Rights Commission of Korea for eight consecutive years and achieved the top ranking among a total institutions) Cyber integrity training 2,267 7,230 9,497 Railroad, water resource, of 653 institutions for internal integrity. land and housing, road Integrity leadership course 19 79 98 construction Comprehensive performances ※ As for internal integrity, KEPCO is the top among 653 public institutions in total Lecture by distinguished guests for integrity 449 267 716 Category Assessment index 2011 2012 2013 Appointed as the Best Other inspection organizations’ training 2,999 7,914 10,913 Public Institution for Anti-corruption & Comprehensive Integrity level Exemption of assessment 8.73 8.50 Total of trainees 6,715 18,129 24,844 eight consecutive years Civil Rights Commission External Integrity level (Appointed as the 9.33 8.98 (3rd rank among (only case as a public of Korea Internal Integrity level best institution) public enterprises Number of current employees 4,778 14,902 19,680 institution) 8.49 9.26 (1st rank among Completion rate 141% 122% 126% public enterprises Assessment for anti-corruption by Anti-corruption Best institution Best institution Best institution & Civil Rights Commission of Korea We operate customized ethical education programs for each stakeholder, such as high-ranking executives and general employees. t Self-survey for Integirty 9.81 9.83 9.87 uc t C nd nd fo ode Co s a es rs o Customized ethical education programs of tive oye up f C de cu pl pl on Co exe em ie du rs c Expansion of ethical management system r Life cycle-based ethical pledge Applicants for employment (819), Candidates for promotion (2,117), fo KEPCO established the Code of Conduct for Suppliers which incorporates the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, OECD Autonomous registration of property Pledge for ethical conduct by all employees company guidelines and ILO labor and environment guidelines in July 2012 for the first time as a public organization. We ensured by high-rank executives Business branches with 2nd rank and above (450 employees, 32.3% compared to the last year) practicality and implementation of the code of ethics by integrating with the electronic bidding system, including this in the requireEducation for business branches with Launch of four courses including communication camp ments of tender participation, and a special condition for contract. TCT changes and innovation (4,263 employees with 3rd rank and above took courses) Business Employees of business branches in the country (10,910 employees, partner Detailed guideline (12 factors) 56% compared to the last year) Integrity Festival (September 2013), Integrity plays, quiz contest for ethical issues (100 employees from electricity group companies, Ethical standard Social standard Environmental standard Publishing a clean newsletter association and integrity partners) No bribery Compliance with tax and Compliance with envi(on a monthly basis) Spreading cases for ethics and integrity to 12,456 cooperative firms and employees -N o collusion and illegal labor regulations ronmental and safety (four times a year) subcontracting Providing legal labor regulations No solicitation No child labor Distribution of eco-friendly Consultation center for ethical issues, Consultation and discussion on ethical dilemma (Opinions from 1,993 employees were collected -M andatory ethical training No discrimination based on technology discussion forum, quiz with puzzle for and they participated in the discussion) of employees race or gender Safe work environment Respect for the environment integrity, self-diagnosis Five sectors including puzzle for ethical issues and self-diagnosis for anti-corruption (781 employees a day on average, 285,000 employees a year) 26 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 27 Ethical management Strict measures for corruption We share information and inspection methods among KEPCO, generators, and group companies by establishing the Joint Inspection System to prevent corruption. Through this system, we have uncovered a total of 56 cases such as unfair subcontracting practices. We strive to solve problems in inspection and enhance the efficient in joint inspection. Current condition of punishments caused by unethical practices Joint Inspection System with electricity group companies Category 2011 2012 2013 Before improvement (20-year basis – 2012) Improvement (2013) Corruption 14 21 7 Independent inspection (one-track) Joint inspection (two-tracks) incidents cases cases cases Creating loopholes in inspection due to division of labor and Preventing loopholes in inspection and enhancing the efficiency Punishment 22 45 10 independent inspection by sharing inspection methods and information employees employees employees • 1st inspection (June – August 2013): Inspection of 108 business offices → Operation of first cooperative inspection system (uncovering 15 cases such as illegal subcontracts for construction) • 2nd inspection (December 2013 – January 2014) Inspection of 193 business offices → Joint inspection for overall tasks of group companies (uncovering 41 cases such as loose discipline) KEPCO adopted a one-strike out system for those employees who received money and entertainment and a three-strike out system for those who committed embezzlement, negligence, or misappropriation. In 2014, we revised the Code of Conduct for Executives and Employees to post personal information about those punished due to their unethical practices on the company’s intranet site. To Part 2 reinforce the information collection of corrupt behavior, we operate a reporting system, Sinmungo, under which KEPCO employees, the general public, and the employees of KEPCO partner companies can report any corruption cases under their name or anonymously. We also introduced the Anonymous Reporting System, which is operated by a professional institution, to dispel the concerns Specific Standard Disclosures over disclosing personal information of those who report cases and encourage vigorous internal report activities. Online report (Under real Convey report cases names & anonymously) (Excluding personal information) Person reporting the case Announce results Professional consignment institution Input processed results Audit Department approach to By operating the Sinmungo system, our anonymous reporting system for unfair practices and postcards, we identified a total of seven corruption cases in 2013. After a close inspection, we took strict measures such as dismissal of ten employees who demonstrated 7 themes unethical behavior. Establishment and operation of complaint filing system KEPCO integrated complaint receiving channels, such as the Internet, external organization, and calls, into “Sinmungo” to systematically handle complaints, their handling processes, and results. In principle, those who file a complaint can get a response within seven business days, and the result of the handling is open to the customer. The company continuously strives to minimize customer complaints by analyzing types of complaints and improving our systems. The KEPCO Ombudsman composed of independent people conducts a quarterly review on complaints and their handling for transparent and sensible operation of our complaint handling system. The Sinmungo system received 3,230 complaints in 2013, and 98.8% of the received cases were handled within seven business days. These results are open to those who raised the complaint, and system improvement for areas with frequent complaints is continuously being carried out. Processed complaints Category 2011 2012 2013 Cases 2,699 2,653 3,230 1 Realizing Customer Value Rate of dealing with complaints at the right time 2 Stabilizing Electricity Supply and Demand Category 2011 2012 2013 3 Creating New Growth Engines for the Future Rate for handling cases at the right time 98.4% 98.8% 98.4% 4 Realizing Eco-friendly Energy 5 Coping with Climate Change 6 Creating a People-oriented Work Environment 7 Fulfilling the Responsibility for Sharing and Mutual Growth 28 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 29 DMA Realizing Customer Value PERFORMANCE Customer satisfaction BACKGROUND ISSUES As the IT service environment has advanced, customer 98.6 Best level in customer needs and their expectations have also become diversified satisfaction as public company for fifteen consecutive years and sophisticated. We not only need to provide electric energy, Goal for 2014 : a necessity for daily life, but also create new energy solutions 98.7 that meet customer needs and enhance their quality of life. Facility Facility Changes in the market environment for electricity sales, operation operation 11.53min 3.73% which were caused by the expansion of the Smart Grid, are expected to open the era of electricity service innovation focusing on customer values. That’s why KEPCO, which owns advanced sales systems, knowhow, and CS capability, needs to Power outage time T&D loss rate consider greater values for customers and seek strategies for providing comprehensive services to customers. Goal for 2014 : Goal for 2014 : 11.19 min 3.7% &below Facility construction QUANTITATIVE 100% GOAL PROGRESS Customer satisfaction (2018): Score of 98 and over Completion rate of transmission lines and substation Power cut hours (2020): Strategy construction projects 8.1 minutes and below • Customer-focused improvement of system & its operation Goal for 2014 : 99% • Innovation and advancement of IT-based services Capability QUALITATIVE • Advanced sales system GOAL • High-quality CS capability KEPCO will accelerate service Activity innovation based on customer value. • Innovation of electricity service by communicating In addition to achieving our original with 90 college student supporters mission of providing high quality & • Fostering on-site CS leaders and conducting stable electricity, we will offer you campaigns for customers in the year comprehensive energy service, which helps ensure a happy and Assessment enriched life. Our efforts to realize • Achieving the best level in customer satisfaction improvements and pleasant assessment for public companies by the government changes will continue with the aim for 15 consecutive years of enhancing customer value. • 1st rank in the survey for customer satisfaction in the public sector by Korea Productivity Center Plan • Standardization of work process for customers • Setting up service targets for each stage and situation and establishing a monitoring system 30 KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 31 Energy solution Customer-focused service After creating the foundation for creating value by providing 21,018,000 households in Korea with a total of 474,849GWh electricity SPECIAL FEATURE Best Three proposals of the contest for the public in 2013, KEPCO is continuously improving the sales system to meet various customer needs. In November 2013, we expanded not only the target of paying deposit under the names of tenants from 5kW in the current contract electricity to 20kW to minimize the economic burden of small individual business operators at the initial stage of business, but also the minimum electricity supply How can service be improved to meet customer during the winter season from 220W to 660W (300kWh in monthly use) for households not paying their electricity bills with poor needs? KEPCO has found an answer, and the answer Payment date will be chosen by Adopting call-back service and text Best customers themselves ▶ Implement Best energy condition to help them to get through winters, warmly. As the need for support of child nurturing facilities are increasing was actually quite simple: ask customers directly. consultation system for enhancing with the expanded social participation by women, we changed the type of contract of these facilities from the education type to 2 in June 3 customer convenience ▶ ImpleIn March 2014, KEPCO held a contest for measures to (Current condition) As payment date is ment in November general type and reduced the burden of electricity bills by applying a welfare discount. In April 2013, we support special inspection designated based on the day on which (Current condition) Lack of service and additional for electricity facilities in massive entertainment facilities such as sports stadiums, amusement parks, and water resorts, whose improve services and systems in the electricity sector the electric meter is read, the rights service channels other than telephone service for electricity facilities are owned and managed by customers, to minimize public inconvenience. The company also launched a charging and received various proposals from customers. This of selection are limited. (In case of customers who fail to make a call to service represystem by using smartphone applications to enhance customer convenience; 9.03 million household customers now use our IT-based contest for suggestions has a total of three sectors, non-payment, late fee, which is 2% of sentatives (Improvement) Adopting call-back service billing service. including “removing even the slightest problems,” a total cost, is imposed) and text consultation system for enhancing customer In March 2014, KEPCO held a contest for electricity service improvement to provide customers value-oriented service, not focusing “Normalization of abnormal factors,” and “Realizing a (Improvement) Expanding the scope of selection convenience on suppliers, and currently operates online public communication panels. We will continuously develop public-focused CS tasks by warm KEPCO,” and the content included the current in payment date for customers applying electronic strengthening communication with customers and civic groups. transfer and IT-based bill simultaneously / (Current When encountering difficulty payment date) Payment date + 5 days ▶ (Improvement) in calling, it becomes posIssuing selection-typed bill Best Basic payment rate ± 10 days sible to make a reservation including only major content in Changes to methods for charging by utilizing 1 consideration of customers’ ages ▶ for service from the calling services by using the “callService Power Service Charter IT from 2011 to 2013 Implement in October back” server. representative systems, problems, measures for improvement, and (Current condition) Seniors of age of 65 and above, Unit: household expectations. Among a total of 1,473 applied cases, We are the driving force of the national industry. We will who account for 31% (about 5.75 million people) of a 15 cases were selected as good proposals, and KEPCO abide by the following in order to reliably provide electricity total of the entire electricity consumers, experience in43.1% convenience in utilizing bills due to presbyopia has actually applied these proposals in improving and quality service to satisfy our customers. Provides customer service 40.0% 9,030,000 systems. The following are the best three proposals (Improvement) Content of bills will be when customers make a call 8,160,000 drawn by empathizing with the public and plans for We will provide stable and high quality electricsimplified, and fonts of major content at the time they want. ity to ensure customer convenience in using such as price and payment date will be application of public proposals. We will continuously electricity. adjusted. work to realize electricity service that creates sincere Customer 21.7% customer value by communicating with the people. We will maintain an affordable and stable 4,380,000 electricity tariff based on the cost method. We will think and act from the perspective of customers and handle their requests with promptness, precision, and kindness. 2011 2012 2013 The value of 1kWh INTERVIEW Nam Sang-bin (customer) From waking in the morning to retiring to bed, electric1kWh, which is intangible and invisible. 1kWh refers Proposal for improving the public service system in the electricity service, issuity is always required. Without electricity, we cannot to the amount of electricity in which 1kW of electricity ing customer age-based selection-type bills, was chosen as the best proposal use smartphones, which are always in our hands. Subis consumed for an hour. With the value of electricity, ways, which transport us in our daily life, and lighting, which makes customer value more precious, KEPCO which broadens the scope of living in the day and at will always work together with customers to ensure We appreciate your unceasing support and care next decade. night, would also not be possible. Although it is a nesmarter and more pleasant energy solutions and serfor KEPCO and our service. Please briefly explain cessity in our lives, it is not easy to change the value vices. your proposal for improving electricity service What do you think about the KEPCO contest for of electricity. The following is the value of electricity in and how you came up with the idea. collecting public suggestions for electricity service in 2014, which was held thanks to the comFirst of all, I really thank you for visiting such a remote pany’s efforts to provide electricity service that village to meet me and giving me this surprising prize. meets customer needs? Finally, what do you think is the most important When I was young, I didn’t have any problem seeing thing for KEPCO to realize electricity supply sertiny print, but as I got older, I couldn’t read the print As sharing various perspectives gives the opportuvice that meets customer needs? 1kWh: on an electricity bill without wearing reading glasses. nity to broaden experiences, it was impressive to Amount of electricity On electricity bills, the text is so tiny and densely see KEPCO’s efforts to show its sincerity in providing Of course, providing high quality electricity in a stable using 1kW of printed that seniors like me cannot accurately read customized and effective services by directly asking all manner is important, but customers can be more sensithe content. Since the recent news have reported that customers what kinds of services they want. In fact, I tive to the level of electricity bills. Therefore, it is imelectricity for an hour Korea is becoming a super-aged society, the majority didn’t expect that the suggestion from an old man livportant for KEPCO to achieve sincerity and credibility Amount of electricity 1kWh 1kWh of customers for KEPCO will be elderly people of the ing in such a remote village could be selected. When from customers by having a reasonable and convincing which is used for charging = 860Kcal (kinetic energy) = 3,600KJ age of 65 and above, only ten years from now. That’s I received the call, I was really astonished. I hope system for services regarding electricity bills and striv100 smartphones for an hour = Amount at the level of = Energy which can draw a compact why I came up with the idea for KEPCO to send electhat KEPCO will continuously strive to meet customer ing to ensure trust from customers. (10W * 100 smartphones * 1 hour) consumption in which an adult man car to the top of Eiffel Tower tricity bills in a simplified version to prepare for the needs from various views. runs for more than 90 minutes 32 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 33 Improving electricity Providing high quality electricity KEPCO’s SAIDI stood at 11.53 minutes in 2013, a 4.5% year-on-year decrease which was achieved by diagnosing distribution lines In the near future, KEPCO will strive to prevent complaints, save investments, and induce the introduction of generation plants to sites where the construction of long-distance high-voltage transmission lines is minimized by proposing information on the possibilquality with high-tech IT equipment, such as thermographic and ultrasound cameras, preventing power cut by free repairing electricity facilities for major customers, and providing technical support. KEPCO plans to decrease its SAIDI to around 7 minutes by 2020 by ity of location in consideration of the conditions for the electricity grid. We will introduce the package of generation and transmission, establishing plans for the construction of plants and transmission lines simultaneously, by improving the existing process for bolstering the power quality management capacity, for example, working to prevent a blackout initiated by high-voltage customers, drafting construction plans after selecting sites, as well as reinforce the consistency in construction plans. strengthening the support for customer facilities, and enhancing the expertise of personnel in charge of T&D facility diagnosis. KEPCO recorded 3.73% in 2013 and enhanced the efficiency of facilities in terms of providing energy by carrying out continuous Expanding electricity facilities at the right time efforts in reducing electricity loss, such as, equilibrium operation of distribution lines, using low-loss devices, overcoming overload In 2013, KEPCO expanded facilities at the right time by carrying out a total of 45 projects for transmission, 47 for substations, transformers, and allowing the use of cut-out switches for agricultural transformers during suspended periods of electricity use. and 114 for distribution. In selecting sites, we are striving to minimize conflicts in the construction of facilities by establishing the As elements in the T&D loss rate are increasing every year due to a spike in electricity demands and electricity facilities, we will construction process with stakeholders to protect their rights to the environment, property, and health and realizing people-oriented continuously minimize T&D loss by applying a new system for optimizing the electricity grid, expanding low-loss equipment, and business through communication with stakeholders. We reduced construction cost and improved the efficiency of facilities by inreplacing aged electricity facilities at the right time. novating technologies such as establishing underground power transmission cables and new methods for connection, while building digital substations and Smart Grid Stations, which combined electricity with IT, to realize a smart transmission and distribution grid. Considering various changes such as the expansion of renewable energy production, including wind power plants in Southwest Power outage per household and T&D loss rate trend Sea, increasing electricity demands, and electricity grids that are growing in complexity, the company will continuously enhance the Category 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 efficiency of the electricity grid by applying new eco-friendly technologies such as High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) and Energy Storage System (ESS). SAIDI (min.) 15.59 15.15 12.40 12.07 11.53 T&D loss rate (%) 4.07 3.99 3.69 3.57 3.73 Current status for transmission and distribution facility in 2013 Transmission line Substation Distribution line 32,249c-km 790 448,610c-km 765/345kV: 9,840c-km Amount of substations 280,000 MVA Supports: 8.67 million ~154kV: 22,409c-km Transformers: 2.05 million Plans for optimizing electricity grid Rate of underground wire construction: 11% Rate of unmanned operation: 83% Rate of underground wire construction: 15% KEPCO is establishing the best plan for the electricity grid to prepare for an increase in electricity demand and provide consumers (Unmanned substations: 657) with high quality electricity in a stable manner. In 2013, we made the 6th long-term plan for transmission and distribution facilities and suggested the plan for supplementing 363,773MVA electricity facility substations, which increased by 1.34 times compared to 2012, 39,830c-km for transmission lines, which increased by 1.26 times. The 6th long-term plan for transmission and distribution facilities complies with the government standards regarding the expansion of the electricity grid and includes plants for supplementing electricity facilities at the right time, connecting 12 new plant units Examining facilities with the electricity grid and improving credibility for electricity grid by preventing voltage and current breakdown. We saved about 450 billion won and strengthened social acceptance for electricity facilities by establishing the plan for applying High Voltage Direct SPECIAL FEATURE What are the common characteristics among water, air, and electricity? Current (HVDC). We also implemented the reassessment for the suitability of businesses, replaced 108 circuit breakers in a timely manner, established seventeen new branches and replaced electricity compensation devices for ten branches, applied Thyristor Controlled Series Capacitor (TCSC), and improved plans for the electricity grid. Through these efforts, the company saved about 190 billion won and improved the capacity for maintaining the appropriate amount of electricity voltage and transporting electricity by 10%. We easily ignore the value of water and air because Probably not. While people living in an urban city can Even a few years ago, electricity was not provided to everyone can use them freely. This can also apply to use electricity 24 hours a day without any difficulty, Duitgol Village in Inje, Gangwon-do. When electricelectricity, which lights the world. When you wake up people living in a remote region or backwoods conity began to light this area with only five households, in the morning, you drink a cup of coffee by using an sider electricity as a valuable resource that cannot be warmth spread to the remote region. An old man, who Plan for supplementing transmission lines Plan for supplementing substations electric coffee pot and watch the news on the TV. Are used thoughtlessly. used cows for farm work, could now cultivate a field you going to be anxious about not using electricity? by using a machine. Grandchildren, who used to be unwilling to visit their grandmother because they could 39,830 363,773 Residents of Duitgol Village, Inje, Gangwon-do not watch favorite cartoons on TV, began to visit more 38,870 often. Another old woman, who used to live alone with 353,733 only candlelight to see at night, is now laughing in her room while she watches TV. 36,786 321,973 For remote villages that have experienced difficulty in being provided with electricity, KEPCO is carrying out electricity supply business for 134 households, whose local governments applied for the supply, among the 31,621 270,853 283 households that meet the requirements under (Unit: c-km) (Unit: MVA) the Law on the Promotion of Electricity Supply Business for Farming and Fishing Villages. The number of 2012 2017 2022 2027 2012 2017 2022 2027 households in the regions without KEPCO’s transmission and distribution grids is expected to be a total of 323 households, including 174 households in the regions not meeting the requirements of the Law on the Promotion of Electricity Supply Business for Farming and Fishing Villages as of late 2013. 34 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 35 DMA Stabilizing Electricity Supply and Demand PERFORMANCE Load control BACKGROUND ISSUES Electricity is the foundation for national industry and public life. 77.1% Load rate We experienced the inconvenience caused by massive blackouts, such as rolling power cuts in California in 2001, Goal for 2014: the New York blackout in 2003, and the blackout in Korea 76% and over on September 15, 2011. Thanks to these incidents, KEPCO has Saving Demand acutely recognized its responsibility for stable electricity supply. energy control 329GWh 6million kW We have also risks which must be solved to enhance the stability in electricity supply and demand. There are various risks that can have great impact on supply: delay or cancellation of the construction of facilities for generation, Amount of saved energy Peak reductions transmission lines and substations, that require massive time and investment, breakdown or sudden suspension of the Goal for 2014: Goal for 2014: Zero level of operation of plants, and spikes in electricity demands caused 288GWh emergency in electricity supply & demand by severe weather. A stable electricity supply should be continuously ensured despite these circumstances: this is the QUANTITATIVE reason for KEPCO’s existence and its important mission. GOAL Load rate (2018): PROGRESS 76% and over Peak reductions (2020): Strategy 6.8 million kW and over • Operating various demand management systems &securing sufficient reserves • Cooperating with relevant institutions in case of emergency for electricity supply & reducing demands by stages QUALITATIVE Capability • Organizing teams in charge of company-wide demand GOAL management (One department and three teams for the headquarters, 13 teams for business offices) Electric energy provides daily life • 323 employees for demand management using about 150 billion with dynamic energy. To accomplish won as annual budget its mission to supply stable Activity electricity, KEPCO will provide • Reducing electricity peak by noticing on a weekly basis & various customized solutions for operating designated period system &demand management rate characteristics of each season and system customer beyond just the supplier’s • Conducing energy-saving campaigns for the public perspective. We will realize a zero Assessment level of emergency in electricity • Granting incentives for actual reduction in accordance with terms supply and demand by establishing & condition for each business office after establishing a an organic and cooperative system company-wide goal for demand control • Operating demand control system with the government funds for with relevant institutions and secure the electric power industry & implementing assessment by the a consensus on saving energy. government & external audit for each year’s business performance Plan • Establishing goals by the government in each year for electricity supply & demand control & restricting about 6 million KW, achieving 110% of the goal in 2013 36 KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 37 Electricity Systemic demand control KEPCO contributes to the national policy for saving energy by operating a system demand control system and promoting stability in Demand control Strengthening the efficiency in demand control KEPCO has first implemented low-cost demand control appropriate for current situations for electricity supply and demand to reduce demand control electricity supply and demand. the cost for demand control. After enforcing regulations on energy use by customers with massive use of electricity, we prevented emergencies in electricity supply and demand and reduced the cost for demand control by about 200 billion won. Type of demand control Peak Clipping Valley Filing Reducing the cost for demand control thanks to energy-saving regulations Category Target customers Participated households Restricting peaks Reduced cost (10,000 kW) (100 million won) Winter Season(Jan 2013) 3,000 kW and over 5,714 286 594 Summer Season(Aug 2013) 5,000 kW and over 2,637 296 1,641 Base load plant (nuclear power plant, etc.) generating nighttime Reducing the demand in case of peak power use demands for marinating the operation We have enhanced accuracy in predicting demands by drawing the optimal time and amount for electricity demand control. We e.g. Reducing demands for air conditioning and heating e.g. nighttime electricity (Heat pump) reduced error by 0.05% compared to the last year by analyzing predictions in consideration of many variables such as temperature sensitivity in each season, demands for air conditioning and heating, and characteristics for demands during the day, which tend to Peek Shifting Improving efficiency by saving energy have a high error rate. Process for demand prediction Decrease in the error rate of demand prediction Collecting data on variables 1.3-3.0 Shifting the demand to night time in case of peak power use Type of reducing overall electricity demands 1.29 e.g. Nighttime electricity (Ice storage air conditioning) e.g. providing high-efficiency equipment 1.24 Implementing demand prediction Although we confronted an unprecedented electricity supply crisis in 2013 due to a sudden halt in nuclear power plants, KEPCO overcame the crisis by reducing peak power by about six million kW, which is equivalent to six units of nuclear power plants. While implementing the regulations on electricity use by customers with massive scale to reduce peak power, the company operated Submitting the result of prediction to the government demand control system for a designated period, which adjusted the period of industry vacation or repair, and various demand management efforts such as adjustment of voltage. Global standard* 2012 2013 Prospect and response for electricity supply and demand * Global Standard: The lapse rate of overseas electricity compaDemand control for second to third weeks of Peak power and reserves for the summer and winter seasons nies in predicting the level of demand August 2013 Category Supply Before demand control Amount of After demand control Reserves Performances Reserves (Unit: 10,000kW) capability Peak power Reserves (%) demand control Peak power Reserves (%) before for before Winter (3 Jan) 8,071 7,827 244 (3.1%) 175 7,652 419 (5.5%) Reduction for peak time in demand control Various demand control systems demand control demand control demand control Summer (19 Aug) 7,873 8,008 -135 (-1.7%) 606 7,402 471 (6.4%) devices for 2013 (Unit: 10,000 kW) KEPCO is operating various demand control systems for the characteristics of each season. We operate power cut regulations for -51 -2.28 Reducing Maintaining customers consuming a massive amount of electricity, and designated a period for shifting vacation periods in the industry or repair Cool storage million kW demands for 3.81 5.08 Inverter schedules. We provide weekly notices moderating or suspending demand temporarily, depending on electricity supply and demand Due to the unprecedented lack of reserves for nine days from the second to third weeks of August 2013, we carried out urgent facility 4.8 6.68 million kW refrigerator situations. We have implemented Critical Peak Price (CPP), in which the cost for peak time is about 3.4 times higher than average demand control and maintained the amount of reserves at 3.5 million kW and more. As a result, we were able to reduce the number 3.5 million kW 8.6 cost. We utilize private supply capability with operating generators owned by businesses or operated by community energy operaof days of the supply and demand crisis in 2013 from 47 days to 10 days. tors. We also adjust the supplied voltage in substations and transformers. Through these various methods, we saved 914GWh in Total 22.1 the annual electricity demands for 2013 and implemented demand control for 104 days, which is the longest period in history. We Prospects for electricity supply and demand and proper measures Devices for saved about 220,000kW in maximum demand electricity by using cool storage facility, saving cooling electric power in the night-time Although the situation for electricity supply and demand in 2014 is expected to improve compared to last year, KEPCO will additioncontrolling and utilizing it in the day, implementing remote-control systems for air conditioning and heating functions during peak times, and ally secure two million kW to prepare for errors in demand estimation and provide stable electricity by taking measures for emergenmaximum supplying demand control devices such as high-efficiency tools. cies at each stage to prepare for abnormal weather and sudden suspension in generator operation. With the increasing construction LED lighting electricity of new power plants after 2015, electricity supply and demand is expected to maintain its stable status. Air condition5.4 3.1 ing & heating Performance for each demand control system in 2013 Mid and long-term perspective for electricity Prospect for electricity supply and demand and relevant measures in 2014 (Unit: 10,000 kW) for buildings supply and demand 1.5 Category Power cut Designated Weekly CPP Private Modification Total Supply capacity 8,450 Reserves regulation period notice generation of voltage Peak power 8,008 544 550 Operating hours (H) 144 115 92 50 183 205 789 Peak power 7,764 7,708 303 Operating months Jan, Feb, Aug 5-30 Aug Apr, Aug Aug Jun-Aug Jan-Dec Reserve 7,434 7,900 7,694 7,811 14 Averaged reduction 294 181 135 7 44 49 710 Reserve rate 2013 7,219 per capita (10,000 kW) 7,131 2010 2011 2012 2014 30.5 17.7 -197 Total (GWh) 429 208 108 4 65 100 914 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 21.2 13,050 12,443 Category Demand Control Measures Supply Measures 10,018 11,089 9,532 Normal Times: 2 million kW Designated Period: 0.7 million kW Utilizing a Trial Trip: 1.3 million kW 8,268 Preparation and Interest Weekly Notice, Etc.: 1.5 million kW Private Supply Capacity: 0.4 million kW (5-3 million) 2.8 million kW Voltage Adjustment: 0.8 million kW Emergency Generators for Public 2015 2020 2027 Institutions: 0.1 million kW Caution and Alert (3-1 million) Urgent Power Cut: 1.5 million kW Upward Operation for Coal Thermal Power 2.4 million kW Suspension of Air Conditioning for Plants: 0.15 million kW Public Institutions, Etc.: 0.75 million kW 38 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 39 Establishing the system for dealing with electricity supply emergencies Confronting an unprecedented electricity crisis in 2013, KEPCO overcame it by concentrating our company-wide capability. We Reasonable Overhauling electricity bill system In 2013, KEPCO increased electricity bills twice (4.0% in January and 5.4% in November) to overcome the electricity supply crisis by established an organic cooperative system for emergencies by operating a common situation room with relevant institutions and strengthened our capability to deal with crises by conducting mock exercises for emergencies and establishing a pre-notice system energy consumption strengthening the function of signals in electricity cost. We raised the bills for general use and industry, which consumes a large amount of electricity, higher than average. Considering the for vulnerable sectors. burden of increased price, we slightly increased the electricity bills for households, education, and agriculture. The company has also proactively communicated with stakeholders, such as the National Assembly and industries, to form a public consensus on the realization of electricity cost. We also expanded our time-based cost system for customers with high-voltage electricity in general and industrial use to induce reasonable consumption and introduced our season-based cost system for customers with high-voltage electricity in agricultural use. To reinforce the function of demand management in consideration of recent climate changes, the company changed the standards for distinguishing time and seasons by including June in the summer season. As customers’ electricity consumption patterns have become diversified and the design of rate systems reflecting this change has become possible, the company has newly launched and expanded various optional rate systems. In 2013, we expanded various rate systems based on season and time, including general and industrial use, high-voltage optional rate system III, demand control-type optional rate system I and II, etc. In the future, we will establish a cost-based rate system by reducing the gap between costs of various types of contracts. Energy-saving campaign In 2013, KEPCO conducted customized energy-saving campaigns for companies, public institutions, facilities for public use, and the public to overcome the electricity supply crisis in the summer season. For companies, we visited industrial complexes or associaMock exercise for electricity supply and demand crisis tions for each business type to encourage them to save electricity (96 times). For public institutions, we requested them to conduct sequential stops in air conditioning devices during peak times (2,150 cases) or implement autonomous power-saving practices. We conducted energy-saving campaigns by visiting facilities for public use, such as department stores and markets (6,000 housePerformances of the operation of the situation room for dealing with electricity supply and demand crisis holds). For the public, we conducted on-the-street campaign during commuting times. The CEO and management directly visited Winter season in 2012-2013 November 12, 2012 – February 28, 2013 (76 days) 17 households, including customers consuming a massive amount of electricity and facilities for public use, and encouraged them Summer season in 2013 May 28, 2013 – September 27, 2013 (84 days) to save electricity to prepare for electricity use during peak times in the summer season. Thanks to these efforts, participation by Winter season in 2013-2014 December 23, 2013 – February 28, 2014 (46 days) On-site electricity-saving campaign visited companies in demand control reduced demand by 269MW, which increased reduction by 99% compared to the last year. We proactively implemented electricity-saving campaigns by utilizing SNS such as Facebook and Twitter and encouraged people to voluntarily perform energy-saving practices. We carried out various on-site energy-saving activities, including the movement for expanding energy-saving efforts, in which all employees request their acquaintances to perform electricity-saving practices by utilizing SNS. In the future, KEPCO will revise deCompany Public institution mand management programs to fulfill its own mission of supplying electricity in a stable manner and perfectly prepare for emergency Visited industrial complexes and associations to encourage them to save Requested sequential stops for air conditioners and autonomous power-saving situations by reinforcing customer management and enhancing the implementation level. electricity (96 times) practices (2,150 cases) Promoted the standard for limiting the energy use (234 people) Asked to pause operating fountains during peak times Directions for Movement for expanding energy-saving efforts conducting energy-saving campaigns Facility for public use People Visited department stores and markets for promotion (6,000 households) Conducted energy-saving campaigns for households and broadcasting SNS Carried out “Saving Energy“ promotion by SNS (Twitter, etc.) (20,000 people) Requested to pause electricity use for agricultural facilities during peak times SNS As the reserve level is decreasing SPECIAL FEATURE The drama of overcoming the dangerous electricity crisis for 123 days to less than 3 million kW, please let your Executives & acquaintances know employees about the situation and The summer of 2013 was unprecedentedly spread the news about the emergency in electriccampaigns to encourage the people to save electricity. encourage them to hot; and the crisis in electricity supply and ity supply and demand by calling a video conference About 20,000 executives and employees participated participate in energydemand was also serious. First, the slope in with the heads of headquarters in the country. By imin the movement for spreading energy-saving efforts saving efforts. the curve for increasing demands was unexplementing electricity-saving regulations, we strived by utilizing the network and calling or sending about pectedly steep. As the monsoon season continued for to notify the public by operating weekly notices and 750,000 messages. Thanks to these unceasing efforts, SNS 49 days, electricity demands were not massive in July, information about the designated period. As for the about 6.49 million Executives & employees meaning there was less necessity for control demands; total performance for demand control in the summer kW in electricity SNS but in August after the monsoon, a heat wave swept season, we performed the demand control for 42 days demand was saved across the country. From August 12 to 16, reserves for in total, and on August 12, we reduced a maximum each day for the third Acquaintances a week were expected to record a deficit and reached of 6.68 million kW a day, even excluding on-site week in August, and the electricity supply and demand the peak of crisis. Although we implemented all the electricity-saving performance. This figure equals the crisis could be prevented. As a result of the 123-day available demand control systems, it was predicted electricity supply from three nuclear power plant units, performance from May 28 to September 27, 2013, we that we could not reach the reserves with 4 million offsetting three non-operated units. issued notices for the level of attention, which is the Employees in charge of customers for demand Reassignment of the organization and personnel for preparing emergency cases in electricity supply and demand kW, which is the standard for issuing an emergency least serious warning, only four times. Without these control KEPCO established a special response period for electricity supply and demand in the summer and winter season, in which the level warning. It was the worst case in our history. This was not the end of the company’s efforts. For three electricity demand control and on-site energy-saving of electricity use is high. The company played the role of control tower for dealing with emergencies by operating a common situaIn the second week of August, with the prediction days from August 12 to 14, all employees suspended activities, 10 rolling power cuts and 9 electricity supply tion room with electricity-related institutions such as generation companies and the Korea Power Exchange and working with 4,306 of electricity reserves in minus figures for the entire their work from the morning and decided to carry out and demand emergency cases would have happened, employees a year. We informed about measures for each step in the emergency and personal missions, spread information about the third week of August, KEPCO was in the middle of an on-site energy-saving activities. 6,600 but KEPCO overcame the crisis by implementing effecdanger of the electricity supply and demand crisis, fostered capabilities in response by conducting joint and mock exercises a total of emergency. The company appealed to the people to employees from 191 business branches tive demand control. four times every quarter, and checked the cooperation system with relevant institutions. The company strengthened the cooperation save electricity by announcing public statements and visited the sites each day and conducted Employee Customer for electricity supply and demand and encouraged the implementation of reduction in demand by dispatching 3,189 employees in charge of managing customers for demand control. 40 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 41 DMA Creating New Growth Engines for the Future PERFORMANCE Overseas business BACKGROUND ISSUES Despite the continuous global economic slowdown, global 4.2GW Facility capacity demands for energy are exponentially growing, and various for overseas generation movements for coping with resource depletion and climate Goal for 2014: change are being carried out. Competition based on technology 4.6GW for discovering resources such as renewable energy and Overseas R&D shale gas is getting fierce, while environmental regulations are business 27% 19cases being reinforced. Meanwhile, opportunities for energy business based on emerging markets are expanding with fierce competition over winning contracts among global companies. KEPCO should prepare for a new century, confronting major Construction process rate of Securing core strategic changes in energy trends. nuclear power plants in the UAE technology (total) Goal for 2014: Goal for 2014: 45% 32 cases (total) PROGRESS Employees for business QUANTITATIVE GOAL 1,383 Strategy Quantity of overseas generation • Accelerating the advance of businesses for strategic regions and facilities (2020): 28GW securing technologies for new growth engines Overseas sales (2020): • Fostering the best and talented people in the sector for overseas 16.6 trillion won businesses and new growth engines employees Accumulated cases for securing Capability Personnel with capability core strategic skills (2020): 103 cases • Extensive experiences in developing and operating for overseas business Personnel with capabilities various overseas businesses with the brand power of overseas business (2020): KEPCO Goal for 2014: 10% and more of all employees • Capability for R&D in electricity technology 1,513 employees Activity • Constructed and operated overseas plants in 19,724MW as the QUALITATIVE world’s 6th largest IPP developers. GOAL • Won an order for Korea-styled APR1400 in the UAE in 2009 and joining the group of exporters of nuclear power plants KEPCO is preparing for a new future. • Won contracts for coal thermal power plants in Vietnam and wind power plants in Jordan in 2013 and exceeding 3 trillion won in We are creating larger and better overseas sales values for the future based on our • Invested more than 0.5% compared to the amount of sales each skills and brand reputation. We will year in R&D, securing best personnel for research, launching and not only continuously expand expanding organizations for technical business overseas businesses, but also realize creative economy in the new era of Assessment electricity by developing next-generation • Checking performances for creating growth engines by assessing technologies such as Smart Grid and internally and externally and reinforcing the strength for implementation energy-saving equipment. In addition to •Fostering human resources and strengthening growth capability securing national interests with the by providing skills at the right time electricity industry, KEPCO will create better jobs and open the way to a Plan more prosperous future. • Accelerating the advance into overseas markets with competitiveness based on world-class development •Expanding the national benefits and creating more jobs by utilizing the KEPCO brand and entering into overseas electricity markets with domestic companies together 42 KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 43 Global network KEPCO is proactively carrying out overseas businesses to ensure sustainable growth by solving the economic slowdown in domestic businesses and finding new business opportunities. In 2013, the company’s annual sales were 3 trillion and 120.3 billion won, and the company recorded 12 trillion and 324.8 billion won in accumulated sales. China Shanxi (Coal 6,887MW) Inner Mongolia (Wind power 991MW) Canada Gansu (Wind power 99MW) Denison (Uranium) London Office Kazakhstan Liaoning (Wind power 225MW) Cree East (Uranium) Substation 500kV/220kV Waterbury (Uranium) EFI (Uranium) Saudi Arabia Jordan Rabigh (Crude oil 1,204MW) New York Office Al Qatrana (Gas 373MW) Beijing Office Tokyo Office Amman(Diesel 573MW) India Dominican Republic Construction of Niger distribution grid Construction of Riyadh Office UAE distribution grid Imouraren (Uranium) Nigeria Barakah (Nuclear power 5,600MW) Hanoi Office Mexico Egbin (Gas 1,320MW) SHUWEIHAT S3 (Gas 1,600MW) Norte 2 (Gas 433MW) Philippines Ilijan (Gas 1,200MW) Cebu (Coal 200MW) Naga (Coal /Diesel 339MW) Indonesia Bayan Resources (Coal) Adaro Energy (Coal) Australia Moolarben (Coal) Cockatoo (Coal) 2013 Sales for each sector in overseas businesses Bylong (Coal) Johannesburg Office Resource development 3,081 Transmission and distribution 344 20 countries Thermal power Total (100 million won) Nuclear power 10,768 31,203 17,010 37 projects Nuclear power Thermal power Renewable energy Transmission & Resources 19,724MW UAE 7 countries China substation 4 countries share capacity of 5,414MW One business 10 businesses One business 11 countries 10 businesses (As of December 2013) 15 businesses 44 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 45 Accelerating Vision to become a global energy developer Based on capabilities and skills with extensive experience in the electricity markets at home and abroad, KEPCO has accelerated Renewable energy: Establishing the foundation for expanding business in the Middle East, following China As the largest business partner in wind power, KEPCO has operated wind power business in Inner Mongolia and Liaoning, and wind the advance into the advance into the overseas market, became the developer of global energy and contributed to the distribution rate of electricity in various countries. We are increasing the national wealth and creating more jobs by entering into the overseas market with power generation in 919MW business in Gansu, while constructing plants with 396MW. As of late 2013, we registered 22 cases for CDM business (project for recognizing the performance in reducing greenhouse gas) and secured carbon emission rights worth the global market domestic companies. 960,000 tons. In January 2013, after winning an order for wind power projects in Fujeij, Jordan, we have entered into the wind power generation market as well as the thermal power market in the Middle East and established the stepping stone for expanding IPP Expanding into the global market and diversifying businesses by using customized strategies business for renewable energy. Currently, we are preparing for the diversification of overseas regions for renewable energy projects After starting business in the Philippines in 1995, KEPCO has expanded its overseas businesses, which used to focus on Southeast and expansion of portfolio, including solar power and heat, geothermal heat, etc. Asia, to the Middle East, Central and South America and Africa and is performing various activities in sectors such as nuclear power, thermal power, renewable energy generation, transmission and distribution and resource development. To achieve 16 trillion and Transmission and distribution: Diversifying various elements from consulting service to EPC Wind power generation complex in Inner Mongolia 600 billion won in overseas business sales by 2020, we are raising our competitiveness and expanding market shares by utilizing Based on our global-level of skills, which have been accomplished by a short period, KEPCO has successfully completed consulting customized strategies for each targeted region and connecting resource development with generation business. We will diversify business on transmission and distribution in countries such as the Philippines, Myanmar, Indonesia, Libya, Egypt, Paraguay, and overseas businesses by utilizing core strategic technologies such as Smart Grid, High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC), Carbon Capture Uzbekistan. In late 2013, we won an order for technical advice business on transmission companies in Nigeria, Africa, and we are & Storage (CCS), etc. carrying out 13 cases for consulting on transmission and distribution in nine countries such as Saudi Arabia and Bangladesh. From 2010, we have diversified business sectors from consulting service to EPC (Engineering, Procurement, and Construction) and BOT Nuclear power: Constructing and operating high quality nuclear power plants in the UAE (Build-Operate-Transfer). Through this movement, we won six orders for EPC business worth 300 million dollars in Kazakhstan and In 2009, KEPCO won the nuclear power plant project worth 18.6 billion won in the UAE for the first time, and it will construct Dominican Republic and successfully completed the construction for three cases including the construction of Kazakhstan’s distribufour Korean-styled nuclear power plants (APR1400) with 1,400MW (5,600MW in total). With the beginning of the construction of tion grid. the first unit in May 2017, we will build a total of four units of plants sequentially by 2020. To accomplish the success of the UAE nuclear power plant project, we are conducting various tasks, including designing nuclear power plants and manufacturing and Resource development: Preparing for the reorganization of core businesses purchasing devices, by cooperating with electricity group companies and private companies. Following the project in the UAE, we KEPCO is carrying out overseas resource development businesses by securing stable fuel to restrain elements that increase electricare proactively carrying out various marketing activities, including establishing customized strategies and holding a nuclear power ity bills due to increased fuel costs for generation. As of late 2013, we have secured 15.46 million tons of flaming coal from five plant roadshow, to win contracts in major markets such as Saudi Arabia, South Africa and Vietnam. Announced as a winning bidder for coal thermal power businesses including Bylong Mine, Australia, and 785 tons of uranium from five businesses in the Cree East mining area, Canada. plants in Nghi Son, Vietnam Meanwhile, we are focusing on improving quality by carrying out various activities, such as selling non-major mines, to reinforce Constructing a nuclear power plant in the UAE Thermal power: Solidifying powerful status of Southeast Asia and Middle East risk management and rationalization of overseas resource development business. As the fourth largest generation operator, which accounts for 10% of the total electricity supply in the Philippines, KEPCO is operatLocation and aerial view of thermal power ing power plants in Ilijan, Cebu, and Naga. In China, we are carrying out the Gemeng International Energy Project in Shanxi. In 2013, plants with heavy oil in Rabigh, Saudi Arabia we won the order for Nghi Son Ⅱ (1,200MW), a business for constructing and operating massive thermal power plants for the first time in Vietnam, laying the foundation for entering into the Indochina market. As for the Middle East, the Al Qatrana Power Project in Jordan began commercial operation in 2011 and the Rabigh Heavy Oil Project in Saudi Arabia began in April 2013. After winning orders for Shuweihat S3 Gas Power Project in the UAE in 2010 and Amman Diesel Internal Combustion Generation Project, we are constructing these plants as of late 2013 and expanding the advance into generation projects in the Middle East. In December 2013, we made an outpost for expanding our advance into the electricity market in Central and South America by completing the construcRabigh tion of the Norte 2 gas thermal power plant in Mexico, which is our first business in this region, while broadening the sector for ther150km mal power business even to African regions by acquiring the operation rights for the Egbin gas plant in Nigeria in November 2013. Jeddah Saudi Arabia SPECIAL FEATURE Seeking the solution for global energy by holding Daegu WEC, which was the largest in history In October 2013, KEPCO successfully held the 22nd World Energy Congress (WEC) in Daegu as the host of Location and aerial view of Norte II complex the event and received praise for holding the best conthermal power plants with gas in Mexico gress ever in terms of size and content. The congress, which is referred to as the World Energy Olympics, was attended by a total of 30,000 visitors, including about 7,500 participants from 120 countries, 54 leaders and scholars in the world’s leading energy industries, and energy ministers from 42 countries. Under the theme of “Today’s Practice for the Future’s Chihuahua 1,200km Energy,” Daegu WEC resolved various energy issues. Mexico For the first time in WEC history, both the WEC and the government approved the Daegu Declaration, Mexico City which contains the cooperative resolution for solving the energy trilemma on energy security, equality, and at the big picture of the global energy market and opinions on cooperative measures with the leaders of environmental sustainability. keenly analyzed changes in energy paradigms. Meanglobal energy companies such as GDF Suez and AREIn about 40 sessions, various energy issues were adwhile, the industrial exhibition was attended by many VA, while broadening the global network by signing an dressed by various perspectives. Attendees shared companies at home and abroad, making a meaningful MOU with Enel, an Italian energy company, and the Cebu Power Plant, the Philippines future business strategies of global energy companies place for sharing new growth strategies and future State Grid Corporation of China. In his speech for clossuch as Royal Dutch-Shell, SIEMENS, and Gazprom energy market. ing ceremony, World Energy Council Chairman Pierre and visions for policies of energy ministers from about CEO and President Cho Hwan-ik successfully held the Gadonneix said, “Every moment of 2013 WEC was re40 countries on a real-time basis. Global energy insticongress as the chairman of the organizing committee ally great and inspiring.” It was the brightest moment tutions such as the International Energy Agency (IEA) and carried out various activities to expand the scope of Korea, a major country in the field of global energy”. and International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) looked of cooperation for overseas business. He also shared 46 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 47 Reinforcing high Reestablishing Green & Smart technology development system KEPCO has re-established our previous technology portfolio, which was divided into eight major strategic technologies and operaMajor performances for technology development in 2013 Category Development performance value-added technical tional technology, to make 12 major strategic technologies based on new types of businesses in 2013. We have made the system to deal with all electric energy sectors by adding consumption and convergence technology sectors in production and transport. ESS Designed and established the world’s best ESS operation system (October 2013) competitiveness Demonstrated the ECC-connected operation system with a volume of 4-8MW (Jocheon Substation, Jeju) Achieved the first rank in Asia and second in the world with about 85% in charge and discharge system Technology development system Micro Grid Operated Micro Grid real power system and developed technology for design Succeeded in the operation with the connection of Micro Grid Test Bed real power system with 200kW (January 2013) Global Top Green & Smart Energy Pioneer VISION ESS demonstration test site (Jocheon Substation in Jeju Awarded the Best Awards for Korean Electricity Industry by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy (September 2013) Completed the design of the electricity grid in the “Energy-independent Island” based on new renewable energy with 700kW for the first time in Korea Clean & Efficient & Convenient & CCUS Constructed wet CO2 capture and storage plant with 10MW, the largest of its kind in Asia (Boryeong, May 2013) Green Energy Intelligent Grid Smart Service Awarded by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy (May 2013)) The Best Award for Micro Constructed dry CO2 capture and storage plant with 10MW, the first and largest of its kind in the world (Hadong, R&D VISION Producing clean and Smart electricity Creating a new type of Grid by the Ministry of Trade, September 2013) (DEFINITION) sustainable energy by transport/shift/storage business for the future Industry, and Energy (September, Offshore Designing and constructing the in-depth climate tower with offshore wind power for the first time in Korea using renewable energy technology based on by combining with TCT to 2013) Wind Power (September 2013) resources and performing high efficiency and realize creative economy The Best Award for Wet CO2 Super Secured the technology for applying superconducting fault current limiters and superconducting power cables clean development credibility Capture and Storage Plant by conductivity (December 2013) the Ministry of Trade, Industry, HVDC Designed DC electric power transmission lines with 500kV and secured the technology for applying real power and Energy (May, 2013) systems (December 2013) DR & EE Application 1 IGCC SNG (Synthetic Natural Gas) 5 HVDC (High Voltage Direct Currents) 9 (DR + EE + EMS Application) Electric power ICT Business for nextSmart Grid: Demonstration project and establishing Smart Grid station 12 MAJOR 2 Offshore wind power 6 Micro Grid 10 Solution (Big Data The Smart Grid is a next-generation electricity network enhancing the efficiency of energy use by combining electricity technology STRATEGIC +Cloud + Mobile) generation technology with ICT and making electricity networks smarter and more advanced. The government is currently preparing to make the Smart Grid as one of the national core businesses with the aim of establishing the world’s first nation-based Smart Grid by 2030. KEPCO is proTECHNOLOactively participating in the Jeju Smart Grid Demonstration Project (2009-2013) and Expansion Project (planned to be operated from GIES 3 CCUS (Carbon Capture, Use & Storage) 7 Superconductivity 2015 to 2017) led by the government. The company is also leading the establishment of major infrastructures such as AMI, Smart Grid station, ESS, infrastructure for charging electric cars, etc. Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) is a core device for Smart Grid, inducing customers’ autonomous demands and creating various additional services. KEPCO is planning to finish the installation of AMI for 10 million households by 2016 and 22 million households by 2020. 4 Marine energy 8 Smart Grid Roles of KEPCO ESS business In 2013, KEPCO established the “Smart Grid Station”, which optimizes the company’s energy use by combining renewable energy generation (solar and wind power), electricity storage system (ESS), and Building Energy Management System (BEMS), at the building of Guri-Namyangju Office. With this construction, the company shows a best case in expanding the Smart Grid at home and Creating the initial market abroad. We will expand the construction of the Smart Grid Station at 119 offices in the country by 2015 and utilize the stations as Smart PMS (Plant at the early stage 11 12 ESS (Energy Stora center for realizing the Smart Grid City by integrating Smart Grid infrastructures in the region, such as houses, shopping centers, Management age System) factories, schools, and electric car charging stations. System) Energy storage equipment: Securing operational skills Decreasing ESS price The Energy Storage System (ESS) saves electricity and lets consumers use electricity when it is necessary. This system can be utiGreen Convergence Smart Convergence lized in various areas such as demand control, expanding renewable energy generation, improving electricity quality, and adjusting frequency. KEPCO is demonstrating the ESS operation technology by establishing ESS with 4MW (8MWh) at Jocheon Substation, Actual performance for R&D compared to Jeju, for the first time in Korea in 2013. We will establish and operate ESS with 500MW for adjusting frequency by investing about plans (Unit: 100 million won) Securing various business models 600 billion won from 2014 to 2017. Reinforcing technological competitiveness by expanding the investment in R&D Year Plan Result With the goal of investing more than 0.5% of annual sales in R&D, KEPCO invested 190.5 billion won in 2013, reinforced technical 2011 4,117 2,427 skills, and expanded infrastructure for research by developing core strategic technologies and customized operation technologies for Plan for establishing ESS for adjusting frequency (F/R) 2012 3,113 1,878 each business. We are also focusing on fostering technological experts for operating new growth engines by utilizing educational 2013 3,045 1,905 Vitalizing domestic ESS market Year 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total institutions at home and abroad and the internal human resource development center in 2013. Capacity 50MW 50MW 200MW 200MW 500MW • Although KEPCO’s performance in R&D of nuclear Securing core strategic technologies power plants reduced due to the the power plant’s In 2013, KEPCO achieved a total of 19 cases regarding core strategic technology by securing an additional 13 cases and completed Securing competitiveness in entering transfer to KHNP, we are constantly expanding in85 tasks by performing a total of 266 R&D study cases. We have applied for 308 patents for industrial property, registered 172 into the overseas market vestment in core strategic technology such as ESS cases, and published a total of 261 theses in papers and academic conferences at home and abroad. After achieving success in the connected operation of 200kW Micro Grid Test Bed real power system, the company received the Best Award in the Korea Electricity Industry Awards from the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy in 2013 and also received the Best Award by the Ministry for the construction of the 10MW wet CO2 capture and storage plant, which is the largest plant in Asia. 48 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 49 Making Gapado a carbon-free island in Jeju Micro Grid: Making Gapado as carbon-free island As 63 island areas under KEPCO’s management are separated from land networks, KEPCO supplies these areas with electricity by Fostering global & Fostering professional employees for overseas business KEPCO is continuously conducting specialized education for nurturing globalized human resources to create future growth enGapado Dock installing diesel power plants in these areas. In cooperation with the Jeju Provincial Office in 2013, we established the Micro Grid for the first time in Korea. The Micro Grid provides electricity by replacing electricity produced in diesel power plants in Gapa Island professional personnel gines by advancing into the overseas market. In 2012, with education programs for overseas business, we employed 1,044 special employees. In 2013, we fostered 339 professional employees for each activity in overseas business and are currently Sangdong Port with wind power, solar power, and ESS. The Gapado Micro Grid has become a central icon for the business of establishing carbonfree island of Jeju and will be launched in Gasado and Ulleungdo. for new growth engines conducting strategic human resource management by building a pool with 1,383 globalized employees for the future. We are strengthening the professionalism of employees in charge of overseas business for nuclear power plants in the UAE by establishJeju Olle Trail 10-1 Course ing a mid and long-term master plan, while continuously fostering the best and talented people to reinforce our capabilities in Gapado Olle Trail High Voltage Direct Current: Connection between Jeju and Jindo winning new orders for nuclear power plants. As the cutting-edge technology transmitting long-distance massive electricity by changing AC/DC electricity to a High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) system, it is likely to have a global market worth about 150 trillion won in the next 15 years. After completing the System for fostering globalized professional personnel Gapa Port construction of the first HVDC system from Jeju to Haenam in 1998, KEPCO constructed the second HVDC system from Jeju to Jindo in 2013. We will develop these projects as a core business for creating new growth engines by localizing independent core technologies, connecting electricity grids in Northeast Asia, and entering into the overseas market. Goals for HRD Fostering global players to achieve KEPCO’s mid and long-term management goals Feed-back Electric cars and charging system: Developing new business models Global Top In 2013, KEPCO developed eight types of business models for electric car charging systems by carrying out the Jeju Smart Grid Solar power generation Charging electric vehicles demonstration project, and the company is conducting the demonstration project for quick charge at six charging stations on expressways for the first time in Korea. We are developing the business for establishing the charging infrastructure by cooperating Policy experts Benchmarking prominent utilities in the global market Pool for globalized with the government and private sectors, and are currently providing 5,000 members with services for sharing electric cars and (planning, personFostering HPI employees nel, technology) Training at GE Crotonville charging. We will supply 1,200 units of charging devices for electric cars by participating in the business for expanding the Smart Global leader Grid and developing a system in which consumers can store electricity in electric cars and sell it to electricity companies by cooptrack Freshwater facility Wind power generation erating with auto companies. Hosting by agency R&D sector Job experts Overseas education for each job sector (department) Renewable energy: Contributing to achieving the national goal for renewable energy Professional education for international As the representative public energy company in Korea, KEPCO will carry out the business for providing renewable energy to contribSeniors Education for transaction and finance in overseas reinforcing job Domestic ute to the achievement of the national goal for renewable energy (11% for the year of 2035). To achieve the government-led goal in departments capability business sector GBIC Module Automation facility for Intelligent distribution limited territories and climate condition, we are carrying out various projects by utilizing nation-based business branches, electricity diesel generation Center for operating micro grid Remote meter-reading grids, and technologies. For example, the company is conducting the government-led business for the 2.5GW wind power plant in Intensive lanSouthwest Sea, business for solar power plants near Miryang transmission lines, welfare facilities in Jeollanam-do Province, and GBIC E ducation for Professional Assessment guage learning Juniors for selecting master’s and schools in Seoul. By developing renewable energy businesses in 11.5GW in cooperation with generation subsidiaries by 2020, we personnel for Localization of doctoral degree overseas in overseas candidates for Actual business will realize 72% of the national goal for renewable energy. strategic regions IB-MBA business departments long-term ESS track education KINGS Overseas O&M course for generation and nuclear power -N  ew techbusiness sector nologies for the future Basic course for supporting Policy on energy Employees in Basic course overseas business (office work) -P  olicy on public reserve for overfor reinforcing institution SPECIAL FEATURE Making an eco-friendly energy town with the construction of the world’s first Smart Grid Station seas business language skills Basic course for EPCM Basic personnel for Human resources Global Challenge (for new employees) Global Assessment for capabilIn February 2014, KEPCO completed the construction overseas for basis (offices ity of employees in business for front line) mind of the world’s first Smart Grid Station. The Smart Grid Biz Development (for existing employees) the pool track Best and talented Station (hereinafter referred to as “SG Station”) is a employees system based on the electricity operation system to effectively integrate and control other elements such Pool-out employees with as renewable energies including solar power and lack of capability wind power, Energy Storage System (ESS), Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI), charging devices for electric vehicles (EV), and Building Automation System (BAS). We will establish SG Stations by investing a System for professional education about Fostering professional personnel for strategic technologies total of 26.2 billion won in 119 business offices with strategic technologies KEPCO is carrying out efforts to foster professional employees to secure future competitiveness in the electricity industry and acmore than 300kW of contract power in 14 headquarcomplish the business for core strategic technologies in the early stages. With our education system for fostering human resources Level 1 (Basic) ters by 2015. The SG Station is divided into three based on business lifecycle and level of capability for each strategic technology, we will continuously nurture the best and talented models, including types for experience education, New personnel people in sectors such as generation, transmission, and distribution and sales. research and development, and demand control, and Employees in reserve for new growth engines we will utilize these systems in various sectors such Level 2 (Intermediate) Education specialized for overseas business in 2013 Working-level employees for business Category Education course Number of people as fostering professional personnel in the Smart Grid SG Stations in the country by 2014 and control them Employees who complete Level 1 Basic education Basic course for supporting business 147 sector, developing applied technology and demand automatically by taking steps that are appropriate for Human resource for R&D Intensive education International contract/finance 25 control. Thanks to this project, it is expected that each situation of electricity supply and demand from Generation O&M course 82 the company will reduce annual peak power by 5% the central office. It is highly expected that KEPCO’s Level 3 (Advanced) (4MW), (10GWh) of electricity use by 10%, and CO2 knowhow and new technologies obtained from the Job capability reinforcement course 50 emissions by 4,700 tons. The company will establish construction business for SG Stations will contribute Working-level employees for business EmLong-term education Localization for strategic sites course 9 a control system which can comprehensively manage to creating future profits. ployees who complete Level 2 IB-MBA course 15 Human resource for R&D Nuclear power graduate school course 11 Total 339 50 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 51 DMA Realizing Eco-friendly Energy PERFORMANCE Eco-friendly management BACKGROUND ISSUES Sustainable energy for all should be clean and clear. To create 3,803.7 billion won clean energy, clean energy sources should be expanded while Environmental investment minimizing pollutants. The ecosystem should be preserved while Goal for 2014: conserving energy. As social needs for eco-friendly electricity 3,950 billion won facility are increasing, electricity facilities that are being Eco-friendly Eco-friendly constructed nationwide need to consider their environmental facility purchase 15.5% 96.9% impacts on regions such as eco-conservation areas. We should strive to apply new technology and construction methods to enhance energy efficiency and reduce loss along with the efforts to rationalize energy use in a national manner. Rate of underground construction Ratio of purchased That’s why KEPCO should strive to achieve a clean energy for distribution facility eco-friendly products world in the overall electricity value chain from production Goal for 2014: Goal for 2014: to transmission and consumption. 15.7% and over 97% and over QUANTITATIVE GOAL PROGRESS Environmental investment (2020): Strategy 4,500 billion won • Establishing integrated green and environmental management • Reinforcing capability to deal with environmental risks and external partnerships on the environment Underground facility rate (2020): 21% and over Capability • Acquiring the certificate for company-wide green management system and securing environmental management capability • Ensuring the effect for restraining additional construction for generation facility by maintaining the world’s best level of T&D loss QUALITATIVE GOAL Activity • Constructing eco-friendly electricity facilities and applying new technology and construction methods for the co-existence of local Clean energy is a requirement for communities and biodiversity conservation sustainable life for the next generation. • Improving efficiency in facilities to reduce energy and water use As an energy company with a responsibility and, recycle resources by 100% for environmental impacts, KEPCO will • Minimizing water and land pollution, reinforcing management of achieve eco-friendly energy by carrying out polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) 3R (Reduce, Recycle and Reuse) for energy, Assessment water and resources based on the • Establishing and implementing annual plans for eco-friendly establishment of eco-friendly networks management, devising and refining company-wide environmental in the electricity industry. strategies every five years • Adopting a company-wide environmental management system by obtaining the certificate for environmental and green management system Plan •Achieving the goal for over 5% of ground wire construction in 2013, carrying out comprehensive repair for on-air transmission lines by 2022 • Enacting a guideline for writing environmental impact assessment for transmission lines and substations, expanding targets for environmental impact assessment to all business sites 52 KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 53 Environment Company-wide certificate for GMS (Green Management System) KEPCO obtained ISO14001, the certification for Environmental Management System (EMS), for its five sites in 2007 and for all sites Eco-friendly Power management system in 2008. In 2010, the company also received certification for nuclear power plant construction and operation management, and in 2013, we passed the deliberation for renewal of certification. In accordance with the 2013 plan for green management, we acquired Value Chain company-wide certification for Green Management System (GMS) in October 2013. Green Management System is a Korean system which adds energy management, GHG emission control, and environmental social responsibility to the conventional Environmental Management System. In acquiring the certificate, we expect that KEPCO Green Management System is established and spread for managing energy and resources, reducing GHG emission, and securing social responsibility. Elaborating mid and long-term plans for environmental management KEPCO assessed the performance of the mid and long-term plans for environmental management, which was established in 2007, Generation Transmission Consumption supplemented problems; to deal with rapid environmental changes, we established the mid and long-term plans for green and Encourage eco-friendly Expansion of eco-friendly Reasonable management to KEPCO facilities and stronger management of environmental management in 2013. The plan includes the goal for achieving the world’s fifth-best capability for environmental group companies management of facility operation electricity demand management in the energy sector and sets 37 tasks in 14 sectors with four major strategies. We presented roadmaps and detailed plans for each year from 2014 to 2018 to enhance action, and based on the mid and long-term plans, we are developing the plan for green management each year. System for plans GENERATION Vision GLOBAL TOP GREEN & SMART ENERGY PIONEER Current condition of electricity generation by KEPCO and its power generation subsidiaries strive to build an organic cooperation system in generation, transmission, distribution, GENCOs and sales toward an eco-friendly supply chain for electricity. Category Generation Generation Environmental investments and costs Goal ECO GLOBAL TOP 5 amount (MW) (MW) KEPCO’s six generation companies have spent 684.4 billion won in total for environment-related investments and costs in 2013. It 2011 67,005 443,409 consists of 287.7 billion won in investments for environmental facilities, 341.6 billion won for operating environmental facilities, 6.8 2012 68,848 448,516 billion won for disposing waste, 5.7 billion won for environment-related R&D and 42.6 billion won for other sectors. 2013 70,845 448,756 Reinforcing the Environmental Strengthening capability to Solidifying external Coping with climate change GENCO’s environment investment and expenses in 2013 Strategies Management System deal with environmental risks partnerships proactively Category KHNP KOSEP KOMIPO WP KOSPO EWP Degree of greenhouse gas intensity of GENCOs (Unit: kg/MWh) Expense (Unit: 100 million won) 113 686 674 2,188 880 2,300 Tasks 3 sectors / 10 tasks 4 sectors / 10 tasks 4 sectors / 10 tasks 4 sectors / 10 tasks Year 2011 2012 2013 Reinforcing the organization Reducing environmental Securing leadership for enviStrengthening capability to Intensity 464 474 494 Establishing green and environmental management system Detailed plans and enhancing awareness impacts ronmental management cope with climate changes Introducing environmental Minimizing waste Reinforcing social responReducing direct greenhouse 6 GENCOs have introduced eco-friendly process and acquired ISO 14001(Environmental Management System); among them, three management programs Minimizing harmful materials sibility emissions GENCOs acquired KSI 7001 (Green Management System). Adopting new environmental Making eco-friendly facilities Expanding communication Reducing indirect greentechnology Minimizing environmental house emissions Air pollutants (Unit: g/MWh)> Construction and operation of power generation facilities in a way that respects local communities complaints Category 2011 2012 2013 KEPCO’s GENCOs conduct environmental impact assessments with regard to the impact of construction and expansion of their SOx (g/MWh) 148 186 182 power plants on the natural environment and traffic. The post environmental impact assessments are carried out for five years after NOx (g/MWh) 284 297 205 the completion of the project, with the result being reported to the government on a yearly basis. Roadmap Dust (g/MWh) 8 8 10 Reducing pollutants by enhancing efficiency in generation facilities The GENCOs have expanded the use of clean energy sources and operating systems such as desulfurization, denitrification and dust collection, to reduce SOx, NOx and dust emitted from the power generation process. GENCOs also operate comprehensive Proactively coping Creating green Leading the company wastewater treatment facilities to physically and chemically treat wastewater for reuse or discharge, while desulfurized gypsum Adopting GMS Expanding GMS with climate change environmental values for green environment generated from coal-fired power plants is reused for cement production. Recognized as best The chemical oxygen demand (COD) and suspended solids (SS) emissions by GENCOs were 0.203g/MWh, 0 .154 g/MWh respec2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 environmental company in the tively in 2013. Companies focus on minimizing the amount of the emissions in accordance with the laws related to Preservation of Philippines (November, 2013) Water Quality and Aquatic Ecosystem. Introducing and settling Post-management for Deliberating renewal of Post-management for Post-management for GMS certificate system GMS GMS GMS GMS Spreading a system for Challenging to win the -Expanding the opening of Making environmental Supporting other compaPerformance for environmental management in overseas plants opening environmental award for opening envienvironmental information information as intellectual nies with environmental As of late 2013, KEPCO has established and operated 11 generation businesses in seven countries such as China and the Middle information ronmental information Systemizing climate property information East. At the stage of construction, we receive a monthly environmental audit and monitor whether the company complies with Establishing plans for copEstablishing substitute change management Settling climate adaptation Opening of climate adaping with climate change plans for climate change Establishing comprehensystem tion system environmental standard or not. At the stage of operation, we strive to comply with the environmental standards of each country, and Fostering judges for Building human resource sive plan for resource Introducing high-efficienSecuring growth engines reduce pollutants and noise produced from plants. As a result, Ilijan Plant in the Philippines was recognized as the best environmencertificate pool for certificate judges energy cy electricity facility for resource and energy tal company by the Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines in November 2013. Intellectualizing environmental damage prevention Reinforcing environmental and social responsibility 54 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 55 TRANSMISSION Biodiversity protection KEPCO recognizes the necessity for the preservation of ecosystem and intends to participate in the movement for biodiversity protection by complying with Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna (CITES), Convention Procedure for approval of power generation To guarantee a stable power supply, KEPCO constructs transmission and distribution facilities in a timely manner and operates them on Biological Diversity (CBD) and Ramsar Convention. At the stage of power effect estimation, we exclude regions with high value expansion plan (Article 5. Electric Source efficiently. The company strives to maintain eco-friendly power transmission by ensuring objectivity and transparency in site selecof biodiversity. At the stage of environmental impact assessment, we investigate habitats by focusing on protected species (endanDevelopment Promotion Act) tion, implementing assessment for environmental impacts, expanding eco-friendly facilities that respect local communities, reducing gered species), indigenous species, specific species, and species that inhabit the area in groups. Following our effect predictions, T&D loss rates, protecting the ecosystem, and controlling electromagnetic fields. measures for reducing environmental impacts are being prepared. At the stage of construction, managers for consultation contents KEPCO Ministry Local are appointed and relevant contents are checked in a follow-up environmental impact assessment. At the stage of completion of conof Trade, governments, Applying Industry, Consultation 11 central Securing objectivity and transparency in selecting sites for electricity facilities struction, we recover habitats damaged by the construction by consulting with local governments and receiving approval from them. for and Energy government approval To deal with the conflict over the selection of sites for electricity facilities, KEPCO holds the Committee for Selecting Sites with departments Consultation on various stakeholders, including local resident representatives, local government and assemblies, and conflict experts, and meetings For the first half of 2013-2014, the number of construction efforts that are under way or completed is a total of 61 cases, and the the assessment of with local residents before starting business. We are operating “Open Desk” where employees reside at the construction areas to total size of constructed electricity facilities is 17km2. The construction site where endangered species were found was 154kV environmental impacts answer questions from local residents. transmission lines, located at Hoengseong-gun, Gangwon-do; the length of transmission lines passing the region with first level of Ministry of ecological value is 2.848km. Considering the possibility of destroying the habitats of endangered species such as Lethocerus deyrolEnvironment Conducting environmental impact assessment and disclosing its result lei and Cicuta virosa, due to soil erosion, the company suspended the construction, collected opinions from environmental experts Deliberation and To establish transmission lines and substations, consultation with relevant institutions and environmental impact assessment need and Wonju Environment Agency and made a detour for diversion water way to prevent soil erosion. determination by the Committee for Power Source to be first carried out before starting business. KEPCO complies with the law on the assessment of environmental impacts, conducts Development Committee assessment before beginning the construction of all transmission lines and substations, and discloses all results. We reinforced Distribution of major endangered species the assessment tasks including cooperation with regional environmental agencies and writing and reviewing of the assessment by in the region passing transmission lines with 154kV from Hoengseong to Dunnae Notification Notification Approval and dispatching external environmental experts starting at Gyeongin construction site in 2012 and sending four experts to the headnotification quarters and three construction sites from April 2014. In 2014, KEPCO will enact the guideline for writing the environmental impact assessment for transmission lines and substations to work more efficiently and consistently. Copristri partitus Lethocerus deyrollei Fabriciana nerippe 630m New methods and devices for underground Opening the information on electromagnetic field construction Electromagnetic fields which are generated by electricity facilities have a 60Hz frequency. This is very low and is not accumulated Copristri partitus 740m New methods Eco-friendly contents in the human body nor transmitted a long distance. KEPCO is operating electricity facilities with a level that is six times lower than and devices domestic standard. To alleviate the anxiety and controversy over the safety of electromagnetic fields and to provide the public with Lethocerus deyrollei Compact-styled Due to the limitation of sites, ground 566m accurate information, we are operating a menu providing information on electromagnetic fields on our website (www.kepco.co.kr) distribution devices are collectively constructed on Fabriciana nerippe stations the road at the back side of a building, and an experience center for electromagnetic fields. We also disclose the measurement of electromagnetic fields by using measureProtantigius superans which leads to environmental ment services for regions near distribution towers and substations. To manage electromagnetic fields more scientifically, we are 205m Fabriciana nerippe complaints and possibility of continuously carrying out the relevant research and collecting opinions from various channels such as our website. breakdown → Collective construction reduces environmental complaints and Copristri partitus Expanding eco-friendly construction of power facilities Process for dealing with PCBs possibility of breakdown. Lethocerus deyrollei Collective construction of each device KEPCO is expanding the construction of eco-friendly power facilities for minimum interference with the environment and developing Cicuta virosa Location of transmission tower Cicuta virosa in the building reinforces the safety of environmentally friendly materials, equipment, and construction methods. We use more aesthetically pleasing tubular steel poles Habitats of endangered species Protantigius superans electricity and creates an aesthetic and eco-friendly seals on steel towers, while applying spacers, semi-underground engineering which requires minimum space, and effect. improvements to the overall environment. In order to prevent GHG emissions, KEPCO has also developed and applied epoxy mold Pole-type New construction method for burying construction cables underground and establishing insulated switches to replace the existing SF6 gas. The company has promoted the revision of laws and regulations on the installamethod for transformers and switches on electric tion of power facilities so that the depth for underground tunnels is reduced to minimize the time required for excavation. Ensuring Minimizing water and soil pollution underground lines poles space for ground facilities within buildings is now required by law in an effort to minimize the inconvenience of pedestrians. The KEPCO is applying equipment capable of cleaning manholes and processing wastewater to discharge wastewater, which is generDemolishing and Equipment centers The construction method will returning transformers for each headquarters company has also laid the foundation for beautifying the urban landscape by requiring overhead communication lines to be buried ated by manholes for Distribution grid established on the ground, after purification. In terms of the construction of tunnels for electric contribute to expanding eco-friendly (14 centers) electricity facilities by applying it to along with distribution lines by law. power conduit pipe, we minimize water and soil pollution by establishing and operating disposal facilities for wastewater. regions where underground lines are impossible due to insufficient space. Managing PCBs in waste transformers Compact-styled With improving internal structure To meet the Stockholm Convention on POPs for the prevention of production and use of persistent organic pollutants, KEPCO is esground (plate for radiant heat, steel wire) transformers and materials of ground transformers, tablishing and operating the management system with the aim of eradicating PCBs (Poly Chlorinated Biphenyls). Waste transformers the method brings benefits such as with ending its duration are strictly controlled in accordance with the management procedure for PCBs. Waste transformers with reducing the volume of transformers SPECIAL FEATURE Clean sky in the city, safe daily life for the people! Collecting samples and Analysis companies analyzing concentration (one for each head2ppm and over in the concentration level of PCBs are processed by professional companies. The number of transformers processed compared to the existing device by is 210,000 units by 2013. We will conduct strict safety management for PCBs, from demolition to storage, analysis, procession and quarters) 31% and alleviating the inconvenience KEPCO is improving the aesthetic features of cities maintenance has helped intricately intertwined provisales, and carry out economic and stable PCBs management by finding new construction technologies. of pedestrians. Eco-friendly Meeting with international standards and public safety by carrying out an antenna repair sion lines for low-voltage customers and communicawire fuse such as limited use of harmful business in the city. The business for repairing antentions cables to become more clean and safe. KEPCO is materials (lead) nas in 20 cities including Seoul and six major cities continuously striving to improve antenna facilities for CONSUMPTION began through cooperation with the government, securing clearer skies and safe daily living. local governments, and communications companies in 2013. Antenna refers to the electric lines built for Contributing to saving energy by using optimized demand control 2ppm and over Less than 2ppm electric poles for distribution and communications KEPCO is contributing to the national energy-saving policy by operating proactive and systemic electricity demand control. Although Underground distribution facilities (%) and broadcasting lines. we faced an unprecedented power shortage in 2013 due to a sudden halt of nuclear power plants, we reduced about six million kW In 2013, KEPCO invested a total of 138.2 billion won (equals to six units of nuclear power plants) as the maximum electricity for the peak time by regulating electricity use of large-scale 15.5 Seven 50% of the customers, operating demand control system with designating and adjusting vacation and maintenance periods and moderating 15.1 in repairing antenna, which was complicatedly tan14.7 companies number of gled. Through this business, 11,083 units of electric engaging in repairs and voltage. With these efforts, the company carried out demand control activities and reduced the days of demand emergency from poles and 1,168km of electric lines were repaired, competitive sales, 50% of 47 to 10 days. We also improved error rate in predicting demand by 0.05% compared to the last year by applying various demand bidding for competitive and we completed the underground line construction post-process bidding by 16 analysis methods and maximized demand control by drawing the optimal period and amount for demand control. for 140.4km of overhead power utility facilities. This Before repair After repair sales companies 2011 2012 2013 56 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 57 Improving Environmental Investments According to the KEPCO’s environmental fiscal system, environmental costs for 2013 were 3 trillion and 803.7 billion won in total, Recycling resources KEPCO complies with environmental regulations at home and abroad and proactively recycles recourses to reduce waste and prevent environmental which accounts for 7.04% of the entire sales. We mainly invested in constructing eco-friendly electricity facilities, reducing loss in activities for transmission and distribution, supplying renewable energy facilities and restoring environment. We will swiftly provide pollution. For collected materials that were classified as after-use waste and returned to material centers, a total of 261,225 tons was estimated as waste in 2013, which increased by about 6.4% compared to 2012, and we saved 38.6 billion won of the budget efficiency stakeholders with information on environmental costs and help the management make decisions by utilizing our environmental fiscal system strategically, which ultimately enhances activities with environmental values. by recycling such as selling waste. In terms of waste such as concrete and pottery, we are preventing environmental pollution and contributing to vitalizing relevant industries by recycling these waste as aggregates for construction. We will not only save costs, but also carry out practices of saving resources proactively by finding out recyclable resources continuously. Reducing energy and water use KEPCO is encouraging the reduction of energy use by setting the goals for energy usage amount and carrying out eco-friendly Environmental cost management by making facilities efficient. As electricity supply was deteriorated due to a sudden halt in operation of nuclear power Total amount of material use (Unit: ton) Category Cost (100 Notes plants in 2013, we especially focused our capability on saving energy. The goal for the amount of energy use was set to reduce 5% compared to 2011; amount of water use was set to 3,299,000 tons, which are the average for the last two years (2011-2012). Category 2011 2012 2013 million won) Especially, the goal for saving electricity use during the period with special measures for electricity supply and demand was set at Concrete 417,324 464,161 455,026 Eco-friendly facilities 34,820 91.5% 10% and 5% respectively compared to the base year (winter season in 2011, summer season in 2012). Metal 54,147 56,846 54,410 Prevention 1,989 5.2% Pottery 2,130 2,069 1,727 Follow-up activitiy 1,112 2.9% *2012-2013: With the strict energy use due to the government measures for limited energy use, the two years are not suitable for Electric wires 25,983 27,594 36,088 Legal response, etc. 116 0.3% a base year for setting goals. Others 4,999 4,529 6,118 Total 504,583 555,199 553,369 To achieve the goals, we reflected the reduction of energy amount to performance index of the department in charge of managing Amount of energy use (TJ) energy at the headquarters and checked the internal energy-saving plans and performances in sectors such as buildings, IT facilities, and transport by holding the Committee for Saving Energy with the vice president as chairman every half year. We are accurately Year 2011 2012 2013 and swiftly managing the amount of energy usage by using Energy Portal System. In 2013, we reduced the amount of energy use Amount of recycling and generation of waste for each type (Unit: ton, %) Amount of use 3,053 2,843 2,838 by 7% and water use by 629,000 tons compared to the initial goal. Especially during the special period for electricity supply and Intensity 70.8 57.6 52.9 demand in the winter and summer seasons, we contributed to stabilization of electricity supply and demand by reducing the amount Type 2011 2012 2013 of electricity use by 13.9% and 12.8% respectively compared to the base year. Generated Recycled Recycling Generated Recycled Recycling Generated Recycled Recycling • Energy data: Electricity of buildings and facilities amount (ton) amount (ton) ratio (%) amount (ton) amount (ton) ratio (%) amount (ton) amount (ton) ratio (%) supplying electricity, heating fuel, fuel for cooking Concrete 183,213 175,885 96 181,397 181,397 100 190,226 190,226 100% • Percentage of electricity which is indirect energy: Appointing staff members in charge of protecting energy for each building and carrying out energy-saving activities Metal 35,191 35,191 100 32,985 32,985 100 40,195 40,195 100% 95% Reinforcing the standard for indoor heating and air-conditioning temperature (18°C and below Pottery 6,503 6,053 100 7,350 7,350 100 6,367 6,367 100% • Energy intensity = Amount of energy use ÷ 1 trilfor the winter, 28°C and over for the summer) Eletctric wires 21,668 21,668 100 21,992 21,992 100 23,628 23,628 100% lion won Adjusting temperature for isothermal-isohumidity at the ICT room (28 °C → 32 °C) Turning off lights and power of devices during lunch time Others 536 536 100 1,881 1,881 100 809 809 100% Energy saving Implementing diagnosis for building energy (two subcontracted offices for diagnosis and four Total 247,111 239,333 97 245,605 245,605 100 261,225 261,225 100% offices with employees) Conducting water-saving campaign during the summer season with high amount of water usage Green purchase Reducing 475MWh of electricity for a year by establishing 25,000 LED lights in the office building Developing energy-saving new technology and building system To implement green purchase practice more proactively, KEPCO has established index for green product purchase in the self-assessAdopting 6,131 office devices for reducing standby power and supplying S/W for saving energy ment and introduced competitive systems among business branches. For purchase and construction supervisors, we are carrying out on PC for the overall company quarterly education about the necessity of green products. Constructing water-saving and recycling facilities at the Naju headquarters (900 tons of rain The rate of green product purchase for 2013 was 96.9%, increased by 2.7% compared to last year. We will expand the amount of Efficienct facilites water and 51 tons of heavy water) shared information on green products and continuously enhance the percentage of purchasing green products by improving systems. Amount of water use (1,000 tons) Meanwhile, the goal for reducing electricity and water usage in 2014 is set for the reduction by 5% compared to 2011 and 5% Expense and percentage for purchasing green products (1 million won) compared to the average of 2011-2012, respectively. KEPCO will lead to the movement of preventing resource depletion and reduc3,602 ing greenhouse gas by carrying out reasonable measures for energy such as securing efficiency in facilities and preventing energy overuse. Total Green products Total Green products Total Green products 2,995 2,670 8,078 7,365 7,058 7,496 19,414 18,819 Operating eco-friendly cars for business KEPCO is striving to reduce environmental pollution caused by business cars. In 2013, among 1,775 vehicles for business owned by KEPCO, the number of compact cars and eco-friendly cars such as hybrid cars were 1,460 (82.3%), and we will maintain the ratio of 2011 2012 2013 possession of eco-friendly vehicles at 80% and over. The amount of fuel use by vehicles in 2013 is 6,169,000 ℓ and fuel efficiency is 7.58 km/l. • Water data: Water supply used in buildings (do91.2% 94.2% 96.9% * The current condition of eco-friendly vehicles in 2012, which is reported in the report for 2013, was a total of 1,462 cars, but this mestic business sites) data omitted the number of electric cars (10 cars), so in the report for 2014, it was revised to 1,472 cars. • Errors in the data on the amount of water usage of last year are modified. Changes in the percentage of eco-friendly vehicles among business cars 2011 2012 2013 Category 2011 2012 2013 Business cars 1,753 1,821 1,775 Eco-friendly cars 1,437 1,472 1,460 Compact cars 1,377 1,402 1,383 Hybrid cars 60 60 67 Electric cars 10 10 Percentage of eco-friendly vehicles (%) 82.0 80.8 82.3 58 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 59 DMA Coping with Climate Change PERFORMANCE Carbon reduction BACKGROUND ISSUES International movement to reduce greenhouse emissions has just 46% Ratio of GHG emission reduction begun. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) under compared to the average emission in 2007-2009 the UN proposed the goal for reducing greenhouse gas to 40-70% as compared to 1990 by 2050. Especially, as priority was put on Goal for 2014: 40% and over the electricity sector, global electricity companies are facing Renewable the major challenge. The same goes to the domestic condition. Opening information energy As greenhouse emissions in the process of producing electricity on carbon status account for 34% of total emissions in the country, the implementation of emission trading system is a major risk in increasing cost for supplying energy. However, crisis is the opposite side of an opportunity. Big changes such as developing 3rd rank Energy and utility sectors 220 billion won in the project for disclosing low-carbon clean technology, expanding renewable energy, and carbon information Cost for implementing RPS obligation performing smart energy consumption will create new markets Goal for 2014: Goal for 2014: and profit sources. Based on responding to financial risks caused 2nd rank 500 billion won by climate change, developing and operating business for lowEmission carbon clean technology, we need to create electricity with low trading QUANTITATIVE GOAL 27cases cost, high efficiency and low carbon. Goal for reducing GHG emission (2020): 26% and over compared to the BAU by 2020 Ratio of implementing RPS PROGRESS obligation (2022): 10% Cases for registering CDM business for UN in total Cases for registering Strategy CDM business for UN (2018): • Expanding renewable energy, carrying out business and Goal for 2014: 28 cases & over in total developing low-carbon clean technology 28 cases • Realizing technology for reducing energy consumption by combining electricity with ICT QUALITATIVE Capability GOAL • Establishing an organization in charge of coping with climate change • Building capability for technology reducing greenhouse emissions and a system for carbon asset management Climate change is both a crisis and an opportunity. With the RPS system and emission trading system, Activity which will be implemented from 2015, KEPCO will • Implementing the management system for national goal to reduce maximize its capability to reduce carbon and increase greenhouse gas and verifying greenhouse emissions by the Ministry of Environment its synergy effects based on company-wide cooperation. • Establishing and operating company-wide portfolio for reducing With these efforts, we will proactively implement greenhouse emissions systems and policies on reducing emission by securing • Opening data on carbon emissions and policies by participating low-carbon technology and power source to achieve our goals. in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) KEPCO will create clean energy for the earth and the humanity. Assessment • Achieving the goal of exceeding 800,000 tons of carbon dioxide compared to the goal for 2013 • Acquiring Carbon Trust Standard, a global certificate for reducing GHG emissions Plan • Establishing a master plan for reducing GHG emissions to achieve a position within the top five in the global utility for environmental capability • 2 trillion and 800 billion won in total for investing in clean technology and approximately 9 million tons in reduced carbon with CDM business by 2020 60 KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 61 Strategies for coping Materializing the Most Valuable Green KEPCO Korea has no obligation to reduce GHG emission in accordance with Kyoto Protocol, which took effect in 2005, but has strived to Greenhouse gas Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) Implemented from 2012, Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) system mandates provision of renewable energy by certain ratio with climate change reduce the emission by establishing its goals voluntarily. In terms of generation (switch) sector, we have the goal of reducing GHG emission by 26.4% compared to the BAU emission in 2005 by 2020. Based on the master plan for 2013, KEPCO is presenting the reduction system and among a total generation amount to reduce greenhouse gas and expand renewable energy. The system is applied to generation operators (13 companies in 2013) with 500MW and over in the scale of facility. KEPCO preserved 220 billion won from generation vision of “The Most Valuable Green KEPCO” and proactively participating in the achievement of goals for reducing the emission as a global eco-energy group. We have set the goal for reducing emission by 40% and over compared to the base year (2007-2009) by its impact subsidiaries, caused by the implementation of RPS in 2013, and in case of non-compliance with conditions, penalty is imposed on subsidiaries. The ratio of mandatory provision of RPS is expected to increase from 2.5% in 2013 to 5% in 2017 and 10% in 2022. 2020, and the company will continuously carry out carbon management by making business for GHG emission reduction technology and creating new growth engines. Emission trading system Emission trading system assigns emission rights to companies and allows them to emit greenhouse gas within a certain scope, while permitting trade with other companies for surplus and excess. Companies with large amount of reduction cost need to purchase Master plan for reducing GHG emission emission rights, while companies with low amount of reduction cost gain profit by selling remained emission rights. In 2011, KEPCO reduced GHG emission by 30% through applying the technology for collecting and recycling SF6 gas charging substation and distriKorea’s best green energy company Vision bution facilities. The company continuously put great efforts to reduce electricity use in vehicle fuels and in the company building. The Most Valuable Green KEPCO Thanks to these efforts, we secured the early reduction amount of GHG emission under the existing national greenhouse gas energy management system, and this amount of reduction will be utilized in supplementing GHG emission trading rights, which can be Reducing 40% compared to the level of 2007-2009 (standard emissions) by 2020 insufficient after the introduction of emission trading system in 2015. Goals Creating new growth engines by carrying out business for technology reducing greenhouse gas Establishing eco-friendly corporate image by reinforcing carbon management Available Overview of emission trading system for purchase Surplus Available emissions for sale Dealing with government Developing and applying Strengthening carbon manSurplus regulations effectively and technologies for reducing agement and enhancing an emissions Actual Strategies preparing strategies for greenhouse gas eco-friendly corporate image Permissible Permissible emissions negotiation emissions emissions Actual emissions Predicting BAU and carbon Making a SF6-Free environEstablishing Carbon Asset emission level predicted by ment Management System Company A Company B the government Preparing measures to mini(CAMS) Quota > Emissions Quota < Emissions Calculating emissions that mize greenhouse emissions Building integrated manageare predicted and possible Introducing renewable ment system for greenhouse to reduce energy generation and ecogas and energy Tasks Preparing strategies for friendly vehicles Acquiring global certificate negotiation with the current Establishing Carbon-Free (Carbon Trust Standard, government Islands CTS) and conducting Analyzing limitation costs for promotion reduction and establishing System for carbon asset management reduction plans -S ubstation SF6 emission/collection Value chain Generation KEPCO is leading the development of technology in CO2 capture and storage by doing research for and proactively demonstrating -D  istribution SF6 emission/collection F uel amount used by remote generation Joint response for climate change by electricity group companies Reducing GHG business models with GENCOs and Korea CCS Association. We own the world-class wet and dry absorbents and identified its best quality as the cost for capturing CO2 was $30~40/tCO2, compared to an average cost in the OECD countries ($60~80/tCO2). The comKEPCO and GENCOs recognize climate change issues as a crisis and a new opportunity for the energy industry and jointly deal with facilities F uel amount used by vehicles climate change based on the cooperation with group companies. In June 2008, the organization for joint movement was expanded emissions pany is operating two demonstration plant units with 10MW in wet and dry sectors, respectively. Our post CO2 combustion capture and storage plant with 10MW in dry sector, built in Hadong in 2014, is the first and largest in the world, and the plant is expected F uel amount used for heating and electricity into the Technology Climate Cooperation Committee with CTO of KEPCO as chairman, and under the committee, we launched the in the company Committee for Climate Change and Committee for renewable energy. To reduce GHG emission and create a synergy effect in deto contribute to the development of technology for commercializing CCS and the reduction of greenhouse emissions significantly. veloping clean energy, we are implementing joint investment for R&D and prepared a roadmap for joint technology development by Calculation of building a new cooperative system for technology development in 2013. The company has established short and mid-term cooperaTransmission lines and substations GHG emission As a result of developing eco-friendly technology continuously even before the beginning of mandatory system to reduce GHG emistive measures for a total of 21 technology research such as CCS (Carbon Capture and Storage), Smart Grid and Micro Grid; we will Process for collecting SF6 gas invest more than 5% of yearly sales in R&D. In 2014, we organized a joint taskforce for dealing with emission trading system and sions, KEPCO applied the technology enhancing the SF6 gas collection rate from 80% to 97% in 2011, which reduced GHG emissions deliberated effects and economics on electricity bills. We are proactively consulting with the Ministry of Environment and Ministry by 30%. We will continuously reduce the leak of SF6 by reducing volume of switch (240kg/unit) in case of discarding or checking of Trade, Industry, and Energy to establish the system successfully and prepare practical measures for emission trading system. electricity facilities to reduce the use of SF6 gas for charging transmission and distribution facilities, which account for 80% of GHG KEPCO’s integrated inventory for data on GHG emissions. In the long term, the company will expand eco-friendly switch facilities, which will be replaced with solid insulators (Dry emission Establishing carbon management system Air, N2 Gas), to achieve the zero level of SF6 gas by 2030. KEPCO has completed the basic research for the introduction of CAMS (Carbon Asset Management System), a system managing Writing the assignment for emission trading Return Collect/Purify Consumption carbon emission rights and analyzing company-wide GHG emission condition. In 2014, we are establishing integrated inventory for (Existing plan + plans for new construction) real-time based monitoring of greenhouse energy data. The inventory will analyze data on emission trading, support the decision KEPCO, carrying out technology development and demonstration for Smart Grid to ensure reasonable electricity consumption, has making process, and implement the function managing greenhouse data of electricity group companies by connecting with the just begun the establishment of infrastructure from 2013. We will invest 1 trillion and 200 billion won in the establishment of AdAnalyzing emission trading and simulation CAMS of GENCOs. vanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) for two-way demand control by 2020. The company is also carrying out demonstration projects (Decision Support System) in charging electric vehicles and Micro Grid. The investments for supplying high-efficiency devices and electricity control systems in On-site based greenhouse gas reduction management 2013 were about 67 billion won, and we will invest 540 billion won in total by 2017. With these investments, it is expected to reduce Managing the current condition of GHG reducGHG emissions as well as create new markets with demand control business. KEPCO is reinforcing GHG emission control for each business branch and promoting technology development. For this goal, we took tion business a step away from the existing system of the headquarters managing company-wide GHG emission, and reducing energy usage on Recycle Store business sites; business sites will launch internal assessment index and operate it for a pilot test from 2015 in efforts to reduce GHG emissions and will be induced to develop GHG emission reduction technology and to innovate suiting the conditions of each -A pplication and support for emission trading business site. assignment -S upport for data requested by stakeholders to disclose information 62 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 63 GHG emissions Achieving the goal to reduce GHG emissions KEPCO is proactively leading the national roadmap for reducing greenhouse gas by 30% of Business As Usual (BAU) by 2020. As a In 2013, KEPCO reinforced the efforts for managing data on indirect GHG emissions and reducing emissions. We donated a total of 5,154 OA facilities, including 2,311 desktop PCs of employees who finished a training course, and with this donation, we reduced management result, we reduced emissions by 46% compared to the average emission in 2007-2009. Major element for such a great performance in five years lies in the fact that the company focused on developing technology collecting SF6 gas, which accounts for about 80% of 8.4 tons of emissions possibly generated from discarding these facilities. GHG emissions from business trips and commuting are reduced by operating video conferences, online education for human resources development center and the use of VPN. In 2013, a total greenhouse emissions, and applied the technology to business sites from 2011. Thanks to these performances of KEPCO, the total of 180 tons of GHG emission was reduced by holding a total of 717 video conferences, and not having to move for attending company was recorded as the 2nd rank in greenhouse emissions reduction among companies included in the government’s target meetings. A total of 389 tons of GHG emission was reduced by implementing 336 courses as online education, not group educamanagement for greenhouse gas reduction as of 2012. (The result of 2013 was not published yet) tion, among 537 courses. With the VPN system, the company provides employees the environment where they can work at home if necessary; as a result of records for using the VPN system in 2013, a total of 121,119 cases of using the system reduced 6.5 tons of GHG emission. Through restraining domestic and overseas business trips that are not necessary or urgent, long-distance business Performances for the target management for greenhouse gas reduction (2012~) (Unit: million ton) trips decreased from 247,659 cases in 2012 to 82,653 cases in 2013, while overseas business trips decreased from 1,789 cases in GHG emissions trend (Unit: CO2-eq) Category Standard year 2012 2013 2012 to 1,620 cases in 2013. Thanks to these practices, we reduced relevant GHG emission by 87,000 tons in 2012, and 65,000 tons (2007-2009 on average) in 2013, which reduced the emission by 25%. 295 Permissible amount 2.59 2.55 2.21 279 CDM business Emissions 2.59 1.26 1.40 KEPCO will reduce GHG emission by 30% compared to the predicted emission by 2020 in accordance with the national GHG emisExcessive reduction compared to permission △ 1.29 △ 0.81 217 sion reduction objective; the company is carrying out CDM business at home and abroad to deal with carbon emission trading sys203 tem more proactively, which will be implemented from 2015. As of late 2013, we registered 26 cases of overseas CDM and one case • Management system for goals was implemented from 2012. of domestic CDM to UN. In particular, the result of first reduction business in the CDM business for reducing SF6 gas in domestic • Targets for the national management system for goals exclude small-sized business sites with 3,000 tons of emissions or below. distribution sector is being verified, and the economics of the expected secondary business are being deliberated. 144 130 124 Current condition for GHG emission 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Scope 1, 2 Global certificate CTS (Carbon Trust Standard) Efforts and performances by KEPCO to reduce GHG emission were recognized by Carbon Trust, non-profit Category Scope 1 Scope 2 Types of gas 2011 109 15 for GHG emission group in the U.K. with the aim of changing into sustainable low-carbon economy, and Korea Productivity Center (KPC); in 2013, KEPCO acquired Carbon Trust Standard (CTS), a global certificate for carbon manage<Notes> 2012 117 13 CO2, SF6, CH4,N2O Category for GHG emission by KEPCO 2013 131 13 reduction ment. In 2015, the company will apply for the assessment of recertification, which will assess the company with more strict standards after two years of the initial certification. • Scope 1 (Direct emission): SF6 gas for insula• Emission factors: Basic emission factors in the 2006 IPCC national inventory guidelines CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) tion at substations and distribution facilities • Methodology: Adopting the methodology for collecting data on activity (Article 44) in the guideline for the national operation of Following the report in 2013, KEPCO disclosed the company’s policies and carbon emission data to global investors by submitting • S cope 2 (Indirect emission): Electricity and management for goals of greenhouse gas energy CDP Climate Change Report in 2014. Especially, in the report of 2014, we enhanced transparency in data on greenhouse gas by heating steam used at company buildings • All business branches including small-sized offices calculating and disclosing emission data on Scope 3 and expressed the willingness to manage GHG emission in the entire process • S cope 3 (Indirect emission): Emission from business trips, commuting, and products of production activity. sold or purchased Scope 3 Category Scope 3 (2013) Type Service for purchased products Other energy (electricity Commuting by Business trips (purchased electricity amount) amount for sales) employees Emission amount 21,981 21,840 0.7 6.5 (10,000 tons) INTERVIEW Lee Yong-wook, Director of Sinhwa Engineering • Emission factors Purchased products (purchased electricity) and electricity for sales: Corporate Value Chain (scope 3) Commuting and business trips by employees: LCI DB and data by Statistics Korea • Methodology (common): Adopting the Accounting and Reporting Standard You verified the For companies, greenhouse gas reduction is Reducing greenhouse emissions, which cause greenhouse emissometimes considered risks and costs. To make climate change, may currently be considered as sions of KEPCO in this as an opportunity, not a risk, what do you a major task for every company; especially, enGHG emission intensity 2013. Please assess think is the value that companies should keep ergy utility companies like KEPCO feel a heavier the company’s perforin mind? responsibility. What kinds of efforts should Emission intensity Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 mance and efforts in KEPCO make to reduce greenhouse emissions? Emission amount (10,000 tons) 131 12 42,828 reducing greenhouse Carbon Emission Trading will be implemented from Intensity (ton/100 million won) 2.42 0.22 792 emissions. 2015; the time has come for granting economic Greenhouse emissions by KEPCO can be divided Total emission intensity (tCO2/100 million won) 2.66 (1,439,665 tCO2 in total emission amount / 54 trillion and 37.8 billion won in sales) values on the activity for reducing greenhouse emisinto two, a sector in operating own buildings (20%) About 80% of greenhouse emission in KEPCO is from sions. Remarkable performances for greenhouse gas and SF6 gas for transmission lines and substations using SF6 gas. Thanks to various efforts to enhance reduction can be achieved by sharing company-wide (80%). As for buildings, insulation performance and collection rates of the gas, the result of emission awareness for the necessity in reducing emissions. efficiency in air-conditioning and heating devices reduction was remarkable compared to the base year. Therefore, personnel in charge of managing business and electricity devices need to be improved, while in However, in checking and demolishing electricity sites need to be fostered, and by focusing on them, terms of transmission lines and substations, SF6 gas devices containing SF6 gas, risks for increasing the company needs to provide education programs needs to be reduced by putting efforts in research and greenhouse emissions cannot be dismissed. Discrete and shift awareness. development for substitutes with mid and long-term measures need to be in place. perspectives. 64 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 65 DMA Creating a People-oriented Work Environment PERFORMANCE Diversity BACKGROUND ISSUES Company’s sustainability begins from “people.” With increased instability and 28% Ratio of female employees in the fierce competition among global electricity companies, KEPCO is recognizing the recruitment for new employees fact that competiveness in executives and employees directly leads to the company’s competitiveness. Meanwhile, trends and perspectives for good Goal for 2014: 20% and over for each stage of employees and recruitment are changing: Beyond a massive scale of uniform recruitment recruitment only focusing on certificates and English proficiency, companies Training and Safety and adopt various recruitment methods for high school graduates, professional and education health 87.8 hours 0.025% experienced candidates and local labor force for overseas business, opening a new era of employment. Practices for fostering the best and talented are also evolving, including establishing capability models meeting self-development needs for executives and employees, reinforcing corporate competitiveness, and providing customized education. As well as rationalizing performance assessment Hours for training and education Accident rate and compensation system, companies should strengthen the foundation by striking for each executive and employee a balance between work and life to create pleasant and happy workplaces, Goal for 2014: Goal for 2014: 0.023% establishing cooperative labor and management relation and securing safety. 90 hours and below Sustainability of KEPCO begins with people and completes with people. QUANTITATIVE GOAL PROGRESS Percentage of female employees (2020): 20% and above Strategy • Open employment and designing programs for fostering the best and talented Hours for training and education meeting various needs, rationalizing performance assessment and compensation with for each executive and employee connecting management strategies (2020): 100 hours • Establishing and carrying out strategies for developing labor and management relation, introducing various systems for striking a balance between work and life Accident rate (2020): Capability 0.02% and below • Promoting early adaption by new employees by carrying out suitability assessment for recruitment methods, establishing capability development system for executives and employees and performance-focused remuneration system • Preventing labor-management conflicts based on the diagnosis for the level of QUALITATIVE cooperation, strengthening cooperation efforts, and operating life cycle-based welfare GOAL programs Activity People mean competitiveness. •Leading to socially fair recruitment for women, high school graduates and regional KEPCO will raise competitiveness in our global brand workers, systemizing necessary capability and need-based education programs by ensuring open recruitment, focusing on capability •Reflecting opinions from employees to all stages of MBO assessment and disclosing the result, strengthening communication based on coaching for high-level positions and not discriminating applicants based on academic •Making a reasonable group agreement based on law and principles, enhancing background, age, and gender, and expanding the awareness for flexible working system and proactively recommending to use the opportunity for education. system We will support the dreams of youth by seeking new Assessment businesses in the overseas markets and emerging •Settling open-recruitment models, receiving the certificate for the best HRD in the technology and creating new jobs. public sector by the Ministry of Education and Ministry of Security and Public Administration (November 2013) As people bring competitiveness, safety means life itself. •Improving the satisfaction level by executives and employees for the company, KEPCO will secure the value of “safety,” which is so communication, cooperative labor-management relation, etc. important that nothing can substitute it. •Ensuring fairness in the MBO assessment and enhancing the acceptability of subjects Plan •Expanding open recruitment and reinforcing working-level education to help high school graduates to adapt to working conditions •Increasing the percentage of incentives compared to annual salary continuously (about 23%) •Rolling strategies for developing labor-management relation, preparing for introducing new systems such as Smart Work and telecommuting 66 KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 67 Open recruitment KEPCO always strives to secure the best and talented human resources, which are the basic requirements for the company’s competitiveness and sustainable growth, and continuously expands the recruitment size to fulfill our social responsibility. We are also Best and talented employees for KEPCO in various ways securing new employees to enhance the vitality in the company and create sustainable growth engines. With the goal of becoming the world’s best energy group in the global market with fierce competition, the followings are the global KEPCO’s idealized type of employees with indomitable challenging spirit Recruitment of new employees as the largest scale for public company Category Number of Notes GENERALIST ENTREPRENEUR VALUE CREATOR PASSIONATE CHALLENGE persons Global Pioneer Permanent New employees by open 697 College graduates (487), employees recruitment (general position) High school graduates (210) Professionals with experience 15 International lawyers, professionals in international finance, Systemized education for reinforcing capability ICT and generation, speech writers, etc. KEPCO establishes and operates a capability model for managing customized education courses for each level of capability. We Researchers 19 Target Recruiting (Advertisement for prestigious colleges provide various education programs by systemizing common job capability and leadership skills based on the company’s vision, stratat home and abroad, and academic journals, etc.) egies for growth and analysis for internal and external environments to overcome the gap in capability among employees. We are Others 88 Skills position (technology), etc. supporting self-development and improvement in job capability by vitalizing e-learning programs in humanities, leadership and job Youth interns 1,387 Recruitment-connection type (324), Recruitment-priority type(1,063) courses. The company is operating various language learning programs by utilizing telephone and the Internet to strengthen global capability, and global challenge course to encourage new employees to set new goals and stimulate their passion. Performance for operating youth internship As expanding the recruitment for high school graduates, including open recruitment and recruitment-connecting internship, to carry program out open recruitment focusing on capability, not personal background, KEPCO has experienced a significant increase in the number System for capability-building education Global challenge by new employees of high school graduate applicants for the last three years. Plus, by expanding business sectors including overseas business, we can (On-site education for the overseas electricity industry) Category Performance conduct a massive scale of recruitment, and thus socially fair recruitment is continuously increasing in all areas, such as the employTotal number of interns (person) 1,387 ment for the disabled, youth, women, regional applicants and human resources in natural sciences and engineering. We will lead Permanent-job-turned interns (person) 204 Job education Category the open recruitment by continuing the recruitment process based on capability and ability and carry out socially fair employment Change Overseas Change Compared to recruitment 14.7 Leadership e-learning by employing various social members including high school graduates, youth interns, regional talented people and female workers. management sector rate (%) for interns Office New Technology work technology Compared to recruitment 24.9 As for supplementing personnel, we diversified the channels for securing the best and talented and expanded the recruitment for lofor new employees cal applicants by employing workers with extensive experience in professional areas such as overseas business, law and patent and 1st position carrying out target recruiting for R&D personnel in prestigious universities at home and abroad, beyond the past universal massive recruitment. Also, we have expanded the employment of local residents at oversea work sites. The company is providing opportuniManagers Capability for leadership ties to reinforce the capability in employment as much as we can by operating a youth internship program with 1,387 participants. As youth interns that can be changed into permanent jobs were a total of 204 (25% of new employees), which exceeded the government’s goal (20% of new employees), KEPCO is continuously striving to create more jobs for the youth. 2nd position Labor-management relation/integrity management Manager Medium for sales manager Happy humanities class Performance for recruiting local employees in Performance for recruiting domestic new employees (Unit: person) business Education for internalizing core values major overseas business areas (Unit: person) Training trend creators 2011 2012 2013 Category 2011 2012 2013 Digital 1st stage (2012) Job capability Category Total New employees Total New employees Total New employees Local culture 3rd position substation Current affairs on management The Philippines 188 194 319 Professional 19,303 155 19,278 683 19,644 819 Entry-level capability Jordan 9 7 17 manager Expense for sales High school graduates 8,978 42 8,693 197 8,609 238 Recognizing risks / Sympathizing for each job Demand control Developing with the needs for change FACTS* Mexico 15 43 48 resources Local talented workers 11,633 55 11,658 303 11,743 350 Female workers 2,830 36 2,967 214 3,151 229 M.I.T (Mind Innovation Training) Connecting New employees * Reasons for selecting major overseas business Self-leadership decentralized Financing 4th position The disabled 516 5 508 10 519 17 Education for a total of 13,016 areas: Business sites which KEPCO manages proacelectricity grid employees tively among overseas local business sites Workers majored in the natural 11,891 49 11,991 362 12,236 400 Law on science and engineering Smart Grid contracts 2nd stage (2013) Human resource Broadening education opportunity KEPCO reinforces the internal capability of company members by encouraging self-development and broadening education opportuInternalizing DNA for change and development nity. For these goals, we are providing feedback and developing education programs based on the process of developing capability and identifying needs for training and education. With the introduction of a system with personal education target, we are continuinnovation Education for internalizing core values KEPCO is continuously operating education courses for change and innovation based on staged roadmaps to share core values ously expanding education opportunities connecting it with personal MBO (Management by Objectives) and group-based internal T.C.T (Trend Creator Training) among the entire employees. With this activity, we are leading the innovation of corporate culture and vitalization of communication Averaged hours for performance assessment. Education for 4,263 high-rank positions by gathering internal capability in the ever-changing global management environment. education per capita (hours) 87.8 (2013) Annual budget for education (100 million won) Number of trainees for each year (person) Supporting lifelong learning KEPCO helps would-be retirees to start a second life by implementing outplacement education. We are enhancing accessibility and Category 2011 2012 2013 Category 2011 2012 2013 59.7 (2012) 3rd stage (2014) efficiency by performing blended learning with online and off-line education for detailed subjects, including lifelong design, launch54.5 (2011) Total budget 21,209 19,618 20,515 High-level executives 966 1,884 1,969 ing new business/reemployment, field training, etc. We also provide customized support for retirement by assigning a personal Budget for Internal 78 64 84 Entry-level executives 3,030 6,270 5,991 consultant for each trainee. Expanding on-site practice for Averaged expenses for education External 92 205 204 Employees 8,106 14,954 12,517 change and innovation education per capita (1,000 won) Total 170 269 288 Total 12,102 23,108 20,477 1,467 (2013) T.C.T Action (To-be Culture) Fostering 284 leaders for practice 1,394 (2012) 881 (2011) 68 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 69 Assessment and Human resources management (MBO, etc.) KEPCO’s performance assessment system is composed of achievement assessment based on MBO and capability test; all employees Pleasant and happy Realizing performance-based labor-management culture with virtuous cycle compensation are assessed by the same procedure and methods. As for achievement assessment, KPI (Key Performance Indicator), which each group needs to achieve for a year, is established by the deliberation of Management Assessment Committee at the beginning of workplace the year, and the goal for personal achievement is set by consultation with superiors. Based on the yearly coaching, process for Vitalizing Good achieving goals is managed, and at the end of the year, performance assessment is carried out by considering the importance and communication workplace difficulty of performance. Performance assessment Capability assessment is composed of common capability, leadership capability, and job capability considering the best and talented Culture of labor union for mutual prosperity Personal assessment Group assessment model of KEPCO, and according to each level of positions, 8-10 levels for each capability elements are estimated. To prevent arbitrary KEPCO is operating the Union Shop system, by which employees are granted the qualification of labor union memReinforcing assessment, it is conducted twice by a direct superior and the head of a department; according to five assessment levels (S, A, B, C, Forming a bers upon entrance into the company in accordance with a collective agreement. Within the extent of law regarding consensus voluntary D), relative assessment is carried out. The result of assessment is applied to the score in the promotion, and in case of calculation cooperation labor affairs, such as the Labor Standard Act and Trade Union and labor Relations Adjustment Act, the company of incentive payment for executive employees, 90% of group assessment and 10% of MBO are applied. The result is also utilized as guarantees working conditions, activities by the labor union, collective bargaining and agreement, strikes, exempdata for overall personnel management such as other modifications of annual salary and appointment of education staff. tion of working hours (time-off system), etc. As of late 2013, the total number of members in the labor union is 14,748 employees, and the rate of employees joining the labor union is 72%. Differentiation Fair and reasonable salary system Increasing Labor-management Differentiation of satisfaction & culture with cooperative Laborof performanceThe compensation consists of basic salary, increase in salary, and performance-driven salary. We differentiate salaries based on rewards by contribmanagement basic salary KEPCO is making labor-management culture for mutual prosperity by reinforcing communication and cooperation and value-creating based salary uting to company’s virtuous cycle cooperation ability and performance assessed through MBO and group assessment. To reinforce fair salary system based on employees’ perperformance between labor union and management. We stipulate the duty of report and notification of changes for management formances, percentage of incentive by yearly performance assessment (23%) is expanded, while various internal assessment sysin the collective bargaining. In 2013, various issues such as preventing safety accidents were discussed 1,005 times tems (Power Incentive, Spot Bonus, etc.) are being vitalized. In 2013, basic annual salary for new college graduate employees is in the consultations with the headquarters and labor-management committee, and meetings for discussing current The result of this The result of this 29,651,000 won, and the percentage of initial salary of new college graduate employees is 243% compared to the minimum income year’s assessment year’s assessment issues in management was held 340 times and were a forum for sharing current affairs in management. We have Overcoming in Korea. As for overseas business sites, we strive to maintain fairness in income and promotion for employees who were employed Creating current continuously differentiated reinforced two-way communication by operating various labor-management communication channels such as the management locally. Especially, the company is fulfilling its social responsibility of protecting human rights of local employees by complying with management affects and difsalary once. CEO-led “communication by letters” and fostering 4,263 communication leaders. Based on these methods of comperformances issues ferentiates salary local laws and systems. during terms. munications and cooperation, the company has created major performances including stabilizing electricity supply, solving management deficit and current management affairs, and fulfilling social responsibility. Initial salary of new employees at major overseas business sites (Unit: 10,000 won) Enhancing Fulfilling corporate social 2011 2012 2013 image responsibility Initial salary of domestic new employees Country Legal minimum Initial wage for Legal minimum Initial wage for Legal minimum Initial wage for wage new employees wage new employees wage new employees HAPPY WORK PLACE legal minimum wage The Philippines 24 34 25 34 25 34 initial salary of new employees Jordan 30 163 30 163 30 163 Mexico 16 108 16 108 15 117 Gender equality and family-oriented culture (Unit: 10,000 won) KEPCO ensures a non-discriminatory compensation and promotion for both male and female employees, and as of 2013, initial salary 2,965 of new college graduate employees is 29,651,000 won for both genders. With efforts for fostering female leaders, the number of 2,844 2,883 female managers, which was only seven in total before 2000, continuously increased to 178 as of July 2014. KEPCO is operating the retirement salary system to secure the foundation for a stabilized life in preparing for an aging society; as of late 2013, the number of applicants for personal retirement benefits account is 1,055 employees, and the net worth is 93.6 billion won. 1,149 1,219 Agreement ceremony for mentoring with newly At a happy and pleasant workplace, executives and employees find their balance between work and life, and naturally, the produc1,084 appointed female managers tion of a company enhances as well. KEPCO is supporting employees to strike a balance between work and life by operating various family-friendly programs, such as systems for supporting pregnancy and childcare, to create a family-oriented culture. To encourage pregnancy, we provide various leaves, such as leaves for checking fetus, parental leave for spouse, and leave for treating infertility; Percentage of executives and employees who are expected to retire within the next 5 to 10 years for each type of job and region in 2008, we established the company’s nursery facility (KEPCO Bitsarang Daycare Center) and are providing childcare services for 2011 2012 2013 100 children of the employees’. Category Number (person) Expected number of retirees (person) Percentage (%) Changes in female employees (Unit: person) Within 5 years 2,946 15.5 Year 2011 2012 2013 Performance for operating various systems for protecting motherhood (Unit: person, %) Domestic 19,012 Within 10 years 3,371 17.7 Employment of 36 214 229 Welfare contents for Total 6,317 33.2 Category 2011 2012 2013 KEPCO B2E Mall permanent positions (23%) (31%) (30%) each theme Within 5 years 15 2.4 Maternity leave before and after giving birth 180 187 151 Appointment of 7 31 49 Overseas 632 Within 10 years 63 10.0 Parental leave 200 217 197 executives -P  artnership for the Partnership with Total 78 12.3 Infertility leave 5 6 10 lowest price online 200 themes -P  roviding the best Self-development, Within 5 years 2,961 15.1 Employees working for a shorter time for childcare 2 3 12 price compared to culture, health, etc. Total 19,644 Within 10 years 3,434 17.5 System for adjusting commuting time to guarantee hours for childcare 2 3 4 market price Performance of operating flexible working Total 6,395 32.6 Retention rate by male and female employees after parental leave 97.0% 97.2% 99.49% Happiness systems (Unit: person) Charging Station (Based on Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 LifecycleWeb) Participation Providing various life cycle-based welfare programs We have launched various types of flexible working systems, including commuting system with different time; to encourage free use (plan) based welfare by employees KEPCO has launched the welfare system meeting various needs from each employee and is operating the system reasonably to Flexible 21 2,241 3,000 of parental leave, the company established the “Pool System for Substitutes” consisting of applicants and retirees so that psychoprograms and their families spread a family-oriented culture and to make a healthy corporate culture. We provide a systemized platform through web-based cylogical burden of emptying positions due to pregnancy and childcare can be lifted, and excessive works are minimized. commuting F inancial consultaMarket for direct ber welfare center and various life cycle-based welfare programs by making strategic partnerships with external service companies hours tion, marriage, trade among family such as shopping malls, self-development, and tourism sectors. To celebrate the beginning of new employees, we have invited parents and families of new employees to the company from 2011. Flexible 20 41 44 150 clothing, funeral members We hold a ceremony for entering the company with families, and operate the “Good father” play school with children in five regions. service, etc. Sharing information working The company operates “Family Day” to encourage employees to go back home early without working overtime and send celebraon travel at business hours tory messages to employees who are expected to give birth and gratitude messages to parents of employees, who turn sixty one branches in the country * Measures for implementing remote working system is or seventy one. being designed (2014~) 70 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 71 Human rights KEPCO recognizes the importance of human rights and implements policies to respect human rights of all the executives, employees, and customers. In 1996, the company clarified the principles of respecting human rights and prohibiting discrimination by enacting Safety and Health vent safety accidents such as falls and electric shocks for employees of cooperative companies; in 2013, we remotely checked the measures for safety of construction sites (78,776 Process of using the system dealing with and announcing the “Ethical Code of Acts by KEPCO” and after signing up for the UN Global Compact in 2005 for the first time as a Korean company, we comply with the principles on human rights among ten major UNGC principles and submit the report for Management times in total) and strictly checked whether business branches implemented safety measures by carrying out special diagnosis (35,436 times in total) for construction sites with the Safety complaints on personnel affairs complying with ten major UNGC principles every year. In the same year, we also enacted and announced the Sustainable Doctrines Patrol team in charge for the headquarter and business branches. based on four directions, including economy, environment, society, and people, and after the announcement, we are carrying out management respecting human rights. Plus, with the company’s internal regulations, we operate the system and relevant process Safety and Health Management System Prevention of electric shocks of the public Filing complaints dealing with complaints on human resources affairs to respect human rights of executives and employees; in 2013, we solved one KEPCO has verified its global-level safety and health management at home and abroad by To prevent electric shock accidents caused by touching electricity lines, KEPCO selects variEntering employees case of complaint related to human rights. launching the safety and health management system (K-OHSMS 180001) to all business ous types of electric shock accidents based on themes of the causes: electricity accidents branches and 587 cooperative firms and acquiring certificates from accredited institutions. by transporting for moving and outdoor activity from March to May and flooding by typhoon In September 2013, we conducted a pilot test to adopt Employee Assistance Program (EAP) targeting 924 employees. The EAP is We utilize the guideline for safety management activities of executives, employees, and and monsoon season and electric shocks at construction sites from June to September. With Consultation on coma program that helps to reduce stress caused by emotional labor by providing consultation on psychology, law, finance, and family cooperative firms by enacting guidelines and procedure on safety and health management these themes, we are implementing various promotion activities for safety by using various plaints matters; it is expected that we will take a more systemized approach for human rights based on this pilot test. suitable for the standards for the system and carry out various activities such as internal media (broadcast, newspaper, SNS, etc.) Thanks to these performances, the company reMember for dealing with diagnosis, education, and consulting for cooperative firms by fostering 60 safety experts. ceived the presidential citation for electricity safety culture by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, complaints Meanwhile, KEPCO operates a center for dealing with complaints on sexual harassment in the headquarters and business branches and Energy in October 2013. to take measures for preventing sexual harassment. Service representatives at each center are composed of one male and one Expanding safety and health culture female employee, respectively; a total of 494 employees were designated, and by launching education course for consultants and To spread the safety culture, KEPCO issues “Safety-Zine,” operates notice and alarm sysMedical management programs for executives and employees Taking a measure intensive course for dealing with complaints, the efficiency in complaint consultation is being enhanced. We are operating the tem for safety accidents, provides safety calendar and traffic sings, carries out self-diagnosis To prevent occupational diseases and promote health for executives and employees, KEPCO Staff/department for personnel affairs anonymous report system to spread culture of sexual harassment prevention at workplace, and in 2013, we conducted e-learning for web-based securing safety and conducts e-learning education. Every summer season as carries out special medical check-ups (blood tests) other than general examination every two education for the entire employee twice. Thanks to these efforts, KEPCO received the award as the best institution preventing sexual vulnerable period for safety, we strive to enhance awareness and communication on safety years, and for employees with a high possibility of being exposed to specific diseases, we harassment by the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family in November 2013. issues by designating period for stressing industrial safety and health (June, July), spreadoperate a non-smoking clinic and medical consultation center for metabolic syndrome by conNotifying about the result ing atmosphere for non-disaster and special activities for preventing accidents with labor necting adjacent community health care centers and enhance the satisfaction level of health In accordance with UN Framework and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, KEPCO will introduce every regulation union and holding company-wide meetings with managers in charge of safety and health management by launching programs for physical examination by Korea Occupational Safety Notice within 10 days required for management respecting human rights in the work process. We strictly comply with policies of Anti-corruption & Civil management. and Health Agency. As a swift response measure for safety and health risks at overseas busiRights Commission of Korea to protect the human rights of the people and consider the human rights and safety of local residents ness locations and for business trips, we have established the “Safety Guard System” and to be the most important in case of the construction of electricity facilities. Safety management on construction sites reinforced health management by consigning small-sized business branches (50 employees KEPCO established the monitoring system for construction sites on a real-time basis to preand below) with low level of health management to professional institutions. Best institution with measures for preventing sexual harassment (Ministry of Gender Equality and Employee satisfaction Statistics of safety accidents for the latest five years * ( ): Death toll Family, November 2013) Survey for employee satisfaction is conducted by email for the entire employees, and items for survey are composed of questions Best Award for Culture with on company’s vision, satisfaction level for company and job, personnel affairs (promotion, shift, assessment, incentive, education, Electricity Safety in Korea Category 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 etc.), communication and labor-management relation. With the survey, the company identifies the satisfaction level for each item, (Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Executives & National disaster rate (%) 0.70 0.69 0.65 0.59 0.48 Survey for satisfaction level by employees Energy, October 2013) (5-score scale) complaints and needs, and based on this verification, we reflect and utilize these results for the improvement of relevant systems employees People damaged by disasters (person) 11(5) 4(0) 4(2) 7(1) 5(3) and policy data. Disaster rate (%) 0.055 0.020 0.021 0.036 0.025 Contractors Disaster rate for public companies (%) 0.57 0.46 0.54 0.48 3.65 According to the result of survey for satisfaction level in 2013, satisfaction level for work increased thanks to reasonable personnel 3.53 People damaged by disasters (person) 317(13) 291(11) 174(7) 162(11) 123(6) 3.47 shift by implementing mileage points, fair promotion by conducting measures for rooting out unfair personnel measures, implementDisaster rate (%) 1.73 0.99 2.42 0.97 ing family-friendly systems protecting motherhood, and introducing flexible working systems such as commuting at different times. General Electric shock accidents (person) 2(1) 10(4) 6(3) 1(1) 4(1) In addition, satisfaction level by employees (5-score scale in total) increased to 3.65 in 2013 compared to 3.47 in 2012 thanks to various efforts to make a sound corporate culture, including operating vision portal for sharing and spreading company’s visions and public Lawsuits for disasters 1 1 1 2 3 2011 2012 2013 conducting a campaign for eradicating authoritarianism. SPECIAL FEATURE How to live as a superman and superwoman at KEPCO INTERVIEW Lee Sun-bae, Deputy head of department at KEPCO Do you find it difficult to strike a balance between father” play school, a program directed towards KEPa colleague at KEPCO. She might have had a difficult After the Sewol Ferry in a safe manner. Which points does KEPCO focus on to bring out work and life? KEPCO is operating various familyCO employees. His son, Deok-ryong, is literally his top time as a working mom who strives to endure hard incident in April 2014, KoThe answer to safety management lies in the site itpractical effects in safety and disaster manageoriented programs and systems to make an interesting priority as he got his son after nine years of marriage. times at work and at home. She said, “Being a workrean people are having a self. To reinforce on-site safety management, KEPCO ment? workplace to help strike a balance between work and However, he is not confident and wonders whether ing mom is definitely hard. As time passes, you have lively discussion on the has completed special inspection for 861 business The scope of targets for safety and disaster managelife. Let’s meet the supermen and superwomen workhe is a good father or not. Perhaps, most working famore tasks at work which you have responsibility for, safety issue. What is the branches including massive construction sites and mament is so extensive because electricity facilities are ing for KEPCO, who are struggling to take care of both thers in Korea have similar thoughts. What he realized and at the same time, you have more things to do at approach by KEPCO to sejor transformers for about one month. We changed delocated across the country, including generation faciliwork and life. through the “good father” play school is that one box home for your children. Domestic affairs cannot be cure the value of safety? crepit electricity facilities, supplementing firefighting ties in remote regions and steel towers in mountaincan be a great tool for various games, and that these an excuse for your work, and vice versa. I hope that To live up to customer needs facilities for electric power conduit pipe and complex ous regions. For these reasons, KEPCO will launch the “Where are you going, Dad?” Let’s simple games delighted his son. The lesson he learned we, all working moms, become both great and the government policies substations vulnerable to fire, and reinforcing facility management in charge of safety and disaster and disgo to the “good father” play school. from the school is to become a sincere friend for his members of KEPCO and great mothers at on reinforcing safety management, KEPCO will ensure safety by executing the budget for the existing facilipatch experts to deal with situations in a swift manner son, not necessarily a great father. home despite the struggle.” Although zero level of accidents in every disaster by establishties at an early stage. The company also launched the for local disasters for each unit of regions. We will Deputy Head of department, Son Gitough times are always following her, ing the safety management system for disasters with department in charge of dealing with disasters at the establish the safety and disaster management system jeong, who put finding inter“Are you a working mom who struggles between she has wisdom to share her story and the consideration of unprecedented and extreme situheadquarters and dispatched experts to prepare for by carrying out diagnosis and consulting by external esting things to do with work and life? Let’s be wiser as a good mom and understand other working moms. ations. The beginning and ending point of safety is the social and natural disasters and strengthen the safety experts, using high-quality equipment and devices, his son as his top an employee.” “site” itself. of on-site electricity facilities. In this way, the comchecking facilities by utilizing new technology and adpriority, applied pany reinforced the function of control tower in the vanced equipment, and implementing repetitive drills. for the “good Lee Jin-hwa, a deputy head of department, married Please explain KEPCO’s efforts to manage sites safety and disaster sector. 72 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 73 DMA Fulfilling our Responsibility for Sharing & Mutual Growth PERFORMANCE Performance BACKGROUND ISSUES We cannot easily imagine a world without electricity. 253.3 billion won Everyone should be allowed to enjoy the basic rights of using Amount welfare discount on electricity bills energy regardless of income level. As a representative energy Goal for 2014: 250 billion public company, KEPCO aims to provide “warm energy” by won and over conducting energy welfare activities. The social responsibility Mutual growth Supporting 62.85 that KEPCO should fulfill is expanded to the materialization of local communities ecosystem with mutual growth and cooperation. As small and Law on Transmission mid-sized companies are getting stronger and more jobs are &Substations were passed being created, the happiness of sharing is also increasing. million dollars in the National Assembly (December 2013) When we work together, we can go further; that’s why we have Performance of consultation * Law on compensation and support on export and support for overseas for the area near transmission and to carry out sharing and mutual growth practices with our marketing by SMEs transformation of electricity facilities stakeholders by supporting social companies, helping SMEs Goal for 2014: Compensation Goal for 2014: 90.05 to grow and creating jobs. million dollars for 90 billion won and over Social QUANTITATIVE contribution GOAL 257 Number of voluntary works PROGRESS (2020): 13,500 times/year persons Percentage of purchasing SME products (2018): 70% and over Strategy • Establishing and operating a social contribution system Total support for eyesight recovery Support for eyesight recovery surgery (2021): 1,004 persons connecting with core capability and job characteristics surgery at home and abroad • Expanding mutual growth with SMEs, maximizing the creation of Law on transmission and values by advancing into the overseas market with SMEs Goal for 2014: 350 persons substations (2020): 250 billion and over (total) won and over per year Capability • Operating 287 voluntary groups (19,000 members), the largest scale as a public company, and funds for voluntary works (4.3 billion won/year) QUALITATIVE • Having professional personnel for disaster relief, establishing GOAL KEPCO-styled model for creating jobs, possessing a new management systems for social contribution activity The way to increase the temperature •Operating the department in charge of managing mutual growth with of happiness and the beginning point SMEs, monitoring the performance by the Mutual Growth Committee of KEPCO is “warm energy.” Activity Until the day everyone enjoys the basic • Expanding energy welfare, supporting low-income blind people to rights of using energy, KEPCO will have eyesight recovery surgery continuously carry out energy welfare • Carrying out disaster (typhoon, etc.) relief activities, Supporting and become a trustful partner by social companies and the vulnerable to launch business supporting social companies, creating • Signing an agreement for mutual growth, holding exhibitions, jobs for the underprivileged and mutual cooperation materializing mutual growth with SMEs. Assessment We will make bigger values for sharing • Acquired A grade in the index for social contribution by the by carrying out social contribution for government management assessment local communities and globalized world. • Received the best CSR Korean company investing in the For a happier future than today, Philippines (November 2013) KEPCO will always be with you. Plan • Seeking social contribution programs customized and specialized for each region, expanding business models for social companies • Creating future-oriented jobs by reinforcing new growth engines, developing models supporting SMEs connecting with Naju Innocity 74 KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 75 Efforts for social 10 years of sharing love, 100 years of sharing happiness In 2014, KEPCO has celebrated its 10th anniversary for establishing the social voluntary group. KEPCO social voluntary group, which SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION THROUGH CREATING MORE JOBS contribution was founded in 2004, is the largest voluntary group as public company, having 19,000 members and being operated by 4.3 billion won in funds for a year. Over the last decade, we carried out various social contribution activities: specialized social contribution Support for social companies and cooperatives activities such as support for eyesight recovery surgery and 119 Disaster Rescue Team, customized voluntary works such as talent Goals for fostering social companies KEPCO is promoting to create more jobs for the vulnerable by vitalizing social companies and cooperatives. In 2013, we carried out donation, job-creation social contribution activities such as support for social companies, and global voluntary works by utilizing System for carrying out social contribution the business for supporting social companies, selected a total of nine cooperatives, including one “Café with Hope” and Media overseas voluntary groups. With these various activities, we have strived to share lights and love with customers and societies at activities Content Creators Cooperative, and provided them a total of 500 million won as a fund for establishment. We made agreement with home and abroad. We will continuously contribute to local communities for the era of Naju Bitgaram and seek social contribution 13 15 social companies in 14 regional headquarters in the country and are providing various supports such as purchasing products with programs to meet global needs. 10 priority, checking electricity facilities, and consulting electricity use. 7 Social Voluntary Work Team Vision for social contribution Rainbow with Hope Project Overseas Voluntary Work Team “Rainbow with Hope Project” is KEPCO’s microcredit project in which the company supports funds for the vulnerable and social Global social contribution leader for the happiness of human beings and society companies to launch business without collateral with Social Solidarity bank by utilizing small part of the salary (less than 1,000 2013 2014 2015 Support Team for Social Companies won) of the company’s executives and employees; we selected and supported three would-be business operators and four social 119 Disaster Rescue Team companies in 2013. In 2014, we will carry out our pro-bono activities and talent donation to ensure sustainable growth of the Specialized social contribution Social contribution for creating job selected social companies. Eye Love Project, energy welfare Signing an agreement for supporting Professional disaster relief, recovering social companies Directions for supporting social companies Organization of KEPCO Social Voluntary Work damage caused by power cut Rainbow with Hope Project Team Providing funds Providing business models Incubating Chief (CEO) Making the foundation for Specializing the electricity Consultation on technology establishment industry and management Vice chief (Vice President) Supporting for a successful settlement of companies by providing total solutions from establishment to incubating and Customized voluntary works Global voluntary works pioneering new markets Regional voluntary work groups (299) Voluntary works with labor union and Launching overseas voluntary team management Global volunteer works, etc. Talent donation, fostering future Members of voluntary work groups (All employees) customers, etc. CUSTOMIZED VOLUNTARY WORKS Eye Love Project (Unit: person) SPECIALIZED SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Sharing love jointly with labor union and management In Korea Foreign countries KEPCO’s CEO, management and labor union visited facilities with severely handicapped people at the end of the year and carried Eye Love Project out voluntary works such as cleaning and helping them with rehabilitation. Plus, for 1,000 households with difficulties in moving, we 96 established wireless switches, which can turn a maximum of three lights on and off by remote control. KEPCO has helped the disadvantaged by performing eyesight recovery surgery for the visually impaired with low income every year. 60 In 2011-2012, we provided 150 visually impaired people with the benefit of eyesight recovery surgery and offered the benefit to 107 40 patients in 2013. We will expand the target of benefit and support the surgery for 1,004 people by 2021. Meanwhile, the company Talent donation conducted a company-wide campaign for donating cornea; a total of 8,138 employees, which account for 42.2% of all workers as of Play psychotherapy for regional children center KEPCO is carrying out customized social contribution activities meeting needs from residents and societies by building a personnel 11 pool with the talented in 3,655 sectors such as language and technology. As of 2013, a total of 2,234 employees are proactively dolate 2013, pledged to donate corneas. This performance was recorded as the largest size of pledges as a single institution. nating their talents, and the performance for matching the vulnerable with contributors according to the characteristic of regions and 2012 2013 2012 2013 demands is a total of 2,848 cases. As for the sectors, the percentage of education and mentoring was the highest, which was 46%. Rescue activity by 119 Disaster Rescue Team In October 2010, KEPCO established 119 Disaster Rescue Team for the first time as a public company and is carrying out voluntary works for emergency relief. Until 2013, 990 people participated in activities for emergency relief at disaster sites due to typhoon Support for children and teenagers Current condition for social contribution KEPCO is conducting campaigns for missing children by posting their photos on electricity bills and conducting the name tag camactivities and water damage, and the company provided medical support to national events such as Nuclear Security Summit seven times. Received the citation for preventEspecially, when the Sewol Ferry disaster occurred in 2014, we dispatched nurses to the incident site, and for the 2014 Incheon ing missing children (Ministry of paign. As a result, as of 2013, a total of 109 missing children found their families, and we received the citation for preventing missing Category 2011 2012 2013 Asian Games in October, we will provide emergency medical help and support for safety of the event. Health and Welfare, May 2013) children by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Plus, by making partnership with 287 regional children centers, we carried out a Hours/person 15.0 15.2 15.8 total of 313 times of voluntary works such as education guidance, cultural experience and support for meals. As we also performed Number of activities 10,204 10,680 11,043 Energy welfare the mentoring voluntary works (1,210 times) for neglected children and teenagers (2,062 people), through which we helped them KEPCO is providing the handicapped, patriots and veterans, and recipient of national basic livelihood guarantees with the benefit of overcome their weakness and realize their dreams. welfare discount in their electricity bills (18-31.4% in discount rate). As we carried out business for sharing energy in love to support the low-income households who have difficulty paying electricity costs, we provided a total of 15,536 households with about 2.1 Fostering the best and talented for the future technology billion won from 2003 to 2013. In the middle of summer and winter, we suspended the limitation of electricity supply to customers As part of activities for sharing knowledge at industry-academy clusters with Korea Electrical Engineering & Science Research who did not pay the electricity bill. In 2013, the company provided electricity to 1,513 households with limited provision, and from Institute and ten colleges, KEPCO held a camp for electricity technology, a program for 60 college students majoring in studies reNovember 2013, we expanded the amount of necessary electricity use for households with limited provision from 200W to 660W, garding electricity in August 2013. We held the “Junior Doctor Program” six times, which provided 120 middle school students with which strengthened energy welfare for the vulnerable. the opportunity to take lectures and experiment the basic principles of electricity. Meanwhile, in July 2013, we granted 50 students majoring in electrical electronics with good grades from 50 colleges, and children from low-income households with scholarships In addition, KEPCO broadened the target of customers with exemption of deposit payment to lift the burden of paying electricity worth of 330 million won to foster the best and talented for the future technology. bill for tenants. With the special discount system for traditional markets, we sponsored small merchants with 2.4 billion won and Sponsorship for students majoring in electronic and expanded the scope of benefits by extending the period for the system from late 2013 to late 2014. electrical engineering Activities for recovering regions damaged by typhoon in Miryang by 119 Disaster Rescue Team 76 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 77 SPECIAL FEATURE Together with social companies, the story of KEPCO becoming happier with social companies SPECIAL FEATURE Global social contribution Since 2012, KEPCO has aggressively carried out busiKEPCO is carrying out various social contribution proIn 2013, the company established an elementary school ported five Philippine multicultural households living in ness for supporting social companies. Let’s meet two grams to strengthen cooperative foundation with loat the region near the Ilijan Plant in the Philippines and Miryang to visit their home country. Thanks to these sosocial companies with which KEPCO cooperates to cal communities and secure credibility and love from carried out business for making a clean environment cial contribution activities, we received the best award make a better and happier world. the local residents at overseas business sites such and education voluntary works. We also provided 63 in CSR as a Korean company investing in the Philipas the Philippines, Jordan and Mexico. We fulfill our million won in disaster relief aid collections for the pines and were reported in “The Philippine Star,” which “We hope to create a fair English education withsocial responsibility as a global company by carrying damage caused by earthquake and typhoon. We supis a prestigious daily newspaper in the Philippines. out any discrimination.” English Cooperative (Eng out customized-social contribution activities including Co-op) medical voluntary works such as eyesight recovery surgery, establishing libraries at elementary schools “Support from KEPCO was a great help for us. It was and supporting regions near the plants. We will cona solid foundation for maintaining the current status. tinuously expand various cooperative businesses to After being appointed as the business to receive supsolidify the unity with local residents and environmenport from KEPCO, we were selected as the best case tal protection. as a cooperative by Seoul Metropolitan Government and earned more recognition.” Yun Mo-rin, CEO of English Cooperative (Eng Co-op), a social company, expressed her gratitude to KEPCO. Employees who put great efforts to make their dreams come true at the first branch of Café with Hope, Choi Eun-yeoung, Sin Yeoung-su and Rashodan (from the left) Eng Co-op was selected as one of the business models as a cooperative by KEPCO in 2013 and was provided with funds. With the aim of supporting English eduand generated profits are being used to expand free cation for recipient of national basic livelihood guarEnglish education class connected with the regional antees and multicultural households, Eng Co-op is a children’s centers. Especially, children of cooperative social cooperative which returns total profits genermembers who pay investments are allowed to take Medical voluntary works for regions near Ilijan Plant Global voluntary work group ated from English education for general households classes at half price. to support English education for the disadvantaged. The company originated from the sharing practice by “If you want high-quality English education at a reaSocial contribution activities in the Philippines the housewives who came back from foreign countries sonable price, why don’t you join us as a member of Category 2011 2012 2013 in 2010. Doing voluntary works in providing English Eng Co-op?” KEPCO sincerely supports Ms. Yoon, who Medical voluntary works 11 times (6,608 participants) 6 times (1,875 participants) 6 times (1,909 participants) education for low-income households, Ms. Yoon was genuinely asks for support in fair education, and her shocked to find that the level of education largely decooperative, Eng Co-op. making a happier society with those who could not Scholarship business Scholarships were provided 43 times Scholarships were provided 18 times Scholarships were provided 16 times pends on income and established the cooperative with take opportunity to work due to social prejudice. (3,501 beneficiaries) (1,292 beneficiaries) (1,546 beneficiaries) other housewives with the aim of establishing a nonKEPCO Café with Hope, supporting the underprivSupport for the neighborhood 187 times (21,197 beneficiaries) 153 times (16,524 beneficiaries) 159 times (17,127 beneficiaries) discriminatory and fair education. ileged with jobs to dream a better future The CEO said, “The support from KEPCO helped us greatly. Although our company is a social company, I As of late last year, Eng Co-op has a total of 40 mem“I don’t have any professional skills, money to learn believe creating profits is also important. Maintaining Current condition of Eye Love for “Eye-opening” with Hope project in 2013 (Unit: person) bers and is providing classes at children’s centers at skills, or available jobs.” the operation of a company guarantees more jobs. We Category The Philippines Mexico Jordan Vietnam China Mongolia Nigeria Indonesia South Africa Total three regions. They provide English classes at a more That’s silent shout of the youth from vulnerable class will strive to develop ourselves so that we can operate reasonable price compared to regular academies, such as single-parents or multicultural households. a second and third Café with Hope based on the sup2012 2 12 11 6 1 2 2 4 40 KEPCO Café with Hope will provide them a hopeful port of KEPCO.” 2013 5 1 1 11 “seed” by giving them the opportunity to get a job. The 2014 (plan) 3 2 5 1 2 2 2 21 first branch of Café with Hope, which was launched At this Café with Hope, Ms. Rashodan, a migrant in October 2013, was the first step to create a better woman, and two other teenagers work together and future with “Jari,” a company with vision of creatstrive to make their dreams come true; they are interns Supporting schools for the blind in China and she was bullied by friends and could not easily ingest acquaintance working for KEPCO. The surgery for cleft ing more jobs for the vulnerable and disadvantaged. selected among the socially underprivileged who want eyesight recovery surgery for the vulnerable foods. Her unfortunate condition was informed to KEPlip and cleft palate requires high-level of technology KEPCO Café with Hope is one of the company’s busito become a barista. They said that they want to beKEPCO has supported Shanxi, China, where the wind CO by a Korean missionary, who carried out missionary in the plastic surgery sector, but local medical skills nesses supporting social companies to create jobs. come happy people who give customers a cup of tasty power generation business is performed, providing works in West Timor, and he conveyed her story to his in West Timor are too decrepit and expensive that she With “Work Together Foundation,” we selected the coffee and bright smiles. Ms. Rashodan, who got marblind children school with winter clothing, bedding could not afford to undergo the surgery. During her company “Jari” by holding a contest for social venture ried and came to Korea from China, has a child at the and daily necessities. By 2013, we supported eyesight stay in Korea, KEPCO provided all expenses for the companies, and would-be and accredited social comage of five. Coming from China where people drink a recovery surgery for a total of nine persons from vulsurgery, airfare, and charge for board and lodging. panies, and in June 2013, we provided the company lot of tea, she did not understand her husband who nerable households. sponsorship to establish the café. said that the “bitter” coffee tastes good; now, she is Technological support for a refugee camp in Syria saying that she wants to drink a cup of coffee that she Supporting the expense for surgery of malformaWith the request to support a refugee camp in Zaatari Café with Hope is not one of those regular coffee made herself with her husband. Ms. Choi Eun-yeoung tion of lips for the disabled in West Timor from the UNHCR, KEPCO improved the Distribution shops selling only coffee; the Café creates more jobs hopes to run a small café with her mother after receivIn January 2014, KEPCO invited Ms. Merienti, a disagrid at the camp and implemented consulting serfor the socially disadvantaged, carries out education ing the training course for baristas. Mr. Sin Yeoung-su bled person from West Timor, Indonesia, which is invice for electricity bills and measurement system. At courses to be a barista free of charge and helps them has the wish of becoming the best barista. Through flicted by long-standing conflicts and ethnic conflicts, Zaatari refugee camp, about 120,000 Syrians, who to stand on their own economically and psychologiKEPCO’s Café with Hope, we will continuously support to Korea and supported all the medical expense for passed the boundary of Jordan to escape from the civil CEO Yoon Mo-rin (middle) and teachers, who established “Eng Co-op,” social cooperative company supporting cally. Sin Ba-da, CEO of Jari, said that the company many people with valuable dreams to live their lives surgery of cleft lip and cleft palate. With the congeniA disabled person from West Timor after the surgery war in Syria, are staying. underprivileged households with English education will make the café as a center for a hopeful world by with confidence. tal cleft lip, she had difficulty living a normal life since was finished 78 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 79 Conflict management Communication and empathy as requirements for the construction of electricity facilities at the right time The precondition for the construction of electricity facilities at the right time to provide stable electricity is the communication and Management for Managing the supply chain KEPCO manages contracts and supply chain in accordance with “Act on Contracts to which the State is a Party (State Contract and support for empathy with stakeholders in regions where the construction for facilities is carried out. To conduct the construction of Sinjungbu substations, KEPCO operated the Committee for Selecting Sites, composed of 21 members, including local resident representatives, mutual growth with Law).” Suppliers who desire to participate in KEPCO’s biddings have to meet the requirements in the “Guidelines for Management of Suppliers of Equipment,” which is a standard of KEPCO, other than requirements stipulated in the State Contract Law. As for major regions with facility local governments, academia, media, environmental and conflict experts, etc., from February to July 2013 and strived to reflect stakeholders’ opinions more proactively. We adopted the result of assessment (11 items such as shelters for housing, landscape, SMEs items, we identify the qualification of bidders before biddings. construction etc.) by using scientific methods; the Committee decided the optimal site (July 2013) and the decision was accepted by four cities Sales performance by SMEs in 2013 (Unit: In terms of risk management of the supply chain, the company imposes sanctions, such as restricting the qualification in bidding, for and counties. illegal business operators who violate regulations limiting subcontracts, collude, forge or falsify documents on bidding and contract trillion) and accept bribe in accordance with the Article 75 of Enforcement Ordinance and Article 15 of Regulations on Contract in the State Adopting scientific and transparent result for the assessment of candidate sites with multifaceted communication Contract Law. For suppliers who significantly contribute to the electricity industry, we provide various incentives such as supports for To inform the necessity of business and current condition, KEPCO put great efforts in communicating with various stakeholders by large companies overseas business and exemption of contract deposits. holding meetings between the management and opinion leaders such as lawmakers and county governors (5 times) and meetings 31% 1.9144 with reporters (July 2013). From August 2013, the company has operated the “Open Desk” where a KEPCO employees deal with We recommend the “Code of Conduct for Suppliers” for companies participating in biddings. Suppliers are allowed to apply for bidcomplaints from local residents directly by residing at each site, and with this system, the company listens to various opinions from total ding and write contracts only after reading the Code of Conduct; in 2013, a total of 23,374 companies perused the Code of Conduct. local residents and adopts their opinions in carrying out businesses. 6.1709 The regulations are mainly composed of ethical standards which cover the prohibition of illegal subcontracts, bribery, collusion and unfair request; social standards which guarantee the prohibition of discrimination based on race, religion, gender and physical SMEs Signing a MOU for mutual growth between KEPCO and local residents capability, and the freedom of assembly and association; and environmental standards regarding the provision of safety equipment 69% In January 2014, KEPCO signed a MOU for mutual growth between the company and local residents with local resident representa4.2565 and making safe working environment. The special condition for conducting integrity, which includes these ethical standards, is tives, lawmakers and KEPCO’s CEO attending the meeting; with this agreement, the conflict over selecting sites for substations with attached to all kinds of contracts. 765kV and transmission lines was settled. To make the foundation for materializing separate support, which was a major request by residents in areas near substation and transmission lines, the company revised its regulations (detailed rules for operation of special compensation on transmission and substation facilities, August 2013) and is providing separate supports such as supplyPerformance in purchasing products Policies on purchase and service ing solar power housing and revising houses. Based on the law on compensation and support for the area near transmission and manufactured by companies with the socially KEPCO strives to support the socially disadvantaged to create mutual growth in the electricity industry. Especially, we put great transformation of electricity facilities, which was passed in January 2014, we will continuously carry out legislation and support disadvantaged in 2013 (Unit: 100 million won) efforts in expanding purchase for products produced by SMEs, companies with female workers and the handicapped to help them for local communities. stand on their own. As for the socially underprivileged, we add more scores for them to participate in bidding competition at a Signing mutual contracts for the construction of Sinjunfavorable position. We have also launched and operated the system for provision bidding by SMEs in priority, in which only SMEs gbu substations and transmission lines between KEPCO 5,286 and local residents are allowed to take part in biddings for contracts for equipment worth of less than 230 million won. To minimize damage for SMEs Agreements on support business for regions near Sinjungbu substations with 765kV due to fierce price competition, the company guarantees a lower limit (88% as of 2014) and contributes to improve the profitability of SMEs by conducing deliberation for qualification and excluding a bidding system for the lowest price. Thanks to these efforts, Category Contents a total of purchase performance for SMEs in 2013 was 4 trillion and 200 billion won, which includes 520 billion won for products Target Six villages in Ochang-eup, Cheongwon, Two villages in Dong-myeon, Cheonan (about 340 households) manufactured by companies with female employees, 18 billion won for companies with the handicapped, and 19.5 billion for comPeriod October 2013 ~ (Six villages completed the construction among eight villages) panies with patriots and veterans. Major business Solar power housing, revised houses, purchasing lands for joint farming, etc. 195 Further, in accordance with the Article 21 in the State Contract Law, KEPCO is implementing the limited regional competition for each 180 business branch to establish the foundation for growth of regional SMEs and promote the regional growth and increase employment. Contracts with limiting competition is to restrict the scope of competition to persons who have business offices in special governing cities, general cities and provinces controlling the construction, contracts or sites for purchasing products and supply. Based on the estimated price, 9.5 billion and below is for general construction; 700 million won and below for special construction such as electricity construction; and 230 million won and below for the production, purchase and contract for products. In 2013, the number Company Social Village of of contracts for limited regions was 3,904 cases in total, which was worth of 358.6 billion won. with female company veterans executives with severely From February 2014, KEPCO has expanded the lowest limit for order to realize mutual growth with cooperative firms and supported handicapped the stabilization of management in cooperative firms, including predicted production and sales guarantee. Order with the lowest people limit system is to guarantee monthly minimum orders for major items operated by KEPCO with price contracts; the system is a result of listening to voices from SMEs requesting even and continuous orders at the meeting for policies on mutual growth with SMEs, held by KEPCO in 2013. Thanks to this system, as of 2014, a total of 12 billion won worth of products will be additionally ordered by about 70 SMEs. SPECIAL FEATURE Complete prevention of counterfeiting and fabrication by submitting test reports for parts directly Due to the counterfeit and fabrication 2012, we have found that there were no problems with the system. In May 2014, we held meetings with major of accredited test reports in the nuclear the reports. With the introduction of the registration domestic test institutions and proactively discussed power sector, KEPCO began to receive system by suppliers, we have received accredited test jointly dealing with fabrication and counterfeiting. accredited test reports, which are manreports directly from test institutions. From April 2012, KEPCO will strive to manage prevention-focused supdatory documents, directly from suppliers from Januthe company revised the system so that suppliers diply chain to achieve zero level of counterfeiting and ary 2013. With this movement, we have completely rectly submit reports to enhance work efficiency and fabrication of electricity devices and equipment. prevented counterfeit and fabrication. Plus, after provide convenience. However, test report fabrication analyzing a total of 422 accredited test reports which incidents made us realize the importance of trust and were submitted by suppliers from April to December safety, and we immediately took measures to overhaul 80 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 81 Current Status of Cooperation in R&D of SMEs (units: cases) Management for Strategies for mutual growth With the aim of fostering small but strong Fostering small-but-strong SMEs Creating shared values with SMEs In 1993, KEPCO launched a department in charge of managing SMEs for the first time as a public company and has carried out with global competitiveness mutual growth with SMEs with global competitiveness, KEPCO is striving in various ways to lead mutual prosPerformed Completed various businesses to create an ecosystem for mutual growth with SMEs. We have also developed and operated creating shared value-typed programs, which create economic profits for KEPCO and SMEs. For instance, by doing cooperative research, SMEs can SMEs perity based on three strategies, including enhancing capability for innovating technology, 2013 30 increase their sales by enhancing technological competitiveness, while KEPCO reduces operation costs for electricity facilities by purchasing products developed by SMEs. Further, SMEs have increased their sales as we support the innovation of quality of prodEnhancing capability Increased supports Making a culture for increased supports for channels for overseas 16 ucts and marketing activities for export. for innovating techfor channels for mutual growth sales, and making a culture for mutual growth. nology overseas sales After analyzing the performance of supports for 608 SMEs from 2009, it has been found that a total of 483.2 billion won in sales was 2012 produced, and KEPCO obtained 308.5 billion won in profitable performances. Especially, thanks to mutual growth business, 782.9 bil27 lion won in production-encouraging effect, 1,335 people in employment-creating effect and 228 billion won in added-value-creating Enhancing capability for innovating technology effect were produced in terms of the national economy. 8 KEPCO is performing R&D in cooperation with SMEs and investing 2.5-3 billion won per year to enhance technological level of SMEs and secure competitiveness in export. In 2013, we overhauled relevant systems, such as eliminating the ratio of cash payment for 2011 Performance by mutual growth business (2009-2013) SMEs and increasing the amount of sponsorship to 1 billion won for each task to increase the opportunity for SMEs to participate 33 in various businesses and make a cooperative environment. We provided customized technical support 16 times by utilizing proNumber of applied companies Sales of SMEs (100 million won) Profitable performance by KEPCO (100 million won) 17 608 4,832 3,085 fessional employees at KEPCO and carrying out mentoring service for R&D. In 2013, we started the 3.0 movement for industrial innovation, which support consulting services for the innovation of productivity of SMEs. This movement is a business with the aim 2010 of improving productivity by conducting professional consultation on procedures, management and production technology; currently, 28 Contribution in the national economy by mutual growth business (2009-2013) in June 2014, we are supporting a total of 20 companies. The company will expand the performance of 3.0 industrial innovation movement and provide 1 billion won for 100 companies by 2017. 14 Created production Employment Number of people Added-value 2009 (100 million won) (person) getting jobs (person) (100 million won) Increased supports for channels for overseas sales 30 7,829 1,177 1,335 2,280 For the first time as a public company, KEPCO has launched the KEPCO Trusted Partners System, which is an export promotion brand, to encourage SMEs to enter into the overseas markets. Export promotion brands is to provide SMEs to KEPCO’s brand symbolizing 14 trust; in 2013, we confirmed 65 companies as KEPCO Trusted Partners and achieved the export performance worth of 62.85 million Strategy for mutual growth with electricity group companies 2008 dollars in eight countries such as Russia and Ukraine. We jointly entered into Egbin Plant in Nigeria and UAE Nuclear Power Plant KEPCO pursues competition with mutual prosperity based on autonomous management by each group company and maintains and 32 with domestic SMEs and achieved the exports worth of over 110 million dollars. As of late June 2014, we have held export exhibireinforces the cooperative system to create a stable electricity supply and management efficiency. The company holds meetings tions with 45 SMEs in seven countries and achieved the performance in export consultation worth of 147.43 million dollars. In 2013, 17 with CEOs of each electricity group company every two months and coordinates interests by sharing management information and for the first time as public institution, KEPCO opened the SME export promotion center for overseas market at KEPCO branches in discussing common current affairs. Indonesia and the Philippines; and in 2014, we plan to launch an additional center in Vietnam. Further, to support the advancement KEPCO Trusted Partner Emblem of SMEs into the overseas market more aggressively, we will cooperate with KOTRA and implement the “Overseas Base Camp” Mutual business. Investment Company Mutual Investment Making a culture for mutual growth Company GENCOs In 2013, KEPCO reduced the number of equipment registered in advance by 25% to broaden the advancement of SMEs into the GENCOs GENCOs market and revised the standard for deliberation of qualification to make conditions more favorable to SMEs in the procurement GENCOs market. Following the launch of exhibition for mutual growth for the first time as public company in 2013, we held KEPCO Electric Mutual growth with Fair in June 2014 to promote technical exchanges with SMEs and support to pioneer the market. 176 SMEs and about 70 overseas electricity group companies buyers from 21 countries participated in the exhibition, exchanged best technologies, and conducted consultation services for SME Mutual Mutual Investment Mutual products. Major performances in the exhibition include consultation service for a purchase worth of 11.4 billion won and 114 cases Investment Mutual Company Investment Cooperation Company Investment Company Stable electricity supply in consultation on technology transfer of 40 best technologies. In 2014, we will permanently exhibit best SME products by establishCompany Joint purchase of generation fuels ing the business plaza for SMEs at Naju Inno-city and support SMEs to enhance their convenience. GENCOs Cooperation in R&D and overseas business Supporting marketing activities for overseas export Competition Jointly coping with climate and environmental change GENCOs In 2013, GENCOs completed the construction of plants with 1,950MW in total at the right time and supplied electricity in a stable manner by maintaining a high level of plant use. For management efficiency, they also implemented various policies such as joint purchase of generation fuels, integrated operation of repair equipment and cooperation in R&D of electricity technology. As for detailed business, we strengthened our cooperative system; in 2012, KEPCO and six GENCOs jointly established a corporate body and are currently carrying out a demonstration business for offshore wind power complex in the Southwest Sea. As of late 2013, a total of three overseas generation businesses are being operated by KEPCO and GENCOs. Current condition of overseas businesses with cooperating group companies (2009~2013) Al Qatrana (Jordan) Rabigh (Saudi Arabia) Norte 2(Mexico) KEPCO: Project Development, KEPCO: Project Development, KEPCO: Project Development, GENCO(KOSPO): Operating and repairing GENCO(KOSPO): Operating and repairing KEPCO Plant Service & Engineering (KPS): generation plants generation plants Maintenance In January 2014, KEPCO reestablished cooperative relations with GENCOs to enhance synergy effects among electricity group companies and prepared measures for securing common facilities for relocation of the headquarters*. Through these activities, we are preparing for a new cooperative era where we can live up to the public expectations and contribute to developing local communities. •8,300 employees at the headquarters and ten electricity group companies will be relocated to local areas (2014-2015). Making business for electricity technology & Exhibition for mutual growth 82 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 83 Financial information Consolidated statement of financial position (Unit: 100 million won) Account The 53rd period (As of December 31, 2013) The 52nd period (As of December 31, 2012) 1. Current assets 152,691 139,335 1) Cash and cash equivalents 22,323 19,550 2) Trade receivables and others 75,263 71,846 3) Inventory 42,796 34,403 4) Other current assets 12,309 13,536 2. Non-current assets 1,402,582 1,322,193 1) Tangible assets 1,293,676 1,223,762 2) Intangible assets 8,107 8,838 3) Investment interests 52,308 48,909 4) Other non-current assets 48,491 40,684 Total assets 1,555,273 1,461,528 1. Current liabiltiies 202,138 188,171 2. Non-current liabilites 838,628 762,715 Total liabilities 1,040,766 950,886 1. Capital stock 40,536 40,536 2. Retained earnings 327,661 325,643 3. Other components of equity 134,400 132,709 4. Non-controlling interests 11,910 11,754 Total sharholders’ equity 514,507 510,642 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 1,555,273 1,461,528 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Unit: 100 million won) appendices Account 1. Sales The 53rd period (As of December 31, 2013) 540,378 The 52nd period (As of December 31, 2012) 494,215 2. Cost of sales / other sales and management expenses 525,188 502,394 3. Operating loss/profit 15,190 -6,179 4. Other revenues 4,002 3,740 5. Other expenses 998 746 6. Other profits (loss) 1,285 -17,819 7. Financial profits 6,295 11,284 8. Financial cost 29,316 30,683 9. Gains / loss on equity methods 294 1,859 10. Gains on the disposal of relevant companies -717 -69 11. Income before income tax (11th item included in the last year’s report) -3,965 -40,633 12. Income tax expenses -5,708 -9,854 13. Net income 1,743 -30,779 Net income from controlling interests 600 -31,666 Net income from non-controlling interests 1,143 887 84 KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 85 Independent assurance statement/Korea Productivity Center 1. Inclusivity: Stakeholder engagement The principle of inclusivity articulates that organizations should include stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. KEPCO divided stakeholders based on the importance: customers using electricity, local communities having impacts on the rights to property and environment, government/National Assembly/NGOs leading the public To the stakeholders of KEPCO financial data, financial statements, which was audited by auditing institutions, and data on opinion and making a decision on policy, shareholders who are interested in enhancing the value of the company, cooperative firms ALIO were checked. In terms of social data, we checked the moderate level of the verification and groups who are partners in producing electricity and overseas export, executives and employees/labor union who are the main Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) commissioned the Korea Productivity Center (the by using Type 1 and sampling. Site inspection was performed at the head office. Therefore, player in creating company values. The company is continuously monitoring major issues on sustainable management by using “Assurer”) to provide an independent assurance of its 2014 Sustainability Report (the “Rethe Assurer clearly states that any additional verification conducted in the future may issue communication channels for each stakeholder. In the process of writing the report, it has been verified that the company conducted port”). varied results. surveys and identified latest issues and interest for stakeholders for the reported year. Responsibility and Integrity Assurance Methodology 2. Materiality: Selecting and reporting major issues Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) is responsible for the reliability and accuracy of The assurance was undertaken following the methodology specified below: The principle of materiality articulates that organizations should focus on issues relevant and material to both the organization and all information and opinions presented in this “Report”. The Assurer holds the responsibility 1. Verified compliance with the requirements for Core Options in the GRI G4 Guidelines. its major stakeholders. It has been identified that KEPCO recognizes major issues regarding sustainable management and the comwhich lies solely in providing a third party verification of the content in the “Report”. As an 2. Verified consistency with the principles dictating the content and quality of sustainability pany by doing media and benchmarking research and analyzing internal data and selected major issues by operating reasonable proindependent assurance agency, the Assurer was neither involved in the process of preparing reports based on the GRI G4 Guidelines. cess for assessing materiality. Selected major issues are composed of seven major themes, and it has been verified that the themes this “Report” with Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO), nor in any conflicts of interest 3. Verified the appropriateness of identifying key issues and the responsiveness to the are connected to the DMA, in which performances, plans and goals were applied, and reflected in the report in a balanced manner. that may undermine our independence. content presented in the Report by the material analysis methodology, media research and benchmarking. 3. Responsiveness: Responding to issues by the organization Assurance Standards 4. Verified the appropriateness of the report content with other sources for incorrect informaThe principle of responsiveness articulates that organizations should be responsive to issues that may have impacts on stakeholdThe independent verification process was planned and performed in accordance with the tion through comparative analysis. ers’ performance. KEPCO discloses its efforts for each theme by reporting environmental analysis, response process, strategies and AA1000AS (2008) Assurance Standard to provide Type 1 moderate level of assurance. This 5. On-site verification at the head office and plant has been conducted to confirm evidences performances in detail for seven major themes, which were identified as priorities. Further, it is considered that the quantitative and is achieved through the evaluation of the organization’s adherence to the AA1000APS Acfor key data and information as well as internal processes. qualitative goals, first presented in the report, indicate the directions by which KEPCO desires to go in the future to the stakeholders. countability Principles (2008) of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. Additionally, the assurance was performed to ascertain the organization’s adherence to the Global Reporting Findings and Conclusions Recommendations Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines and the standard of Electric Utilities Sector Supplement in It is the Assurer’s opinion that the Report fairly and accurately presents the sustainability The Assurer commends Korea Electric Power Corporation for making a variety of efforts to improve sustainability, resulting perpreparing and presenting sustainability performance information. efforts and performance of Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO). It is also verified that formances, and presents the following recommendations to enhance future sustainability reports and sustainable management. the Report complies with the requirements for Core Options in the GRI G4 Guidelines. In Assurance Limitations terms of General Standard Disclosures, the Report is found to comply with the requirements 1. [Establishing an infrastructure enabling the management of stakeholder issues collectively] KEPCO needs to establish an organiBased on the aforementioned assurance standards, the Assurer performed verification of for Core Options; for Specific Standard Disclosures, Disclosure on Management Approach zation or infrastructure, which can play a role as the center for managing issues regarding sustainable management collectively. the organization’s sustainability performance and credibility during 2013. As for some en(DMA) and indicators for material issues drawn by the decision process in the items for the Based on this establishment, the company can identify where the issues presented by each stakeholder came from and deal with vironmental data such as greenhouse gas emissions and amount of water use, we deliberReport as follows. potential risks more proactively. ated materials which were submitted to the government, and as for economic data such as 2. [Establishing the system for managing performance of sustainable management] It is recommended that KEPCO establish a company-wide integrated system, which manage performances for each environmental and social sector, including amount of water use, rate of employing local workers and current condition of paying wage, and manage the system more systemically so that credibility of the data can be enhanced. Sub Category Material Aspect DMA & Indicators 3. [Establishing a cooperative system to deal with sustainable management] As for eco-friendly supply chain, KEPCO is dealing Economics Economic Performance EC1, EC2, EC3, EC4 with some issues by establishing a cooperative system, such as environmental data on generation companies for consumption and emission at the stage of electricity production, joint inspection for the prevention of corruption and joint response to emission Products and Service Labeling DMA-Realizing Customer Value, PR3, PR4, PR5 trading system. It is recommended that the company should manage the achievement of goals for sustainable management more Availability & Reliability DMA-Stabilizing Electricity Supply and Demand, EU6, EU10 collectively in order to build a sustainable management system as a company group and enhance capability. Future Growth Engine (Other than GRI G4 aspect , Additional issues) Research & Development July 2014 Jin Hong Global Growth (Other than GRI G4 aspect , Additional issues) DMA-Creating New Growth Engines for the Future, EU8 Chairman Environment Green Environment Management System (Other than GRI G4 aspect , Additional issues) DMA-Realizing Eco-friendly Energy / EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN27, EN28 Korea Productivity Center Energy EN11, EN12, EN13, EU13, EN14 Kim Dong-su, Director of Sustainability Management Center Lee Yang-ho, Team Leader Senior Fellow of Sustainability Management Center Product & Service Park Ju-mi, Expert adviser of Sustainability Management Center Biodiversity Emissions DMA-Coping with Climate Change, EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18, EN19, EN20, EN21 The Sustainability Management Center of the Korea Productivity Center is an assurance agency officially certified by Accountability, Sub Category Material Aspect DMA & Indicators which established AA1000, the international standards for Stakeholder engagement and verification, and has qualifications to perExecutives and Occupational Health and Safety DMA Making People-oriented Work Environment, LA5, LA6, LA7,LA8, LA9, LA10, LA11 form independent assurance engagements. Our Assurance Committee is also comprised of competent experts who have in-depth experience in sustainability management consulting and assurance and completed the relevant professional training. employees Training & Education LA1, LA2, LA3, EU15, EU17, EU18, LA12 Employment * AA1000AS (2008): Enacted by Accountability, AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) is a global standard for verification and provides Diversity and Equal Opportunity methods for reporting issues on sustainable management by assessing the operation of organization for management performance, Social Community Local Communities DMA-Fulfilling the Responsibility for Sharing and Mutual Growth, SO1, SO2, EU19, EU20, EU22 compliance with principles and credibility of information on performance. * AA1000APS (2008): Enacted by Accountability, AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard (2008) is a global standard for verification and provides the principles for the foundation of AA1000 standard. 86 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 87 GRI G4 Index General Standard Disclosure Aspcet G4 Indicators ISO 26000 : Report Location 3rd Party 2010 CLAUSES Standard Assurance Governance G4-44 Processes for Evaluation of the Highest Governance Body’s Performance with Respect to Governance of 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 ◐ p22~23 ● General Standard Disclosure Economic, Environmental and Social Topics. G4-45 Highest Governance Body’s Role in the Identification and Management of Economic, Environmental and Social ◐ p22 ● Aspect G4 Indicators ISO 26000: Report Location 3rd Party Impacts, Risks, and Opportunities (Including the Highest Governance Body’s Role in the Implementation of Due 2010 CLAUSES Standard Assurance Diligence Process) and Whether Stakeholder Consultation is Used to Support the Highest Governance Body’s Strategy & G4-1 Statement from the Most Senior Decision-maker of the Organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) 4.7, 6.2, 7.4.2 ● p2~3 Identification and Management of Economic, Environmental and Social Impacts, Risks, and Opportunities Analysis about the Relevance of Sustainability to the Organization and the Organization’s Strategy for Addressing Sustainability G4-48 Highest Committee or Position that Formally Reviews and Approves the Organization’s Sustainability Report ● p22 ● G4-2 Description of Key Impacts, Risks, and Opportunities ● p18~19 and Ensures that All Material Aspects are Covered Organizational G4-3 Name of the Organization 6.3.10, 6.4.1-6.4.2, ● p5 ● G4-49 Process for Communicating Critical Concerns to the Highest Governance Body ◐ p22 ● Profile G4-4 Primary Brands, Products, and Services 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5, ● p5 ● G4-50 Nature and Total Number of Critical Concerns that Were Communicated to the Highest Governance Body ◐ p22 ● G4-5 Location of the Organization’s Headquarters 6.8.5, 7.8 ● p5 ● and the Mechanism(s) Used to Address and Resolve Them G4-6 Number of Countries Where the Organization Operates, and Names of Countries Where Either the Organization ● p44~45 ● G4-51 Remuneration Policies for the Highest Governance Body and Senior Executives and How Performance Criteria ◐ p23 ● has Significant Operations or That are Specifically Relevant to the Sustainability Topics Covered in the Report in the Remuneration Policy Related to the Highest Governance Body’s and Senior Executives’ Economic, G4-7 Nature of Ownership and Legal Form ● p5 ● Environmental and Social Objectives G4-8 Markets Served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) ● p4, 32 G4-52 Process for Determining Remuneration and Whether Remuneration Consultants are Involved in Determining ● p23 ● G4-9 Scale of the Organization ● p5 ● Remuneration and Whether They are Independent of Management. Any other Relationships Which the G4-10 Total Number of Employees ● p5, 68 ● Remuneration Consultants Have with the Organization EU1 Installed Capacity, Broken down by Primary Energy Source and by Regulatory Regime ● p92 ● G4-53 How Stakeholders’’ Views are Sought and Taken into Account Regarding Remuneration, Including the Results of ● p23 ● EU2 Net Energy Output Broken down by Primary Energy Source and by Regulatory Regime ● p92 ● Votes on Remuneration Policies and Proposals EU3 Number of Residential, Industrial, Institutional and Commercial Customer Accounts ◐ p32 Ethics & G4-56 Organization’s Values, Principles, Standards and Norms of Behavior Such as Codes of Conduct and Codes of Ethics 4.4, 6.6.3 ● p26 ● EU4 Length of above and Underground Transmission and Distribution Lines by Regulatory Regime ● p35 ● Integrity G4-57 Internal and External Mechanisms for Seeking Advice on Ethical and Lawful Behavior, and Matters Related to ◐ p27~28 ● EU5 Allocation of CO2 Emissions Allowances or Equivalent, Broken down by Carbon Trading Framework ● p63, 64 ● Organizational Integrity, Such as Help Lines or Advice Lines G4-11 Percentage of Total Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements ● p71 G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters ● p27~28 ● G4-12 Organization’s Supply Chain ◐ p81 ● related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. G4-13 Any Significant Changes during the Reporting Period Regarding the Organization’s Size, Structure, Ownership, or its Supply Chain ● p0 ● G4-14 Precautionary Approach or Principle Addressed by the Organization ● p24~25, p54 ● G4-15 List of Externally Developed Economic, Environmental and Social Charters, Principles, or Other Initiatives to ● p94 Which the Organization Subscribes or Which It Endorses Specific Standard Disclosures G4-16 Memberships of Associations (such as industry associations) and National or International Advocacy Organizations ● p95 Identified G4-17 Entities Included in the Organization’s Consolidated Financial Statements or Equivalent Documents or 5.2, 7.3.2, 7.3.4 ● p5, 10 ● Main Aspect & Indicator Description ISO 26000: Cross / Reference 3rd Party Material Not Covered by the Report Electric Utility 2010 CLAUSES Reported Direct Answer / Omission Assurance Aspects & G4-18 Process for Defining the Report Content and the Aspect Boundaries and How the Organization Has Implemented ● p12~13 ● Sector Supplement Boundaries the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content CATEGORY: ECONOMIC G4-19 List of All the Material Aspects Identified in the Process for Defining Report Content ● p12~13 ● Economic G4-DMA Management Approach ● p10 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the Organization for Each Material Aspect ● p13 ● Performance EC1 Direct Economic Value Generated and Distributed 6.8.1-6.8.2, 6.8.3, ● p10 ● G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the Organization for Each Material Aspect ● p13 ● 6.8.7, 6.8.9 G4-22 Effects of Any Restatements of Information Provided in Previous Reports, ● Revised parts compared to the ● EC2 Financial Implications and Other Risks and Opportunities for the Organization’s 6.5.5 ● p60~63 ● and the Reasons for Such Restatements last year are marked with footnote Activities Due to Climate Change G4-23 Significant Changes from Previous Reporting Periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries ● No significant changes ● EC3 Coverage of the Organization’s Defined Benefit Plan Obligations 6.8.7 ● p70 ● Stakeholder G4-24 List of Stakeholder Groups Engaged by the Organization 5.3 ● p14 ● EC4 Financial Assistance Received from Government ● p10, p48 (Among KEPCO’s R&D tasks, tasks ● Engagement G4-25 Basis for Identification and Selection of Stakeholders with Whom to Engage ● p14 ● supported by the government were 53 cases, and G4-26 Organization’s Approach to Stakeholder Engagement, Including Frequency of Engagement by Type and by ● p12, 14~15 ● the funds by the government were 17.5 billion won.) Stakeholder Group, and an Indication of Whether Any of the Engagement was Undertaken Specifically Availability & EU6 Management Approach to Ensure Shore and Long-term electricity Availability and 6.3.3, 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.5.5, ● p36~37 ● as Part of the Report Preparation Process Reliability Reliability 6.5.6, 6.7.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.6 G4-27 Key Topics and Concerns that Have Been Raised through Stakeholders Engagement, and How the Organization ● p14 ● EU10 Planned Capacity Against Projected Electricity Demand over the Long Term, Broken 6.3.3, 6.7.5 ◐ p38~39 Has Responded to Those Key Topics and Concerns, Including through Its Reporting. Stakeholder Groups that down by Energy Source and Regulatory Regime Raised Each of the Key Topics and Concerns Demand-Side EU7 Demand-side Management Programs Including Residential, Commercial, Institutional 6.3.3, 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.5.5, ● p39 ● Report G4-28 Period Such as Fiscal or Calendar year for Information Provided 7.5.3, 7.6.2 ● p0 ● Management and Industrial Programs 6.7.5, 6.7.8, 6.8.6 Profile G4-29 Date of Most Recent Previous Report (if any) ● p0 ● Research & EU8 Research and Development Activity and Expenditure Aimed at Providing Reliable 6.8.6 ● p48~50 ● G4-30 Reporting Cycle (such as annual, biennial) ● p0 ● Development Electricity and Promoting Sustainable Development G4-31 Contact Point for Questions Regarding the Report or Its Contents ● p0 ● Plant EU9 Provisions for Decommissioning of Nuclear Power Sites 6.5.3, 6.8.8 ◐ KEPCO has no independently operated nuclear ● G4-32 “In Accordance” Option the Organization Has Chosen and the GRI Content Index for the Chosen Option ● p88~91 Decommissioning power plants, and with the nuclear power plant G4-33 Organization’s Policy and Current Practice with Regard to Seeking External Assurance for the Report, Scope and Basis of ● p86~87 business in the UAE, which will complete its Any External Assurance Provided, Relationship between the Organization and the Assurance Providers, Whether the Highest construction by 2020, operation will be begun. Governance Body or Senior Executives are Involved in Seeking Assurance for the Organization’s Sustainability Report System Efficiency G4-DMA Management Approach ● p30~31, 34~35 Governance G4-34 Governance Structure of the Organization, Including Committees of the Highest Governance Body, and Any 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 ● p22 ● EU11 Average Generation Efficiency of Thermal Plants by Energy Source and by Regulatory Regime ● p92 ● Committees Responsible for Decision-making on Economic, Environmental and Social Impacts EU12 Transmission and Distribution Losses as a Percentage of Total Energy ● p34, 57 ● G4-35 Process for Delegating Authority for Economic, Environmental and Social Topics from the Highest Governance ● p22 ● CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Body to Senior Executives and Other Employees Energy G4-DMA Management Approach ● p52~53, p58 G4-36 Whether the Organization Has Appointed an Executive-level Position or Positions with Responsibility for Economic, ● p22 ● EN3 Energy Consumption within the Organization 6.5.4 ◐ p58 ● Environmental and Social Topics, and Whether Post Holders Report Directly to the Highest Governance Body EN4 Energy Consumption outside of the Organization ◐ p58 ● G4-37 Processes for Consultation between Stakeholders and the Highest Governance Body on Economic, Environmental ◐ p22 ● EN5 Energy Intensity ● p58 ● and Social Topics. To Whom and Any Feedback Processes to the Highest Governance Body EN6 Reduction of Energy Consumption 6.5.4, 6.5.5 ● p58 ● G4-38 Composition of the Highest Governance Body and Its Committees ● p22~23 ● EN7 Reductions in Energy Requirements of Products and Services ◐ p41 G4-39 Whether the Chair of the Highest Governance Body is Also an Executive Officer ● p23 ● Biodiversity G4-DMA Management Approach 6.5.6 ● p52~53 G4-40 Nomination and Selection Processes for the Highest Governance Body and Its Committees, and the Criteria Used for ● p23 ● EN11 Operational Sites Owned, Leased, Managed in, or Adjacent to, Protected Areas and ● p57 ● Nomination and Selecting Highest Governance Body Members Areas of High Biodiversity Value outside Protected Areas G4-41 Processes for the Highest Governance Body to Ensure Conflicts of Interest are Avoided and managed ● p22 ● EN12 Description of Significant Impacts of Activities, Products, and Services on Biodiversity ● p57 ● G4-42 Highest Governance Body’s and Senior Executives’ Roles in the Development, Approval, and Updating of the ◐ p22 ● in Protected Areas and Areas of High Biodiversity Value outside Protected Areas Organization’s Purpose, Value or Mission Statements, Strategies, Policies, and Goals Related to Economic, EN13 Habitats Protected or Restored ● p57 ● Environmental and Social Impacts EU13 Biodiversity of Offset Habitats Compared to the Biodiversity of the Affected Areas ● p57 ● G4-43 Measures Taken to Develop and Enhance the Highest Governance Body’s Collective Knowledge of Economic, ● p23 ● EN14 Total Number of IUCN Red List Species and National Conservation List Species with ◐ p57 ● Environmental and Social Topics Habitats in Areas Affected by Operations, by Level of Extinction Risk 88 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 89 GRI G4 Index GRI G4 Other Disclosures Aspect Indicator Description ISO 26000 : Reported Cross Reference / Direct Answer / Omission 3rd Party 2010 CLAUSES Assurance Market Presence EC5 Ratios of Standard Entry Level Wage by Gender Compared to Local 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3, ● p70 ● Minimum Wage at Significant Locations of Operation 6.4.4, 6.8.1-6.8.2 Main aspect & Indicator Description ISO 26000 : Reported Cross Reference/Direct Answer/ 3rd Party EC6 Proportion of Senior Management Hired from the Local communities at 6.4.3, 6.8.1-6.8.2, ◐ p68 ● Electirc Utility 2010 CLAUSES Sector Supplement Assurance Significant Locations of Operation 6.8.5, 6.8.7 Sector Supplement Omission Indirect Economic EC7 Development and Impact of Infrastructure Investments 6.3.9, 6.8.1-6.8.2, ● p32~35 ● Emissions G4-DMA Management Approach ● p60~61 Impacts and Services Supported 6.8.7, 6.8.9 EN15 Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (Scope 1) 6.5.5 ● p64 ● EC8 Significant Indirect Economic Impacts, Including the Extent of Impacts 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.6.7, ● p76~77, p81~83 6.7.8, 6.8.1-6.8.2, EN16 Energy Indirect Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (Scope 2) ● p64 ● 6.8.5, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 EN17 Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (Scope 3) ● p64 ● Procurement EC9 Proportion of Spending on Local Suppliers at Significant Locations 6.4.3, 6.6.6, ◐ p81 EN18 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Intensity ● p64 ● Practices of Operation 6.8.1-6.8.2, 6.8.7 EN19 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions ● p64 ● Materials EN1 Materials Used by Weight or Volume 6.5.4 ● p59 ● EN21 NOx, SOx, and Other Significant Air Emissions 6.5.3 ● No domestic business sites have significant ● EN2 Percentage of Materials Used That are Recycled Input Materials 6.5.5 ● p59 ● impacts by air pollution EN8 Total Water Withdrawal by Source 6.5.6 ◐ p58 Products & G4-DMA Management Approach ● p52~53 Water EN9 Water Sources Significantly Affected by Withdrawal of Water 6.5.7 ● Domestic business sites have no water sources that are significantly Services EN27 Extent of Impact Mitigation of Environmental Impacts of Products and Services 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.5.5, 6.7.5 ● p41, p56~57 ● affected by withdrawal of water. Employment G4-DMA Management Approach p42~p43, p51 EN10 Percentage and Total Volume of Water Recycled and Reused 6.5.8 ● No water was reused, but Naju headquarters will use facilities ● EU14 Programs and Processes to Ensure the Availability of a Skilled Workforce 6.4.7 ● p51 ● for heavy water. EU16 Policies and Requirements Regarding Health and Safety of Employees and Employees of Contractors 6.3.3, 6.3.5, 6.4.6, ● p73 ● Effluents & Waste EN22 Total Water Discharge by Quality and destination 6.5.3, 6.5.4 ◐ p55 EN23 Total Weight of Waste by Type and Disposal Method 6.5.3 ● p59 ● and Subcontractors 6.6.6 EN26 Identity, Size, Protected Status, and Biodiversity Value of Water Bodies and 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.5.6 ◐ p57 ● LA1 Total Number & Rates of New Employee Hires & Employee Turnover by Age Group, Gender & Region 66.4.1-6.4.2 ◐ Turnover rate 0.6% ● Related Habitats Significantly Affected by the Organization’s discharges (109 employees for voluntary turnover) of Water and Runoff LA2 Benefits Provided to Full-time Employees that are Not Provided to Temporary or Part-time Employees, 6.4.4, 6.8.7 ◐ p70 ● Compliance EN29 Monetary Value of Significant Fines and Total Number of Non-monetary 4.6 ● Three cases of environmental violation ● by Significant Locations of Operation Sanctions for Non-compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations LA3 Return to Work and Retention Rates after Parental Leave, by Gender 6.4.4 ● p71 ● Transport EN30 Significant Environmental Impacts of Transporting Products and Other Goods 6.5.4, 6.6.6 ◐ p56~57 EU15 Percentage of Employees Eligible to Retire in the Next 5 and 10 Years Broken down 6.4.3, 6.4.4 ● p70 ● and materials for the Organization’s Operations, and Transporting Members by Job Category and by Region 6.3.3, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, of the Workforce EU17 Days Worked by Contractors and Subcontractor Employees Involved in Construction, Operation 6.4.6, 6.6.6 ◐ p73 Overall EN31 Total Environmental Protection Expenditures and Investments by Type 6.5.1-6.5.2 ● p58 & Maintenance Activities Supplier Environmental EN32 Percentage of New Suppliers That were Screened Using 6.3.5, 6.6.6, 7.3.1 ◐ p26, 81 ● EU18 Percentage of Contractor and Subcontractor Employees that Have Undergone Relevant Health 6.3.3, 6.3.5, ◐ p73 ● Assessment Environmental Criteria Labor/ Management LA4 Minimum Notice Periods Regarding Operational Changes, Including Whether 6.4.3, 6.4.5 ◐ p71 ● and Safety Training 6.4.6, 6.6.6 Relation These are Specified in Collective Agreements CATEGORY: SOCIAL Equal remuneration LA13 Ratio of Basic Salary and Remuneration of Women to Men by Employee 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3, ● P70 ● Occupational G4-DMA Management Approach ● p66~67 for women and men Category, by Significant Locations of Operation 6.4.4 Health and Safety LA5 Percentage of Total Workforce Represented in Formal Joint Management-worker Health and Safety 6.4.6 ◐ p71 ● Investment HR1 Total Number and Percentage of Significant Investment Agreements and 6.3.3, 6.3.5, 6.6.6 ◐ p26, 81 Committees that Help Monitor and Advise on Occupational Health and Safety Programs Contracts That Include Human Rights Clauses or That Underwent Human LA6 Type of Injury and Rates of Injury, Occupational Diseases, Lost Days, and Absenteeism, and Total 6.4.6, 6.8.8 ● p73 ● Rights Screening Number of Work-related Fatalities, by Region and by Gender HR2 Total Hours of Employee Training on Human Rights Policies or Procedures 6.3.5 ● p72 LA7 Workers with High Incidence or High Risk of Diseases Related to their Occupation ◐ p73 ● Concerning Aspects of Human Rights That Relevant to Operations, LA8 Health and Safety Topics Covered in Formal Agreements with Trade Unions 6.4.6 ● p71 ● Including the Percentage of Employees Trained Training & G4-DMA Management Approach ● p66~67 Non-discrimination HR3 Total Number of Incidents of Discrimination and Corrective Actions Taken 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, ◐ p72 6.4.3 Education LA9 Average Hours of Training Per Year Per Employee by Gender, and by Employee category 6.4.7 ● p69 ● Freedom of HR4 Operations and Suppliers Identified in Which the Right to Exercise Freedom 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, ◐ p71 LA10 Programs for Skills Management and Lifelong Learning that Support the Continued Employability of 6.4.7, 6.8.5 ● p69 Association and of Association and Collective Bargaining may be Violated or at Significant 6.3.8, 6.3.10, 6.4.5, Employees and Assist them in Managing Career Endings Collective Bargaining Risk, and Measures Taken to Support these Rights 6.6.6 LA11 Percentage of Employees Receiving Regular Performance and Career Development Reviews, 6.4.7 ● p70 ● Child Labor HR5 Operations and Suppliers Identified as Having Significant Risk for Incidents 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, ◐ No business sites conduct child labor or forced labor as KEPCO complies by Gender and by Employee Category of Child Labor, and Measures Taken to Contribute to the Effective Abolition 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.6.6, with the Labor Standard Act and Human Rights Convention No.105 Diversity & G4-DMA Management Approach ● p66~67 of Child Labor 6.8.4 “Forced Labor Convention” and faithfully implements principles in labor Equal Opportunity LA12 Composition of Governance Bodies and Breakdown of Employees Per Employee Category According to 6.2.3, 6.3.7, ◐ p68, P71 ● standards among ten major Global Compact principles. Gender, Age Group, Minority Group Membership, and Other Indicators of Diversity 6.3.10, 6.4.3 Forced of HR6 Operations and Suppliers Identified as Having Significant Risk for Incidents 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, ◐ Local Communities G4-DMA Management Approach ● p74~75 Compulsory Labor of Forced or Compulsory Labor, and Measures to Contribute to the 6.3.10, 6.6.6 SO1 Percentage of Operations with Implemented Local communities Engagement, Impact Assessments, 6.3.9, 6.5.1-6.5.2, ● p56~57, p76~80 ● Elimination of All Forms of Forced or Compulsory Labor and Development Programs 6.5.3, 6.8 Supplier Human HR10 Percentage of New Suppliers That were Screened Using 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, ◐ p26, 81 Rights Assessment Human Rights Criteria 6.6.6 SO2 Operations with Significant Actual and Potential Negative Impacts on Local Communities 6.3.9, 6.5.3, 6.8 ◐ p16, p80 ● Human Rights HR12 Number of Grievances about Human Rights Impacts Filed, Addressed, 6.3.6 ● p72 ● EU19 Stakeholders Participation in Decision Making Processes Related to Energy Planning and 6.8, 6.8.3 ◐ p15~17, P80 ● Grievance Mechanisms and Resolved through Formal Grievance Mechanisms Infrastructure Development Anti-corruption SO3 Total Number and Percentage of Operations Assessed for Risks Related to 6.6.1-6.6.2, 6.6.3 ● p28 ● EU20 Approach to Managing the Impacts of Displacement 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.6, ◐ p80 ● Corruption and the Significant Risks identified 6.3.8, 6.3.9, 6.8, SO4 Communication and Training on Anti-corruption Policies and Procedures 6.6.1-6.6.2, 6.6.3, ● p28 ● 6.8.3, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 6.6.6 EU22 Number of People Physically or Economically Displaced and Compensation, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.6, ◐ p80 SO5 Confirmed Incidents of Corruption and Actions Taken 6.6.1-6.6.2, 6.6.3 ● p28 ● Broken down by Type of Project 6.3.8, 6.3.9 Public Policy SO6 Total Value of Political Contributions by Country and Recipient/Beneficiary 6.6.1-6.6.2, 6.6.4 ● In accordance with Article 31 of Political Fund Act, domestic corporate ● Disaster/Emergency G4-DMA Management Approach ● p25, p74~75, p76 bodies are not allowed to donate political funds, and any political funds Planning & Response EU21 Contingency Planning Measures, Disaster/Emergency Management Plan and Training Programs, ● p24~25, p73 ● related to domestic corporate bodies are not allowed to be donated, Customer Health and Recovery/Restoration Plans and KEPCO complies with this provision. Anti-competitive SO7 Total Number of Legal Actions for Anti-competitive Behavior, Anti-trust, 6.6.1-6.6.2, 6.6.5, ● In the process of carrying out business, KEPCO strictly complies with ● & Safety G4-DMA Management Approach ● p25, p74~75, 76 Behavior and Monopoly Practices and Their Outcomes 6.6.7 relevant legislations to establish fair and free transaction orders. EU25 Number of Injuries and Fatalities to the Public Involving Company Assets Including Legal Judgments, 4.6 ● p73 Compliance SO8 Monetary Value of Significant Fines and Total Number of Non-monetary 4.6 ● Laws and regulations having impacts on business include Electricity Act, ● Settlements & Pending Legal Cases of Diseases (Damage to the General Public, not Executives & Employees) Sanctions for Non-compliance with Laws and Regulations Electrical Construction Business Act, Framework Act of the Construction Product & Service G4-DMA Management Approach ● p30~31 Industry, Engineering Technology Promotion Act and Nuclear Safety Act; Labeling PR3 ’Type of Product and Service Information Required by the Organization’s Procedures for Product and 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.3, ◐ p15 KEPCO has no cases for violating legislations or regulations regarding Service Information and Labeling, Percentage of Significant Product and Service Categories Subject 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.9 the company’s business and being imposed sanctions by the government. to Such Information Requirements Supplier Assessment SO9 Percentage of New Suppliers That were Screened Using Criteria for 6.3.5, 6.6.1-6.6.2, ◐ p26, 81 ● PR4 Total Number of Incidents of Non-Compliance with Regulations and Voluntary Codes Concerning 4.6, 6.7.1-6.7.2, ● No violation ● for Impacts on Society Impacts on Society 6.6.6, 6.8.1-6.8.2, Product and Service Information and Labeling, by Type of Outcomes 6.7.3, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 7.3.1 6.7.9 Grievance Mechanisms SO11 Number of Grievances about Impacts on Society Filed, Addressed, 6.3.6, 6.6.1-6.6.2, ◐ p28 ● PR5 Result of Surveys Measuring Customer Satisfaction 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.6 ● p30, 31 ● for Impacts on Society and Resolved through Formal Grievance Mechanisms 6.8.1-6.8.2 Customer Health PR1 Percentage of Significant Product and Service Categories for Which Health 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.4, ◐ p15, p56 Access G4-DMA Management Approach ● p30~31 & Safety and Safety Impacts are Assessed for Improvement 6.7.5, 6.8.8 EU23 Programs, Including Those in Partnership with Government, to Improve or Maintain Access to 6.7.8, 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.6 ● p30~31, p35 ● Marketing PR7 Total Number of Incidents of Non-compliance with regulations and Voluntary 4.6, 6.7.1-6.7.2, ● KEPCO carries out promotion for conveying truth such as terms and ● Electricity and Customer Support Services Communications Codes Concerning Marketing Communications, Including Advertising, 6.7.3 condition of electricity supply, advertisement for encouraging the people EU26 Percentage of Population Unserved in Licensed Distribution or Service Areas 6.7.8 ● p35 ● Promotion, and Sponsorship, by Type of Outcomes to participate in energy-saving or electricity safety movements and other EU27 Number of Residential Disconnections for Non-payment, Broken down by Duration of Disconnection 6.3.7, 6.7.8 ● Power cut for 169,000 households due to ● PR; there are no cases for violating marketing communication by false and by Regulatory Regime non-payment of electricity bills or exaggerated advertisement. EU28 Power Outage Frequency ● p24, p38, p57, p92 ● Customer Privacy PR8 Total Number of Substantiated Complaints Regarding Breaches of Customer 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.7 ● One case for the violation of Personal Information Protection Act ● EU29 Average Power Outage Duration ● p92 ● Privacy and Losses of Customer Data (Corrective measures were completed) EU30 Average Plant Availability Factor by Energy Source and by Regulatory Regime ● p92 ● Compliance PR9 Monetary Value of Significant Fines for Non-compliance with Laws and 4.6, 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.6 ● Laws and regulations having impacts on business include Electricity Act, ● Provision of G4-DMA Management Approach ● p74~75 Regulations Concerning the Provision and Use of Products and Services Electrical Construction Business Act, Framework Act of the Construction Industry, Engineering Technology Promotion Act and Nuclear Safety Act; KEPCO has Information EU24 Practices to Address Language, Cultural, Low literacy and Disability Related Barriers to Accessing 6.3.7, 6.7.8 ● p76 ● no cases for violating legislations or regulations regarding the company’s business and Safely Using Electricity and Customer Support Services and being imposed sanctions by the government. 90 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 91 GENCOs KEPCO Group companies and companies with equity investment Korea South-East Address: 32, 123beon-gil, Sadeul-ro, KOSEP is operating the Samcheonpo Thermal Power Plant and Yeongheung Thermal Power Plant as base load. As of Power Co., ltd. Jinju, Gyeongsangnam-do the end of 2013, KOSEP has an installed capacity of 8,226MW, which includes 6,909MW from 11 bituminous coal units (KOSEP) Employees: 2,018 (84.3%), 922MW from 10 LNG combined cycle units (11.2%), and 325MW from anthracite units (3.9%). Under the longPaid-in capital: 290.1 billion won term power supply plan, Yeongheung Thermal Power Plant Units 5 & 6 are under construction with an installed capacity KEPCO Engineering & Construction Company, Inc. KEPCO Plant Service & Engineering Co., Ltd. www.kosep.co.kr of 1,740MW. The Yeosu Power Plant unit 1 (350MW), which is shut down, is being replaced with thermal power plant. Equity share 100% Address: 2354 Yonggudaero, Giheung-gu, Yongin City, Gyeonggi Province Address: 45 Jungjailro, Bundang-gu, Seongnam City, Gyeonggi Province Korea Midland Address: 38 Taeheranro 114 gil. KOMIPO is operating the Boryeong Thermal Power Plant and the Seocheon Thermal Power Plant as base load. As of Employees: 2,223 Employees: 5,160 Power Co., ltd. Gangnam-gu, Seoul the end of December 2013, KOMIPO has an installed capacity of 8,933MW, which breaks down as 4,000MW of eight Paid-in capital: 7.6 billion won Paid-in capital: 9 billion won (KOMIPO) Employees: 2,193 bituminous coal units (44.8%), 4,230MW of 25 LNG combined cycle units (47.4%), 400MW of two anthracite units www.kepco-enc.com www.kps.co.kr Paid-in capital: 137.3 billion won (4.5%), and 285MW of four oil units (3.2%). Under the long-term power supply plan, KOMIPO is building Sinboryeong www.komipo.co.kr units 1 & 2 (2,000MW) and Seoul combined cycle units 1 & 2 (800MW). Equity share 100% Korea Western Address: 152 Taeheran St. GangnamWP is operating the Taean Thermal Power Plant as base load. As of the end of December 2013, WP has an installed KEPCO Engineering & Construction (E&C) was founded to achieve self-reliance in KEPCO Plant Service & Engineering (KPS) is a comprehensive plant service company Power Co., ltd. gu, Seoul capacity of 8,908MW, which includes 4,000MW of eight bituminous coal units (44.9%), 3,482MW of 26 LNG combined design technology of nuclear and thermal power plants. Based on safety and economy, and provides high-quality maintenance services for power plants (nuclear, thermal, (WP) Employees 1,974 cycle units (39.1%), and 1,400MW of four oil units (15.7%). Under the long-term power supply plan, WP is building Taean KEPCO E&C developed Korean Standard OPR1000 and APR1400 and became a globally hydroelectric), transmission and substations, and industrial facilities. KPS is responsible Paid-in capital: 158.9 billion won thermal plants (2,100MW), Taean IGCC (380MW) and Pyeongtaek-2 combined cycle unit (974MW). competitive nuclear power plant design company. KEPCO E&C exported 500, 800, for commissioning maintenance of power plants under construction, and ordinary www.westempower.co.kr Equity share 100% 1,000MW standard thermal power plant design technology and has competitiveness maintenance, planned outage and other repair & maintenance of power plants in in transmission and substation, renewable energy and project/construction project operation, contributing to preventing unplanned shutdowns and improving the capacity Korea Southern Address: 512 Taeheran St. GangnamKOSPO is operating the Hadong Thermal Power Plant as base load. As of the end of December 2013, KOSPO has an management, contributing to the enhancement of national energy competitiveness. factor. KPS also expands its global business in 25 countries including the U.S., Australia Power Co., ltd. gu, Seoul installed capacity of 9,200MW, which breaks down as 4,000MW of eight bituminous coal units (43.5%), 4,553MW of and Saudi Arabia. (KOSPO) Employees: 1,951 31 LNG combined cycle units (49.5%), 600MW of 4 oil units (6.5%), and 41MW of 19 wind units (0.4%). Under the longPaid-in capital: 228.8 billion won term power supply plan, KOSPO is building Samcheok Green Power (2,100MW) and Andong combined cycle (417MW). www.kospo.co.kr Equity share 100% KEPCO Nuclear Fuel Co., Ltd. KEPCO Knowledge, Data & Network Co., ltd. (KDN) Korea East-West Address: 395, Jongga-ro, Jung-gu, EWP is operating the Dangjin Thermal Power Plant and Honam Thermal Power Plant as base load. As of the end of Power Co., ltd. Ulsan December 2013, EWP has an installed capacity of 9,342MW, which includes 4,500MW of 10 bituminous coal units Address: 989-242 Daedeokdaero, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon City Address: 60 Hyoryeongro 72 gil, Seocho-gu, Seoul (EWP) Employees: 2,231 (48.2%), 2,586MW for 19 LNG combined cycle units (27.7%), 1,800MW of six oil units (19.3%) and 400MW of two Paid-in capital: 282.9 billion won anthracite units (4.3%). Under the long-term power supply plan, EWP is building Dangjin 9th and 10th units of thermal Employees: 1,070 Employees: 1,297 www.ewp.co.kr plants (2,040MW) and Ulsan combined cycle (948MW). Paid-in capital: 93.2 billion won Paid-in capital: 64 billion won Equity share 100% www.knfc.co.kr www.kdn.com Korea Hydro & Address: 534 Taeheran St. GangnamKHNP is operating nuclear power plants as base load and hydroelectric plants as peak load. As of the end of December Nuclear Power gu, Seoul 2013, KHNP has an installed capacity of 26,039MW, which is composed of 23 nuclear units of 20,716MW (79.6%), 16 Co., ltd. (KHNP) Employees: 2,018 pumped storage and power generation units of 4,700MW (18.1%) and 21 hydroelectric units of 595MW (2.3%). Under KEPCO Nuclear Fuel is the only nuclear fuel design and manufacturing company which Since KEPCO Knowledge, Data & Network (KEPCO KDN) was founded as the IT provider Paid-in capital:290.1 billion won the long-term power supply plan, KHNP is building five nuclear power plant units (6,600MW), which are Sinwolsung unit www.khnp.co.kr 2, Shin-Kori units 3 & 4, Sinulchin 1 & 2. was established to localize nuclear fuel and achieve technology self-reliance. KEPCO of KEPCO, KDN has offered total IT services, growing Equity share 100% Nuclear Fuel is providing nuclear fuel for all light and heavy water reactors in Korea into a global electric power IT company. KEPCO KDN has been mainly engaged in and will supply fuel to the UAE nuclear power plant. It is developing and supplying two development/operation of information systems, electric power kinds of high-quality modified nuclear fuel. High performing nuclear fuel for export is IT service, the development and maintenance of IT infrastructure, intelligent distribution Summary for statistics of GENCOs (As of December 31, 2013) under development and expected for commercial supply from 2016. system, and information security. KEPCO KDN is now striving to enhance PLC AMI and smart distribution system to realize smart grid. Amount of facilities for each power plant (Unit: MW) Water power Energy Combined InternalNew Nuclear Total General Pumped Total Anthracite Flaming Heavy oil LNG Total cycle thermal combustion renewalbe energy water water coal power power energy 634 4,700 5,334 1,125 23,409 3,950 888 29,371 14,886 330 208 20,716 70,845 Amount of generation for each power plant (Unit: GWh) Equity rate of mutual investment companies (As of December 31, 2013) Water power Energy Combined InternalNew Nuclear Total General Pumped Total Anthracite Flaming Heavy oil LNG Total cycle thermal combustion renewalbe energy water water coal power power energy Korea Electric 1,575 4,105 5,679 8,054 193,064 13,941 3,526 218,585 84,561 741 406 138,784 448,757 Power Industrial Korea Korea Gas Development District Heating LG Uplus Corporation Corporation Corporation Average efficiency of thermal power plants for each power (Unit: %) Frequency of suspension of plants: 105 cases (KEPID) Anthracite Flaming Heavy oil Gas Combined InternalAverage Category 2011 2012 2013 coal cycle thermal combustion Sudden suspension 45 98 105 power power 34.93 38.64 36.26 36.06 45.42 41.20 40.06 29.0 % 20.5 % 19.6 % 8.8 % Average rate of use for each power plant (Unit: %) Water power Anthracite Flaming coal Heavy oil LNG Combined cycle InternalNuclear energy Average thermal power combustion power 12.2 81.7 94.2 40.3 37.9 63.5 23.2 75.5 73.3 92 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 93 Awards & Awards received in 2013 Association & international organization memberships Period Awards Institution Initiatives May 2013 Citation for the 7th Anniversary of the Day for Missing Children Ministry of Health and Welfare June 2013 Medals for Disaster Management Assessment Prime Minister Name of Association/Institution Purpose for Joining Year July 2013 Making bicycle roads for Seomjingang River and vitalizing Ministry of Security and Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers Promotion and development of academics and technology related to electrical engineering 1961 the use of bicycles Public Administration Korea Standard Association Exchange of information on technological standards, including industrial standardization and quality management 1964 September 2013 Best Award by the Ministry for Best Training and Education Ministry of Employment and Labor Korea Electric Association Promotion and development of electric industry 1965 October 2013 Best Award by the Minister for Mutual Growth Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy Korean Member Committee of the World Energy Council Enhancement of international relationship in the energy area 1969 October 2013 Presidential citation for the Best Award for Electricity Safety Ministry of Security and Public Korea Atomic Industrial Forum Exchange of nuclear technology at home and abroad 1975 in Korea for 2013 Administration Korea Electrical Engineering & Science Research Institute Basic research and nurturing of human resources with regard to electric power industry 1989 October 2013 Best Awards for the This Year’s Project (Electricity Service Sector) Korea Project Management Association Korean Society for Quality Management Exchange of information among quality management organizations to improve quality management activities 1995 November 2013 Best institution for preventing sexual harassment Ministry of Gender Equality and Family Korea Nuclear Society Technology development and academic exchange with regard to nuclear power 1995 November 2013 Best award for CSR as Korean company investing in the Philippines Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy Korean Institute of Electrical & Electronic Material Engineering Academic exchange and cooperation between industry and academia regarding electrical and electronic material engineering 1996 November 2013 Participating in the international invention contest and received Invention Contest in Nuremberg, Germany AESIEAP Cooperation among electric power companies & experts of East Asia and the Western Pacific 1998 two best awards and one gracious award EEI Protection of the rights of U.S. electric power companies and provision of information on the electric power industry 2004 December 2013 Best Web Award for the Public Sector in Korea Korea Internet Professionals Association Korea New & renewable energy Association Promotion of new and renewable energy industry and information sharing 2004 AEIC Technological exchange among electric power companies in North America 2008 Engagement in major initiatives Korea Invention Promotion Association Exchange of needs and trends of IPR market 2009 Korea Smart Grid Association Smart grid information sharing and mutual cooperation 2009 Transparent Society Pact signed among CEOs of 18 public corporations June 2005 Korea Nuclear Association for International Cooperation Export of Korean standard nuclear power plant, analysis of overseas nuclear trends, mutual cooperation and information 2010 and Korea Independent Commission Against Corruption sharing in the nuclear industry Renewable Portfolio Agreement signed with the Ministry of Commerce, Energy and Industry July 2005 Korea carbon Capture and Storage Association Spread and support for providing CCS technology 2010 Agreement to comply with UN Global Compact and 10 principles August 2005 Korea Nuclear Association for International Cooperation Analyze Korea-styled nuclear power plant export and overseas trend, cooperate with other nuclear power plant businesses 2011 Transparent Society Pact in the Electric Power Sector with 11 KEPCO Group companies and major electric power companies September 2005 and exchange information Integrity Pact between KEPCO and partner companies (1,519 companies, 18,135 persons) January 2006 World Nuclear Association Enhance the national status and carry out marketing activities for nuclear power plants 2012 Agreement with private-sector organizations on business cooperation in the area of the environment June 2007 Korea Management Association Innovate management and support for consulting service 2013 (UNEP National Committee for Korea, Korea Green Foundation, Korea Women’s Environmental Network) Future Energy Forum Review current affairs and policies in the energy sector 2013 Second Renewable Portfolio Agreement signed with the Ministry of Knowledge and Economy July 2009 Korea Photovoltaic Industry Association Market research, participate in proposing policies, collect information on new technology 2013 Accession to UN Global Compact in Korea December 2009 Korea Wind Energy Association Market research, participate in proposing policies, collect information on new technology 2014 Sisterhood partnership with 36 traditional markets August 2011 Joint Agreement on Integrity and Ethical Practices of KEPCO Group companies (10 companies) June 2012 1. AESIEAP: Association of the Electricity Supply Industry of East Asia and the Western Pacific Cooperative Shared Growth Pact in the Power Equipment Sector June 2012 2. EEI: Edison Electric Institute Select 65 power industry SMEs as KEPCO Trusted Partners July 2012 3. AEIC: Association of Edison Illuminating Companies Contracts for transferring technology to SMEs for 27 patent cases owned by KEPCO September 2013 Signed a contract for jointly fostering professional personnel among electricity group companies October 2013 Signed a contract for mutual growth and fair transactions with 214 SMEs December 2013 Glossary Micro Grid such as certified emission reductions as products that can generally used units for the length of transmission line. penalty. Electric quality CER: Certified Emission Reduction Electricity supply system by focusing on independent and be changed into cash. It refers to percentage of average The quality of electricity provided is represented as blackout CERs are carbon credits issued by the CDM Executive Board separate power source from the existing extensive electricity electricity for the maximum amount of electricity for a specific Transmission & Distribution Loss EMS: Energy Management System time, voltage & frequency margin and total harmonic for emission reductions achieved by CDM projects system. It has supplementary relation with the existing period and index for efficiency in the investment of electricity Electricity loss incurred while electric power flows from A system controlling the operation of generation facilities distortion (THD). electricity system. facilities. power plant to substation, transmission/distribution lines, and connecting with electricity grid in an optimal way by RFS Renewable Fuel Standard finally point of consumption, mainly due to resistance. collecting information on the entire electricity grid and HVDC: High-Voltage Direct Transmission Current A system where transport fuels are mandatorily mixed with BEMS: Building Energy Management System CDM: Clean Development Mechanism monitoring load frequency. High voltage direct transmission current which converts renewable energy by certain percentage. A system controlling the amount of energy use automatically An arrangement allowing industrialized countries with a DR: Demand Response alternating current to direct current for transmission, and and efficiently by launching sensors to energy using devices greenhouse gas reduction commitment to invest projects that To convey changeable information on electricity cost Greenhouse gases converts into alternating current again for use. CCS: Carbon Capture and Storage, in buildings (lightings, air conditioning) and connecting to reduce emissions in developing countries depending on the situation of electricity supply and demand Elements of air generated either naturally or artificially, which CCUS: Carbon, Capture, Utilization and Storage communications network. as an alternative to more expensive emission reductions in to customers on a real-time basis and induce the reduction of may contribute to global warming when there is an excessive Electricity Effect Valuation System Technology with extracting CO2, from fossil fuels before being their own countries. electricity peak and consumption by using incentive programs. increase of their proportion in the A technique to select ideal sites for constructing transmission emitted in the air, pressing and storing it into liquid. ETS: Emissions Trading System atmosphere. Refers to gases like carbon dioxide (CO2), and substation facilities. Quantifies the effect of electricity on The system that sets the total quantity of greenhouse Demand Control RPS: Renewable Portfolio Standard methane (CH4), chlorofluorocarbon (CFC), nitrous oxide (N2O), the natural, social and technology SNG: Substituted Natural Gas emissions of all advanced nations and imposes a certain All the activities to satisfy electricity demand at a minimal Regulation that requires the increased production of energy and sulfur hexafluoride (SF6). environment by using GIS and CAD and analyzes the weighted Produced from oil or coals, the gas has similar components amount of emission quotas. Countries exceeding the quota cost by changing customers’ electricity use patterns. Load from renewable energy sources. importance of the effect. Results are rendered in 3D images. with natural gas whose major component is methane. can purchase emission rights and those under the quota can control and energy efficiency improvement are major methods ESS: Energy Storage System sell emissions. for demand control. EERS: Energy Efficiency Resource Standard A device for storage where exceedingly supplied electricity IGCC: Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle Demand management system where the government is saved and transmitted in case of a temporary lack of New eco-friendly generation technology which operates the CAMS: Carbon Asset Management System c-km: Circuit Kilometer grants energy suppliers with goals for reducing energy and electricity. It includes battery storing electricity and relevant turbine by gasifying coals at high temperature and pressure Systemic load factor with considering GHG emission rights Length of one cable made up of three lines. One of the most depending on the implementation imposes incentive or devices managing battery efficiently. and producing and purifying mixed gas with CO and hydrogen. 94 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 95 Additional All Sustainability Reports (issued from 2005) including this one and Annual Reports can be downloaded on the website of KEPCO. Additional information of the management of KEPCO is available on the websites below. Expressions such as forecast, expect and Staff members for making the report information estimate are the description of the analysis of future as of today. Therefore, for specific risk or uncertainty, please refer to Form 20-F. Category Website Address Supervision PART 2. Specific Disclosures 5. Coping with Climate Change Business Report Financial Supervisory Service’s DART (data analysis, retrieval and transfer system) Head of Corporate Planning Department Technology Policy & Planning Department Kim Hoe-chun 1. Realizing Customer Value Lee Ji-sook, Chun Hye-kyung /company overview dart.fss.or.kr Form 20-F U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission www.sec.gov Strategy and Planning Team, Marketing Department Corporate Planning Department Kweon In-cheol 6. Making People-oriented Work Environment Annual Report KEPCO homepage/Investor relations/management www.kepco.co.kr Kim Yu-sang, Ahn Sun-mi, Kim Dong-gyu Statistics of Electric KEPCO homepage/Investor relations/Investor resource/Statistics of electricity www.kepco.co.kr Distribution Planning Department Human Resources Department Park Ho-min Nam Soo-il, Park Yun-han, Park Jung-hee, An Kee-hyeon, Power in Korea Yoo Yo-el, Lee Yun-pyo Social contribution KEPCO homepage/company overview/social contribution www.kepco.co.kr Reporting Methology Distribution Operation Department Lee Sun-ho, Mun Jeong-hwan Labor Management Department Management Information of Public Institution Information Management System, www.alio.go.kr Kang Min-suk, Kim Kook-zin, Ahn Chul-hong Public Institutions Ministry of Strategy and Finance Meeting With The Rights To Know Grid Planning Department Lee Sung-woo Emergency & Security Department Corporate Planning Department Baek Wan-ki, Seo Pyung-taek, Lee Soon-bae Park Jae-gun, Ji Seung-hun Transmission & Substation Operation Department Jeong Han-gi https://mobile.twitter.com/iamkepco Treasury Department 7. Fulfilling the Responsibility for Sharing and Mutual Lee Tae-su Transmission & Substation Construction Department Growth Kim Yoo-cheon https://www.facebook.com/iamkepco Marketing Department Labor Management Department Sim Pan-jun Son Young-myoung 2. Stabilizing Electricity Supply and Demand KEPCO Transmission & Substation Construction Department Power Market & Policy Department KimYong-won, Kim Jin-uk Demand Management & Optimization Department Jeong Hee-jong Shin Sang-hwan http://blog.kepco.co.kr Procurement & Contract Department Marketing Department Son Ki-jung, Baek Sang-jun PART 1. Standard Disclosures Kang Seong-bin Technology Policy & Planning Department Choi Wee-kyung Governance struacture 3. Creating New Growth Engines for the Future Transmission & Substation Construction Department Corporate Planning Department Human Resources Department Ahn Dae-wook Kim Hyeon-tae Shin Duk-cheon Technology Policy & Planning Department * Name of department: Order of organization (However, Risk management Kim Ji-mi, Kim Dae-young departments with more representativeness for each theme are placed at first) Corporate Communications Office Engineering Department Ban Yun-ho Cho Jin-woo, Research & Review Corporate Planning Department Smart Grid & ESS Department Kim Bong-jin Ko Ju-won, Kim Sang-gyu, Shin Gwang-joe, Choi Sang-min Corporate Planning Department Strategy and Planning Department Treasury Department Renewable Energy Office Kim Tae-geun, Jung Young-jin, Joo Yun-jung, Seo Ji-young Jeon Sung-nam Park Doek-yeol Financial Planning Office UAE Nuclear Project Department Kim Jung-sook Park Jong-mo English revision Emergency & Security Department Overseas Project Development Department Corporate Planning Department Kim Yun-beom Kang Jeong-gu Yoon So-yuen Overseas Project Management Department Ethical managemnt Park Chan-dok Design Audit & Inspection Office Kim Mi-ri (cloudlet.mr@gmail.com) Park Hyeong-tak 4. Realizing Eco-friendly Energy Kim Chul-hwan (mondaytoday@gmail.com) Quality Management Department Moon Byoung-wha Power Market & Policy Department O Se-hyun Demand Management & Optimization Department Jang Sung-eun Distribution Planning Department Park Ho-min Distribution Opeartion Department Kim Young-jin Transmission and Substation Construction Department Lim Sung-min Business Support Department Choi Young-hyun 96 Introduction Reporting Methodology Standard Disclosures Specific Disclosures Appendices KEPCO Sustainability Report 2014 97
