GSC Asia Pacific Life Space p Business Process Excellence Global Compact COP Proposal Activities: To Implement The Handbook For Employee Principles : Human Right Supplier: Multi Net Resources Sdn. Bhd. Date: 1st August 2013 Proposed Activities Review Year 2013 Implement the handbook for employee under Multi Net organization Year 2014 Volunteer cleaning at an orphanage/old folk f lk home h Schneider Electric 2 Global Compact Principles and Objective  Multi Net Resources committed to fulfill the required 4 areas: 1. Human Rights • Principle 1: Support and respect protection of human rights • Principle 2: Ensure no complicit in human rights abuses 2 Labor 2. 3. Environment 4. Anti-Corruption Schneider Electric 3 Evidence of Activities Done Briefing to employees on this handbook implement Signed document Signed and delivery handbook to employees Schneider Electric 4 Investment Cost Year 2013 o Printing g Cost RM200 o Reward RM 500 Year 2014 o Cleaning Material RM200 (Budget) o Donation RM 800 (Budget) Schneider Electric 5 Benefit from this proposal p p • Employers generally benefit from increased communication with employees regarding company policies, benefits, and work rules. • Improved communication between employers and employees. • By understanding what the company expects of the employee and what the employee can expect of the company, an employee handbook helps to minimize anxiety of employees by decreasing fear of the unknown. Schneider Electric 6 Conclusion • Employees very happy on this implementation. • Employee handbook offers an opportunity to state affirmatively and confirm that employment is at will, thereby possible insulating the company from many claims. • Employees understand company’s rule and benefit. Schneider Electric 7 Updating to COP Website 2013 event info to be uploaded (for COP extension) Communication on progress(COP) Due date: 4 Aug 2013 Schneider Electric 8 Schedule S h d l for f th the nextt activities ti iti Year Y 2014 Volunteer cleaning at an orphanage/old folk home • Plan to perform in February 2014 Schneider Electric 9 Support from CMK needed • Second Wave of Global Compact Training Schneider Electric 10
