1 To The United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) From November 2013 – November 2014 Submitted by MENTOR FZ LLC, Dubai, UAE Published 2014/11/04 Time period 11/2013 – 11/2014 Format Standalone document Differentiation Level This COP qualifies for the Global Compact Active level Self-assessment  Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption  Includes a measurement of outcomes Statement of continued support by the Managing Director It is with great honour that MENTOR reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact within all four dimensions. Since joining the United Nations Global Compact, MENTOR has ensured to adhere to the Ten Principles and has strived to implement each principle within its own work place as well as within each project it undertakes. This Communication on Progress is a confirmation that despite being a small company, MENTORs leadership and team is fully committed to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, and will expand more on its progress within this brief report. Yours sincerely, Malek Moubasher Managing Director Dubai 4rd of Nov 2014 2 With its main office located in the United Arab Emirates, MENTOR is strategically situated in an increasingly important region. As the region continues to grow and go through transitions, the UAE remains a driving force in economic and social stability. It is within this cohesive environment that MENTOR is able to abide by the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. MENTOR ensures that the values of the UN Global Compact are upheld either through persistent advocacy, or directly through the company's operations. The following report highlights the numerous ways in which we implement and advocate the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact; focusing on the four main areas of human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption. Outlined within this report are the policies and goals that we aspire to, the ways in which we implement said policies, and lastly the methods in which we measure our outcome. MENTOR seeks to make a positive and sustainable impact within its clients' organizations in every engagement it undertakes. MENTOR provides clients with innovatively designed solutions that effectively work for their organizations, are customized to their culture, meet their strategic direction and fit in with their organization's life cycle stage. Creative In order to achieve its mission, Proactive Collaborative MENTOR ensures that its workplace and operational environment is optimum for both its employees, as MENTOR Values well as its clients. In order to ensure the wellbeing of all staff members, MENTOR ensures to abide by the Opportunity to Positive values, visualized to the right. learn & grow Open Communication 3 MENTOR is a management consulting company that offers its clients implementable integrated consulting services that work. MENTOR is part of a business group working in professional education since 1973; it is a registered entity under Dubai Free Zone Authority as a Human Resources Development Limited Liability Company since 2006. MENTOR has been active in assisting organizations to improve their performance effectiveness through providing consulting and capacity building services on various organizational levels. MENTOR works closely with its client organization in developing solutions that can show direction, enhance organizational effectiveness and build the capability of people through offering practical tools and enabling implementation. MENTOR clients are large organizations who need help in enhancing their performance and been transformed into a more productive organization. MENTOR’s service lines cover areas of Strategy & Business (they Why), Organizational Development (the How) and People (the Who) together with the Performance Management frameworks that align and bind them together. MENTORs clients also include various United Nations agencies, focusing on delivering solutions to issues pertaining to international development. MENTOR delivers its services through building customized solution empowered by technology and through maintaining close relations with its clients. 4  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, policy and goals MENTOR understands the importance of adhering to universally acknowledged and internationally proclaimed human rights and hereby confirms its support of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. MENTOR therefore ensures not to be complicit in human rights abuses or any unfair treatment to any human being. Additionally, MENTOR abides by a code of conduct when working with external contractors and partners to ensure that they support and respect human rights. Implementation MENTOR ensures to conduct projects that will lead to the betterment of the lives of its clients and their customers. An aspect of this is ensuring that everyone has the same rights and opportunities to grow and develop. Therefore, MENTOR has placed a great emphasis on developing training material and training workshops that will ensure the betterment of all factions of society, particularly marginalized groups. One example is the production of training material aimed at female entrepreneurs within the Gulf region, to ensure that they are not dismissed or excluded. Such training material and training kits allows said women to fulfil their right to grow and develop. Furthermore, MENTOR has linked some of the Human Rights Principles to the 'Best Practices in Leadership and Management' training workshops delivered. Additionally, MENTOR is part of a network of consulting agencies; often giving advice by word and also leading by example. In this respect, MENTOR has been able to advocate the UN Global Compact's human rights principles via its consultancy and training workshops One example of influencing the supply chain was that MENTOR introduced a one page introduction to the UN Global Compact in each first communication to its clients, thus introducing UNGC to people around it. Measurement of outcomes  MENTOR has had zero cases brought forward regarding human rights abuses and maintains an excellent clean juridical record. 5  MENTOR maintains all its duties and responsibilities required by the laws and regulation of its country of registration, and carries out decent business conduct and proper ethics.  MENTOR has observed several positive interactions within its network and influential circle regarding its core activities and supply chain in terms of awareness of UNGC principals due to persistent advocacy by MENTOR in its communication.  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, policy and goals As a Human Resources consulting agency, a large amount of our work focuses on people development and the labour force as a whole. As a result, MENTOR focuses on advocating fair and proper labour practices with all of its clients. MENTOR continues to advocate and instill the best practice in this area with its entire 40+ client portfolio. Thus, MENTOR has been able to include all four principals of the United Nations Global Compact Labour dimension in its advisory and training role in the area of human resource management. Implementation MENTOR adheres to a strict code of conduct and refuses to work with organisations that utilize or advocate child labour, forced labour, or any kind of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. MENTOR considers itself to be a role model and a messenger for best strategies in people development that ensures fair treatment to the labor workforce and to the organization as a whole. MENTOR was able to discuss and demonstrate during its client engagements the importance and relevance of the United Nations Global Compact Labor principals to proper Human Resources Management Within its own team, MENTOR ensures that all of its employees have the opportunity to grow and develop within their role. Hence, all MENTOR employees are currently undergoing training in Prince 2 project management and will receive certification upon completion. This is to uphold and maintain excellence within the company's operations, 6 and demonstrates that MENTOR is a company that cares about its employees and invests in them. Measurement of outcomes  Enhanced labor and workforce practice among its clients  MENTOR training workshop participants were able to show their understanding of the United Nations Global Compact labour principals  MENTOR internal team undergoing training in project management  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, policy and goals MENTOR understands the critical importance of preserving the earth's resources and minimizing the accumulation of waste. Thus, MENTOR has introduced green policies to meet the environmental principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Initiatives include online awareness campaigns to promote greater environmental responsibility. Additionally, MENTOR now ensures that it takes advantage of its technological lead by using it as a tool to minimize paper consumption. Implementation MENTOR is a paperless company; only printing paper except during the rare occasion when printing is essential. Moreover, MENTOR has introduced the following communication in all of its emails: MENTOR Goes Paperless: Join Us and Do It! Please consider the environment. You control climate change: Print Less. Turn down. Switch off. Recycle. Walk. 7 It is a requirement for all MENTOR staff to include the above-mentioned statement within their email signatures. MENTOR considers itself to be a pioneer in offering technology solutions to its clients. This is combined with MENTORs commitment to preserving the environment by ensuring that all of our work and products use online platforms as opposed to being mass-produced on paper. As a result, all training material and assessments of our training modules is now executed using e-learning tools. Additionally, in all of its consulting projects related to real estate, construction and industrial activities, MENTOR always encouraging its clients to go green and consider sustainable solutions. Measurement of outcomes  MENTOR was 90% successful with its implementation of its paperless policy.  Completion of training and assessments is now all completed using E-learning technology  MENTOR has encouraged its influence circle to accept electronic communication when possible as opposed to printing and sending paper  Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals MENTOR strives for a world free of corruption and extortion. Practices of corruption will always result in a diminishment of social fabric, thus MENTOR strives to maintain a strong work ethic, both internally within the company, and externally whilst dealing with clients. MENTOR is proud to be a transparent company, whereby all full-time consultants are involved within the full operations and continuous growth of the company, having a safe space to voice their concerns. MENTOR adheres to anti-corruption policies during its hiring procedures in order to steer clear of any kind of nepotism. MENTOR hires its employees based on merit and ability as opposed to favoritism. Additionally, MENTOR ensures not to discriminate against current and potential employees based on gender, race, or religion. Hence, MENTORs team consists of a cultural mix of men and women working alongside each other with utmost respect and a strong work ethic. 8 MENTOR FZ LLC has a clear, valid license that permits it to perform its duties and responsibilities without any faults. Implementation MENTOR fights corruption whenever and wherever it can. MENTOR communicates its anticorruption stance to with its clientele and each person within its supply chain ensuring to get a consensus from them. MENTOR has started a monthly-meeting initiative whereby all MENTOR team members are required to attend in order to ensure transparency. The aim of the monthly meeting is to ensure that communication between all team members is clear, and also provides all employees with a chance to voice their opinions and concerns. Similarly, MENTOR is ISO certified and has an application that allows clients to communicate their feedback or complaints. This upholds transparency within clientele relations, and ensures that all communication is open and honest. Measurement of outcomes  MENTOR directors and officers have not, within the last five (5) years, been convicted of any criminal offence related to their professional conduct or the making of false statements or misrepresentations.  MENTOR and its staff maintain an excellent clean juridical record; maintain all its duties and responsibilities required by the laws and regulation of its country of registration, and carry a decent business conduct and proper ethics.  Externally, MENTOR is an advocator of anti-corruption and continues to communicate this to all its stakeholders and clientele.  MENTOR has had zero corruption incident during this year
