Communication On Progress 2014 Summary Commitment of the CEO ............................................................................................. p.3 SOLYSTIC’s presentation ........................................................................................... p.4 Social responsibility ....................................................................................................... p.5 Human rights .............................................................................................................. p.6 to 8 Labour ......................................................................................................................... p.9 to 11 Environment ........................................................................................................... p.12 to 14 Anti-corruption ....................................................................................................... p.15 to 17 © SOLYSTIC SAS 2014 Global Compact Communication on progress 2014 2 Dear Mr General Secretary, SOLYSTIC decided to embrace and support the values of the United Nations Global Compact in October 2009. I would like to reiterate our commitment to the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the area of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. I would also like to assure you of my intention to promote these principles both among SOLYSTIC’s employees and within our sphere of influence, namely our customers, partners, suppliers and all our stakeholders. For us, supporting the Global Compact is a means of committing wholeheartedly to a sustainable development strategy. This commitment is one of the founding principles of our Corporate Social Responsibility. The annual communication about our progress has now been firmly embedded in our practices and is an integral part of our ongoing drive for improvement and transparency. As CEO, I have made it my priority to implement this policy on a daily basis and to enlist the involvement of all my staff. I am proud that SOLYSTIC, through its support, is helping to further the initiative launched by the UN. Yours sincerely, October 2014 Pierre IGOU Chief Executive Officer © SOLYSTIC SAS 2014 Global Compact Communication on progress 2014 3 Presentation of SOLYSTIC SOLYSTIC is a French subsidiary of the Northrop Grumman group that designs, manufactures, installs and maintains letter and flat object sorting equipment. It operates out of its head office, close to Paris, its assembly plant in Bourg-lès-Valence in the South of France, and a Belgian subsidiary dedicated to the maintenance of the postal equipment in this country. With a turnover of 55 million euros in 2013 and over 500 employees, SOLYSTIC ranks first worldwide in the postal sorting sector. The SOLYSTIC range includes: • MARS : a compact machine designed to prepare postal walks and sort mail in private companies. • STAR : a letter-sorting machine capable of processing 53,000 objects an hour. • TOP 2000 : this machine sorts large-sized mail including newspapers, catalogues and plasticcovered items. TM • XMS : this state-of-the-art solution treats 95 % of the large-sized mail and letter flows. • Address recognition and interpretation systems for both handwritten and typed addresses. • Systems for the centralisation of information and supervision, developed by teams of software engineers. SOLYSTIC’s offer is tailored to the specific needs of each customer. The company relies on simulation and modelling tools developed in-house to determine the most appropriate configuration. A range of services, including consulting, support, tutoring as well as the optimisation of existing processes, is proposed throughout the lifecycle of a solution. Finally, SOLYSTIC relies on the expertise of its partners to provide overall operation and management solutions for a sorting centre. SOLYSTIC invests approximately 5% of its turnover in Research & Development. These investments are essential for us to define and design future solutions for postal operators. > Sorting modules > MARS sequencing > Production site © SOLYSTIC SAS 2014 Global Compact Communication on progress 2014 4 Social Responsibility SOLYSTIC, the worldwide leader in the design and implementation of solutions for diverse postal operators, extends its reach through innovation and being attentive to the needs of its customers. SOLYSTIC is aware of the economic and social issues and accordingly has built its strategy and governance around a Corporate Social Responsibility – Sustainable Development approach involving its workforce, customers, partners, suppliers, institutions, residents and all its stakeholders. This type of governance, based on respect of human rights, transparency, accountability, teamwork, ethical behaviour, compliance with legal requirements and the support of our employees to shared values, has led us to commit to: ► Respecting the interest of the customers and end-users • By offering efficient, high-quality and economically competitive products and services that are suited to meet customer requirements and relying on the ISO 9001 standard certification, • By anticipating, from the design stage, materials and technologies that limit the risks for health, safety and the environment and consume less energy throughout the product life cycle. ► Being a responsible employer • By taking measures to prevent health and safety risks while improving working conditions, • By advocating diversity, equal opportunities and helping to combat all forms of discrimination, • By managing skills in a proactive and sustainable way, • By striving to establish and sustain our practices and social relations through trust, respect, attentiveness and dialogue. ► Adopting a sustainable procurement strategy • By incorporating sustainable development criteria in our procurement practices and by involving our suppliers • By setting up in the regions in which we operate our business activities • By giving priority to supplies developed in a sustainable and environmentally-friendly way for our own activities, ► Limiting our environmental impact • By taking preventive actions against all forms of pollutions, reducing waste, among others, and relying on the ISO 14001 standard certification, • By contributing to the fight against climate change. ► Apply to ethical principles • By stating the rules of programs management and main principles of the parent company. ► Pratice the Corporate Social Responsibility • By joining in 2009 the United Nations Global Compact. To carry out these commitments, we: • Transmit information to all the managers • Rely on compliance with legal, regulatory or other requirements • Provide the necessary and sufficient resources • Inform, consult and involve our employees and their representatives, whom we ask to embrace and actively participate in this approach • Set up, monitor and review our targets in a continuous improvement approach • Ensure the efficiency of our management system. Pierre IGOU Chief Executive Officer 2 January 2013 © SOLYSTIC SAS 2014 Global Compact Communication on progress 2014 5 Human rights PRINCIPLES Businesses should 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. OUR COMMITMENTS, OUR POLICY SOLYSTIC respects human rights and complies with French legislation, especially the Constitution of 4 October 1958, which is a cornerstone of the Fifth Republic currently in force. The preamble of this Constitution includes the full 1789 Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen. Generally speaking, SOLYSTIC abides by the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of December 1948. SOLYSTIC requires its suppliers and its subcontractors to respect Human Rights through its responsible purchasing policy. SOLYSTIC advocates diversity, equal opportunities and employability and helps to combat all forms of discrimination. © SOLYSTIC SAS 2014 Global Compact Communication on progress 2014 6 Action undertaken in 2014 PERSONNEL LEASING : AN APPROACH FOR SUSTAINING EMPLOYMENT ► Context SOLYSTIC’s policy has always been focused on safeguarding and advancing its expertise in order to build a long-term relationship with its employees and thereby foster innovation, service quality and professionalism at the service of its customers. In 2013, whereas some new products were in the final stages and will assuredly bring new contracts for future years, SOLYSTIC experienced a slowdown in production and chose to maintain its workforce during this period by using various schemes: modulated working time, leave taking, partial unemployment and resorted to labour leasing, a new little-known scheme. Labour leasing, for a company operating below capacity, consists in finding other host companies with a heavy work load that take on the employees of this company for a given period of time. The employees are leased on a voluntary basis and remain full SOLYSTIC employees. They retain all the elements related to their initial contract in particular seniority. They may also receive training with the aim of aligning their skills to the need of the host company. Their employment contract is therefore suspended during the lease period. In late 2012, following many local contracts around its Bourg-lès-Valence site, SOLYSTIC decided to enter into personnel lease agreements with various companies in the Valence region. This scheme was also considered for employees at the head office in Bagneux, however it was much more difficult to implement given that the employment area is less favourable to this form of local solidarity. The key drivers behind the successful implementation of this tool are principally the employees who volunteered, the management and labour representatives, both at SOLYSTIC and at the host companies, who accepted its implementation in addition to the local economic players who responded to SOLYSTIC’s request under the watchful eye of the Labour Inspectorate that supported this approach. ► Goal SOLYSTIC had one clear goal, i.e. reducing the number of employees with a low work load at the site without depriving itself of the skills that it would need in later months. This goal was ultimately achieved; furthermore employees got to discover another organisation, different products, processes and procedures and returned to SOLYSTIC enriched by these experiences. This was also an opportunity for an executive employee to take the time for introspection and to consequently redirect his professional career. ► Approach an implementation Once the feasibility of the project was ascertained, the HRD contacted DIRECCTE* and obtained approval to use this tool within the overall scheme implemented to address SOLYSTIC’s temporary decrease in workload. The responses from local companies were very encouraging thereby confirming the common desire to safeguard all jobs. * Regional Directorate for Business, Competition, Consumer, Work and Employment © SOLYSTIC SAS 2014 Global Compact Communication on progress 2014 7 ► Results obtained 5 local companies accepted to take on a total of 16 employees for an accumulated work period of 269 weeks. These companies that operate in very different sectors in the postal industry electronics, design of special machines, twisting of technical wires, manufacturing of collection bins, etc. were able to benefit from the skills of our employees. The leases mainly pertained to professional workers (cable fitters, lathe operators, storekeeper) but also included technicians (methods, design office, etc.) and executives (project managers). Some employees even volunteered to renew this experience in the job that they had occupied or for another position. The accounts of the employees overlap: • A very fulfilling practice from a professional and human standpoint. Being integrated in another environment helps to discover the positive aspects and the areas of improvement in each company. • The necessity to do integration efforts from a human standpoint within a host company, much like for the return to SOLYSTIC for that matter! The communication with the leased employees and their follow-up largely contributed to the success of the project: each week a Manager visited the host companies and met with the employees and as such was the administrative and social link with SOLYSTIC. Specific training (for example, 35 hours dedicated to the use of the machining centre) was sometimes requested by the host company. The costs of this training were entirely covered by SOLYSTIC thereby promoting mobility of the volunteer employees and at the same time increasing their employability. It should be noted that following the agreement between the two companies, a permanent position was offered to one of our employees, who declined the offer. This point had been addressed by management and labour with SOLYSTIC confirming that even though it did not wish for this scenario should it occur, it would not interfere and that it would be up to the employee in question to make his or her decision. Finally, the members of the Health and Safety Committees (CHSCT) and SOLYSTIC Works Council as well as those from the host companies were also asked to participate as their opinion was legally required for the implementation of this scheme. A major challenge for the parties was ensuring the safety of the leased employees. This concern was fully taken into account and there were no accidents during the leases. In early 2013, at a breakfast held in their honour, the CEO of SOLYSTIC met with all the volunteer employees and shared with them on their experience. This was truly a momentous occasion. He thanked them for their contribution to the scheme. Moreover, an exceptional bonus was allocated to each employee in order to materialise this extraordinary undertaking. In 2014, an SME from the region, which was in its turn confronted with a slowdown in production, called on us to take on two of its employees under a labour lease agreement; SOLYSTIC accepted this request given the upturn in its business activity. The employees and economic stakeholders who were a part of this scheme turned a difficulty into an opportunity. This shows that by pooling skills, jobs are saved and employability increases. For more information, contact marie-pierre.homberg@solystic.com © SOLYSTIC SAS 2014 Global Compact Communication on progress 2014 8 Labour PRINCIPLES Businesses should 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4 Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5 Uphold the effective abolition of child labour 6 Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. OUR COMMITMENTS, OUR POLICY SOLYSTIC complies with French labour law in particular the legislations governing freedom of association and the right to bargain collectively. SOLYSTIC supports the efforts to eliminate all forms of forced or mandatory labour and to effectively abolish child labour. SOLYSTIC has committed to informing and consulting the Central Works Committee (CWC) on the company’s 3-5 year strategy and its foreseeable significant effects on human resources and employment. SOLYSTIC, as a socially responsible employer, advocates diversity and equal opportunity and helps to combat all forms of discrimination. SOLYSTIC takes all necessary steps to prevent health and safety risks and improve working conditions. © SOLYSTIC SAS 2014 Global Compact Communication on progress 2014 9 Action undertaken in 2014 PREVENTING PSYCHOLOGICAL RISKS AT WORK ► Context SOLYSTIC has always set great store in promoting employee well-being, which is a key factor as regards the motivation, efficiency and commitment of employees. Without actually entering into an agreement on the Quality of Life at the Workplace, SOLYSTIC has implemented and brought several tools such as a new organisation of the workspace when the head office changed or the coordination of a Work Group on Psychosocial Risks (PSR) since 2010. The discussions on psychosocial risks started between management and labour during the 2010 mandatory annual Negotiations and the first Seniors agreement. A specific concern relating to senior travelling employees was raised and a multi-site work group called Stress Observatory was therefore created. ► Goal Given that the key concept behind the work carried out by the group is prevention, indicators have been established and their regular analysis should help to identify a trend and to exercise special vigilance. Where necessary, a diagnosis is initiated in the field and a specific prevention plan is implemented. The Group also provides support for more specific or urgent concerns which lead to targeted actions often with the involvement of external bodies, for example psychologists from the Occupational Health Services. ► Approach and implementation • A multidisciplinary group was formed; the first members came from the delegations taking part in the Mandatory Annual Negotiations. However, this soon gave way to the de facto participation of employees from the CHSCT, Occupational Health Services and the Bourglès-Valence site’s infirmary in this work. • As the prevention of psychosocial risks is not an easy topic to understand, the PSR point of contact at CARSAT* Rhône-Alpes guided and trained the group. She also helped the group to examine the methodology to be implemented, by sharing her experiences and providing arguments to explain the objectives that were sometimes misunderstood by managers and employees alike, who may have viewed this as an intrusion into their professional life or an officialised complaints tool. * Retirement Insurance and Occupational Health Fund • The 14 indicators selected, which included sick leave absence rates, occupational accidents, departure/transfers and reasons, individual interviews, disciplinary sanctions, etc., and their analyse for each work unit, enabled the group to have a holistic view and to identify the trends. These indicators are updated each quarter and reviewed during the meetings. The members of the group are able to share their knowledge of the context and give concrete explanations for an individual result. Ultimately, the group collectively validates the general trend concerning the work unit. The evaluation, that is more qualitative than quantitative, remains strictly confidential and is used as a basis to trigger actions. Some examples are the creation of the PSR diagnosis in certain units or the psychosocial risks training provided to Managers. A confidential report is drawn up for each meeting and approved by the entire group before it is issued. It is used to track the actions from one quarter to the next. © SOLYSTIC SAS 2014 Global Compact Communication on progress 2014 10 • The implementation of PSR diagnostic is initiated by a presentation of the approach to all potentially concerned employees. Initially carried out by the HRD, this presentation was taken over by two coordinators of the Health Safety Environment Department who provide legitimate ongoing improvement that does not have a General Management connotation. The two coordinators trained and advised from the CARSAT PSR contact are in charge to implement an effective risk assessment methodology. The diagnoses are carried out with volunteer employees and are confidential. The participants collectively validate the report which is then presented to the line managers and commented on during feedback meetings with employees – whether or not they took part in the diagnosis, and their managers. This fundamental feedback makes it possible to collectively discuss topics that are sometimes complicated and to initiate action plans. The actions are then tracked by the PSR coordinators. • A half-day training session on non-discrimination, suggested by the PSR group and recorded in a gender equality agreement between management and labour, was provided to managers by an external firm. This tailor-made training created by and for SOLYSTIC, allowed them to realise that their behaviours are essential in this field. ► Results obtained In addition to those that are hard to assess, the results include: • To date, 6 diagnoses have been performed through eight formal meetings. They were carried out in the operational and support work units. They have led to concrete actions such as better transmission of information between Managers and employees on a daily basis, a revised definition of the scopes of responsibility as well as a study on the level of remuneration/classification of a given group. The area of improvement that is currently the main focus of the group relates to the speed of implementation of the actions decided further to diagnosis with a general feeling that things are not moving at a fast enough pace. • Specific Risk Prevention training given to a group of Managers This training that was decided further to a PSR diagnosis was conducted during two halfday sessions at three-month intervals. It involved: building awareness of the Risks, through a poignant video viewed as a key means of getting managers to understand how employees might interpret and integrate certain professional experiences on a daily basis, a discussion on concrete actions and situational simulations. This training was a pivotal point in the sharing of these Managers’ daily experiences and in their understanding of how the teams feel. • The role of internal communication; SOLYSTIC felt that internal communication was fundamental to getting all employees to understand the Group's action. Two articles were published in the internal information bulletin; one of them was also made available on the internet in a longer version. The biannual reviews of the Quality Safety and Environment department now incorporate the tracking of PSR actions. To conclude, the SOLYSTIC PSR evaluation allowed the company to open a new area of ongoing improvement and risk prevention. Nonetheless, it is still based on long-term changes and employees sometimes find it hard to admit that it takes time to change attitudes. The improvement challenge will be to find the right balance between short and long term actions supported by an appropriate internal communication policy. For more information, contact marie-pierre.homberg@solystic.com © SOLYSTIC SAS 2014 Global Compact Communication on progress 2014 11 Environment PRINCIPLES Businesses are asked to 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. OUR COMMITMENTS, OUR POLICY SOLYSTIC helps to combat global warming by limiting its greenhouse gas emissions and saving energy in the operation of its infrastructure, employee business travel and goods transport. SOLYSTIC takes steps to prevent all forms of pollution by reducing waste production, among other things. SOLYSTIC minimises the environmental impacts of its products and services through the use, from the design stage, of clean, innovative and energy-efficient technologies. © SOLYSTIC SAS 2014 Global Compact Communication on progress 2014 12 Action undertaken in 2014 REDUCING TRANSPORTATION ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ► Context To contribute to the fight against global warming, SOLYSTIC conducted an assessment of its greenhouse gas emissions. Travel and transport are the third rank behind direct energy consumption and the manufacturing of its product components. In fact, as SOLYSTIC’s customers are distributed all over the world, this involves vast movement and transport of machines. SOLYSTIC consistently strives to reduce the environmental impacts of its activities, and over the years this effort has resulted to reduce its carbon emission, due to, in particular, at the optimize of its development and support processes. ► Goal The search for solutions is simultaneously focused on two areas: • Reducing the number of trips. • Selecting the most environmentally-friendly modes of transport. This publication provides information on a few significant actions that were recently undertaken. Others will follow as part of an ongoing drive for improvement, depending on technological advances and the efforts to raise the awareness of the various stakeholders. ► Approach and implementation • Reducing the number of trips. Software plays an important role in the SOLYSTIC’s equipment and requires an integration and test phase over the assembled and installed machine. Whenever the machine is installed in the customer site, its finalisation involves many trips for the development and test teams. ™ The simulation tool called SOSi virtually reproduces the mechanical engineering, the sensors and the actuators. It has been created to develop and test the software before the machine is produced. At the same time it significantly decreases the need to carry out tests on ™ the physical machine. The use of SOSi has decreased the number and the lengths of trips ™ on site and carbon emissions as a result. SOSi also helps to update software at the customer’s request by limiting access to the machine during operation. SOLYSTIC offers a new service based on its enhanced maintenance solution that allows its support team to be remotely at the foot of the machine and even inside it! The technician remotely views and analyses with the operator any malfunctions and diagnoses them. For a long time, SOLYSTIC has been using video and telephone conference systems in its meeting rooms. This year, SOLYSTIC is continuing its efforts and has updated its internal messaging system towards a more collaborative platform that enables file sharing and makes it possible to launch videoconferences from individual office computers. These new resources expedite work between the sites and help to reduce the number of inter-site trips. • Selecting more environmentally-friendly modes of transport. Since 2013, SOLYSTIC has been taking part in the Rhône-Alpes mobility challenge Another way to travel to work. The aim is to promote all the alternative modes of transport to a personal car and limit greenhouse gas emissions. This year, 800 companies and organisations from the region took part and counted: the kilometres covered by their employees to get to work other than by a personal car (bicycle, walking, bus, train, carpooling, roller-skating, etc.) the number of employees who changed their method of transport on that day. © SOLYSTIC SAS 2014 Global Compact Communication on progress 2014 13 SOLYSTIC reduced the number of cars rented within the context of its assignments. Carpooling is a must for worksite activities; moreover support information for taxi carpooling was put in place between the Bourg-lès-Valence premises and the train station. Travel in the Paris region during the daytime is only carried out by public transportation. Bus or train accessibility was one of the main criteria behind the decision to set up the new head office. Travel by train is given priority with respect to airplanes in particular for trips to the United Kingdom and Belgium. The company also created its own community on the www.ecovoiturage0726.fr website. Therefore employees can get in touch with colleagues within the company who would like to carpool, without the information being seen from the outside. In May, SOLYSTIC received Valence Romans Déplacement, the public body in charge of developing public transport for the Valence region, for a presentation to the personnel of the collective transport solutions available to them. Transport of goods has been optimized. The modules composing the equipment were exclusively delivered in Japan through shipping. Container dimensions were adjusted to the volumes shipped. The spare part delivery frequency has also been adjusted to reduce the number of shipments. ► Results obtained The benefits gained from the following actions can be mentioned by way of example: • Development of a simulation tool ™ Since we have started using the SOSi tool, the average time spent on the customer site during the software integration and test phases has been divided by 6. There are much less trips resulting in reduced development costs. Moreover employees have a better work-life balance. • Participation in mobility challenge On 5 June 2014, 25% of the workforce travelled to work otherwise than in a personal car; amongst this number, more than 50% had changed their habits on that day. Furthermore, the breakdown by alternative mode of transport gave certain indications of areas that needed to be improved or promoted. Further discussions have been initiated and a Company Travel Plan will be implemented in the medium term. In parallel, SOLYSTIC is involved in a mobility work group that brings together representatives from companies in the Valence employment area and the various institutions working in this field. For more information, contact jean-pierre.baiardi@solystic.com © SOLYSTIC SAS 2014 Global Compact Communication on progress 2014 14 Anti-corruption PRINCIPES Businesses should 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including exortion and bribery. OUR COMMITMENTS, OUR POLICY SOLYSTIC, like all other subsidiaries of the Northrop Grumman Group, abides by the Ethics program transmitted by its parent company. The key components of the Ethics program include: • Un correspondant Ethique par site, • An Ethics Officer at each site, • A regularly updated Ethics charter, • An OpenLine, • Annual training provided to each employee. The organisation set up by SOLYSTIC allows employees to receive guidance, get answers to their questions and report an event. The annual training covers sensitive issues such as: • la prévention de la violence au travail, • Prevention of violence in the workplace, • Protection of personal data, • Social networks, • Information security, • Corruption. In this way, it encourages staff to display the highest level of integrity and accountability in their behaviour. © SOLYSTIC SAS 2014 Global Compact Communication on progress 2014 15 Action undertaken in 2014 ASSESSING EMPLOYEES’ UNDERST ANDING OF THE ETHICS PROGRAM ► Context For over 12 years SOLYSTIC has been implementing the Ethics function at the instigation of its parent company, Northrop Grumman. Through this function, employees are provided with assistance, information and guidance. In 2014, the company interviewed a representative sample of employees to gather their views on the Ethics program implemented within the company. ► Goal These interviews had several aims: • Review the content of the annual training in order to enhance employees’ understanding of the information received, • Adjust the examples chosen by the Group and presented during the training sessions to ensure that they address the concerns of SOLYSTIC employees, • Share the rules of business conduct and the resources made available to employees to help them to work in an ethical manner, • Engage in an individual discussion that is harder to do in collective training sessions, • Obtain the employees views on Ethics. ► Approach and implementation Fifty employees from the Bourg-lès-Valence and Bagneux sites were interviewed, i.e. approximately 11% of the company’s total workforce. These employees came from all departments, technical, commercial, financial and administrative and are representative of all of the jobs performed in the company. The interviews involved both employees and managers. The representative sample was compiled with the objective of including the various levels of seniority in each position. The questions focused on: • the knowledge of the topics covered in the Ethics charter, • the resources made available to employees to assist them in answering any ethical questions they might have, how to report a concern or how to react when confronted with a situation that might threaten their integrity, • personal behaviour in light of an ethical situation, foreseeable obstacles, level of freedom and feeling with regard to the environment, • the relationships with the customers and suppliers; behaviour with respect to gifts and invitations, corruption, changing practices, • how Ethics is perceived in the company: shareholder requirement or added value, • freedom of expression. These interviews lasted half an hour. At the start of each interview the employees were reminded and reassured that their anonymity and confidentiality would be strictly enforced. © SOLYSTIC SAS 2014 Global Compact Communication on progress 2014 16 ► Results obtained Knowledge of the topics covered within the Ethics charter: • 76% of the employees interviewed were able to give at least two topics. • 54% of employees associate Ethics with customer/supplier relations, in particular corruption and conflicts of interest and interpersonal relationships. • 22% of employees stated that they used company resources for personal purposes. Resources made available to employees: • 100% of the employees interviewed were able to name at least one resource provided by the company to guide or assist them with Ethical issues, this resource is the Ethics officer. • 48% gave two other means: the manager and the OpenLine. Personal behaviour when faced with an ethical situation: • 80% of employees believe that it is easy to make an ethical decision, but think that confidentiality is crucial. When confronted with a difficulty, they refer to the Ethics officer. • 88% feel free to report an ethical problem given that depending on the topic they can choose the means that seems appropriate to them. • 68% of employees interviewed said that the environment in the company encourages them to report a problem. Relationships with customers and suppliers: • 66% of employees replied that the limits imposed on gifts and invitations do not hinder their business relationships. They believe that they are useful to avoid abuse and that a framework is necessary. They also pointed out that sometimes certain customers have more restrictive rules and limits. • 82% of employees mentioned that the behaviour of customers/suppliers has changed over the past few years, especially due to budget considerations, greater awareness and a generalisation of Ethics rules. Perception of Ethics in the company: • 68% of employees still view Ethics as an obligation of the shareholder however they acknowledged that it is fundamental for the company and customer relations. • 100% of employees questioned think that an Ethics function is useful at various levels to: report problems independently, neutrally though another channel than the line manager, give employees guidance and set limits, obtain assistance or advice from the Ethics officer, meet customer requirements. In conclusion, these interviews conducted with the employees reflected their commitment and effective understanding of Ethics rules and the related internal resources. Following these results and the constructive discussions during the interviews, the content of the training material will be adjusted based on the various suggestions put forward by the employees and certain topics deemed important will be developed. For more information, contact francine.clement@solystic.com © SOLYSTIC SAS 2014 Global Compact Communication on progress 2014 17 WE ARE CONVINCED THAT RESPECTING THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT IS NOT JUST A COMMITMENT, IT IS ABIDING BY A SOCIAL MODEL BASED ON MUTUAL RESPECT AND DIALOGUE WITH ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS, IT IS IMPLEMENTING CONCRETE ACTIONS THAT REPRESENT THE VALUES WE SHARE, IT IS COMMITTING TO A CONTINUOUS PROGRESS AND IMPROVEMENT INITIATIVE. HEAD OFFICE SECONDARY ESTABLISHMENT 152/160 avenue Aristide Briand 25, rue de Chony CS 80013 BP 102 26501 92227 Bagneux CEDEX Bourg-lès-Valence CEDEX France France For more information, contact Tel. +33 (0)1 49 08 41 00 Tel. +33 (0)4 75 40 71 00 Fax +33 (0)1 45 36 21 70 Fax +33 (0)4 75 40 71 30 jean-pierre.baiardi@solystic.com www.solystic.com SOLYSTIC • Simplified limited company (SAS) with a share capital of EUR 28,445,600 • Registered with the Trade Register of Nanterre under number B393 502 463 • SIRET (business registration number) 393 502 463 00044 • VAT FR 38 393 502 463 • NAF 3320C © SOLYSTIC SAS 2014 Global Compact Communication on progress 2014 18
