Sustainability in action From epic challenges to integrated solutions Progress Report FY2014 February 2013–January 2014 Table of contents Letter from our CEO 3 Strategy for designing a better world 4 Products and services 7 Environment 11 Ethics and compliance 14 Suppliers and business partners 16 Employee impact 17 Impact philanthropy 20 Performance summary 21 About this report 24 United Nations Global Compact index 25 Global Reporting Initiative index 26 2 Letter from our CEO At Autodesk, we believe designers play a critical We also implement best practices in our own role in addressing today’s most epic challenges, operations—reducing our environmental including energy, climate change, and access to footprint, creating a dynamic and rewarding water, health care, and education, among others. place to work, and engaging suppliers, partners, With our global population expected to reach and employees in our vision. 9 billion by 2050, we are now confronted with The challenges we face as a global community the ultimate design challenge—to design a future are epic. But we are humbled and inspired to be where everyone can live well and live within the working alongside designers, engineers, architects, limits of the planet. and artists who are imagining, designing, and Amidst these challenges, I’m optimistic and creating a better world for everyone. hopeful. I see Autodesk customers around the Sincerely, world rising to meet these challenges—focusing their talents, ambitions, and careers to design a better future. They are embracing planetary limits as design constraints, and radically transforming the way we design and redesign our world. To accelerate their efforts, we provide Carl Bass products and services to make sustainability easy, Chief Executive Officer insightful, and cost-effective. Designers, architects, Autodesk and engineers are using these tools to design solutions that reduce energy use, advance water management, improve urban transportation, and more. Our customers inspired us to create the Autodesk Foundation. Launched in early 2014, it is the first foundation to invest in design for impact. We are excited to align our corporate giving with our core business and expertise in design, and we hope to inspire our employees—and designers everywhere—to help build a better world. This past year, we’ve also continued to equip thousands of clean tech pioneers globally with our software, and we have grown our offering of free online learning tools that teach the principles and practice of sustainable design. 3 Strategy for designing a better world Experts anticipate that by 2050 we will live Provide the best sustainability solutions Expand access to technology in a world of 9 billion people, up from 7 billion Autodesk’s biggest opportunity to make a Solving complex challenges requires bringing today. More people will only intensify the positive impact in sustainability is by delivering more people, more ideas, and the best thinking complexity and urgency of the global challenges products and services that make sustainable to the table. We offer discounted and no fee we face, such as energy demands, climate design easy, insightful, and cost-effective. This software to students, nonprofit organizations, change, and access to water, healthcare, and benefits our customers, who use our products employees, and others who are developing education, among others. These challenges are and services to improve decisions that have design solutions that will shape a more already reaching epic proportions. They are substantial and long-term environmental sustainable future. interconnected, intractable, and seemingly impacts—from planning cities and designing The Autodesk Clean Tech Partner Program unsolvable. We need to design solutions that buildings to supplying drinking water and supports clean technology pioneers. Through will help us provide for more people while manufacturing products. this program, we have provided thousands of demanding less from the planet. Across our portfolio of more than 100 products companies across 30 countries with Autodesk® Designers around the world are meeting this and consulting services for the building, software for a nominal fee. In 2013, we challenge head on and focusing their talents, infrastructure, and manufacturing sectors, established our Technology Impact Program ambitions, and careers to design a better future we continue to integrate analytical capabilities, for software donation. This helps nonprofit within these constraints. We’re in the midst of robust data sets, and design principles to help organizations design high-impact solutions to a design-led revolution, and we’re seeing the our users achieve higher-quality, and more social and environmental challenges by providing power that designers have to intentionally sustainable, project outcomes. Our customers use them with easy access to our professional shape our world. these solutions to capitalize on the increasing software suites for a small license fee. Designers from San Francisco to Nairobi are number of opportunities presented by the Lead by example changing how we design and redesign the world growing market transformation toward more sustainable design. We continually improve our business by around us at an unprecedented pace. With access implementing and promoting best practices in to information that was previously inaccessible, Deliver learning and training sustainable operations. Using our own they can understand the potential impacts of their opportunities sustainability solutions and those of our design on the larger system it fits within. They can Skilled practitioners of sustainable design and customers, we treat our business operations as a analyze and test thousands of iterations of a engineering are in short supply, yet we’ve never living lab for experimentation and improvement. design in just minutes. They can collaborate in needed them more. Through education, we can We measure and report our performance in order unprecedented ways, inviting more voices and empower masses of people to understand the to continually improve and to inspire broader massive collaboration into every step of the challenges we face and how to design lasting adoption of best practices. design process. Autodesk equips these designers and scalable solutions to address them. Our employee base is one of our most valuable with the tools and technologies they need to imagine, design, and create this better world. Through the Autodesk Sustainability Workshop assets, and we inspire and encourage our and Building Performance Analysis Certificate employees to contribute to a better world, both Our sustainability strategy focuses our efforts (BPAC) Program, students and professionals are at work and in their communities. We foster a where we can have the greatest impact: providing learning how to use design technology and culture of ethical behavior and respect, and the best sustainability solutions; delivering analytics to make better, more sustainable design demand the highest integrity in our interactions learning and training opportunities; expanding decisions during every step of the design process. with each other, our customers, and our suppliers access to technology; and leading by example Autodesk also sponsors sustainable design and business partners. with our business practices. competitions and collaborates with leading academic institutions and organizations to inspire more people to use design to address our most pressing challenges. 4 Materiality assessment • Support best practices, and spur new practices, across the design industry with our technology and public Last year, working with consulting firm BSR, we engaged policy efforts Autodesk executives and content experts from across the company’s business groups, functions, and regions to • Advance sustainable design education evaluate the environmental and social issues that have • Ensure the privacy and security of the data the largest impact on Autodesk’s success as a company Autodesk collects and the most relevance to global sustainable • Ensure diversity and equal opportunity within the development. We also assessed the level of influence Autodesk workforce that Autodesk has in each area and how each of these factors might evolve between now and 2050. Through • Mitigate the impact of piracy and theft of Autodesk this process, we looked for gaps or blind spots in our intellectual property strategy and worked to identify emerging issues. • Invest in Autodesk employee training and development The assessment confirmed the areas where we have • Enable energy efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions historically focused our sustainability efforts. It also reductions in our own business operations complemented other analyses we conduct, such as These findings inform our strategy and provide a platform those related to Autodesk’s product strategies and for further engagement with external stakeholders as well market sizing. as executives and employees companywide. The following issues rated highest in importance to See pages 8–10 of our FY2013 Sustainability Progress Autodesk’s business success as well as importance to Report for additional details, as well as key themes from sustainable development: the analysis and expected trends for some of these issues • Enable energy efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions in the coming decades. reductions for Autodesk customers © Jeff Goldberg / Esto 5 Sustainability governance and This team also reports to our vice president of corporate • We partner with educators and institutions to train real estate, facilities, travel, and safety and security. and prepare students for careers in architecture, management engineering, and other related fields. • Our cross-functional Environmental Core Team serves Our sustainability governance model ensures strong as an executive advisory board, establishing priorities • We listen to, engage, and inspire thousands of collaboration and clear accountability across Autodesk. and goals and creating plans to improve operational employees to participate directly in our sustainability Our CEO Carl Bass and his executive team have ultimate performance. It also promotes and reports these efforts and Autodesk Foundation efforts. accountability for sustainability at the company, and for throughout the company. See page 13 for more detail. integrating sustainability into Autodesk’s overall strategic planning process. We have teams throughout the company • Our Corporate Sustainability Team works across the Stakeholder groups Autodesk engages who are responsible for implementing Autodesk’s business to align our efforts with an aim to inspire and sustainability strategy within their area of expertise. equip more people to use design to solve epic challenges. The team delivers learning and training • Customers and prospective customers • Our Sustainability Solutions Team works across the resources, provides access to software via the Clean • Employees and prospective employees business to incubate new products and services that Tech Partner Program and Technology Impact Program, address the energy-, water-, and materials-related • Government/policy makers engages employees via the Employee Impact Program, business challenges of our customers in the building, leads our Sustainable Business and Operations • Investors infrastructure, and manufacturing industries. This Program, and oversees all sustainability reporting for • Vendors involves collaboration with the Information Modeling the company. This team reports to the company’s chief and Platform Product Group, which develops • Industry associations marketing officer. solutions for modeling and performance analysis • Local communities of building and infrastructure, the Manufacturing • The Autodesk Foundation is a newly created 501c3 organization funded by Autodesk, Inc. The Foundation • Students and educators Industry Group, which develops solutions for modeling and simulation of manufactured goods, invests in and supports the most impactful individuals • Software developers and the Autodesk Consumer Group. The team and organizations using design to create a better world. The Foundation’s CEO and president is accountable to • Press and analysts reports to our senior vice president of industry strategy and marketing and conducts quarterly briefings for the the Foundation’s board of directors. • Resellers and channel partners CEO and senior vice presidents of product development. Other aspects of sustainability—such as promoting • Our Building Performance Analysis Team develops ethical conduct and human rights, protecting employee solutions that analyze building performance and and customer privacy, and providing employees an enable designers to maximize energy efficiency before inclusive and engaging place to work—are managed construction begins using a cloud-based platform that by different groups across the company. works with a variety of industry tools. The team works closely with other product teams to ensure analysis is Stakeholder engagement well-integrated into Autodesk solutions and reports to The scale of the challenges we face requires massive our senior vice president of information modeling and collaboration across a broad range of perspectives and platform products. expertise. Engaging and partnering with stakeholders and industry players is core to our efforts to design a • Our Business Integration and Sustainability Team better world. Here are just a few examples of how we sets strategies to improve our facilities’ environmental partner with stakeholders at Autodesk: performance, including piloting and helping to refine our products and services using our own operations • We meet with customers and prospective customers as a living lab. This team reports to our vice president regularly to help shape our strategy and product road of corporate real estate, facilities, travel, and safety map and to test Autodesk’s Sustainability Solutions. and security. • We engage with government officials and policy • Our Office of Environmental Health and Safety makers on public policy issues related to sustainability establishes and enforces policies and tracks trends and sustainable design. related to environmental health, safety, and compliance. 6 Products and services Through its products and services, Autodesk we have grown our user base to more than 170 Sustainable building solutions strives to make sustainability easy, insightful, and million consumers. We are exploring ways to Buildings are one of the biggest consumers cost-effective. Our customer base has a sizeable engage this audience to promote the need for of energy on the planet. In the United States, reach with great potential to create positive sustainable thinking more broadly. buildings demand more than 40 percent of the environmental change. To bolster our customers’ country’s energy use. Globally, buildings ability to deliver sustainable projects, we Sustainability Solutions represent an estimated 38 percent of the total continually improve Autodesk Sustainability The biggest opportunity for Autodesk to make emissions reductions needed to stabilize the Solutions and then apply them in our own positive sustainability impacts is through our climate by 2050.1 facilities, using our buildings as living labs to products and services. showcase how our products can improve In fiscal year 2014, we finalized development of More than ever, incorporating environmental several new solutions for launch in fiscal year environmental performance. In addition, we sustainability into products, processes, and 2015 that will help designers maximize energy work to increase access to our technology and assets is a business imperative, with significant efficiency in new and existing buildings: invest in programs to educate students in the opportunities to enhance profitability, decrease fundamental principles of sustainable design. • Low-Energy Building Design: New risk, and win new business. In the next few years, simulation workflows (such as energy Professional customers and sustainable design strategies will become a modeling, daylighting, and thermal studies) standard market expectation, alongside consumers traditional considerations such as cost and lower the barriers to performing analysis early in the design process, when the biggest impact Twelve million professionals worldwide use our durability (see our video, “Making Sustainable can be made on a building’s lifecycle energy solutions to plan cities, design buildings and Design a Priority”). In anticipation of this market use and carbon emissions. products, supply people with energy and water, transformation, our mission at Autodesk is to develop manufacturing processes, and more. make sustainability easy, insightful, and cost• Rapid Energy Modeling for Existing They represent a wide range of disciplines, effective in high-impact industries. We do this Buildings: This streamlined process uses including architecture, engineering, construction, by delivering modeling, simulation, analysis, and minimal data from existing building conditions natural resources, infrastructure, manufacturing, process management solutions that streamline to quickly capture, model, and analyze energy and media and entertainment. and democratize sustainable design. These use—providing valuable information for solutions combine software workflows with decision making related to retrofit investments. An increasing number of customers request consulting services. Learn more. information about our Sustainability Solutions. We share best practices with them and continue We aspire to provide solutions that enable • Data Center Energy Efficiency: This to improve our products and services to help informed decisions throughout an asset’s lifecycle, workflow models and characterizes airflow customers increase their ability to deliver empower more people and organizations to precisely to help data center owners and their sustainable projects. incorporate environmental considerations without consultants make effective use of available air expensive subject matter experts, and optimize resources and eliminate wasted energy related In addition to solutions for our professional the energy and water footprint of products, to cooling. Learn more. customers, we offer a broad and rich portfolio of free or low cost mobile and web-based tools and assets, and processes. communities for artists, makers, gamers, home Autodesk Sustainability Solutions cover the major enthusiasts, and students. Since we formed the economic sectors with the largest environmental Autodesk Consumer Group in November 2010, impact: buildings, infrastructure, and manufacturing. 1. WBCSD (2009) “Energy Efficiency in Buildings: Transforming the Market” with data from Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratories 7 Sustainable infrastructure solutions to videos and our publications about the future of Aging infrastructure worldwide is already straining to sustainable design. keep up with population growth, and the UN predicts that within 35 years, 2 billion more people will live in Autodesk as a living lab the urban areas of today’s developing countries.1 This We have a unique opportunity to use our Sustainability unprecedented urbanization requires a disciplined focus Solutions and products from our customers and clean on developing sustainable cities. Autodesk sustainable tech partners (such as LED light bulbs, visual lighting infrastructure solutions use Building Information sensors, and other energy-efficient building technology) Modeling (BIM) to enhance the work of master in our own operations. This enables us to explore and planners, civil engineers, contractors, and owners. enhance sustainability functionality in our solutions, improve our own environmental performance, and In fiscal year 2014, we developed a Green Stormwater showcase how customers can use our solutions to meet Infrastructure and Flood Control solution to complement their own needs in sustainability. Image courtesy of Christian Kasper our existing infrastructure products. This solution offers real-time design and analysis of low-impact development In addition to using Autodesk software to design many techniques for stormwater management on building of our new office renovations during 2013, we also used Autodesk tools. Since launching in 2010, the sites, roads, and highways. These techniques address the Autodesk® apps for Leadership in Energy and Sustainability Workshop has received more than 1.3 the need for resilience in coastal urban areas and reduce Environmental Design (LEED®) automation at our Waltham million visits, and hundreds of educators and academic runoff using strategies that manage rainwater as a location to achieve our first certification for LEED in institutions worldwide have integrated the materials precious resource rather than a pollutant. Building Operations and Maintenance: Existing Buildings. into their classes. Sustainable manufacturing solutions Learning and training • In 2013, Autodesk launched the Building Performance Analysis Certificate (BPAC) Program, a first-of-its-kind, From product materials selection to industrial operations, Sustainable design is becoming increasingly important to free online course that teaches building science the manufacturing sector offers many opportunities to the architecture and engineering fields. At the same time, fundamentals and Autodesk building performance minimize environmental impact. Autodesk solutions significant education and skill gaps exist in this area. For analysis tools. More than 8,000 people have registered assist designers in choosing greener materials that satisfy students to meet the growing demand in their fields, they for the course, and about 200 educators worldwide are performance requirements, and help factory planners must be better prepared. In addition, there is a movement using it to supplement coursework. We are currently optimize layouts to improve facility efficiency. of makers and artists who increasingly turn to design piloting a set of BPAC online courses that will provide We finalized development of two new solutions in fiscal software to help them decide what shape their creations continuing education credits for professionals. We year 2014 that help customers improve the sustainability will take and how to make them more sustainable. expect the courses to be available more widely during of their designs and manufacturing processes: Autodesk offers educational tools and resources to the fall of 2014. help makers, students, educators, and professionals • Green Product Design – Vehicle Efficiency: • The online Autodesk BIM Curriculum for AEC was understand sustainable design and its application across Autodesk Digital Prototyping solutions support created to prepare learners for professional practice many industries. early-stage simulation, enabling vehicle manufacturers in architecture, engineering, and construction and suppliers to test lighter-weight materials and more Online learning management. The Autodesk BIM Curriculum site, aerodynamic designs to ensure they will perform well, We offer free, flexible, self-paced online learning which has received more than 1.1 million cumulative be easy to manufacture, and last. opportunities to teach sustainable design concepts to views, has extensive learning materials, YouTube • Factory Energy Management: Factory owners can those already practicing or considering a career in videos, exercises, assessments, and more to teach BIM build 3D models of new or existing plants to run architecture, engineering, design, and other related fields. and sustainable design practices, along with integrated computational fluid dynamics simulations that uncover • Autodesk Sustainability Workshop is a free online project delivery (IPD) concepts. cost-effective modifications to the HVAC system and knowledge base that teaches the principles and • Launched in 2012, the Autodesk Simulation Workshop building envelope. Learn more. practice of sustainability in engineering, architecture, is a resource to help increase students’ and practicing Visit our Sustainability Solutions web page for more and design. Short, engaging videos and articles engineers’ fundamental understanding of how computerinformation about our solutions for the building, teaching the fundamentals of sustainable design are aided engineering software tools work. Using Autodesk infrastructure, and manufacturing industries, plus links paired with case studies and tutorials that illustrate simulation and analysis tools, the workshop connects how to put complex concepts into practice with theory, numerical methods, and application. 1. UN Population Division, 2007 Revision 8 • The Digital STEAM Workshop invites high school • Students: Autodesk Education has provided access to • Nonprofit and community organizations: In fiscal students to download Autodesk software at no charge Autodesk software to more than 157 million students year 2014, we donated software worth nearly US$3.2 and then create and share their designs. It includes and educators with no fee. million to nonprofit organizations. Some of this support extensive content and lesson plans, covering energy »»Through the Autodesk Education Community, included software donations we made through the literacy and green building design. students and educators can access more than 50 Autodesk Technology Impact Program to nonprofit titles of Autodesk professional-grade software at no organizations that are using design to solve epic Partners and sponsorship charge. Since the Community’s inception in 2006, challenges. Learn more about the program later in We support students’ passions outside the classroom this section. as well by creating and sponsoring sustainable design over 8 million students and educators have competitions, such as Transformation 2030, a registered, including more than 1 million in 2013. • Clean technology entrepreneurs: Through our competition to design a socially and environmentally »»Through Autodesk Academic Resource Center Clean Tech Partner Program, we support those who responsible mixed-use development at a real site in (ARC), schools gain access to Autodesk software for are designing clean technology solutions to solve South Bronx, New York. The competition is a their classrooms and labs at no charge. The program environmental challenges. Learn more about the partnership between Autodesk, the Majora Carter is currently available in emerging markets and will be program below. Group, Architecture 2030, and the The American rolled out to mature markets in 2014. We also strive to facilitate knowledge sharing and Institute of Architecture Students. expand access to information. Here are a few examples: The value of the software we donated through Autodesk also works closely with industry-leading these programs was in the billions of dollars for • Instructables is an online community where creative organizations in sustainability education to extend our fiscal year 2014. people share innovative projects and ideas, including reach to students and educators. In 2014, we are sustainability-themed projects related to solar energy, • Educational organizations: We provide access to fostering relationships with academic researchers and graywater, and upcycling. Instructables also runs Autodesk technology to education-focused building a peer-to-peer community. Through this support, contests for participants related to green design and organizations, such as FIRST® Robotics, F1 in Schools™, we fuel creativity and help students understand how to e-waste reduction. Discovery Education, ISTE, Intel® Computer Clubhouse, integrate sustainable design strategies into their work PACE, Project Lead the Way, VEX® Robotics, SkillsUSA, • The Autodesk Knowledge Platform is an online hub for (both now and in the future). U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon, NESTA, The user support, learning, and community resources that Access to technology Chronicle of Higher Education, NMC, EDUCAUSE, and makes it easier for users to access and exchange WorldSkills. information relating to the use of Autodesk solutions. We provide software solutions to people around the world—from design and engineering professionals and • Consumers: We make our technology accessible to • Autodesk Sustainability Workshop is an online resource students to clean tech innovators and nonprofit everyone from artists and makers to gamers and home that teaches the principles and practice of sustainability organizations. By increasing access to our technology, enthusiasts. More than 170 million individuals have in engineering, architecture, and design with no fee. we are opening up new opportunities and expanding accessed the consumer products and communities we Learn more on page 8. the number of people who can use our solutions to offer at low cost or no charge. Partnering for clean technology create a better world. • Customers in emerging economies: At the time of The Autodesk Clean Tech Partner Program, founded in Discounted and no fee software publishing this report, Autodesk also makes older 2009, supports pioneers who are designing clean versions of Autodesk® AutoCAD® and Autodesk® technology solutions to solve environmental challenges. We offer discounted and no fee versions of Autodesk AutoCAD LT® software available for purchase in some We provide participants with up to US$150,000 worth of software to a variety of individuals and organizations, countries with emerging economies. The list price of software for only US$50, which they can use to design, including the following:1 these versions is usually a percentage off the list price visualize, and simulate their groundbreaking ideas • Early adopters: Autodesk Labs offers the public of the latest release. We also have a policy of adjusting through the creation of digital models and prototypes.2 early access to prototypes, technology previews, and our list pricing in a number of countries to account for Through this program, we have supported thousands of experimental web services at no charge. People can lower purchasing power in those locations relative to companies across 30 countries. Learn more about the access this professional-grade software in preview more mature markets. Clean Tech Partner Program. mode, trying out new features and workflows while • Employees: Since late 2012, Autodesk has granted We also work with leading clean tech investors, providing constructive feedback to Autodesk. its employees access to most Autodesk products at governments, and others to advocate for and promote no charge. 1. No fee products are subject to the terms and conditions of the end‐user license and services agreement that accompanies the software. The software is for educational purposes only and is not intended for commercial use. 2. Value is based on up to 5 commercial licenses of each application unless otherwise noted. Autodesk® 360 services for up to 5 single user authorizations for 1 year. 9 the industry. For instance, we collaborate with the agencies’ electronic and information technology is • Donated completely rewritten EnergyPlus engine Australian Department of Industry through the National accessible to people with motor, vision, or other source code to the U.S. Department of Energy’s open Clean Technology Competition to accelerate clean impairments. See links to Voluntary Product Accessibility source license, to make the engine more widely usable technology development in that country. We partner Templates (VPATs) for all major Autodesk products. (learn more) with Cleantech Group to provide exposure for clean tech These detail the accessibility features of Autodesk • Made a science-driven methodology for setting climate innovators and help them engage with investors and products and help government customers determine targets available for free to municipal governments sustainability thought leaders. their own compliance. (learn more) Technology Impact Program Public policy • Worked with the City and County of San Francisco, Established in September 2013, the Autodesk Technology California, using 3D modeling and simulation to engage At Autodesk, we participate in the public policy debate Impact Program provides software donations to the public in urban planning (learn more) to advance innovation, sustainability, and economic nonprofit organizations and individuals that are using growth. Our Government Affairs Team and other key • Advised industry organizations such as World Resources design to solve social and environmental challenges and company representatives engaged with government Institute and the Sustainability Accounting Standards create a better world. Qualifying applicants can receive officials, nonprofit organizations, think tanks, and other Board to drive the scope and direction of programs and initial grants of two professional Autodesk software entities during fiscal year 2014 to advance sustainability standards for carbon accounting and disclosure of suites—valued at up to US$15,000—for US$30 per principles. We focused especially on building and information technology energy use license. More than 200 organizations were participating infrastructure development and supporting policies that • Worked with World Resources Institute and Rocky as of the end of 2013. Through this program, we support promote the use of modeling, simulation, analysis, and Mountain Institute to provide government officials with nonprofits such as D-Rev, MASS Design Group, and process management technologies, which make expert data and analysis regarding energy efficiency KickStart International, helping them pursue breakthrough sustainability easy, insightful, and cost-effective. To this technology for buildings and related policy alternatives ideas in health, poverty, and architecture. Through this end, Autodesk has recently: program, we also provide grantees of the Autodesk Autodesk does not have a political action committee Foundation with our technology. • Provided input on European Commission draft and thus does not contribute to U.S. federal elections. documents regarding sustainable construction The company did not make contributions to state or Learn more about the Technology Impact Program. • Worked in the European Union to accelerate the local U.S. elections in fiscal year 2014. See historical Accessibility deployment of BIM tools and processes to help achieve data on page 23. Autodesk recognizes the importance of Section 508 of energy efficiency and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions the Rehabilitation Act, which requires that U.S. federal reduction goals 10 Environment GHG emissions by activity (Thousand metric tons CO2e) 100 As we empower our customers to create a more Data centers 80 sustainable world, we are applying the same standards of sustainability to our own operations. 60 We implement best practices—with a focus on 40 energy use and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, since those represent the most significant 20 environmental impacts from our operations. 0 We also strive to use water, materials, and other FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 resources effectively, in our own facilities and Hover over items in the legend to see related values. across our value chain. Carbon footprint • See page 21 for data related to energy and We are committed to following this approach Autodesk decreased revenue by 1.7 percent in GHG emissions by Scope 1, 2, and 3, and GHG through 2020. The 38.1 percent reduction in fiscal year 2014 compared with fiscal year 2013, emissions normalized per Autodesk’s relative absolute emissions compared with our fiscal while reducing absolute GHG emissions by 5.8 contribution to world GDP, per US$ revenue, year 2009 baseline exceeds the 23.4 percent percent during that same period, to 53,100 per employee, and per active square feet. reduction target we established using our metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e). • See page 7 for information about how we help C-FACT methodology. Our fiscal year 2015 Our footprint is 38.1 percent smaller in absolute our customers and their customers decrease target is a 27.1 percent absolute reduction terms than in 2009, our baseline year. During GHG emissions through the use of our products. from our baseline. Learn more about C-FACT. fiscal year 2014, Autodesk’s CO2e emissions decreased by 9.9 percent per employee and 5.3 • View Autodesk’s CDP submissions for additional Employee travel and percent per square foot of real estate, compared information about our approach and calculation methodologies, as well as our meetings with the prior year. See the following pages for Autodesk is a global company, so employee more detail about progress we have made to assessment of climate-related risks and opportunities for our company. travel is vital to our business. In fiscal year 2014, reduce our emissions. nonconference business travel resulted in 20,400 Autodesk follows the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Reduction target for GHG metric tons of CO2e emissions, 38.4 percent of for carbon measurement and reporting, and emissions the total Autodesk carbon footprint, and 7.3 we’ve earned recognition by CDP and several percent more than the prior year.2 See page 21 socially responsible investment indexes for our Autodesk’s Corporate-Finance Approach to for detailed energy and GHG emissions data. processes and performance. We include a broad Climate-Stabilizing Targets (C-FACT) methodology calls for companies to reduce GHG emissions in Activities in fiscal year 2014 included the following: range of business activities in our footprint, including several Scope 3 emissions categories.1 line with global scientific and policy climate • Avoided travel through use of virtual See the chart on this page and our performance stabilization targets, and in proportion to their collaboration tools: Employees used our highsummary on page 21 for detail. As in fiscal year relative contribution to the economy. If all definition TelePresence systems for a total of 2013, Bureau Veritas will verify Autodesk’s Scope companies were to adopt this approach and 14,000 call hours during fiscal year 2014. This 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions inventory for fiscal meet their corresponding targets, private-sector is a decrease of 19 percent compared with the year 2014. They will also provide methodological emissions would be on track to help stabilize previous year, due primarily to an office move assurance for the complete inventory. the climate by 2050. Autodesk has made this during the year that disrupted use of a widely methodology open source so that other companies used system. Use of desktop videoconferencing Additional information about emissions related to can use it. In early 2014, we introduced a systems increased by 36 percent. our products and operations can be found in the modified version of C-FACT for cities. following places: 1. Autodesk’s approach aligns with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. 2. Autodesk reports emissions from event-related travel separately from regular business travel in the GHG emissions by activity graph (above), although these activities are combined in the business travel line on page 21. 11 • Selected efficient cars: Our use of hybrid and Activities in fiscal year 2014 included the following: Major events fuel-efficient car rentals increased 35 percent this year. • Expanded and customized our sustainable facility Of that, 21 percent of all rentals were hybrids and 71 In fiscal year 2014, our two biggest events—Autodesk strategy: We assess our facilities’ environmental University and One Team Conference—together percent achieved more than 28 miles per gallon. We operating practices in areas such as energy and water started a similar program for car hire services. In its first resulted in 6,930 metric tons of CO2e emissions, 13.0 conservation, waste management, green procurement, percent of the total Autodesk carbon footprint. Our year, nearly half the cars we used for pick-up services and indoor air quality management, and then create were high-fuel-efficiency vehicles. sustainability guidelines and best practices for planning customized sustainability improvement plans. This year, events help our staff evaluate alternatives and reduce • Implemented a strategic meetings management we increased the proportion of assessed facilities to 77 environmental impacts. program: Through this program, we trained meeting percent of our total square footage. The scores of those planners about best practices and core sustainability facilities were 10 percent higher than the industry In fiscal year 2014, we launched a plan to increase concerns, incorporated sustainability questions into the average. Sites representing 24 percent of our total space sustainability at our major conferences, spanning energy, Autodesk green rating system for hotels, and included have fully implemented the recommendations they waste, water, food, and community support for the sustainability expectations as part of the standard received. Four of the top projects identified through this conference and hotel and with exhibitors. verbiage for meeting contracts. The program (which process saved a combined US$23,000 and 54 metric includes, but is not limited to, sustainability issues) tons of CO2e emissions during fiscal year 2014. Data centers and IT operations saved Autodesk US$1 million in fiscal year 2014. Data center energy use has the largest environmental • Increased Leadership in Energy and Environmental impact of Autodesk IT operations. During fiscal year Design (LEED) certifications: In fiscal year 2014, 2014, it resulted in 2,810 metric tons of CO2e emissions, Targets Progress in we were awarded 5 additional LEED certifications. This about 5.3 percent of Autodesk’s carbon footprint and FY2014 increased our total LEED certifications to 15 (8 Platinum, 50.9 percent more than the prior year. IT emissions from 5 Gold, and 2 Certified). This represents 28 percent of Select high-fuel-efficiency Achieved 46 Autodesk facilities are included in the figures listed in the our total square footage.1 See a list of certifications in vehicles for at least 85 percent of percent Facilities section on this page. footnote 2 on page 23. hired cars by fiscal year 2019 Activities in fiscal year 2014 included the following: • Increased renewable energy use: We increased Reduce GHG emissions from rental Achieved 7 use of renewable energy in our real estate portfolio to • Used rating systems to select efficient equipment: cars by 30 percent by fiscal year percent cover 32.5 percent of our global electricity consumption, We use ENERGY STAR to select hardware for our data 2019 (baseline fiscal year 2013) up from 29.6 percent the prior year. This includes new centers and the Electronic Products Environmental onsite generation installed at our Pier 9 facility in San Assessment Tool (EPEAT) to select desktop hardware. Roll out a robust strategic meetings Achieved One hundred percent of our PCs are EPEAT-registered management program in fiscal Francisco, California, and in Manchester, New Hampshire. and ENERGY STAR certified. year 2014 Targets Progress in • Invested in server virtualization: Server virtualization Facilities FY2014 optimizes the use of equipment and decreases the need to run and cool physical servers. So far, Autodesk has In fiscal year 2014, energy use in our facilities resulted Implement customized Achieved 24 virtualized about 90 percent of its servers that support in 9,510 metric tons of CO2e emissions, 17.9 percent of sustainability improvement plans percent customers and 86 percent of its servers that support its the total Autodesk carbon footprint, and 18.7 percent for all benchmarked Autodesk business. less than the prior year. See page 21 for detailed sites by fiscal year 2017 energy and GHG emissions data, including purchases • Recycled used IT equipment responsibly: During Increase renewable energy use Achieved 32.5 fiscal year 2014, we used a variety of regional recycling of carbon-neutral energy and renewable energy to 30 percent of total Autodesk percent companies to fulfill e-waste requests. Though we were certificates and offsets. electricity consumption, by fiscal confident the e-waste was not simply thrown away, our We use a variety of approaches to reduce emissions and year 2014 visibility into the recycling companies’ processes and associated costs related to our facilities, including the standards was limited. Therefore, we worked to use of our own products. In addition to enhancing our Direct emissions of NOx, SOx, and volatile organic compounds formalize a cross-functional, holistic e-waste program. performance, this can serve as a showcase for customers (VOCs) from our facilities are insignificant to report. In late fiscal year 2014, we entered an agreement with and potential customers. a vendor to resell or responsibly dispose of computing 1. As of January 16, 2014 12 equipment from our Canada and U.S. facilities that and GHG emissions needed to deliver those services to recognize that water scarcity is an increasing risk globally. has reached its end of life. Less than 1 percent of the our customers. We take steps to reduce water use in many of our offices equipment the vendor processes goes to landfill. In See page 16 to learn about our Partner Code of Conduct, through efficient fixtures and toilets, right-size cooling fiscal year 2015, we will work to expand our e-waste our green procurement guidelines, and the supplier GHG equipment, and conservation efforts. programs in China, Singapore, and in the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region. emissions survey that we undertook during fiscal year 2014. Corporate environmental During the coming year, we will strive to better Waste in operations management understand and decrease the environmental impacts Autodesk collects and reports waste data for our Autodesk’s Environmental Policy outlines our highof our growing Autodesk 360 cloud services. To date, headquarters campus in San Rafael, California, as well as level sustainability commitments. We have instituted a our carbon footprint has not included the impacts select other sites. See data on page 22. management structure for obtaining environmental data, associated with cloud services that are managed by making investment decisions, implementing measures To divert waste from landfill, in many of our offices external partners. to reduce our impact, and consistently reporting we offer compostable utensils and cups and arrange performance. We continue to improve the reliability, Supply chain for compost collection in facilities where such comprehensiveness, and automation of these systems. municipal services are available. At our Waltham, Autodesk’s supply chain GHG emissions are due to Massachusetts, facility, we collaborate with our All Autodesk locations are covered by the company’s manufacturing, assembling, and delivering physical landlord to send 100 percent of non-recyclable environmental management system. software media (the majority of the total) and powering waste to a waste-to-energy facility. Our Environmental Core Team (see graphic), which electronic software downloads and cloud-based services. includes senior leaders from across the business, During fiscal year 2014, supply chain activities resulted in We also estimate the impact of waste from Autodesk events and the end-of-life phase of Autodesk products. institutes sustainability best practices throughout our 1,410 metric tons of CO2e emissions, about 2.7 percent operations. Together with the Corporate Sustainability of Autodesk’s carbon footprint and 17.2 percent less In fiscal year 2014, these represented 48 metric tons of CO2e emissions, about 0.09 percent of Autodesk’s carbon Team, these executives are responsible for understanding than the prior year. the environmental impacts of our business; establishing footprint and 14 percent less than the prior year. Activities in fiscal year 2014 included the following: priorities, goals, and plans for reducing these impacts; Activities in fiscal year 2014 included the following: and promoting and reporting these efforts throughout • Continued to improve sustainability performance of physical products: From the early 1990s, we have • Expanded waste-management efforts: During fiscal the company. Project teams in turn support these decreased the weight of our packaging by about 98 year 2014, we continued to improve materials reduction, responsibilities and execute our strategy in the company’s percent. We now distribute our product suites on USB green printing practices, and waste diversion practices largest environmental impact areas. These groups are thumb drives in small, 100 percent recyclable boxes, through recycling, composting, and waste-to-energy, co-led by the Corporate Sustainability Team and an made with recycled content and packed using 100 where available. Autodesk employee from each activity area. percent recyclable polyethylene foam. Our Eco-Lite cases • Reduced office printing: We decreased the impact Autodesk environmental management structure contain 20 percent less plastic than standard DVD of printing by setting printer defaults to duplex and cases, for the single-disk DVDs we sell in the Americas. eliminating blank or unnecessary pages from print jobs. CEO Staff • Increased customer use of electronic downloads: • Reduced waste at conferences: During fiscal year Environmental Core Team Corporate We increased the number of countries where electronic 2014, we diverted 93.0 percent of venue waste at Sustainability download is the default delivery option for subscription Autodesk University, our largest conference (compared Supply Travel Facilities Events IT Team customers from 51 to 136. This covers 69 percent of all with 83.6 percent the prior year) through better food Project Project Project Project Chain the countries we serve. During the year, customers and materials choices and increased collaboration with Team Team Team Team Project Team downloaded about 675,000 products, representing 40 event venues. percent of all orders compared with 25 percent the • Decreased product-related waste: See information previous year. This decreased the number of boxes we about reducing packaging and increasing customer use Environmental compliance shipped by about 406,000 and reduced associated GHG of electronic downloads detailed previously on this page. Autodesk meets or exceeds all applicable environmental emissions by nearly 500 metric tons CO2e. laws and regulations related to our business operations. • Cloud-based services: As Autodesk continues to Water use in operations In fiscal year 2014, we were not cited or fined for grow its Autodesk 360 cloud services, we will work Autodesk is not a major water consumer, so water is noncompliance of any environmental laws or regulations. with our suppliers to monitor and decrease the energy not a material issue for our operations. However, we 13 Ethics and compliance At Autodesk, we strive to conduct our business to follow the COBC. In fiscal year 2014, 100 percent partners to comply with anticorruption laws with the highest degree of honesty, integrity, of Autodesk active employees completed the while conducting business with or on behalf and ethical behavior. We promote human rights training. Our subsidiaries and contractors, suppliers, of Autodesk. wherever we do business, and ensure the privacy and service providers are also required to abide Reporting concerns of our employees and customers. by our COBC. Our COBC includes instructions for reporting Corporate governance In addition, Autodesk’s Code of Ethics for Senior Executive and Financial Officers covers issues possible violations of Autodesk policies or practices. The COBC prohibits reprisal or As of April 2014, the Autodesk board of directors such as conflicts of interest, filings with the U.S. retaliation of any sort against anyone who includes 10 directors, including Autodesk CEO Securities and Exchange Commission, and has made a good-faith report of a suspected Carl Bass. All current directors, other than Bass, disclosures to the public, as well as compliance violation. Our Business Ethics and Compliance are independent, according to the criteria for with governmental laws, rules, and regulations. Hotline enables employees and third parties to independence established by the NASDAQ Rules. It is signed by all executives who report directly report suspected violations of the Autodesk This includes our chairman, Crawford W. Beveridge. to the CEO and by certain members of our COBC for investigation and resolution. Also, all members of board committees are finance organization. independent. Three of our directors are women. The Hotline, run by an independent company, Anticorruption is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Additional information about the Autodesk We are committed to complying with all applicable The toll-free numbers, included in our COBC, board of directors, including standing committees, anticorruption laws and regulations, including but are available to Autodesk employees and third committee composition, committee charters, not limited to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices parties worldwide. All calls to the Hotline may director biographies, and the company’s Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar local be made anonymously except where prohibited Governance Guidelines, is available on our laws that prohibit offering, promising, or giving by law. In addition to the Hotline, a web-based Investors website. Information about stock trades anything of value to a public or government reporting tool is also available in multiple by members of our board of directors and by official and require the maintenance of accurate languages. Autodesk will work to resolve all Autodesk executive officers is also available on books and records. Autodesk also expects its Hotline reports made in good faith. our Investors website. The Proxy Statement within our Annual Report Fiscal Year 2014 provides information about and analysis of board of director and executive compensation. Business ethics We are committed to maintaining an ethical environment at Autodesk. Our Code of Business Conduct (COBC), adopted in 1997, conveys our values and expectations. The COBC details our policies and procedures, and outlines the ethical considerations that guide our daily work. It covers areas such as equal opportunity, confidentiality, political contributions, anticorruption, and free and fair competition. All Autodesk employees worldwide are required to complete COBC training annually and to certify that they have reviewed, understand, and agree 14 Human rights Autodesk promotes and protects human rights wherever it does business. The Autodesk Human Rights Policy describes our commitments in this area as well as how we promote human rights among our employees, suppliers, business partners, and customers. Several issues with relevance to human rights such as anticorruption, privacy (see below), nondiscrimination, employee health and safety, and access to technology are covered in this report. We expect our suppliers and other business partners to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those related to human rights. Our resellers and distributors are also obligated to comply with our Partner Code of Conduct (see page 16 for more detail). Consistent with our culture of ethical behavior, integrity, and respect, we will continue to work with our suppliers and refine our own requirements and processes to reinforce our commitment to human rights. impact assessments related to situations (such as product Privacy use) where personal or behavioral information is collected Autodesk and its subsidiaries worldwide respect our or used. The activity must include an appropriate level of customers’, partners’, and employees’ rights and take transparency, as well as a mechanism to track end-user our responsibility with regard to privacy and personal consent and enable end users to manage their choices, information seriously. We protect information in a such as modifying or withdrawing consent. We support manner that addresses both legal compliance and Privacy by Design with a companywide training for all strategic business concerns by reviewing and assessing employees and contingent workers, as well as roleand our practices related to confidentiality, privacy, and issue-specific trainings in targeted areas. security. Autodesk is proud to be European Union/U.S. and Swiss/U.S. Safe Harbor certified. Autodesk Privacy Principles Our Privacy Statement explains how we handle personal information, as well as how customers and website • Be transparent about our actions and intent visitors can access and update their personal information and choices. It also explains how we protect personal • Present individuals with clear and actionable information when interacting with third parties, such choices as service providers or channel partners. All of our • Practice purposeful collection, use, and employees, contractors, and subsidiaries are required to retention of data abide by our Privacy Statement. They also must adhere • Use data for the purposes for which it to more detailed internal policies regarding Autodesk’s was collected overall data protection requirements and Privacy Principles (see box). • Only share data with Third Parties in limited and approved ways Autodesk uses a “Privacy by Design” approach in the design of our software and online services, including • Be accountable for enforcement of these cloud-based offerings. This involves following the Privacy Principles company’s Privacy Principles and also performing privacy 15 Suppliers and business partners We use our purchasing power and influence to Green purchasing Supplier GHG emissions promote socially and environmentally responsible business practices among our value chain. Our Autodesk’s green procurement guidelines outline survey environmental considerations to factor into the In 2013, Autodesk issued a survey to its 20 Partner Code of Conduct and green procurement selection of vendors and products and help to guidelines set high standards and help us largest suppliers about their GHG emissions direct decisions related to travel and meeting and climate change risks and opportunities. create demand for more sustainable products services, events, and some marketing-related and services. This survey will help us better understand purchases, such as collateral development and Autodesk’s emissions from some purchased Social and labor standards printing. These guidelines include the following: goods and services, which we expect to be Autodesk’s Partner Code of Conduct outlines • Gather and assess supplier environmental small relative to Autodesk’s total emissions. the standards and practices that we expect our performance data to inform choices and select More importantly, the survey identified resellers and distributors to follow while better options with lower environmental impact potential opportunities for collaboration conducting business with or on behalf of our • Review the environmentally preferable offerings between Autodesk and its vendors to company. It covers areas including anticorruption, of existing suppliers improve environmental performance in 2014, antitrust and competition, business courtesies such as with its data center and information • Seek out offerings with third-party certification technology service providers. (such as gifts), financial integrity and accounting, and positive environmental attributes, including conflict of interest, export compliance, products that are energy-efficient, durable and interactions with government customers, insider long lasting, recyclable, locally produced, made trading, and data protection and confidentiality. with rapidly renewable resources, and support Our Partner Code of Conduct also specifies that water conservation business partners must support internationally In some situations—particularly for suppliers recognized human rights and comply with all such as travel vendors with substantial GHG applicable laws and regulations regarding health emissions—Autodesk includes sustainability and safety in the workplace, the eradication of language in requests for proposal and vendor human trafficking and slavery, and the elimination contracts. In some instances we request suppliers of child labor. Additionally, we expect our partners to provide environmental information, including to support fair labor practices, including the whether they are ISO 14001 certified. We review freedom to associate, and a work environment suppliers’ environmental initiatives and consider that is free from harassment and discrimination. this information during selection, and we are A violation of the Partner Code of Conduct working with our procurement department to constitutes a breach of agreement with Autodesk prioritize environmental criteria alongside cost in and may result in action, up to and including vendor negotiations. For information about the termination of status as an Autodesk partner. number of suppliers with green certifications and Although the Partner Code of Conduct does not the percentage of our supply chain spending that currently apply to suppliers, our internal policy represents, see page 22. guidelines, which inform contract language, state our expectation that suppliers respect these rights. Many of our major suppliers have wellestablished policies and programs in this area. 16 Employee impact Our approximately 7,400 employees1 come Community involvement Employee engagement from a wide range of personal and professional We believe in the positive impact our employees Every year, we conduct an employee survey backgrounds. Fifty-two percent are based in the can make in communities worldwide when they to gather feedback in areas such as employee Americas, 29 percent are in Asia Pacific, and 19 contribute to the causes and organizations they engagement, manager effectiveness, percent are in Europe, the Middle East, and care about most. We match employee cash gifts communication, growth and development, and Africa. We strive to engage, develop, reward, to nonprofit organizations and grant employees leadership and vision. In 2013, 94 percent of our and inspire our employees worldwide. Working four hours per month during company time to employees worldwide completed the survey. together, they fuel our sustainability efforts volunteer in the nonprofit sector. During fiscal In 2013, our overall employee engagement around the globe and propel positive change. year 2014, our employees donated nearly score was 76 percent, compared with 71 percent We also encourage our employees worldwide to US$307,000 to nonprofits. Autodesk boosted in 2012 (an unprecedented 5 percent increase). play an active role in creating a better world at their efforts with additional cash matches Any score above 65 percent is considered strong work, at home, and in their communities through totaling US$223,000. In addition, about 400 by our external survey partner. Furthermore, participation in employee networks and by employees logged 8,200 volunteer hours by engagement scores were strong across business volunteering and donating to the causes and participating in activities such as helping at units. Improving our overall score in this area organizations they care about most. To support food banks, working with underserved youth continues to be a company priority for 2014. their contributions to the company, we work to and the homeless, and taking part in walks, The manager effectiveness score (which represents provide a diverse, inclusive, and safe workplace, runs, community cleanups, drives for school employees’ assessments of their managers’ and offer opportunities for ongoing growth. supplies, and other events to benefit capabilities in the areas of respect and leadership) communities worldwide. Employee groups remained strong, rising 1 percent to 83 percent. Additionally, employees responded to natural The two areas of action planning and leadership We believe employees can have an impact at disasters by donating to organizations that and vision both increased significantly. Not a work, both by supporting each other and provided help to victims in need. In the wake single score decreased year-over-year at the working toward a common goal. Employees can of Typhoon Haiyan in 2013, our employees company level. Scores for five of the questions learn from their coworkers and encourage one donated more than US$26,000. Autodesk stayed flat compared with last year, while scores another in our networking, mentoring, employee matched a portion of those funds in addition for the other 50 questions increased—15 of affinity, and women-in-leadership groups. In to other corporate giving, netting US$56,000 them by five or more points. addition, employee volunteer-led green teams for relief agencies in the area. coordinate grassroots initiatives at more than a We continue to pay attention to all areas of the dozen of our offices worldwide. These groups Beginning in fiscal year 2015, with the launch survey. Each group is responsible for developing increase awareness of local recycling options of the Autodesk Foundation, we’re helping our and managing an action plan based on feedback and alternative commuting possibilities, employees make an even bigger impact. We they receive. View historical employee organize special events such as environmental will continue to match charitable cash giving engagement data on page 22. video screenings and vendor fairs, and roll out one-to-one and support employee volunteering sustainability initiatives such as community during company time. In addition, we’ve raised Diversity and inclusion cleanups, bike-to-work challenges, and home the maximum Autodesk match from US$500 to Autodesk employees represent a wide variety e-waste recycling drives. US$3,000 per year, per employee, for contributions of backgrounds and contribute many different of time or money. To match volunteer time, perspectives. Such diversity reflects the varied we are contributing US$100 to the charity of customer base we serve and leads to new ideas an employee’s choice for every 10 hours and creativity, contributing to the growth and they volunteer. value of the company. 1. As of January 31, 2014 17 Our commitment to diversity is reinforced in our Code Outside the classroom, Autodesk employees can use of Business Conduct, which states that discrimination or numerous tools to enhance their learning, such as online harassment based on a person’s race, color, creed, educational and professional development materials; religion, national origin, citizenship, age, gender, sexual recommended lists of books, articles, and other materials orientation, marital status, mental or physical disability, for specific areas of focus; audio webcasts and recordings or any other classification protected by law will not be of training sessions; video podcasts of executives and tolerated. This protection applies to all Autodesk external experts discussing key leadership messages; and employees and contingent workers worldwide. We a global tuition reimbursement program. require all managers with U.S. employees to complete For fiscal year 2014, Autodesk budgeted approximately harassment training. US$1,000 per employee globally for training. This includes We ensure that our hiring practices are fair and noninternal as well as external education programs. The discriminatory. In addition, we post all of our job per-employee budget we set is a guideline rather than a openings via DiversityWorking.com, which is the largest cap. Managers decide how to best use the funds based diversity job board reaching out to a variety of diverse on employees’ professional development needs and candidates. We also partner with the Society of Women aspirations as well as the needs of their team as a whole. Engineers to engage female engineering talent. As a part of the development process, all Autodesk View global gender diversity and U.S. ethnic diversity employees receive a formal annual performance review. data on page 22. This includes feedback from managers and coworkers and focuses on assessment and feedback against Training and development individual goal achievement as well as demonstrated competency and proficiency. experienced any work stoppages because of labor issues Training and development opportunities are fundamental and believe our employee relations are good. to our employees’ continued professional development Employee benefits and to the ongoing success of Autodesk. Autodesk offers a range of benefits (which vary by Restructuring Career development is a shared responsibility among location) to meet the needs of our employees, remain During the third quarter of fiscal year 2014, Autodesk employees, their managers, and the company. Employees competitive with regional practices, and comply with implemented a worldwide restructuring plan in order to must clarify and communicate their aspirations, develop local statutory requirements. Depending on the country, rebalance staffing levels to better align with the evolving relevant skills, and seek out opportunities. Managers, in benefits include supplemental health insurance plans, needs of the business. While Autodesk reduced some turn, help set appropriate expectations, direct employees survivor and income protection plans, retirement savings of its staffing levels in the near-term, it also increased to useful resources and tools, and champion their staff programs, and equity plans, such as the Employee Stock staffing in areas where there is increased demand and for relevant opportunities. Autodesk maintains a culture Purchase Plan and restricted stock unit grants. opportunity. See page 39 of the Autodesk FY2013 that fosters employee growth, publicizes current and Sustainability Progress Report for information about future opportunities, helps managers support employee We also provide flexible working arrangements, parental restructuring programs in fiscal years 2009–2013. development, and holds them accountable for doing so. leave, benefits for domestic partners (in some countries), and support for personal needs, and we promote a Total turnover during fiscal year 2014 was 8.5 percent; Autodesk offers extensive professional and technical healthy work-life balance. Employees in some locations voluntary turnover was 5.7 percent. development to managers, individuals, and teams. We can take advantage of telecommuting options, adoption also provide teams with consulting services to identify assistance, and programs that help offset the costs of coaching needs. To inform our training, we do extensive parking, public transportation, and wellness activities. We analysis throughout the business to identify skills gaps. also offer a range of paid time-off programs, including This is linked to a competency framework for managers sabbatical, vacation, volunteer time, and holidays. and employees, which defines what we expect of individuals at certain levels throughout the organization. Freedom of association We assess training using online evaluations after each None of our employees in the United States are session, as well as in our annual employee survey. In represented by a labor union. Employees in several 2013, 75 percent responded positively to the statement European countries, equaling about 3 percent of our “I am provided with opportunities for learning and total workforce, are represented by work councils or development,” up from 70 percent the prior year. collective bargaining agreements. We have never 18 © Jeff Goldberg / Esto Health and safety conditions. For example, to ensure the safety of those by our employees, the number of participants with who use our new San Francisco Pier 9 Workshop (a medium or high ergonomic risk has decreased by We strive to provide all our employees with a healthy world-class fabrication facility on the San Francisco nearly 28 percent as a result of the program. and safe work environment. Our areas of focus include Bay), we developed a program to incorporate safety the following: • Occupational injury and illness performance: into the design of the machine areas, provide In the United States, we track all recordable and • Health and wellness: In 2013, for our global comprehensive training for all users, require the use reportable occupational injuries and illnesses. In 2013, wellness campaign, Autodesk participated in the of appropriate personal protective equipment, and 10 OSHA recordable injuries occurred involving Global Corporate Challenge. Almost 3,700 Autodesk limit health and environmental impacts by selecting Autodesk employees or our temporary contingent employees (about 50 percent of our employees at that less harmful chemicals. workers, equaling a recordable injury rate of 0.31.1 time) from 28 countries got involved. The 16-week • Emergency preparedness, response, and recovery: Of these, 60 percent were slip and fall injuries and 30 program consisted of a virtual race around the world We have site-specific emergency response plans for all percent related to repetitive stress or ergonomics. that encouraged physical activity, team building, and locations in case of emergencies such as fire, security Approximately 10 percent of recordable injuries employee engagement. Using accelerometers to track threats, or power failure. A senior-level crisis management resulted in time lost from work, equaling a lost time daily steps, participants logged their steps online and team directs and supports local emergency response injury rate of 0.21.1 Autodesk had zero fatalities during viewed their team’s progress in comparison with other teams during incidents. Employees can call our Global the year. See page 23 for historical data. Autodesk teams and teams from other participating Security Operations Center at any time with questions. companies. Autodesk placed third in the IT/Tech Industry category. • Ergonomic safety: Our Workstation Safety Plus program is a voluntary, online self-assessment and • Safety and security: Our Injury and Illness Prevention training program that tracks personal ergonomic risks program covers management commitment and identified by employees, and suggests alternative work assignment of responsibilities, safety awareness, habits to help resolve those issues. More than 150 anonymous hazard notification, assurance of employee employees globally completed the program in 2013, compliance, inspection and evaluation, accident for a total of more than 1,100 since the initiative began investigations, and correction of unsafe or unhealthy in 2011. Based on current self-assessment data entered 1. Rates refer to number of injuries per 100 employees working a full year. 19 Impact philanthropy In March 2014, we launched the Autodesk We also remain committed to supporting areas Foundation, which invests in the most impactful affected by disasters. We use our core design people and organizations using design to create and engineering strengths in times of need and a better world. The Foundation is the first to provide assistance through financial donations, focus investment on design for impact. software grants, and employee volunteering. In an effort to aid those tackling global issues After Typhoon Haiyan in 2013, Autodesk such as climate change, access to water, and employees in 30 offices worldwide held healthcare, the Foundation will provide select, fundraisers and made donations to various relief design-oriented grantees with financial support, organizations, which Autodesk matched with and partner with Autodesk, Inc., to offer software corporate funds. Autodesk also contributed to and training. By aligning our philanthropic efforts Doctors Without Borders, an organization that more closely with our core business and expertise brings critical medical care to people in areas in design, we believe we’ll further multiply the affected by catastrophe. positive impact we can have on the world. Learn more about the Autodesk Foundation. In fiscal year 2014, Autodesk laid the groundwork for the Foundation while continuing to: • Support design and engineering programs Image courtesy of D-Rev and projects • Provide community grants in the areas of arts, education, environment, and health and human services • Donate software to qualifying nonprofit organizations • Contribute to disaster response • Match employee cash contributions to nonprofits In total, Autodesk contributed more than US$1.6 million in cash and US$3.2 million in product donations during the year. With the launch of the Autodesk Foundation, we’ve increased our support for employees worldwide who contribute to the causes and organizations they care about most. To find out how our employees worked to benefit their communities in fiscal year 2014, and how we’ve expanded our cash matching and volunteering programs, see page 17. Image courtesy of MASS Design Group 20 Performance summary1 Key metrics FY2014 Economy FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Revenue [million US$] $1,714 $1,952 $2,216 $2,312 $2,274 $570 $562 $555 $587 GAAP gross profit [million US$] $1,522 $1,755 $1,987 $2,074 $2,000 $503 $494 $488 $515 GAAP net income [million US$] $58 $212 $285 $248 $229 $56 $62 $58 $54 GAAP diluted earnings per share [US$] $0.25 $0.90 $1.22 $1.07 $1.00 $0.24 $0.27 $0.25 $0.23 Relative contribution to world GDP [million US$ contribution/trillion US$ world GDP] 26.3 27.8 28.4 29.1 27.0 27.2 26.7 26.4 27.8 Environment Climate change Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions [metric tons CO2e] 60,600 62,500 61,600 56,400 53,100 14,500 11,900 11,900 14,800 C-FACT carbon intensity ratio [metric tons CO2e/relative contribution to world GDP] 2.30 2.25 2.17 1.94 1.96 0.532 0.446 0.450 0.533 GHG emissions intensity [metric tons CO2e/million US$ revenue] 35.3 33.5 27.8 24.4 23.4 25.4 21.2 21.4 25.3 GHG emissions intensity [metric tons CO2e/employee] 8.90 9.19 8.21 7.95 7.17 1.96 1.61 1.60 2.00 GHG emissions intensity [metric tons CO2e/1,000 active square feet] 33.8 36.8 35.7 32.9 31.2 8.67 7.08 6.73 8.79 Scope 1: Direct emissions from owned/controlled operations [metric tons CO2e] 2,360 4,320 3,140 2,160 2,480 704 549 552 672 Scope 2: Indirect emissions from the use of purchased electricity, steam, heating, 7,360 5,780 3,710 3,390 1,970 428 505 526 506 and cooling [metric tons CO2e] Scope 3: Upstream 50,000 51,800 54,100 50,300 48,300 13,200 10,700 10,700 13,600 Purchased goods and services [metric tons CO2e] 2,040 1,480 1,470 3,090 3,490 926 770 679 1,110 Fueland energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 1,100 995 824 1,000 929 224 253 237 214 [metric tons CO2e] Transportation and distribution [metric tons CO2e] 920 768 778 141 130 35.9 39.3 28.1 26.8 Waste generated in operations [metric tons CO2e] 802 872 895 56.2 47.7 11.7 11.8 12.4 11.8 Business travel [metric tons CO2e] 23,800 26,500 29,600 25,700 27,500 7,830 5,380 5,410 8,930 Employee commuting [metric tons CO2e] 10,400 10,400 11,500 12,700 9,380 2,430 2,330 2,410 2,210 Leased assets [metric tons CO2e] 10,900 10,800 8,920 7,660 6,740 1,760 1,970 1,940 1,080 Scope 3: Downstream 875 642 675 542 393 117 120 80.3 75.9 Transportation and distribution [metric tons CO2e] 784 577 606 488 354 105 108 72.2 68.3 End-of-life treatment of sold products [metric tons CO2e] 90.6 65.0 69.0 54.6 39.3 11.7 12.0 8.04 7.63 Energy use [MWh] 49,300 45,400 35,800 46,600 42,000 10,700 10,600 10,500 10,100 Direct energy use [MWh] 11,200 7,620 2,710 3,170 3,220 1,210 396 413 1,200 Indirect energy use [MWh] 38,100 37,800 33,100 43,500 38,100 9,370 10,000 9,990 8,800 Electricity purchased by Autodesk [MWh] 18,200 16,600 15,300 23,100 22,100 5,070 5,330 5,380 5,340 Electricity purchased by landlord [MWh] 19,900 21,200 16,900 17,200 17,100 4,300 4,680 4,610 3,460 21 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Renewable energy [MWh] 2,960 4,890 6,140 11,900 12,400 Renewable energy purchased [MWh] 194 1,280 2,160 7,670 7,190 Renewable energy certificates [MWh] 2,760 2,820 3,980 4,270 5,240 Renewable energy [as a percent of total indirect energy use] 7.77% 12.9% 18.5% 29.6% 32.5% Carbon offset from renewable energy [metric tons CO2e] 1,140 1,700 2,350 6,290 7,110 Carbon offsets [as a percent of total GHG emissions] 1.88% 2.72% 3.81% 11.1% 13.4% LEED certifications2 7 5 8 10 15 Buildings with LEED certification [as a percent of total active square footage] 12% 10% 19% 23% 28% Waste Waste generation3 [metric tons] 196 271 250 281 126 Recycling [metric tons] 130 166 162 164 33.2 Compost [metric tons] ---31.2 38.0 Energy recovery [metric tons] 20.7 30.2 22.6 22.6 22.6 Landfill [metric tons] 45.3 74.8 65.4 63.2 32.2 Landfill diversion rate [percent] 77% 72% 74% 78% 74% Coverage of data [as a percent of total active square footage] 12% 16% 16% 22% 20% Suppliers Number of suppliers with green certifications4 [approximate] -400 300 300 200 Percentage of supply chain spending with suppliers that have green certifications [approximate] -5% 3% 10% 9% Environmental compliance Environmental violations 0 0 0 0 0 Environmental fines [US$] $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 Society Employees Number of employees 6,800 6,800 7,500 7,100 7,400 Employee engagement5 [percent] 72% 69% 73% 71% 76% Global gender diversity6 [percent female] Board of Directors 22% 22% 22% 20% 20% Company officers, executives, and senior management 23% 21% 22% 19% 20% Managers and supervisors 25% 24% 26% 23% 23% All employees 30% 30% 29% 29% 29% 22 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 U.S. ethnic diversity7 [percent of employees] White 75% 75% 74% 72% 73% All nonwhite 25% 25% 26% 28% 27% Black/African American 2% 1% 1% 1% 2% Hispanic 5% 4% 4% 4% 5% Asian 18% 18% 19% 21% 18% Training budgeted per employee globally, approximate [US$] $1,000 $1,000 $900 $900 $1,000 Injury rates8 Recordable injury rate ---0.09 0.31 Lost time injury rate ---0.03 0.21 Fatalities ---0 0 Community support Company cash contributions [US$] $1,046,000 $1,038,000 $1,955,000 $2,024,000 $1,664,000 Company product donations9 [US$] $5,600,000 $1,500,000 $1,095,000 $2,600,000 $3,200,000 Employee giving [US$] $200,000 $222,000 $255,000 $282,000 $307,000 Company match of employee giving [US$] (also included in the “company cash contributions” line above) $200,000 $222,000 $225,000 $256,000 $223,000 Employee volunteer hours 4,900 8,500 7,900 6,000 8,200 Public policy Company political contributions [US$] $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 1. In some cases, segments do not add up to total due to rounding. Dashes represent that data for that year 6. Percentages are as of the end of the calendar year, except for the board of directors, which are as of the was not available. annual meeting date (typically a few months following the end of the calendar year). In these rows fiscal 2. LEED certifications as of January 16, 2014, include facilities in Beijing, China (Interior Design and Construction: year 2014 corresponds to calendar year 2013, and so forth. Commercial Interiors [CI] Platinum), Shanghai, China (CI Gold), Milan, Italy (CI Gold), Singapore (CI Platinum), 7. Percentages are as of the end of the calendar year noted. In these rows fiscal year 2014 corresponds Farnborough, United Kingdom (CI Gold), and the following in the United States: San Francisco, California to calendar year 2013, and so forth. Segments for “All nonwhite” in calendar years 2010, 2011, 2012, (CI Platinum [3]); San Rafael, California (CI Certified, CI Platinum [2]); Waltham, Massachusetts (CI Platinum, and 2013 do not add up to the subtotal due to nonwhite employees in nonspecified categories (such as Building Operations and Maintenance: Existing Buildings Gold); Lake Oswego, Oregon (CI Certified); and American Indian, Native Hawaiian, and others). McLean, Virginia (CI Gold). 8. Rates refer to number of injuries per 100 employees working a full year. Contingent workers are not 3. In fiscal year 2014, Autodesk updated waste measurement processes at its headquarters to improve accuracy. included in injury rates prior to 2013. This data is reported on a calendar-year basis. Fiscal year 2014 This significantly decreased reported waste volumes compared to past years. corresponds to calendar year 2013, and so forth. 4. According to data provided by Dun & Bradstreet. 9. Autodesk calculates its product donations at commercial value. This data does not include the value of 5. Represents the percentage of employees who responded favorably to questions that measure different aspects products granted to students and educators at no cost through the Autodesk Education Community and of employee engagement. These data are reported on a calendar-year basis. Fiscal year 2014 corresponds to Autodesk Academic Resource Center (ARC). See page 9 for more detail about those programs. calendar year 2013, and so forth. 23 About this report Autodesk is committed to sharing information about our environmental and social performance as well as how Codes, policies, and standards our products and services enable sustainability. This transparency allows customers, investors, employees, Autodesk codes, policies, and standards related nongovernmental organizations, and others to assess to aspects of sustainability include the following: our progress. • Code of Business Conduct We do this in several ways: • Code of Ethics for Senior Executive and • Sustainability Progress Report: We published our Financial Officers first sustainability report in 2008, and we have released five more since then. Performance data included in this • Environmental Policy document is based on the Autodesk fiscal year when • Green Procurement Guidelines noted, and the calendar year otherwise. The Autodesk • Human Rights Policy 2014 fiscal year ran from February 1, 2013 through January 31, 2014. Performance data covers the • Partner Code of Conduct company’s global operations, unless otherwise stated. Primary audiences include raters and rankers, and socially responsible investors. • Sustainable design website: This site describes our vision for sustainable design and the role of design in addressing the epic challenges our world faces. It highlights information related to our Sustainability Solutions, sustainable design education resources, and software donation programs for clean tech entrepreneurs and nonprofits. In addition, visitors can find a list of awards we’ve received and information related to sustainable business practices in our own operations. • Other sections on Autodesk.com: Sections of our company web site such as Investors, Corporate Governance, and Autodesk Careers include detail related to various aspects of the company’s sustainability programs and performance. • CDP submissions: We submit detailed information to CDP about our approach and calculation methodologies related to GHG emissions, as well as our assessment of climate-related risks and opportunities for our company and detailed Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions data. 24 United Nations United Nations Global Compact principle Human rights Location in report Global Compact Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Human rights Suppliers and business partners index Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights Suppliers and business partners Labor In 2011, Autodesk endorsed the United Nations Global Compact, a voluntary initiative that outlines 10 principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Human rights in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Employee impact anticorruption. These principles are reflected in our Suppliers and business partners culture of integrity and respect, and endorsing the Global Compact underscores our mission to help people Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Human rights imagine, design, and create a better world. labor; Suppliers and business partners This report serves as our Communication on Progress Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Human rights for fiscal year 2014, describing how we are integrating Suppliers and business partners these principles into our business. The following table Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Human rights indicates which sections of the report address each of and occupation. Employee impact the 10 principles. Suppliers and business partners Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Products and services environmental challenges; Environment Suppliers and business partners “Businesses have an essential role to Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Products and services play to help solve the epic challenges responsibility; and Environment Suppliers and business partners we face as a global community. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Products and services Reflecting our commitment to address environmentally friendly technologies. Environment social and environmental issues across Suppliers and business partners our business, we continue to endorse Anticorruption the United Nations Global Compact.” —Carl Bass Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its Ethics and Compliance Chief Executive Officer, Autodesk forms, including extortion and bribery. Suppliers and business partners 25 Global Reporting Initiative index The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines provide principles and indicators that organizations can use to measure and report their economic, environmental, and social performance. Autodesk took this framework into account while developing the contents of this report. The following index provides the locations of related content. Item Description Detail Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker in the organization about the relevance of sustainability to Letter from our CEO the organization and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Strategy for designing a better world Company profile 2.1 Name of the organization Autodesk Inc. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Products 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, Products by industry and joint ventures Annual reports 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters San Rafael, California 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries that have major operations Corporate environmental management or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report Employee impact 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Autodesk, Inc., is incorporated under the laws of Delaware, United States. Its shares are publicly traded on the NASDAQ stock exchange under the symbol ADSK. 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) Products by industry Professional customers and consumers 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Performance summary Annual reports 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership Annual reports 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Awards and honors Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided About this report 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) April 2013 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) About this report 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Sustainability@autodesk.com 3.5 Process for defining report content Strategy for designing a better world Corporate environmental management 26 Item Description Detail 3.6 Boundary of the report About this report 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Noted in relevant sections 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other Corporate environmental management entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations About this report 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques Environment underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report Performance summary 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons Performance summary for such restatement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods Performance summary applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in the report Global Reporting Initiative index 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Bureau Veritas will verify Autodesk’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions inventory and will provide methodological assurance for the complete inventory for fiscal year 2014. Governance, commitments, and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body Corporate governance responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their Corporate governance function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest Corporate governance governance body that are independent and/or nonexecutive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest In Autodesk’s proxy statement, we direct correspondence to the governance body board of directors through our headquarters address. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to Corporate environmental management economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation Business ethics Human rights Suppliers and business partners 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which Human rights the organization subscribes or endorses UN Global Compact index 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy Public policy organizations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Stakeholder engagement 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Autodesk has a wide range of stakeholders. To determine the most appropriate organizations to engage with, we consider their relevance to our business and the investment of time and resources required. When relevant, we also take into account their influence and expertise in sustainability. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and Stakeholder engagement by stakeholder group 27 Item Description Detail Economic EC1 Economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations Impact philanthropy and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments (Core) Performance summary Annual reports EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change (Core) Environment Autodesk reports this information annually through CDP. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations (Core) Annual reports EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts (Additional) Products and services Environmental EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source (Core) Performance summary EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source (Core) Performance summary EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements (Additional) Environment EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and services, and reductions in energy Sustainability Solutions requirements as a result of these initiatives (Additional) Autodesk as a living lab Supply chain EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved (Additional) Environment EN8 Total water withdrawal by source (Core) Water use in operations EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (Core) Environment Performance summary EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (Core) Environment Performance summary EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved (Additional) Environment EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight (Core) Facilities EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (Core) Waste in operations Performance summary EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation (Core) Data centers and IT operations Supply chain EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with Environmental compliance environmental laws and regulations (Core) Performance summary EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the Employee travel and meetings organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce (Additional) Supply chain Performance summary 28 Item Description Detail Labor practices and decent work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region (Core) Employee impact Performance summary LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region (Core) Restructuring LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees by major Employee benefits operations (Additional) LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (Core) Freedom of association LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region (Core) Health and safety Performance summary LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category (Core) Training and development Performance summary LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and Training and development assist them in managing career endings (Additional) LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews (Additional) Training and development LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, Diversity and inclusion minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity (Core) Performance summary Society SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying (Core) Public policy SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions Public policy by country (Additional) Autodesk, the Autodesk logo, AutoCAD, and AutoCAD LT are registered trademarks or trademarks of Autodesk, Inc., and/or its subsidiaries and/or affiliates in the USA and/or other countries. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective holders. Autodesk reserves the right to alter product and services offerings, and specifications and pricing at any time without notice, and is not responsible for typographical or graphical errors that may appear in this document. © 2014 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved. www.autodesk.com 29
