CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2013 PROGRESS REPORT LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT & CEO We are dedicated to improving people’s Iceland, which has in few years facilitated the mobility with our products and services. We discussion on CSR in Iceland in a professional will continue to focus on sustainable growth, manner. successful innovations for our customers and increased efficiency. However, in everything we We at Össur believe that by integrating the do, we do not forget the reason why Ossur’s aspects and ideology behind CSR into our employees come to work every day—to help our day-to-day business we are creating a stronger customers live a Life Without Limitations. We at foundation for our Company and for future Össur are extremely proud of being in a position growth. We believe this will help us to be better to help change the lives of our customers. Our prepared to make the right decisions and take products are the single largest contribution we on future challenges, and will help us not lose can make to assist people in need. What drives sight of what we stand for. We are excited to our design and innovations is that our products continue building on our commitment to CSR help people overcome hurdles in their everyday and look forward to sharing our experiences, lives. goals and progress in the years to come. For the past five years we have been working on Jón Sigurðsson CSR initiatives, and every year we have managed Össur President and CEO to structure it better and looking five years back in time we see that we have made good Jón Sigurðsson progress and progress that we can be proud of. Össur President and CEO Gradually we are implementing CSR into more of our processes and more importantly, making progress in educating our employees. We believe that one of our responsibilities is to educate our closest environment what it means to be socially responsible and why we believe that both we as a Company as well as our customers and other stakeholders will benefit from it. In that respect we are proud to be one of the founders of FESTA, the center for CSR in CSR REPORT 13 2 Össur strives to be responsible for its ­impact on society and the environment 3 CSR REPORT 13 ABOUT ÖSSUR Össur is a global leader in the non-invasive Össur’s Three Business Segments Sales in 2013 amounted to USD 436 million and orthopaedics market. The Company focuses on were split as follows: improving people’s mobility through delivery Bracing and supports of innovative technologies within the fields 48% Within the segment of bracing and supports 47% of: prosthetics, bracing and supports and products, Össur focuses on osteoarthritis and compression therapy. injury solutions. These products are primarily EMEA The Company was founded in 1971 as a used to support joints and other body parts, Americas prosthetic clinic. Through innovation and both for therapeutic and preventive purposes. Asia acquisitions, Össur has grown into a leading Prosthetics company within the fields of prosthetics and Prosthetic products include artificial limbs bracing and supports. Today, Össur maintains a and related products for individuals who strong position in key markets. The Company is were born without limbs or have had limbs 5% in a good position to leverage on future growth amputated. opportunities. Compression therapy 42% Össur has been listed on the NASDAQ OMX 54% Compression therapy is a preferred treatment since 1999 and in Copenhagen since 2009. for venous ulcers and edema. Bracing and Supports Össur has operations in 18 countries and has 2,100 employees. Prosthetics Össur is headquartered in Reykjavik, Iceland. Compression Therapy The Company’s sales are well diversified by segments and geography. 4% Company 1971 1986 1999 2000 Milestones Össur was founded by Össur Kristinsson Received its very first patent for the silicone Listed on NASDAQ OMX in Iceland Becomes the second largest prosthetics liner manufacturer through series of strategic acquisitions CSR REPORT 13 4 2004 2005/6 2009 2012 2013 RHEO KNEE ® Entrance into the Listed on NASDAQ SYMBIONIC LEG® Strengthening of The first Bionic bracing and supports OMX in Copenhagen The world’s first sales channel through product launched segment through series complete Bionic leg acquisitions of strategic acquisitions 5 CSR REPORT 13 MISSION At Össur, a passionate commitment to innovation and q ­ uality has been driving successful customer and ­business outcomes for decades. Our mission is straightforward: To improve people’s mobility VISION Össur’s vision is to be the leading company in ­ non-invasive ­orthopaedics. Össur’s business is focused on ­improving ­people’s ­mobility through the delivery of innovative t­echnologies within the fields of bracing and supports, p ­ rosthetics and compression therapy. Össur will ­continue to focus on successful innovations, sustainable growth as well as e­ fficiency, to generate value for all ­stakeholders. ­Össur is committed to maintaining the highest standards of ­ethical, ­environmental and social responsibility. ⋅ A global orthopaedic company We are ... ⋅ Growing through innovation ⋅ Positioned for future growth CSR REPORT 13 6 VALUES The Company’s core values ensure successful cooperation and partnerships, and are the foundation for our strategy and success. Honesty We show respect by adhering to facts and reality, fulfilling promises and claims, and admitting failures. We nurture honest communication throughout the Company by sharing information and respecting each other’s time and workload. Frugality We use resources wisely. The Company aims to minimize costs across all areas of its business through effective communication, preparedness, planning and optimized processes. Courage We are open to change and constantly strive for improvement. We challenge unwritten rules, show initiative and take calculated risks, while at the same time, take responsibility for our ideas, decisions and actions. 7 CSR REPORT 13 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT ÖSSUR Össur joined the UN Global Compact in 2011, involving people across the organization. This measure status and performance and in some committing to 10 principles with regards to enables the Company to foster discussions at all instances internal KPI’s. The areas Össur is human rights, labor practices, environmental levels and make employees aware of this aspect currently focusing on are: suppliers, consumers concerns and anti-corruption. However the when making decisions in day-to day activities. and quality, environment, community support Company has monitored and worked on its CSR Össur monitors various aspects within CSR and and the workplace with a special emphasis on activities since 2008. It is equally important for publishes measurements and future goals. health and safety, and equality. a global company like Össur to focus on CSR matters in a structured way, and report on its When Össur first started working on CSR as a The discussion on current CSR activities in this progress in a recognized manner. special initiative in 2008, the Company focused report is split into four main chapters in the areas on two main areas: environmental concerns of concern within the Global Compact: Human The Company’s values, honesty, frugality and and fair operating practices. Since then these Rights and Labor practices, and Environment and courage, serve as the foundation and driving force efforts have been expanded and certain CSR Anti-corruption issues. behind Össur’s success and guides employees in activities have been implemented in most areas their day-to-day activities and decision making. of the business. Össur is committed to making Össur’s values encourage employees to take the Global Compact and its principles part of social, ethical and environmental stands beyond the Company’s strategy, culture and day-to-day the Company’s legal obligations. In addition, operations. these values help the Company adapt to the various cultures in which it conducts business. To develop and structure strategies to support Currently, Össur operates in 18 countries. the Company’s CSR initiatives Össur has used materials and guidelines issued by the Global To integrate and make CSR a natural part of the Compact. In the progress report, Össur uses way Össur operates, the main focus has been on GRI indicators (Global Reporting Initiative) to CSR ENVIRONMENT DIVERSITY SAFETY HUMAN RIGTHS ISO 14001 all major Equal opportunity Policy Incident rate decreased All suppliers in Asia Milestones manufacturing locations in place by 44% between years have signed contracts audited – Goals for 2015 already with clauses on human in 2013 reached rights concerns CSR REPORT 13 8 9 CSR REPORT 13 HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR PRACTICES The Work Place Safe Workplace To maintain and further develop a safetyÖssur employs a total of 2,100 people in Safety is the number one priority at Össur. Over first mindset within the company, Össur has 18 countries. In order to further develop the past few years, the Company has increased encouraged employees to make suggestions as a company that has social responsibility its focus on safety, making great progress in on how to improve workplace safety since incorporated in the daily business, it is essential minimizing workplace incidents and, most 2012. One of the goals for 2013 that was that the workplace is a place where responsible importantly, establishing a safety mindset accomplished was to implement five ideas, mentality is encouraged. Every day, decisions within the Company. related to improvements in safety, per are made by employees that can have impact employee. on the company’s sustainability. It is of great Several projects have been established to importance that employees understand the support safety in the workplace and significant Training is a key to increased safety in the impact their decisions may have and that progress has been made, such as reducing workplace. Short but frequent training on the employees take into account, the company’s the rate of incidents due to a lack of safety possible hazards in the working environment possible gains or losses in terms of financial measures. 55% Workplace incidents have decreased take place in the production departments on a value as well as environmental or social value. considerably every year 45% since 2011. Incidents regular basis with the goal to make employees Össur´s focus in regards to this important are defined as accidents where Female employees are aware of potential hazards so they are better aspect is safety and diversity and an update on injured. Male equipped to avoid them. the progress in these two areas is discussed in this chapter. While the Company wants to reduce incidents it is important to develop a management system that does not penalize employees if an Gender Ratio Education incident occurs. This helps to make sure injuries are reported, enabling the Company to take relevant measures to prevent further accidents. 8% 55% 48% Therefore the KPI metric called “Incident Rate 45% Improvement” was established rather than Female University focusing on “Number of accident free days.” Degree Male Vocational or Technical Training Other 44% 8% 48% University CSR REPORT 13 10 Degree Vocational or Technical Training Measurements on safety Aspect Measurement Indicator 2012 2013 Goal 2015 Labor Practices Incidents per 100 employees LA 7 3.4 2.2 < 2.3 Labor Practices Incident Rate Improvement Internal 58% 35% Continuous improvement Focus on Safety at Össur Labor Practices Incidents causing a lost day Internal 12 12 0 Manufacturing and Warehouse Locations In the past years increased focus has been on process improvements, fire protection and employee safety in all Össur manufacturing and warehouse locations. In 2013 two of Össur locations received recognition regarding safety. Össur Europe was in 2nd place in a competition on the “safest warehouse” in the Netherlands and Össur Mexico was certified as a “safe company” which is awarded to companies that maintain highest standard of voluntary compliance with Mexican Safety Regulations and accident prevention. These recognitions are important for Össur and confirm the professional work environment that has been created. 11 CSR REPORT 13 Equality and Diversity Measurements for equality In a global company like Össur, employees Aspect Measurement Indicator 2012 2013 Goal 2015 interact with each other and other stakeholders from many different cultures and backgrounds. Diversity and Equal opportunities Internal Not in In place In place Therefore, diversity must be addressed. To build Equal opportunity (follow up on the policy) compliance a strong and successful team of employees in a global company, diversity in its broadest sense is important. Diversity and Percentage of women in Internal n/a* 30% >30% Different functions of the company require Equal opportunity management positions different kinds of skill sets. For each and *comparable numbers not available for 2012 every employee to thrive and add value to the company, it is essential for them to be assigned appropriately challenging tasks, and to be trusted to take on broader responsibilities. Össur wants to be an attractive workplace Encouragement of diversity in the workplace is for both genders and to reach that goal; the beneficial because it helps in gaining diverse The Main Focus of the Equal Company needs to create an environment where perspectives from which to base decisions, Opportunity Plan: both men and women have the opportunity which in turn can lead to better results. As to perform and contribute to the Company’s discussed in last year’s report, development • Wage Equality success. To support the equal opportunities of an equal opportunities plan was one of the plan, Össur ensures that recruiting and internal • Vacancies, job training, main focus projects in 2013. The plan was promotion strategies are aligned with the plan. implemented in the first half of the year. The continuing education purpose of Össur’s equal opportunities plan is and the allocation of work In addition, in 2013 Össur conducted external to ensure that women and men receive equal • Harmonization of family research and facilitated internal focus groups treatment and equal opportunities for growth and working life to better understand the needs of women in the within the Company. The goal is to utilize the workplace. These findings resulted in initiatives skills, strengths and knowledge of all employees, to address women’s career development needs. without gender-based discrimination. CSR REPORT 13 12 Gender and diversity, overview of management positions VP & Senior Management Level EVP Management Total Mgmt. 2013 Female 15% 16% 39% 30% Male 85% 84% 61% 70% Currently, the percentage of women in management positions is 30%. This group includes one woman at the executive level and a few at the director level, while the majority is in middle management positions. Another goal for 2013 was to complete an audit on equal remuneration for women and men in the company’s operation in Iceland. Work on the audit has been in progress during the year; however the audit was not completed before year-end. The audit is expected to be finalized in the first quarter of 2014. In the Americas, salary audits on all employees are done annually as part of standard compensation review procedures. 13 CSR REPORT 13 Supply Chain service. Following the evaluation the results are sent to the suppliers along with feedback The Company’s M&O activities take place as well as opportunities for improvement. The in four main locations: Mexico, Iceland and suppliers are divided into two categories, A two locations in France. In addition, Össur and B suppliers, where the A suppliers are the has suppliers in Asia manufacturing bracing most important suppliers in terms of value and supports products and is a co-owner of a or criticality of components produced. In the manufacturing facility in Thailand. evaluation for 2013, 70% of A suppliers showed “good” results, above 75 points on a scale of The manufacturing facility in Tijuana, Mexico, 100. Suppliers who do dot deliver results in line was established in 2011. This facility is focused or above the Company‘s target are offered the on bracing and supports products, previously opportunity to adapt accordingly and in some manufactured in US and Canada. Since its instances the suppliers are replaced. In past inception, Össur has been focused on creating years questions on socially responsible matters a state of the art manufacturing facility in have been added to the evaluation. Mexico with lean manufacturing processes. Other bracing and supports products are SUPPLIERS OF BRACING AND SUPPORTS manufactured at the Company’s facilities in PRODUCTS France and Thailand, in addition to product Össur has outsourced part of its manufacturing suppliers in Asia. Currently about 25% of the to Asia since 2005. During this time, Össur has manufacturing is outsourced to the suppliers focused on ethics to establish and maintain in Asia. Vast majority of prosthetic products good relationships with its partners. Össur is manufactured in Iceland, however a small and its suppliers are instructed to follow a amount of products are manufactured in specific code of conduct, and all contracts with Michigan, USA. suppliers include clauses on human rights, hours of work, compensation and health SUPPLIERS and safety. Since 2009, Össur has performed Össur has around 500 suppliers of raw material supplier’s evaluation and audits on its partners from all around the world, over 100 of which in Asia to further engage with the suppliers and are evaluated in detail on an annual basis. to identify opportunities for improvement. The The criteria in the evaluation are divided into critical categories for the audits were selected four groups: quality, reliability, price and based on components set forth in the Global CSR REPORT 13 14 Compact’s guide on supply chain sustainability. and implementation of processes, increased 2012. These suppliers make specially designed Four main categories identified are: Product, focus and control on forecasts, and a different bracing and supports products for Össur. The Service, Stability and Human Resources. approach to quality inspections. Already, the Össur-Asia M&O division consists of a team of Since 2009 the audits have been performed by Company has seen substantial improvements, 11 people, two of which are located at Össur Össur employees. The auditors rotate between such as faults or nonconformities which are Headquarters and nine located in Asia. Össur’s suppliers to prevent them from establishing a now discovered earlier in the process. This has initiatives in Asia are to continue with regular relationship with the suppliers. In 2014, Össur resulted in reduced costs for Össur, as quality audits and to strengthen the relationship with will for the first time have external auditors to inspection at the Company’s warehouses is no the suppliers. Annually, a large supplier audit is audit the suppliers. The audits performed by the longer needed. In addition, delivery performance performed, involving both Össur employees and external auditors are more extensive and offer has improved significantly and cooperation with the supplier’s employees. In addition, a midnew aspects. Össur will report and discuss the the suppliers is on a different level. In addition year audit is performed. However this is not as results of these audits in its progress report for increased engagement towards the suppliers comprehensive as the annual audit. 2014. has resulted in more stability when it comes to pricing and easier for both parties to adapt to A table below shows GRI indicators selected for Since Össur started conducting supplier audits changes. these suppliers and performance for 2013. As and began increasing engagement with its Asian all goals have been met, new goals will be set in suppliers, both effectiveness and product quality At year-end the Company had contracts with 2014 and reported on in the next report. has increased. Actions taken include education 8 suppliers in Asia, compared to 11 at year-end Product Suppliers in Asia Aspect Measurement GRI Indicator 2012 2013 Goal 2015 Investment and Number of agreements with Asian suppliers that HR1 81% 100% 95% Procurement Practises include clauses on human rights concerns Child Labor Number of suppliers audited regarding child labor HR6 91% 100% 95% Assessment Number of suppliers audited for human rights HR9 91% 100% 95% 15 CSR REPORT 13 ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY Quality and in a market like the US the satisfaction score Össur is a source of innovative, high-quality, is in the proximity of, or in the upper quartile. noninvasive orthopaedic products and services. To be able to compare and measure performance Quality is extremely important and that applies between markets a complete overhaul of the to all parts of the Company’s value chain. A relevant systems has been done, creating more certified quality management system has been efficient and effective approach to these matters. in place since 1993 and is based upon ISO Due to these changes comparable figures are not management standards. Össur is currently available at this point in time, however next year certified with ISO9001:2000, ISO13485:2008 and Össur will be able to report on these results in a most recently ISO14001. Products sold in Europe more detailed manner givng a holistic view of the are CE-marked as they meet the requirements Company‘s performance. of the European Economic Area. In the United States, the Company’s products adhere to FDA Environment standards. The Company’s environmental policy was developed in the beginning of 2012. In order An effective quality management system and to achieve the Company’s goals it was decided employees that are focused on continued to implement the ISO14001 environmental improvements are the biggest contributors when management system. Össur’s first location to Össur’s goal is to be accountable for the it comes to product quality. become certified according to ISO14001 was Company’s impact on the environment Össur’s efforts in terms of quality management the Head Office in Reykjavik, in May 2012. Since • Össur is committed to working are noticed and valued by the Company’s then all main manufacturing locations have been customers. certified. in accordance with relevant laws, regulations and other requirements. When looking at how to improve the Company‘s The implementation of ISO14001 affects the • Strives to preserve the environment performance, Össur values customer‘s feedback, whole Company and the key focus areas are: both in relation to products and services as • Avoid waste in operations. and prevent pollution. well as how the Company interacts with its • Prevent pollution by avoiding, reducing • Emphasizes continuous improvements customers. In 2013 a survey was conducted and or controlling pollutant or waste. focusing on environmental impact. feedback on various performance related matters • Take environmental issues into account • Recognizes that its operations impact collected from roughly 300 physicians. when selecting materials and suppliers. the environment in a number of ways. • Focus on continuous improvements via In the past Össur has generally received high annual environmental objectives. scores. Össur takes great pride in these results CSR REPORT 13 16 Measurements on Environment Aspect Measurement Indicator 2012 2013 Goal 2015 Environment Total weight of waste by type and disposal EN22 method (in tons) • Recycled waste 36% 36% 50% of • Trash 47% 47% waste • Hazardous waste 36% 36% recyclable Environment Total number and volume of significant spills EN23 0 0 0 Environment Progress in the implementation of ISO14001 Internal 20% 45% 100% Note that the information presented below is currently only available for Reykjavík, Uppsala, Eindhoven and Tijuana. Various measurements have been established Employees involvement is a vital part of to monitor the progress and to support the implementing an environmental management Company in being accountable for its impact on system. It was decided to encaurage employees the environment. Some of these measurements to send in ideas for improvements in regards have a direct reference to GRI measurements, to environmental concerns as they have done while other measurements are internal KPI‘s that for safety matters with good results. The initial have been identified as important indicatiors target was to implement 20 suggestions for for Össur and are being monitored on a regular improvement from employees in 2013, however basis. total number of suggestion implemented in 2013 are in the range of 80. Following the implementation of ISO 140001 a good progress has been made as measurements Apart from the progress made and demonstrated on environmental aspects confirm. Proportion in the table below, various initiatives within the of recycled waste and less trash has increased manufacturing facilities have been initiated with between years and the goal going forward is to the aim of reducing electricity usage and water gradually increase this ratio. At the same time waste. In addition, hard anodizing of metal parts less hazardous materials are used as a result of has been applied in order to eliminate hazardous increased awareness. usage and less environmentally friendly process. 17 CSR REPORT 13 ANTI CORRUPTION Code of Conduct and the employees if these ethics are not met. The Company’s Corporate Governance Össur’s values—Honesty, Frugality, and This work has already started but has not statement includes information on the following Courage—are a foundation of the Company’s been implemented across the organization. items: corporate culture. The values are guidelines for This project will continue and get even more • A reference to the corporate governance how employees should behave. These values are attention during 2014. Status and progress will recommendations the Company follows considered when hiring, enabling Össur to build be reported on, in next year’s report. and how the Company addresses a company with employees who are responsible the recommendations, including any citizens and strong representatives of Össur. A Whistle Blower Scheme deviations and explanations thereto. The Company provides employees with ways • A description of the main aspects of internal controls and risk management Since 2005, Össur has outsourced part of its of reporting conduct that they reasonably systems in connection with preparation manufacturing to Asia. Össur and its preferred believe violates applicable laws, regulations or of financial statements. manufactures are instructed to follow a the Company‘s policies. The Company treats • A description of the Company’s specific Code of Conduct, and all contracts all reports as confidential and any issue will organizational structure and the role with manufactures include certain clauses be discussed only with those individuals who and composition of each function. the manufacturers have signed to honor and have a “need to know”. The Company’s policy respect the specific standard of conduct. The strictly prohibits any retaliatory action against a A complete report on the Company’s Company also performs audits on a regular person reporting actual or potential compliance compliance with each recommendation basis to make sure that manufacturers honor issues in good faith, whether or not the reports is available on the Company’s website: the Code of Conduct. ultimately prove to be well founded. WWW.OSSUR.COM/INVESTORS As discussed in last year’s report Össur did Corporate Governance not have an Ethical Policy in place and an As a listed Company, Össur complies with implementation of such policy was one of the various rules and regulations. To report on main projects for 2013. The task was to get Corporate Governance the Company has an approved ethics policy in place, including chosen to follow the Danish Recommendations education and training about the importance on Corporate Governance because the of ethics to the Company’s success, as well as Company’s shares are traded on NASDAQ possible consequences for both the Company OMX Copenhagen. CSR REPORT 13 18 19 CSR REPORT 13 SUPPORT AND RESPONSIBILITY One of the aspects of responsibility is For over a decade Össur has had an educational to show support to the societies and program called Össur Academy. The Össur environment the Company operates Academy is committed to furthering the level in. Össur believes that it has great of education and quality of prosthetic and responsibility towards disabled people, orthopaedic knowledge among professionals, not only by providing products, but equally patients and their families. The aim is to enable to support third party initiatives aiming at orthotists, prosthetists and other medical better care and support for disabled people. professionals to achieve clinical success, The Company believes it is important that the through accessible information and the services perception of disabled people is positive and Össur provides. together with great athletes participating in the Paralympics in 2012 as well as other elite sports Össur has also in place a program called “the events the perception of disability has changed. Össur Orthopaedic Fellowship Program”. This Hopefully, this will motivate others whose own is a 12 month academic program designed to mobility has been challenged and encouraging enhance the clinical, surgical, and research them to play more active roles in society with skills of orthopaedic/musculoskeletal healthcare even greater confidence. specialists. Össur believes it has also great responsibilities Key Initiatives of the Academic Programs in relation to education of healthcare • Develop and deliver high quality professionals that work in the field of education for customers to enhance prosthetics and bracing and supports. In this their outcomes. respect Össur cooperates with universities in • Support and initiate research which both US and Europe on research projects and expands the knowledge base in has on average in the range of 6-10 interns at prosthetics and orthopaedics. any given time. • Augment fellowship programs which exemplify excellence in clinical academia. CSR REPORT 13 20 RESEARCH GRANT PROGRAM training, prosthetics and equipment. The earthquake, which devastated the Össur offers a research grant program both partnership opens doors for athletic greatness. Chinese community in 2008. in the field of prosthetics and bracing and supports. The program is designed to provide CHALLENGED ATHLETES FOUNDATION (CAF) Team ÖSSUR funding for scientific research in the areas A national U.S. non-profit formed in 1989 to Team Össur is an accomplished group of of lower extremity biomechanics, dynamic/ offer continued education, mentoring, peer elite international athletes and sporting active rehabilitation, ortho biologics, functional support and consumer advocacy. role models. The Team Össur members bracing, clinical patient outcomes, and, related include people like world class triathletes healthcare economics. EMOTIONAL WELL-BEING INITIATIVE to accomplished track and field athletes. A partnership with the Amputee Coalition of Community Support America and Johns Hopkins University Medical Importantly, the talents and charisma Össur supports and partners with a wide range School. These three organizations are working of all of these exceptional individuals of organizations around the globe. As a leading together creating a new, nationwide program are helping to raise public awareness of orthopaedic manufacturer, it is the Company’s to help prosthetists in America address the the true potential of people with limb responsibility and privilege to champion the emotional needs of people with limb loss. The loss and impaired mobility to lead active industry and serve patients and practitioners in program is an example of the type of innovative and fulfilling lives. Össur is delighted to every way possible. In fulfilling this mission, we partnerships that are needed to better address recognize their work and to sponsor and believe it is our obligation to provide not only the health care needs of amputees. support them in the constant pursuit world-class products but also lend support to of Life Without Limitations. These those relying upon them. ICELAND SPORT ASSOCIATION FOR THE individuals have been on the forefront DISABLED in showing the world that you should These are a few of the Company’s larger Össur has been a proud supporter of the Iceland follow your dreams. Athletes like these Initiatives: Disabled Sports Association for almost 20 years. are important for our community to demonstrate to others that they should AMPUTEE COALITION OF AMERICA (ACA) STAND TALL follow their dreams and not look at their Through the Challenged Athletes Foundation The charity foundation based in Hong Kong condition as a disability. Össur has helped amputees with grants, provides high-end prosthetic devices and rehabilitation to victims of the Sichuan 21 CSR REPORT 13 GOALS AND KEY FOCUS FOR 2014 In 2014 the weight will be on continuing monitoring current projects and work further with the selected KPIs. The goal is to engage further CSR standards and work on increased awareness within the company. The goals for 2013 included establishment of an ethical policy, including hospitality guidelines. This has been carried out and implemented in the US, however has not been implemented across the organization. Thus this will continue to be one of the focus projects in 2014. Another large initiative for 2014 is an implementation of a work process and guidelines for selection of material for R&D projects. This aims at making employees aware of what kind of materials are being used in new products and the possible affects certain materials may have on the environment as well as the users. By having such a process in place makes employees better equipped to include these aspects when making decisions on material selection. For CSR to become an integral part of the Company’s business model it is vital to identify more CSR champions within the company and invest in internal education on the topic. CSR REPORT 13 22 ABOUT THE REPORT In this report, Össur discusses various aspects within social responsibility and how the Company approaches these matters. Össur has identified its critical areas to focus on and addresses related projects and initiatives in this report, the success and also the challenges the Company faces and is working on. When working on the implementation of CSR, Össur used a number of points of reference, such as the ISO 26000 standards, the Global Compact and the GRI guidelines. Measurements used in this report are GRI measurements as well as internal measurements, which are important for the Company. 23 CSR REPORT 13 FOLLOW ÖSSUR ON Össur hf. Head Office TEL +354 515 1300 Grjótháls 1-5 FAX +354 515 1366 110 Reykjavík Iceland ossur@ossur.com WWW.OSSUR.COM
