GREEN SIGNED TO GROW CSR REPORT 2013 Contents 1 Preface 2 CSR policy – What & how 4 CSR – Short & simple 6 Organisation 6 Profile 6 Kendrion’s activities 7 Mission This logo was introduced in 2012 for all 7 Strategy Kendrion’s CSR communications. 8 Organisational structure 11 CSR mission and strategy This CSR Report is printed on environmental 13 CSR Board friendly paper. 14 Stakeholders dialogue 16 Supply chain management Greensigned to grow This CSR Report has been given the title 19 High quality business processes ‘Greensigned to grow’. This title refers to the title & waste treatment given to Kendrion’s Mid-term Plan for 2014-2016 ‘Designed to grow’. Kendrion’s operations are 21 Energy & CO2 reduction increasingly organised to achieve sustainability, and many of our products are designed 24 Market introduction KOBRA and speciﬁcally to meet the sustainability targets greensigned set by the company’s customers and end users. Moreover, pursuant to Kendrion’s ambition 26 Fair labour standards the company intends to achieve even more, to achieve further growth: not just in terms of its 32 Health & safety results, revenue and geographical spread, but also – and emphatically – in terms of its 34 Business ethics programme sustainability performance. This ambition is reﬂected in the CSR Report’s title, ‘Greensigned 37 UN Global Compact to grow’. 38 The holistic approach of In order to further intensify this ambition, Passenger Car Systems Kendrion has introduced a logo with the name ‘greensigned by Kendrion’. KOBRA, a new spring40 Sustainable products applied brake launched by the Industrial Drive Systems business unit, was awarded this logo 42 Kendrion and the automotive sector in recognition of its compliance with a number of sustainability criteria applicable to industrial 44 Community investment products in this category. That’s why KOBRA is also visualised on the cover. 46 Kendrion CSR Award 2013 47 Financial key figures 48 About this Report Preface We are pleased to present Kendrion’s 2013 CSR Report Report. During the course of 2014, we also intend to to you. In publishing this third report we aim to devote attention to more long-term strategic targets, demonstrate to our stakeholders that our commitment when continued reductions of the regular energy to sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility consumption will remain a key issue. (CSR) is of strategic importance to us. Kendrion cannot work miracles by itself. We are keenly We want to contribute, within the scope of our aware of the fact that further ‘greening’ of our internal possibilities, to a sustainable society. This means we must processes and of the chain will take time and effort. focus continually on our use of materials, our products Wherever possible, Kendrion wants to work with its that we develop for our customers, for instance in terms stakeholders and partners in the chain to achieve this. of emissions and energy savings, and the way in which We hold periodic meetings with our customers, suppliers, we treat our employees. Global trends such as climate investors and staff with the intention of getting the best change, scarcity of resources, renewable energy and out of each other. population growth also present Kendrion with opportunities and can create value for our stakeholders. We have observed that many of our customers are working on sustainability developments and are We are pleased to report that a vast majority of our formulating ambitious targets, in particular for reductions targets that we had set ourselves in this area were of emissions, energy conservation and safety. We are of achieved in 2013. The highlights during the past year the opinion that we are in an excellent position to supply included the introduction of our company greensigned our customers the high-grade products and services they logo, the reductions in CO2 emissions achieved in our need to achieve their targets. largest European plants, the presentation of the ﬁrst Kendrion CSR Award and the steps we and our suppliers We hope that the readers of this Report will appreciate together took in CSR. Thanks to the efforts of many the efforts we are making in fulﬁlling our corporate social employees across all our businesses, sustained efforts responsibility. are already underway to achieve new, realistic targets for this year. We will update you on these efforts in this Piet Veenema, CEO Kendrion N.V. >> 1 CSR policy What & how WHAT CSR mission It is Kendrion’s mission that Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and sustainability are intrinsic, integral elements of Kendrion’s operations. Kendrion wants to conduct business with consideration for climate effects and energy sources, with a feeling for people and the environment, and on the basis of a responsibility for the chain in which the company operates. This form of entrepreneurship pivots on the creation of multiple value – and consequently not just Proﬁt, but also People and Planet. CSR key issues Environmental Responsible protection use of resources Good labour in the supply conditions chain Fair business Strong conduct communities Sustainable products >> 2 kendrion csr report 2013 HOW High quality Stakeholders Supply chain business dialogue management processes & waste treatment Energy & CO 2 Fair labour Health & safety reduction standards Business ethics Sustainable Community programme products investment csr policy >> 3 CSR Short & simple Number of employees (fte) Training costs PEOPLE (as a % of wage costs) 1,632 (2012): 40% 60% 0.8% 0.9% (2012) 2,756: 51% 49% female male Absolute CO2 emission* Relative CO2 emission* Energy consumption* PLANET (tons) (t/million turnover) (excluding Kuhnke) Power: KWH 10,730,518 Power KWH/million turnover: 48,119 5,047 22.6 – 6.2% compared to 2012 – 10% – 8% compared compared *Five plants in Germany: to 2012 to 2012 Fuel oil: 100,292 liter Aerzen, Donaueschingen, Fuel oil ltr/million turnover: 449 Engelswies, Markdorf, Villingen and Eibiswald – 4.7% (Austria) and Prostejov compared (Czech Republic). to 2012 Revenue EBITA PROFIT (EUR million) (EUR million) Normalised for 2013 2012 2013 2012 non-recurring items 354.0 284.9 23.9 22.3 >> 4 kendrion csr report 2013 Accidents and Lost Time Injuries (days) Illness rate 2.8% 27 111.5 2.6% (2012) 46 (2012) 323 (2012) Accidents LTI Consumption of materials Acceptance of Supplier Code of Conduct (in tons, best estimate) Copper Steel 1,400 1,800 1,550 (2012) 1,200 (2012) Aluminium Permanent magnets 85% 80% (2012) 350 50 400 (2012) 40 (2012) Net profit Solvency (EUR million) 2013 2012 2013 2012 44.8% 14.3 13.6 40.1% csr – short & simple >> 5 Organisation Development, production and marketing of high-quality electromagnetic and mechatronic systems and components 2,800 employees (including about 100 temps) in 15 countries Revenue: approximately EUR 400 million Listed company on NYSE Euronext’s Amsterdam Market Proﬁle k e n d r i o n n . v . , a solution provider, develops, manufactures and markets innovative high-quality electromagnetic and mechatronic systems and components for customers all over the world. Kendrion’s operations are carried out by two divisions with in total seven business units focused on speciﬁc market segments, namely in the Division Industrial the business units Industrial Magnetic Systems, Industrial Control Systems and Industrial Drive Systems, and in the Division Automotive the business units Passenger Car Systems, Automotive Control Systems, Commercial Vehicle Systems and Heavy Duty Systems. k e n d r i o n has leading positions in a number of business-to-business niche markets. Germany is Kendrion’s main market, although other countries are becoming increasingly important. Kendrion’s activities k e n d r i o n develops advanced electromagnetic and mechatronic solutions for industrial and automotive applications. These are used by customers all over the world in systems such as lifts, doorlocking systems, industrial robots, medical equipment, electrical switchbox systems, diesel and gasoline engines, air-conditioning installations, motor cooling systems and beverage dispensers. Kendrion’s key customers include a.o. Bosch, Continental, Daimler, Delphi, Evobus, Hyundai, Siemens, ThyssenKrupp Bilstein, Volkswagen, Wabco, Yutong and ZF. Kendrion’s shares are listed on NYSE Euronext’s Amsterdam market. >> 6 kendrion csr report 2013 Mission k e n d r i o n is committed to being a leading international company that uses its existing know-how, innovative capabilities and commercial strengths to provide solutions to the company’s industrial and automotive customers. In doing so Kendrion intends to be a transparent, ﬂexible and reliable company where entrepreneurial zeal is combined with clear proﬁt targets. Kendrion seeks to further strengthen its position as a fast-growing high-tech company. Strategy k e n d r i o n ’ s policy is focused on the creation of sustainable added value and the achievement of appealing return on investment for the company as a whole. This is based on a powerful focus on a number of selected operations and on proﬁtable growth achieved both organically and via acquisitions. Kendrion’s spearheads are: z Niche market leadership in selected business-to-business markets; z Organic growth in the current operations; z Utilisation of synergy in and between the business units (locally but also internationally); z Balanced spread of the operations; z Targeted add-on acquisitions; z Enhancement of the innovative capacity; and z Corporate Social Responsibility and sustainability. organisation >> 7 Organisation Organisational structure Kendrion’s headquarter is in Zeist, the Netherlands. Kendrion has operations in fourteen other countries: Austria, Brazil, China, the Czech Republic, Germany, India, Italy, Mexico, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the UK and the USA. Kendrion is a strongly focused company with one main objective: the development, manufacture and sales of innovative high-quality electromagnetic and mechatronic systems and components. The operations are organised into two divisions and seven market-focused business units: >> Division Industrial z Industrial Magnetic Systems: electromagnetic components tailored to the individual needs of advanced industries; z Industrial Control Systems: customised mechatronic solutions designed to optimise automatic processes; z Industrial Drive Systems: electromagnetic brakes and clutches for the industrial drive technology. >> Division Automotive z Passenger Car Systems: project solutions for speciﬁc customer applications in the automotive and special vehicle industries; z Automotive Control Systems: intelligent automotive control systems for comfort, safety, energy saving and functionality; z Commercial Vehicle Systems: individual energy-saving systems for commercial vehicles and off-highway applications; z Heavy Duty Systems: customised project solutions for the commercial vehicles sector. Each business unit has a number of operating companies in various geographical locations. The organisation has implemented a decentralised structure to promote the company’s decisiveness. E URO PE Industrial Magnetic Systems Subsidiaries Industrial Control Systems Partners Industrial Drive Systems Passenger Car Systems Automotive Control Systems Commercial Vehicle Systems Heavy Duty Systems Kendrion N.V. >> 8 kendrion csr report 2013 >> Management In 2013, Kendrion was managed by an Executive Board of two members. The Executive Board was comprised of Mr Piet Veenema (58) and CFO Mr Frank Sonnemans (52), appointed on 15 April 2013. Mr Veenema joined Kendrion in 1993 and is CEO since 2003. Both members are Dutch nationals. The Executive Board is supported by the CEO Division Automotive, the Business Unit Managers and the Chief Technology Ofﬁcer, together the Executive Committee. EXECU T I VE CO M M I T T E E From left to right: Robert Lewin, Business Unit Manager Industrial Control Systems, Norman Graf, Business Unit Manager Industrial Magnetic Systems, Frank Sonnemans, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, Piet Veenema, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Erik Miersch, Business Unit Manager Commercial Vehicle Systems. Sitting from left to right: Heinz Freitag, Chief Technology Ofﬁcer, Michael Bernhard, Business Unit Manager Industrial Drive Systems Bernd Gundelsweiler, CEO Division Automotive. Not present: Torsten Komischke, Business Unit Manager Automotive Control Systems RE ST O F THE W O R LD organisation – organisational structure >> 9 O RG A N I S ATI O N A L CHA R T Supervisory Board Executive Board Kendrion Group Services Executive Committee Division Industrial Division Automotive Industrial Industrial Industrial Passenger Automotive Commercial Heavy Magnetic Control Drive Car Control Vehicle Duty Systems Systems Systems Systems Systems Systems Systems >> Supervision Kendrion has a Supervisory Board currently comprised of four members. Mr Ten Hove is the Chairman as of December 2013. Mr Van Kesteren was Chairman of the Supervisory Board until December 2013. After nine years as a member of the Supervisory Board he stepped down on 31 December 2013. The Supervisory Board recognises the importance of Kendrion’s CSR programme and advocates a strong focus on the company’s social and environmental standards governing its processes, and the relationship between the overall strategy and sustainability. The Supervisory Board reviewed the achievements of 2013 and endorsed the CSR Board’s plans for 2014. The roles and responsibilities of the Executive Board, the Supervisory Board and its Committees and the General Meeting of Shareholders are in accordance with the relevant provisions of Dutch law, the Netherlands Corporate Governance Code and the Articles of Association of Kendrion N.V. More information on corporate governance, including the regulations of these corporate bodies, has been published on Kendrion’s website. CODE Past years’ CSR highlights 2005 2009 2011 Introduction Participation Installation Code of Conduct UN Global Compact Kendrion CSR Board >> 10 kendrion csr report 2013 Organisation CSR mission and strategy >> Sustainability megatrends Some of the relevant megatrends in the world are: z A rapid growth of the world population, especially in emerging markets; z An increasing scarcity of natural resources; z The transition to more sustainable energy; z Urbanisation; z Climate change; z Increased transportation needs of people and goods; and z Scarcity of highly educated (technical) people, especially in Germany. >> CSR mission For Kendrion, Corporate Social Responsibility means: the responsibility of an organisation for the impacts of its decisions and activities on society and the environment, through transparent and ethical behaviour. It is Kendrion’s mission that Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and sustainability are intrinsic, integral elements of Kendrion’s operations. Kendrion wants to conduct business with consideration for climate effects and energy sources, with a feeling for people and the environment, and on the basis of a responsibility for the chain in which the company operates. This form of entrepreneurship pivots on the creation of multiple value – and consequently not just Proﬁt, but also People and Planet. >> CSR strategy Kendrion has included sustainability and CSR as spearheads in the company’s general strategic policy described on page 7 and referred to in more detail in the 2013 Annual Report on pages 10 – 12. Kendrion has formulated the following general CSR strategy, based on its mission, overall strategy and the effects of the megatrends. Some of the megatrends, such as the scarcity of natural resources and the reduced availability or greatly increased prices of energy sources, could in the longer term become a threat to the growth of Kendrion’s business and therefore need to be addressed in a timely manner. These trends also offer opportunities for Kendrion, however. Utilising such opportunities and using scarce energy and other natural resources in a responsible way will, in the long run, make an essential contribution to the creation of value for all Kendrion’s stakeholders. Therefore CSR and sustainability play an important role in the Kendrion strategy. CSR t Repor CODE 2012 2013 Publication Introduction First Kendrion Introduction ﬁrst CSR Report Supplier Code CSR Award greensigned logo of Conduct for Kendrion (Pune), India for KOBRA >> 11 Kendrion’s customers are formulating more and more sustainability targets and, as a result, expect increasingly more from their suppliers. This is also in part the reason why Kendrion’s Automotive Division and Industrial Division took the carefully considered decision to participate in a number of submarkets that accommodate these trends. Sustainability is at the core of many of the company’s products and innovations. Kendrion exploits the speciﬁc expertise and experience available within the company as a means of increasing safety and substantially reducing emissions and fuel consumption. More information is enclosed in the ‘Sustainable products’ section. Transparency and supply chain responsibility are both important issues in the chain and, consequently, are also of great importance to Kendrion – for example with respect to the use of materials. For this reason, Kendrion attaches great importance to good relationships with the company’s customers, employees, suppliers, other business partners and the communities where Kendrion is active. Cooperation and consultations are essential if Kendrion is to fulﬁl its ambitions. Kendrion has interpreted these needs for its company processes in the terms explained herein. The key issues for Kendrion’s own business processes were identiﬁed by reference to the nature of Kendrion’s activities and Kendrion’s potential impact and inﬂuence in the chain in the near term and the long term. Next, speciﬁc targets and KPIs were formulated for those key issues. The key issues, KPIs and targets were discussed and endorsed by the Executive Committee and the Supervisory Board, and are evaluated annually on the basis of the results achieved and where necessary adjusted as proposed by the CSR Board. These evaluations also make use of the feedback Kendrion receives from its investors, suppliers, staff and customers during the meetings held. >> Key issues The key issues for Kendrion’s business processes, also considering the megatrends, include: z Responsible use of resources in the supply chain; z Environmental protection; z Good labour conditions; z Fair business conduct; z Sustainable products; and z Strong communities. >> Ambition Kendrion has formulated targets for 2014 that follow on from the key issues and the targets for previous years. Kendrion will make great efforts to ensure that the Kuhnke operating companies that were acquired in May 2013 are fully integrated into the current CSR programme. Kendrion also intends to adopt an incremental approach to the incorporation of sustainability at even more strategic levels. In other words, how can Kendrion align its core business and products more closely with sustainability in terms of its use of materials, its footprint and product proposition in its markets? And how can the company maximise its CSR effectiveness and achieve the greatest impact with its relatively limited capacity and resources? For this reason, during the course of 2014 a number of company bodies will continue their studies of the CSR position Kendrion will need to have acquired in a number of years' time. The outcome from these studies will serve as the basis for the deﬁnition of further long-term strategic targets. Kendrion also intends to prepare for integral reporting guideline initiatives and, in addition, intends to further enhance the company’s collection of CSR KPI data and their publication in external reports. >> 12 kendrion csr report 2013 Organisation CSR Board >> CSR Board The Executive Committee decided to give further shape to Kendrion’s CSR activities by appointing a CSR Board in 2011. The Board’s members are representatives from the business units. The CSR Board had nine members in 2013. Two new members representing the former Kuhnke companies joined the CSR Board at the beginning of 2014. >> Objectives The objective of the CSR Board is to coordinate, communicate, enthuse and accelerate. The CSR Board is empowered to structure and plan all Kendrion’s CSR activities. The Board also perceives its duties as including the provision of transparent information about the stipulated CSR targets to the employees and external stakeholders and to communicate the progress in the achievement of the targets. The Board endeavours to make the employees aware of CSR and to generate their enthusiasm for addressing CSR issues within the context of their day-to-day work and responsibilities. Kendrion intends to adopt a practical, realistic and relevant approach. >> Activities The Board met ﬁve times in 2013. The CSR Board gave further consideration to the CSR themes of greatest relevance to Kendrion and jointly adopted a number of realistic targets for 2013 and 2014. A number of KPIs have been deﬁned as speciﬁcally as possible and are used to assess the extent to which these targets are achieved. A number of targets are of a qualitative rather than quantitative nature. Each member of the CSR Board bears the responsibility for the fulﬁlment of the plans in his or her ‘ﬁeld’. CS R B O AR D MEMBER S From left to right: Wijgert Gooijer, Company Secretary and CSR Coordinator (Kendrion Group Services); Andreas Herzfeld, Team Leader Human Resources (IMS); Wolfgang Mayer, Head of Quality Department (CVS); Volker Buhl, Sales Manager (IMS); Josef Porta, Production Manager (PCS); Kathrin Grahl, Human Resources (ICS); Bertram Heimgartner, Head of Commercial Department (CVS); Wilma Stuiver, Executive Assistant (Kendrion Group Services); Wencke Volkmann, Controlling (ACS); Beate Hermannstädter, Marketing Coordinator (IDS) and Heinz Jankowski, Facility Manager (Kendrion Group Services). >> 13 Stakeholders dialogue >> General Kendrion attaches great importance to good relationships with its customers, employees, suppliers, other business partners and the communities in which Kendrion is active. Kendrion engages in transparent communications in a manner in which the company carries out CSR activities. Exchanges of ideas, the involvement of business relations in the implementation of initiatives and the utilisation of the experience and networks of others will further the implementation and integration of Kendrion’s CSR policy within the company. The selection of stakeholders was partly based on questions such as who might be positively or negatively affected by the organisation’s decisions or activities, who can help the organisation address speciﬁc impacts, who can affect the organisation’s ability to meet its responsibilities and who in the value chain is affected? >> Customers and suppliers A substantial number of Kendrion’s customers are major Tier 1 or 2 suppliers and OEMs in the automotive sector or other large industrial companies. Some of these customers have implemented company Supplier Codes of their own. Kendrion complies with their requirements, including their quality and environmental requirements, by an ample margin. Kendrion started to provide more insight into the company’s CSR efforts to its customers. Accordingly, we highlighted our CSR policy in a wide range of material published in the course of 2013, such as brochures, presentations and other correspondence. Compared to know-how, product properties and pricing, sustainability sometimes does not yet have a major role in the business processes of customers, but its importance is growing. In 2013, various business units engaged in constructive dialogue with a number of important customers, including Siemens and Fresenius, to discuss the company’s CSR efforts in more detail. The customers we consulted on our CSR strategy largely responded favourably. We successfully introduced a Supplier Code of Conduct at many of our suppliers in 2012. A further large number of main suppliers signed this Code of Conduct in 2013. The goal for 2014 and following years is to fully integrate this Supplier Code of Conduct in supplier selection, and to continue Kendrion’s dialogue with suppliers on their performance in this area, with a view to jointly pursuing improvements if necessary. >> Management and employees Kendrion regards its employees as the company’s greatest asset. Kendrion makes major investments in the development, training, health and safety of its employees. These themes are also discussed frequently with the works councils. The support of Kendrion’s CSR policy by the company’s employees is of essential importance. As in past years, Kendrion devoted continual attention to CSR issues in the Magnetised international staff magazine in 2013 and will continue to do so in 2014. >> 14 kendrion csr report 2013 >> Investors Sustainability is also becoming an increasingly important issue for Kendrion’s IT ONLY GETS H IGH ER … ﬁnanciers. Kendrion intends to conduct an open dialogue with these ﬁnanciers. Kendrion held discussions with a number of its major shareholders and banks in the The reliability of the solenoid is the most bank consortium. Kendrion presented its strategy, key issues and objectives, and important feature in elevator technology. also discussed the shareholders’ CSR policy within the context of their investments. Low-noise switching and high forces are also These parties welcomed the increased focus on sustainability and CSR within properties that both increase convenience Kendrion. One of the recommendations was to aim for even greater cooperation and underline the safety of the system. in the chain and in industry in general, which would enable us, as a relatively small player, to exert greater inﬂuence on processes, for instance in the area of Kendrion has been optimising its braking substitution of materials and recycling, as well as sustainable energy sources. solenoids for elevator construction for over ﬁfty These action points have once again been incorporated in the deﬁnition of the years. A new milestone was achieved in 2013 key issues for Kendrion in 2014. in China with a new development project and production contract for a safety brake for a leading Kendrion maintains good relations with the Dutch Association of Investors for global elevator manufacturer. Elevator technology Sustainable Development (VBDO – Vereniging van Beleggers voor Duurzame is part of the Industrial Drive Systems and Ontwikkeling). Industrial Magnetic Systems business unit. >> Local communities Kendrion is active in a number of countries in which, in a general sense, the standard of living, working conditions and human rights exhibit room for improvement. Kendrion endeavours to make a modest contribution to these improvements by means of including (mostly small scale) local community investment programmes. Kendrion appreciates the importance of good contacts with the local authorities. These contacts are important for reasons including the safety of the production facilities, accessibility, ties with the employees and the enhancement of local communities. More information about stakeholder engagement is enclosed in the various sections of this Report. stakeholders dialogue >> 15 Supply chain management Target 2013 Result Ambition 2014 All new material suppliers sign Supplier 100% of new material suppliers sign Code of Conduct (CoC) Supplier CoC All existing main material suppliers commit 100% of main material suppliers sign to Supplier CoC Supplier CoC 5 CSR supplier audits per business unit z 5 CSR supplier audits per business unit z Fix framework for score and relation to other supplier requirements >> Supplier Code of Conduct Major customers in the industrial sector or automotive industry regularly request Kendrion to sign their Supplier Code of Conduct. The customers introduce these Codes with the objective of giving more shape to the chain’s responsibility for Corporate Social Responsibility. Kendrion also wishes to play a signiﬁcant role in the chain in which the company is active. However, in many instances Kendrion is a relatively minor link between. As a result, Kendrion’s sphere of inﬂuence is limited. Nevertheless, Kendrion has decided to develop an in-house Supplier Code of Conduct. Kendrion attaches great importance to responsible and honest operations throughout the supply chain. Consequently, this Code requires suppliers to assume their responsibility for issues including the environment, human rights, working conditions and fair trade. The suppliers are also requested to introduce rules of this nature further in the chain whenever possible. A copy of the Kendrion’s Supplier Code of Conduct is available on Kendrion’s website. Kendrion has set a target stipulating that the Supplier Code of Conduct shall be accepted by all main suppliers in all business units. All new material suppliers will be requested to conform with the Code, also by means of including the incorporation of the Supplier Code of Conduct in Kendrion’s standard procurement terms and conditions. This is particularly applicable to German and other European suppliers. More than 85% of the main material suppliers have signed the Supplier Code of Conduct. There are no known cases of suppliers deliberately not wishing to sign the Code of Conduct, and no abuses have come to light as a result of the request to sign it. It is intended to roll out this Supplier Code of Conduct to all main material suppliers within the Group in 2014. >> Supplier selection and audits The extent to which a potential supplier addresses environmental and social issues and business ethics plays a role, in addition to standard criteria such as product quality, in the ultimate selection of suppliers. Kendrion also began to conduct CSR supplier audits to review whether the suppliers continue to comply with the required standards. These standards were speciﬁed in more detail in 2013. Following further audits in 2014, they will be evaluated to assess their effectiveness. Audits that result in unsatisfactory assessments and that reveal that the relevant supplier does not meet the minimum requirements for compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct are followed by a meeting to prepare a plan and review means of achieving rapid improvements. Failure to follow up the improvement plan or follow up the plan to an adequate extent can result in the termination of the relationship with the relevant supplier. All the circumstances in the speciﬁc case are taken into account when reaching any such decision, including the strategic importance of the supplier and the country in which the supplier is based. >> 16 kendrion csr report 2013 For 2014, the aim is to make compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct a part of supplier audits, at a minimum of ﬁve suppliers per business unit, in a more structured way. Initially this takes the form of drawing up an inventory. Through open discussion, the state of affairs at these suppliers will be discussed and any difﬁculties will be identiﬁed. Where possible, an action plan will be formulated together. >> The supply chain The chains in which Kendrion is active have an impact on people, the environment and society that cannot be speciﬁed in unequivocal terms. Kendrion’s production processes are not polluting, in the sense that they do not result in large quantities of residual products with a great impact on the environment and which cannot be recycled. Nor do they result in large emissions of substances with an environmental impact (other than CO2). Many of Kendrion’s products enable the company’s customers to reduce the environmental impact of their products, for example in terms of emissions and energy consumption. A Life Cycle Assessment pilot project is scheduled to be launched at the operating company Kendrion (Aerzen) GmbH in Germany during the ﬁrst half of 2014. The objective of the project is to calculate the environmental footprint of the company’s various products and processes. Once the results of the pilot project have been analysed, an assessment will be conducted to determine whether the method can also be used at other plants. Kendrion is not aware of any speciﬁc collaborative arrangements within the chain in which the company operates that are focused on responsible chain management. However, Kendrion does organise meetings with major customers and suppliers to discuss this issue. Kendrion is also a participant in the UN Global Compact and a member of the APM anti-counterfeiting association, an organisation that promotes honest trade and combats brand piracy. >> Conflict minerals Under the Dodd-Frank Act the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires listed companies to disclose their use of conﬂict minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold and their derivatives) sourced in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and countries adjacent to the DRC. All listed US companies must ﬁle their ﬁrst audited report over the 2013 calendar year. This rule has been implemented due to the concern that the exploitation and trade in conﬂict minerals by armed groups is helping to ﬁnance conﬂicts in the DRC region. While it is not prohibited to use conﬂict minerals from the DRC, the idea is to encourage markets to create substitutes for materials or even a market for conﬂict-free minerals. Conﬂict minerals can be found in many common consumer products such as mobile phones and computers but also in industrial products. As (indirect) supplier of many listed US companies Kendrion has also been asked to provide information on the extent to which its products contain conﬂict minerals. Kendrion has decided to adopt a group-wide approach and to use the EICC supplier form as much as possible to collect the relevant information from its suppliers. This is a burdensome process but Kendrion aims to serve its customers efﬁciently in this manner. Kendrion does not add any conﬂict minerals from the DRC to its products during its own production process. In the event that it were reported that suppliers or sub-suppliers of Kendrion use such conﬂict minerals, Kendrion would undertake commercially reasonable efforts to gradually replace them in the supply chain and would ask its suppliers to do the same. >> Rare earth metals In some of Kendrion’s products, permanent magnets are used. A category of permanent magnets contain a number of what are referred to as rare earth metals. These metals are not referred to as ‘rare’ because they are so scarce – they are more abundant than copper – but because of the small quantities of economically extractable resources. s u p ply c h a i n m a n a g e m e n t >> 17 Kendrion is primarily exposed to Neodym and Dysprosium, metals which are also used in products such as mobile telephones, electric cars (rechargeable batteries) and wind turbines. China is currently still the producer of more than 90% of the world’s rare earth metals. China has conducted a restrictive export policy in recent years, in part due to the national demand for these metals. This has resulted in a shortage in the international market and, in turn, in extremely sharp price increases in 2011. Western companies are currently (re)opening mines and starting production. However, the dependency on China will remain for several years. Mining and reﬁning rare earth metals are both difﬁcult and highly energy-intensive. Moreover, they are often further complicated by the mining and reﬁning by-products that cause environmental pollution. A paradox lies in the fact that, for reasons including climate change and the need for alternative sources of energy, for example the use of wind turbines and electric cars is being encouraged whilst these products actually exacerbate the shortage of rare earth metals and the environmental pollution caused by their extraction. Unfortunately, the recycling of rare earth metals is still in its infancy. Another paradox is that the use of permanent magnets in products increases their functionality, for example the torque. As a result, less material is required and the product is lighter – which in turn reduces energy consumption and emissions. Kendrion does procure most of its needs via brokers and traders and not directly from the Chinese producers. Unfortunately, Kendrion’s relatively small position in this market does not enable the company to exert a great inﬂuence on the processes. However, when possible Kendrion does endeavour to limit the company’s dependency on these metals by seeking alternative techniques or products. The majority of the permanent magnets are used by two business units, Industrial Drive Systems and Commercial Vehicle Systems. In the Commercial Vehicle Systems business unit, a project has been started to replace the permanent magnets with another technique for some applications. This has not, as yet, resulted in speciﬁc options. In 2013, Kendrion planned further studies of the feasibility of limiting the dependency on permanent magnets, together with the Kendrion Academy. These will continue in 2014. >> Other materials The most recent assessments have revealed that few critical materials are used other than those referred to in this chapter. In 2013, a number of further ideas were developed at a strategic level on the feasibility of reducing the use of certain potentially critical or expensive materials, or materials with a relatively high environmental or health impact, or replacing them with other materials. Speciﬁc examples are the substitution of certain sprays or cleaning agents in the production process. This has also resulted in the decision to endeavour to dismantle what is referred to a ‘plating area’ at one of Kendrion’s operating companies in 2014, and to relocate this non-core activity elsewhere. In 2013 and 2012, Kendrion used the following raw materials in the manufacture of the company’s products: Consumption of materials (in tons, best estimate) 2013 2012 Copper 1,400 1,550 Steel 1,800 1,200 Aluminium 350 400 Permanent magnets 50 40 Kendrion also procures machined parts. Machined parts, which are comprised of a large number of components, are the main raw material. The steel content in these machined parts is estimated to account for about 30% of the cost. The remainder is comprised of the added value provided by the supplier. A special project to reduce the amount of copper used in each part of certain applications has been launched at one of our business units. >> 18 kendrion csr report 2013 High quality business processes & waste treatment Target 2013 Result Ambition 2014 Development waste plan (data collection z Waste data plan for all European plants and measurement of some types of waste) z Preparations for inclusion of US plants Paper reduction projects 20% reduction of paper use in the Kendrion group at end of 2015 Start ISO 14001 for plant Brazil and IDS z ISO 14001 in two locations of the Villingen, Germany business unit Industrial Drive Systems z Preparations for two other locations of Industrial Magnetic Systems z ISO 50001 at Kendrion (Eibiswald), Austria >> Waste Kendrion aims to minimise waste, with a view to its environmental and cost impact. All Kendrion companies which have been awarded ISO 14001 certiﬁcation keep records of their production and processing of waste, such as oil, cleaning agents, packaging materials and inks and toners. Internal instructions at these companies are issued for the safe use of materials and the separated collection and disposal of waste. The companies work solely with certiﬁcated waste processers. As part of the certiﬁcation process, each year new waste reduction measures must be implemented, and measures that reduce the use of dangerous goods are externally audited. Those measures can differ from plant to plant. Although they do not have a major impact on the amount of waste due to the relatively low quantities used, a number of small-scale initiatives were taken in 2013 to reduce the consumption of printing ink and paper. Kendrion worked hard on the streamlining of the data and database of waste and hazardous substances in 2012 and 2013. This process takes time. As a result, the data for the largest European plants are processed and reported on a uniform basis. The objective is to gradually roll out this system across the entire group, also in the USA. Kendrion has reviewed how the company can optimise the use and recycling of materials and reduce waste and waste costs even further. A further study was carried out at a number of local operating companies for the development of a ‘paperless ofﬁce’ proposition, for example in part based on e-invoicing and e-order projects. Kendrion has set a target prescribing a 20% reduction in the group’s consumption of paper in 2015 compared to 2013. Kendrion’s products are often integrated in larger systems by Tier 1 or 2 suppliers or OEMs. Partly for this reason, it is not possible for Kendrion to determine what proportion of the materials used is recycled. If recycling is at all possible for such systems, it does not relate to the parts supplied by Kendrion. Nor is Kendrion able to inﬂuence this in any way. However, Kendrion supports broader consultation in the chain on the possibility of developing new recycling options. >> 19 Kendrion considers a healthy and safe working environment part of the rights of its employees. Within Kendrion, the quality, environmental and safety systems are usually combined in one system that forms the basis for the implementation of many projects. Virtually all of Kendrion’s operating companies comply with the most stringent quality and safety requirements. >> ISO certification Kendrion’s environmental management systems at nine plants comply with the ISO 14001 standard. The preparations for the award of this certiﬁcation included mapping the potential environmental impact of the relevant plant’s operations. The ISO 14001 certiﬁcate conﬁrms that the plant complies with all the relevant environmental legislation. A number of annual environmental targets are also set for each of these plants. This system includes the appointment of a number of Safety Ofﬁcers and the organisation of training programmes to increase the employees’ awareness of environmental issues. All procedures are laid down in writing. Audits of the system are conducted at regular intervals. Eleven of Kendrion’s plants have been awarded ISO EN 9001 certiﬁcation. Six plants have been awarded ISO TS 16949 certiﬁcation. ISO EN 9001 lays down general requirements for the company’s quality management system, while ISO TS 16949 has been developed speciﬁcally for the automotive industry and imposes the most stringent requirements on suppliers. One plant, the operating company in Brazil, completed the certiﬁcation process for ISO 14001 in 2013. More plants will follow in 2014, including Industrial Drive Systems in Villingen and Aerzen, Germany. Preparations are also underway for the ISO 50001 certiﬁcation of Kendrion’s operating company in Austria. ISO 50001 is a relatively new international energy management standard. This standard is focused on the reduction of organisations’ energy consumption on the basis of a detailed insight into their energy consumption and use of energy. ISO 50001 also imposes requirements on the results from the QUALIT Y IN PR O D UCT I O N organisation’s management system, which must focus on continual improvements in its energy performance, the provision of the information and resources required to Kendrion complies with the most stringent quality achieve the targets, and the provision of assurances for compliance with the relevant requirements for its production processes. statutory requirements. Once Kendrion (Eibiswald) GmbH has been awarded this The highly reliable production is performed under certiﬁcation in 2014 Kendrion intends to roll out the certiﬁcation process to other clean-room conditions if required for the project. companies during the following years. >> 20 kendrion csr report 2013 Energy & CO2 reduction Target 2013 Result Ambition 2014 10% reduction in absolute and relative CO2 15% reduction of absolute and relative CO2 emission for biggest European plants emission compared to 2012 for biggest European plants (including Kuhnke) Further energy reduction initiatives z Energy scans in US plants and Kuhnke plants; z Second combined heating / power unit in Villingen, Germany >> General Kendrion bears and wishes to assume its responsibility for environmental issues. Kendrion endeavours to make efﬁcient and less use of energy, and encourages the company’s employees to make continuously improvements to environmental procedures. >> Production process The environmental risks associated with Kendrion’s production processes are generally relatively low. The processes require the use of relatively few substances with a potential environmental impact. >> Energy consumption The energy consumption reduction programme in 2013 focused on the company’s ﬁve plants in Germany, the plant in Austria (Eibiswald) and the plant in the Czech Republic (Prostejov). The consumption of power, fuel oil and natural gas in 2011, 2012 and 2013 can be presented as follows: Energy consumption 2013 2012 2011 Power kWH 10,730,518 11,604,604 12,194,528 Fuel oil ltr 100,292 106,529 127,724 Natural gas m3 650,704 552,775 409,685 Energy consumption per EUR million turnover 2013 2012 2011 Δ % (2013/2012) Power kWH 48,119 51,279 51,238 (6.2) Fuel oil ltr 449 471 537 (4.7) Natural gas m3 2,958 2,442 1,721 21.1 The 2013 target speciﬁed a 10% reduction per EUR million turnover. The target was achieved. As the new combined heating and cooling system at the plant in Villingen, Germany, is ﬁred by natural gas, it is self-evident that the plant’s natural gas consumption increased in 2013. >> 21 >> Investments Kendrion invested more than EUR 1.7 million in energy-efﬁcient systems for the largest European plants during the period from 2011 to 2013. These investments include the installation of a new combined heating and cooling system in Villingen, Germany. Several further, smaller projects in various plants are in progress. In combination, these projects will result in relatively substantial energy and CO2 savings. An example is the implementation of energy and air pressure metering systems per production line in Eibiswald, Austria. In 2013, Kendrion devoted a great deal of effort to the reduction of energy consumption in and around the workplace, for example by switching off computers and equipment rather than leaving them in standby mode and the carefully considered use of air-conditioning systems. Posters and other tools were developed to help achieve this. LED lighting pilot projects also began at a number of plants. >> Reduction targets for emissions The CO2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) from the company’s plants in Germany, the plant in Austria and the plant in the Czech Republic can be presented as follows: CO2 emissions 2013 2012 2011 Δ % (2013/2012) Absolute emissions tons 5,047 5,548 5,618 (10) Relative emissions t / million turnover 22.6 24.5 23.2 (8) The target speciﬁed for the plants in Germany stipulates an at least 10% reduction of CO2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2 pursuant to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) per EUR million turnover in 2013 (absolute and relative). The target has been achieved for the absolute reduction. The target for the relative reduction of emissions was achieved almost in its entirety. A relatively larger proportion of the turnover of the relevant plants was generated from products manufactured in the clean rooms of Kendrion’s Passenger Car Systems business unit: production in these clean rooms consumes more energy than in any other facility. The results from energy scans carried out at other Kendrion plants in 2013 contributed to the speciﬁcation of more comprehensive targets for the reduction of the plants' energy consumption and CO2 emissions for the years after 2013. The target prescribes a 15% reduction of the total CO2 emissions, in both absolute REN EW ABLE ENER GIE S and relative terms, of the largest European plants and Kuhnke’s German plant by the end of 2014 (as compared to 2012). This is an extremely ambitious target. After this Kendrion manufactures electromagnetic target was set, Kendrion’s European electricity supplier recently notiﬁed the components for energy technology that are company that changes it has been compelled to make in the sources of its power applied in particularly the ﬁeld of wind power deliveries will result in a substantial increase in CO2 emissions per MW as from 2014. stations. Especially for the ﬁeld of energy This is due to the fact that in the past the supplier’s deliveries used to include technology, Kendrion provides magnet brakes electricity generated by German nuclear power stations. These are scheduled to that are robust, low-maintenance and enable close within the near future. At the moment the supplier does not have sufﬁcient exceptionally low energy consumption. access to alternative sources of clean energy to absorb this shortfall and, as a result, is temporarily compelled to fall back on coal-ﬁred power stations. Kendrion had concluded a long-term contract with this supplier. Kendrion is currently discussing this issue with the supplier. >> 22 kendrion csr report 2013 >> Transport It is opportune to reduce travel and transport movements wherever possible. In most cases, our customers are responsible on the basis of agreed Incoterms for the transport of our products. In that sense we have no direct inﬂuence on this. However, in Germany Kendrion does intend to gradually switch to an even more ‘green’ car ﬂeet (of a moderate size) from 2013, although the pace will be tempered by a number of current contracts. The lease car scheme applicable in Germany has been reviewed to assess options. This has resulted in the decision to offer German lease drivers the option of switching to lease cars with a smaller engine capacity and, consequently, lower emissions, whereby they will then be offered the opportunity of allocating a portion of the resultant difference in the purchase price to the purchase of extra features. The lease terms and conditions applicable in other countries will be reviewed during the course of 2014. The number of (individual) video conference options will also be expanded to reduce travel. >> Biodiversity For as far as is known Kendrion does not have any locations adjacent to protected areas or areas of high biodiversity. Some of the land (and the groundwater) on the site of the Kendrion (Shelby) Inc. plant in Shelby, North Carolina, USA, became polluted by the operations of its legal predecessors. A clean-up and control programme at the site has been implemented. This programme is being carried out under the responsibility and management of one of Kendrion (Shelby) Inc.’s HAVE YO U SAVED TO DAY ? former owners and in close cooperation with the local environmental authorities. An external study has not revealed any hazards to public health. An external study An awareness campaign, supported by posters has also established that the company’s current operations are not polluting for reminds employees of the importance of saving humans or the environment. energy on the shop ﬂoor. energy & co2 reduction >> 23 Market introduction KOBRA and greensigned >> Interview Michael Bernhard Kendrion’s Industrial Drive Systems business unit launched KOBRA, its ﬁrst greensigned label product, at the SPS IPC Drives Trade Fair held at the end of November last year. The feedback and responses were promising and the sales leads generated during the trade fair are expected to result in the ﬁrst orders in 2014. Michael Bernhard, Industrial Drive Systems’ Business Unit Manager, is already reviewing opportunities for the expansion of the greensigned label to include more ‘green’ Kendrion products. >> 24 kendrion csr report 2013 Market introduction KOBRA and greensigned Back in a big, sustainable way ‘This was Kendrion’s ﬁrst product introduction in this and visit these potential customers in mid-January. The form,’ Michael Bernhard explains. ‘Kendrion had always ﬁrst interested companies have received samples and developed or optimised applications in close cooperation prototypes, and the business unit has received numerous with the relevant customer, for example on the basis of a requests for information: 60% of these are from new letter of intent or even a contract. On launching KOBRA, contacts. The company had completely lost the springKendrion not only introduced a revolutionary new product applied brake market. Following the company’s response but also launched a completely new umbrella brand: to this situation – don’t copy an existing product, but greensigned. Kendrion was convinced, on the basis of its develop a completely new solution that offers technical experience, that there would be a market for this product. beneﬁts and which provides sustainability and Consequently – and in contrast to the past – Kendrion environmental added value – Kendrion is now deﬁnitely decided to take the initiative in its development. back in a big way.’ The business unit obtained feedback well before the ofﬁcial market launch by inviting a group of selected >> Stringent criteria customers to a meeting to state their views and opinions. ‘Green’ can certainly be referred to as a global, irreversible These meetings discussed the technical details, the megatrend. In product development, energy efﬁciency, properties and speciﬁcations of the product and the recyclability, CO2 reduction and extended life cycles are greensigned concept as such. The feedback was very rapidly becoming standard requirements. Kendrion, with favourable and encouraging. Industrial Drive Systems its wide range of strategic products, is at the heart of concluded that the time was ripe for the introduction a number of these developments. ‘The greensigned at SPS IPS Drives.’ label will help Kendrion, the market and its customers to become aware of Kendrion’s strength in this ﬁeld. >> New solution Kendrion’s greensigned products meet stringent Industrial Drive Systems’ eye-catching and very apt sustainability and environmental criteria. Companies (green!) stand targeted a variety of market segments assuming their corporate social responsibility not only ranging from OEMs and resellers right through to end strive to market ‘green’ products, but also strive to ensure users – and certainly drew a lot of attention! After taking that their production facilities meet the expectations and stock of the results, Michael Bernhard and his team were demands of the stakeholders and the general public. able to boast of some 120 serious sales leads: more than Greensigned offers them part of the answer.’ ever before. ‘Industrial Drive Systems began to contact Certifica tion Pas KOBRA s spring-a pplied b ra k e Up to 75 % power approx. savings, 10 about 10 % size reductio % less w n, eight Over 90 % parts ar of all compon e recycl ent able Less haz ardous substan ces market introduction kobra and greensigned >> 25 Fair labour standards Target 2013 Result Ambition 2014 Increase staff satisfaction; Staff satisfaction survey extended to two introduction survey other business units Introduction CSR in bonus of members Introduction of CSR activities in bonus Executive Committee of other key management >> Introduction Kendrion’s worldwide growth in its organisation and the Kuhnke takeover resulted in an increase in the number of the company’s staff to approximately 2,800 employees (including about 100 temps). This resulted in the need to implement some changes to Kendrion’s organisational structure. Kendrion is a decentralised organisation. Responsibilities are assigned as low as possible within the organisation, and local entrepreneurship is encouraged. This ensures that Kendrion can respond rapidly to the continually changing market and special customer requirements. In 2013, Kendrion once again demonstrated that the company’s entire organisation can deal with challenges by adopting a results-oriented and efﬁcient approach. The ﬂexibility provided by the use of temporary employees has enabled the company to adopt an appropriate response to economic ﬂuctuations. In view of the uncertainties about the future economic circumstances, maintaining the ﬂexibility of costs – including personnel costs – will continue to be of great importance in the coming years. Regulations introduced by some countries, including Germany, discourage the deployment of temporary employees. Kendrion is holding continual discussions with the works councils at several German plants on measures that could be implemented to retain the necessary ﬂexibility while KE N NI also maintaining sufﬁcient security for the employees. At Kendrion we value innovative employee ideas. Kendrion, like many other companies, was still affected by a shortage of skilled The idea forum ‘KENNI’ encourages employees engineers. Kendrion’s operating companies further extended regional activities that to actively engage in the development and are intended to enhance their appeal as local employers. The companies’ presence improvements of all aspects of their work. and marketing at schools and universities and their PR activities were intensiﬁed, Here Martin Kolmann, Managing Director of in part via close cooperation with the Kendrion Academy. Kendrion (Eibiswald) GmbH in Austria gives a special award to one of the employees, >> Dilemma Christian Tengg. The uncertainty concerning the future economic situation and the volatility in the markets mean Kendrion is forced to be ﬂexible, also when it comes to labour costs. For this reason, Kendrion has attempted to maintain a core of temporary employees, and to build ﬂexibility into contracts, so that changing circumstances can be responded to quickly. There is a tendency among the German government, trade unions and employees towards more certainty for employees. Kendrion is searching for the optimum situation, taking due regard of all interests. >> 26 kendrion csr report 2013 >> Bond with the employees Kendrion’s Executive Committee devotes a great deal of attention to the communication of the strategy and the plans of action resulting from the strategy. This ensures that the employees are provided with a clear insight into what is STARTING A SUCCE SSFUL FUTURE expected of them, and consequently are able to make an active contribution to the AT KENDR IO N achievement of growth. Kendrion’s corporate magazine ‘Magnetised’, for all staff, is published three times a year. The green light has been given for ten trainees and seven students from Baden-Württemberg >> Employee representation Cooperative State University to start professional Works councils or employee representatives that have been installed at Kendrion’s training for a successful future at Kendrion. largest operating companies in Germany, the Czech Republic and Austria are, in These junior employees will complete their accordance with the local labour legislation, involved in a wide range of employment, education at one of four locations in southern health & safety and social issues. About 70% of all Kendrion employees are Germany (Villingen-Schwenningen, represented by these works councils and employee representatives. Collective Donaueschingen, Engelswies or Markdorf ). bargaining agreements govern the terms and conditions of about 60% of Kendrion’s Kendrion provided vocational training in industrial employees. Stringent requirements are also imposed on labour relations in countries engineering and mechatronics in 2013. and states in which collective bargaining agreements or written contracts of The ﬁrst two years of training will be organised employment are not customary. In general, Kendrion has a good relationship with the in conjunction with Continental Automotive. works councils and the trade unions, although on occasion difﬁcult issues need to be The students started the dual course in industrial discussed. engineering and mechatronics in October 2013. In addition, three students from Furtwangen >> Staff loyalty University will begin a work-study trainee As Kendrion’s employees are the company’s most valuable asset, Kendrion has programme at the Villingen plant during the winter implemented a variety of staff loyalty measures at all its plants all over the world. semester. We are really pleased with this breath of These measures range from individual support to speciﬁc programmes and fresh air at Kendrion and would like to wish all our opportunities to the beneﬁt of all Kendrion employees. newcomers a great start. Kendrion continually strives to improve the compatibility of its employees’ careers and their families. The company has, for example, introduced ﬂexible working hours From left to right, standing: Raphael Binefeld, for employees who need to care for family members. Kendrion offers individualised Marius Wanzek, Kevin Lauble and Sebastian Weißer. work schedule solutions to its German employees with young children who need Sitting: Jan Elias Steffen, Tim Schneider and day care. Kendrion is endeavouring to ensure that employees do not need to Martin Schulz. decide between ‘children or Kendrion’, but can decide on ‘children and Kendrion’. Kendrion’s corporate culture includes the celebration of the company’s successes with a special ‘Thank you!’ to employees. These successes are celebrated by organising events such as annual Christmas parties, football tournaments, barbecues and other activities. Kendrion is of the opinion that these events offer company staff a great opportunity to meet each other away from work and to get to know each other better in a relaxed atmosphere. fair labour standards >> 27 >> Remuneration As from 2012 non-ﬁnancial individual performance targets for the improvement of Kendrion’s CSR have been set for both the CEO and CFO. The Supervisory Board of Kendrion decided that as from 2013, for both the short-term and the long-term bonus, a considerable proportion of the non-ﬁnancial performance criteria will consist of CSR and sustainability targets. The fact that such targets now form an important component of the bonus scheme reﬂects the importance that the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board attach to this. More information on the remuneration of the members of the Executive Board is available in the Supervisory Board’s Remuneration Report 2013 that has been published on Kendrion’s website. CSR performance criteria have not been incorporated in the senior management’s remuneration system up to 2012, as Kendrion is of the opinion that this is feasible solely following the full implementation of an internal management system for the collection and evaluation of CSR information. From 2013, CSR and sustainability targets were also included in the bonus scheme for the members of the Executive Committee. As from 2014, Kendrion intends to include CSR performance criteria in the bonus schemes for other key management members. >> Training and management development Good management, expertise and motivation are of essential importance to the future, and for this reason Kendrion assigns high priority to management KE N DR IO N EXECUTIVE development. The corporate management development programme is supported PROGR AMME GR AD UATE S by the Kendrion Executive Programme, a customised, international modular teaching programme in which the company collaborates with the Rotterdam School of In April 2013, module 6 of the Kendrion Executive Management. The programme also constitutes an important platform for exchanges Programme (KEP) took place at the Rotterdam of experience and for the further expansion of collaboration. Eleven members of School of Management in Rotterdam, the staff graduated in 2013. Netherlands. This particular module was all about ‘Change Leadership’. Bernd Gundelsweiler, CEO Kendrion implemented a new ‘Kendrion High Potential Programme’ in 2012. This Division Automotive, acted as the module sponsor. three-year programme is divided into several learning modules. Kendrion selected This sixth and ﬁnal module was attended by a total ﬁfteen high-potential employees from all over the world with the objective of training of 18 managers, 11 of whom graduated from the tomorrow’s generation of managers. The ﬁrst learning module began in January 2013. programme and received their diploma on the day. New candidates will join the programme each year. Almost every year a group of non-ﬁnancial managers follows a course in ﬁnance. From left to right, standing: Arnold Herberg, This course, which is also customised, covers issues of importance to Kendrion, Frank Zelano, Laurent Lebas, Michael Bernhard, such as risk management, sales, investment decisions and planning and control. Mike Günther, Piet Veenema (CEO), Alexander Glaser In addition, the various business units have implemented training programmes at and Gerald Puchner all levels in the organisation. Kendrion’s management development endeavours to Kneeling from left to right: Peter Födisch, Ralf Vosseler, ﬁnd an appropriate equilibrium between the transfer of internal knowledge and Armin Beck and Harald Burkart the recruitment of external knowledge. The Kendrion Academy was founded in 2013. The Academy’s objective is to further enhance the company’s innovative capacity by promoting and running research projects in Kendrion related ﬁelds, disseminate technical knowledge among the company’s employees and strengthen its ties with universities. >> 28 kendrion csr report 2013 >> Awards At the end of 2013, the Chinese Suzhou labour security bureau conducted an audit and evaluation of Kendrion (Suzhou) Co. Ltd. This was followed by the award of AA level credible employer certiﬁcation to Kendrion (Suzhou) Co. Ltd – the second company in Suzhou (more than 10 million inhabitants) to have received this certiﬁcation. An evaluation carried out in 2013 resulted in the presentation of the German ‘TOP National Employer’ Award to Kendrion in January 2014. This Award is conferred by the ‘FOCUS’ news magazine, ‘XING’, the leading social network in Germanspeaking countries, and ‘kununu’, Germany’s largest employer rating portal. Kendrion is proud to have received these Awards. >> Social policy The need to say farewell to permanent or temporary employees, for example due to the economic situation, can have a great impact for the people involved and their families. Kendrion acts in accordance with the prevailing local conditions and circumstances and with respect for the individual concerned. This has, unfortunately, been necessary at companies including Kuhnke, Malente, which was compelled to take its leave of a group of staff in support positions. Fair agreements on a social plan were reached with the works council. The relocation of the operations of Linnig Inc., in Atlanta, USA in 2013, also resulted in a number of redundancies. The company strived to arrive at appropriate solutions for the staff involved. The importance Kendrion attaches to a good social policy is also demonstrated by the company’s accession to the UN Global Compact that includes labour principles T HE D YNAMICS O F D I V ER S I T Y relating to the working conditions of employees. Labour standards, including health & safety promotion, education, absenteeism and staff satisfaction, are also key Kendrion wants to hire the best people, elements of the CSR efforts. irrespective of gender, origin, age, ethnicity or nationality. Diversity – that’s the concept we're >> Staff satisfaction talking about here – is at the heart of our Annual staff-satisfaction surveys are conducted pursuant to the plans of the company. For this reason, measures have been Passenger Car Systems business unit in Villingen, Germany and Eibiswald, Austria. taken to anchor this principle ﬁrmly in Kendrion’s These surveys are based on the staff’s labour performance (as determined by company structure. factors including bonus payments and overtime), participation in social events, the absenteeism rate and the percentage of employees terminating their contract ‘The principle of equal opportunities is sacrosanct of employment. at Kendrion,’ says Andreas Herzfeld, member of the CSR Board. ‘And looking at the company as a A pilot trial project carried out in 2013 reviewed the feasibility of conducting staffwhole, we can deﬁnitely say that we have a good satisfaction surveys on a more individual basis, including individual satisfaction mix of nationalities, of young and old, of men with the balance between work and private life. The ﬁrst survey was conducted at and women and of people of different origins. Kendrion’s plant in Markdorf, Germany. The survey was developed in cooperation Our biggest challenge is ﬁnding women to ﬁll with an international consultancy ﬁrm. The response to the survey was high, at 80%. management positions. We are a highly The answers served as input for the formulation of plans for action that will be technology-oriented company and it is not easy to discussed in more detail by the relevant departments. Kendrion intends to roll out ﬁnd female managers with the right qualiﬁcations this survey, in consultation with the relevant works councils, at other plants of at and ambitions in the technical areas in which we least two business units in 2014. operate. This situation can, of course, partly be explained by the overwhelming predominance The IG Metall trade union conducted a survey of metal engineering companies of male students choosing to study technical throughout Germany in 2013. The return rate and outcome for Kendrion’s companies subjects. But we are optimistic that this will – whereby the results from the plant in Donaueschingen, in particular, were change in the future.’ representative – were favourable. fair labour standards >> 29 >> Diversity and discrimination Kendrion’s Code of Conduct expressly states that the company does not tolerate discrimination by gender, race, religious denomination, remuneration or any other means when hiring new staff or in dealings with staff in positions of equal importance. Kendrion promotes the formation of a workforce and lower and middle management that reﬂects the composition of the local population as closely as possible. The company’s home market, Germany, and also the USA, have, in particular, implemented detailed and stringent anti-discrimination legislation. The German legislation includes the appointment of Anti-discrimination Ofﬁcers, who can be consulted by employees with questions or concerns or who are the subject of discrimination. Kendrion strives to create a corporate culture that does not tolerate discrimination. No reports were made to these Anti-discrimination Ofﬁcers in 2013. Kendrion attaches importance to the achievement of diversity in nationalities and cultures. This diversity promotes intercultural experience that is highly compatible with the current internationalisation trend. In 2013, Kendrion had employees of at least 35 nationalities. Approximately 51% of all Kendrion’s employees are women. The number of women in management positions of the company’s operating companies is however relatively low. Kendrion advocates the appointment of more women to company management positions as the company is convinced that this will ultimately lead to more balanced considerations and improved processes and results. When recruiting staff for management positions, Kendrion expressly endeavours to search for women by means including intensive contacts with universities. However, the number of women who are following or have followed a technical education and are available for management positions in the company is low. This is a problem confronting many high-tech companies, in particular in Germany, which cannot readily be addressed by Kendrion in autonomy. Kendrion is also closely following the political developments in this issue at both a national and European level. New legislation has entered into force in the Netherlands to provide for the balanced participation of men and women in the management and supervision of ‘large’ public and private limited liability companies. Balanced participation is deemed to exist F ORMAL D IVER SIT Y P R O CED U R E S when at least 30% of the seats are held by men and at least 30% by women. Kendrion’s Executive Board and Supervisory Board do not achieve this gender Kendrion strives for the best quality and is proud balance. The imbalance in the Executive Board is in part due to the limited number of of the diversity within the company that results members. 25% of the seats on the Supervisory Board are held by women (1 out of 4). from this approach. Andreas Herzfeld: ‘As a Although Kendrion attaches great importance to diversity and wishes to increase company we reﬂect the global diversity in gender, the percentage of women in the company’s senior management, Kendrion is of the origin, ethnicity and age. This brings in different opinion that continuity in and the relevant experience of the members of the backgrounds and different ways of working and Supervisory Board and Executive Board is also of great importance and that the thinking, thereby creating a dynamic work current membership of the Supervisory Board and Executive Board is reasonable environment. Our Code of Conduct and our when viewed from this perspective. whistleblower procedures help to safeguard and anchor this approach in a more formal way. But it >> Human rights all starts with ourselves and our own positive and Kendrion’s Code of Conduct explicitly stipulates that the company should respect tolerant attitude towards different people and fundamental human rights and, more concrete, that Kendrion has to protect local different backgrounds. Diversity requires an active employees for possible human right abuses and that Kendrion shall not tolerate contribution from every one of us. That is why human rights abuses within its sphere of inﬂuence. In the Code of Conduct it is also anyone at Kendrion can also turn to the Kendrion described that Kendrion shall not employ child labour or prisoner labour and that Conﬁdential Counsellors if problems – such as the company shall not make use of any other form of forced or compulsory labour. harassment or discrimination – occur.’ >> 30 kendrion csr report 2013 The Supplier Code of Conduct contains similar clauses. The Code of Conduct prescribes compliance with the relevant legislation. Local managers shall ensure that Kendrion complies with this principle when hiring new employees. Kendrion has not received any reports of any human rights abuses in 2011, 2012 or 2013 within the company or at its suppliers. Personnel: key figures 2013 2012 Total number of employees at 31 December 2,860 1,630 Number of women in permanent employment 1,247 559 Number of men in permanent employment 1,219 838 Number of employees with a ﬁxed-term contract 394 233 Number of permanent and temporary employees at 31 December (FTE) 2,756* 1,632 Number of direct employees (FTE) 1,504 790 Number of indirect employees (FTE) 1,165 752 Number of temporary employees (FTE) 87 90 Average age of women 40.7 42.8 Average age of men 40.9 40.5 Average age of all employees 40.8 41.5 Average number of years’ service 10.1 10.3 Average rate of absenteeism per employee (%) 2.8 2.6 Wage costs per FTE (EUR) 44,567 46,584 Training costs (as a % of wage costs) 0.8 0.9 * Total number of employees at 31 December 2013 includes 1,051 Kuhnke employees (FTE). fair labour standards >> 31 Health & safety Target 2013 Result Ambition 2014 Less accidents than in 2012 Less accidents than in 2013 Absenteeism rate on comparable level Absenteism rate on comparable level and and no plant above 5% not above 4% for direct and not above 3% for indirect personnel in each plant Increase health activities Increase health activities in China and USA Kendrion regards a healthy and safe working environment as one of the rights of its ‘W E A R E THE CH AMP IO N S , MY FR I EN D S . employees. Kendrion’s quality, environmental management and safety systems are AN D W E’LL KEE P O N FI G HTI N G TI LL usually combined in one system which forms the basis for the implementation of T HE END … ’ many projects. Virtually all of Kendrion’s operating companies comply with the most stringent quality and safety requirements. The requirements laid down by the These famous lines describe the atmosphere at ISO 14001 standard (applicable to most of the larger plants) include the appointment the Kendrion sports day held on 6 September 2013 of safety ofﬁcers and the periodic training of employees in health & safety issues. in Prostejov, Czech Republic. On this day, every employee who had accepted the invitation to the >> Accidents / Lost-Time-Injuries event became a champion in their own right. Kendrion’s continual attention to the safety of the production processes has enabled A total of 24 teams competed for the medals in the company to keep the number of accidents limited in the past years. The total a number of team sports (football, volleyball, number of accidents and Lost-Time-Injuries (LTI) at Kendrion in the last years was: ﬂoorball, etc.). In addition, a considerable number of employees showed their skills in other Accidents 2013 2012 disciplines such as archery and shooting. A sunny Number of accidents 27 46 day full of team-building experiences culminated LTI (days) 111.5 323 in an award ceremony during which Managing Director Vaclav Dostal presented the participants No fatal accidents occurred in the years 2011 – 2013. with awards including medals, diplomas and gifts. >> 32 kendrion csr report 2013 Almost half of the accidents occurred at one plant in Germany. Further analyses of the nature of these accidents and their circumstances did not reveal any clearly demonstrable reason for the relatively high number; it is a coincidence. There were no indications of shortcomings in the safety or working conditions of the employees. Kendrion’s objective is to further reduce in the total number of accidents, ultimately bringing it down to zero. The achievement of this objective will be furthered by an evaluation of the cause of every accident to review the feasibility of implementing improvements in safety procedures, working methods and production lines. >> Absenteeism 2013 2012 Absenteeism rate 2.8% 2.6% Kendrion’s overall absenteeism rate was 2.8% in 2013, which is very low for the company’s type of industrial operations and geographical spread. The objective is to retain the rate at approximately the same level in future years, whereby the rate for direct employees should not be above 4% and for indirect employees not above 3% for each individual plant. A low absenteeism rate is indicative of healthier employees and an agreeable working environment. A lower rate also results in less stress for the colleagues of employees on sick leave and lower costs for the company. Kendrion shall also endeavour to achieve this objective by adopting an individual approach. When the absenteeism rate of speciﬁc departments or employees is relatively high Kendrion conducts individual discussions with those directly involved and implement measures designed to ensure that the employees recover as quickly as possible and return to work. HE ALTH Y FO O D >> Health programmes Kendrion (Eibiswald) GmbH, Austria, set up the Many Kendrion companies have implemented programmes to promote their ‘Kendrion eats with relish project’ in 2013 to employees’ health. A variety of plants that account for approximately 70% of all raise awareness among its employees of the Kendrion’s employees offer a free weekly basket of fresh fruit and mineral water. consequences that personal eating habits can Many Kendrion employees are offered free stop smoking courses. Kendrion shall have on each individual’s overall environment. promote the roll-out to other plants in the coming years. This is also the case with an initiative in which employees are offered an opportunity to receive an inﬂuenza vaccination during working hours. In 2013, employees at various plants in Germany and China (Suzhou) were able to participate in an annual health day that offered them a general health check (blood pressure, diabetes, etc.). Other examples of measures include training courses designed to avoid back complaints, ergonomic advice and grants to attend a gym at various locations. In addition to the aforementioned initiatives, Kendrion also frequently organises social events such as sport activities and parties designed to strengthen the relationships with and between its employees. These programmes will be continued in 2014. Our plant in Eibiswald, Austria, launched a special ‘healthy food’ campaign. health & safety >> 33 Business ethics programme Target 2013 Result Ambition 2014 100% acceptance Code of Conduct 100% acceptance Code of Conduct Development compliance training Roll-out compliance training and audits Kendrion believes it is very important that all activities at the company are conducted with integrity and aims to foster and promote a culture in which this is a given. Besides the ‘tone at the top’, Kendrion has a set of internal policies and procedures in place which contribute to ensuring this ethical culture – these are detailed below. >> Governance – internal codes and procedures Code of Conduct Kendrion has implemented a Code of Conduct in its organisation that applies to all Kendrion staff. The principles and best practices established in this Code reﬂect the main values that need to guide Kendrion’s staff in the performance of their duties, and the actions they need to take in a variety of situations. The core themes include market position, authorities, corporate social responsibility, accountability in general, and the obligation for due care regarding safety and health, the environment, and social interests. Kendrion promotes compliance with the Code of Conduct by continually bringing the Code to the attention of (new) managers and staff in their own language. The contents of the Code of Conduct are derived from the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. A number of operating companies have incorporated the Code of Conduct in their employees’ contracts of employment following the requisite consultations with the local works councils. Whistleblower’s Charter Kendrion attaches great importance to the organisation’s compliance with the Code of Conduct. Employees who observe a (suspected) irregularity are encouraged to enter into discussions with those directly involved or with their supervisor. When this is not feasible or fails to achieve results, then they may make use of the procedure laid down in the Whistleblower’s Charter. The Whistleblower’s Charter offers Kendrion’s employees an opportunity to report irregularities or suspicions of irregularities to the management without jeopardising their (legal) position. Any such report gives cause to an internal investigation which is carried out under the responsibility of the Executive Board and in accordance with a standard procedure. In 2013, no irregularities were reported within the context of the Whistleblower’s Charter. Within this context, Kendrion has also appointed Conﬁdential Counsellors whom employees can contact to make conﬁdential reports of (suspicions of ) irregularities. Employees can also discuss dilemmas with these counsellors. >> 34 kendrion csr report 2013 >> Anti-Bribery & Corruption policy (AB&C) Kendrion is committed to combating corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. Corruption obstructs or impedes economic development and results in an unequal distribution of wealth. In addition, involvement in corruption can result in damage to and the loss of the reputation of Kendrion, the management and employees. Kendrion’s Code of Conduct devotes speciﬁc attention to this issue. The Code of Conduct states that employees and managers shall always implement sound business practices. They are not allowed to request or suggest, seek or offer, accept or pay any form of bribe in either monetary or any other form. All payments Kendrion makes, either directly or indirectly or currently or subsequently, relating to a customer order may beneﬁt solely the relevant customer and no other parties other than legitimate intermediaries. The same rules, in reverse, are applicable to the parties who mediate in contracts on Kendrion’s behalf for the procurement, manufacture or assembly of products. Any irregularities may be reported pursuant to the Whistleblower’s Charter. No irregularities were reported in 2013. The policy stipulating the provision of the Code of Conduct and Whistleblower’s Charter to all employees in their individual language remains in full force. In view of the importance of combating corruption and the increasing attention to its prevention in the relevant legislation and from the investigative authorities, the company has decided to adopt a proactive approach to bringing the employees’ attention to this issue, in particular in those countries in which Kendrion is active and corruption is frequent. An AB&C policy was implemented at the end of 2011. This policy has resulted in measures including the performance of further risk analyses and due diligence of business ethics when entering into new business relations. The legislative systems in the various countries where Kendrion operates require that Kendrion takes appropriate measures to combat the risk of corruption. One of these measures is the performance of risk analyses. For this reason Kendrion carried out such an analysis. The issues discussed included country-speciﬁc risks, the market situation, selection of and relations with suppliers, due diligence before entering into business relationships, the giving and receiving of gifts, internal controls, internal culture, competition and sanctions regimes. No abuses have come to light. The outcomes of the risk analysis were processed and a number of recommendations were made, including the organisation of a compliance workshop for managers. The company developed the compliance workshop in 2013. This will be rolled out further in 2014. In this way, Kendrion remains active in further eradicating the risks of corruption. However, these measures do not provide any guarantee that no cases of corruption will arise. If there is any case of fraud, or any suspicion of fraud, then Kendrion will respond appropriately via the investigation protocol we have developed for this purpose. >> Other internal regulations Regulations to prevent insider trading Kendrion has implemented internal regulations to prevent insider trading. These regulations govern the Supervisory Board, Executive Board, Innovation Board, the CEO of the Automotive Division, the Business Unit Managers and their Controllers, and a number of other employees. In addition, the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board are governed by restrictions on trading in other listed companies. Kendrion has also designated a number of consultants afﬁliated with the company as insiders. Kendrion’s Compliance Ofﬁcer is entrusted with the supervision of compliance with the regulations. Rules and Regulations; Letters of Representation Kendrion employs Rules and Regulations and Letters of Representation. The Rules and Regulations constitute rules of behaviour governing all Kendrion Managing Directors. All Kendrion companies are requested to sign a Letter of Representation report once a quarter and pursuant to a bottom-up procedure. In signing this letter each Managing Director and Controller conﬁrms that the ﬁnancial information they have reported is correct and complete. An audit programme supports the ﬁnancial reporting cycle. These measures will further reduce the risk of fraud and corruption within the company. business ethics programme >> 35 >> Compliance Kendrion did not receive any ﬁnes or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with the legislation and regulations in 2011, 2012 or 2013. There were no legal actions relating to unfair competition, cartel or monopoly practices in the last years. Kendrion N.V. received a ﬁne in 2005 from the European Commission of an amount of EUR 34 million for infringement of article 81 of the EC Treaty by its former subsidiary Fardem Packaging B.V. Kendrion N.V. lodged an appeal with the Court of Justice of the European Union. Kendrion was extremely disappointed with the Court of Justice’s ruling of 26 November 2013, which decided that the ﬁne must be upheld in its entirety. The ruling also stated that Kendrion can claim compensation for the failure to adjudicate within a reasonable time by the initiation of separate proceedings before the Court. Kendrion N.V. itself had no involvement in prohibited agreements. >> Investor relations In its business enterprise, Kendrion makes use of providers of equity and providers of loan capital. Equity is held by shareholders listed on NYSE Euronext’s Amsterdam market. On 31 December 2013, 63% of share capital lay with ten major shareholders. More information on the share capital of Kendrion N.V. can be found on pages 14-16 of the Annual Report 2013 and on the website of Kendrion. A bank syndicate consisting of Rabobank, ING Bank and Deutsche Bank provided credit lines of EUR 183.5 million in total. More information regarding credit lines, ﬁnancial covenants and interest can be found on pages 113-114 of the Annual Report 2013. Kendrion attaches great importance to maintaining appropriate communications with ﬁnancial stakeholders and other interested parties such as investors, capital providers and analysts to provide them with a good insight into the developments at Kendrion. Price-sensitive information is disclosed in public announcements, including ﬁnancial reports which are released on a quarterly basis. These announcements can be found on Kendrion’s website as well. Transparency should lead to healthy pricing and support sufﬁcient liquidity. Kendrion has set a number of ambitious targets and wants to realise an attractive return for its shareholders, supported by a suitable dividend policy. More information about these goals and dividend policy is shared on page 47 of this Report and in the Annual Report 2013. >> Risk management framework Kendrion has implemented a structured risk management framework which encompasses the various elements of risk management and the relationship between these elements. The framework extends to Strategic & Business Risk Management, Operational Risk Management, Financial Reporting Risk Management and Compliance & Regulatory issues. The quality of the risk management framework is founded on integrity, business ethics and the staff’s expertise, the management style and the manner in which powers and responsibilities are delegated and monitored. Comprehensive information is available in the 2013 Annual Report, pages 36 – 45. >> 36 kendrion csr report 2013 UN Global Compact Kendrion joined the UN Global Compact in September 2009. The UN Global Compact is the world’s largest network initiative that unites companies, UN organisations and civil society in support of ten principles encompassing human rights, labour, the environment and sound business practices. Kendrion endorses these principles. This is a further example of Kendrion’s objective of being a company that all stakeholders can be proud of, in particular regarding the company’s social and ethical principles and the manner in which these principles are implemented in everyday practice. The Ten Principles The UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption enjoy universal consensus and are derived from: z The Universal Declaration of Human Rights z The International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work z The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development z The United Nations Convention Against Corruption The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of inﬂuence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. >> 37 The holistic approach of Passenger Car Systems >> Interview Martin Kollmann and Josef Porta Creating a sustainable society involves much more than improving energy efﬁciency and reducing CO2 emissions: It is a dynamic and complex entirety of interacting and interwoven elements. Sustainability targets can be achieved solely by adopting a holistic approach. Passenger Car Systems, in Eibiswald, Austria, took the lead and intends to serve as a source of inspiration for the entire Kendrion group. >> 38 kendrion csr report 2013 The holistic approach of Passenger Car Systems New challenges every day Martin Kollmann, Managing Director, and Josef Porta, of results and progress is of paramount importance: Production Manager, at Kendrion Passenger Car Systems’ It promotes the generation of employee support and plant in Eibiswald in Austria are convinced that all encourages employees to submit ideas.’ companies – in the Kendrion group and in the general business community – can make a contribution to a truly >> Commitment sustainable society. The authorities in every country Martin Kollmann and Josef Porta conclude that the strong are introducing more stringent legislation in response commitment to the environment that is further enhanced to public demand for a new approach to the use of by the accompanying increases in productivity: ‘The hard resources, the environment, the reduction of CO2 ﬁgures justify environmental measures: yes, they do cost emissions and the treatment of employees. At the same money – but they also bring in money. When viewed from time, a continually increasing number of companies are this perspective, investing in the environment is a highly exhibiting an intrinsic motivation to adopt a new attitude rational and commercially viable approach. For example, towards their customers, employees and the environment. Kendrion Eibiswald has invested some EUR 100,000 in In other words, sustainability – in all its manifestations – the optimisation of facilities including electricity, heating, is hot. water and waste. The savings achieved by these investments amount to EUR 135,000 a year!’ >> Five pillars Kendrion Passenger Car Systems, which Josef Porta ‘Passenger Car Systems’ holistic approach is based on represents on the CSR Board, is pleased to share its ideas ﬁve pillars,’ Martin Kollmann and Josef Porta explain. with other companies in the group to ensure that all ‘The ﬁrst, developing and producing green products, business units are kept fully informed and avoid the risk is the result of our external and market orientation. of reinventing the wheel. ‘Passenger Car Systems is The other four pillars, which have a strong internal focus, certain that all Kendrion companies will ultimately set the are energy efﬁciency & reduced CO2 emissions, supply same course, although each business unit and even plant chain responsibility, labour standards and community will need to decide on its speciﬁc areas and issues.’ investments. This holistic approach enables Passenger Car Systems to reﬂect on its position in the market, the >> Improvements Kendrion brand and its approach from a number of angles. ‘It’s very inspiring to view Kendrion from this perspective It serves as an umbrella for all Passenger Car Systems’ and realise that we, as a company, bear a corporate speciﬁc and highly diverse actions, ranging from equal social responsibility. Once seized by this ambition new pay for men and women, increasing awareness of the opportunities for improvement and new challenges need for a healthy diet at work and home right through to become apparent every day. Passenger Car Systems in online environmental management and the optimisation Eibiswald is very proud to be the ﬁrst Kendrion company of packaging sizes for overseas transports. The to implement a new environmental management system transparency of Passenger Car Systems’ communication and to receive ISO 50001 certiﬁcation.’ the holistic approach of pa ssenger car systems >> 39 Sustainable products Target 2013 Result Ambition 2014 Greensigned label introduction More products with greensigned label Study improvement sustainability in supply Continuation of study by Kendrion chain (permanent magnets e.g.) Academy and R&D departments Sustainability is at the core of many of the company’s products and innovations. E N E RGY TECH NO LO G Y Kendrion exploits the speciﬁc expertise and experience available within the company as a means of increasing safety and substantially reducing emissions and fuel Kendrion manufacturers electromagnetic consumption. Kendrion is inspired by the desire to secure a sustainable and ‘green’ components for energy technology that are used environment for generations to come, fully appreciating and assuming its especially in the ﬁelds of high voltage, circuit and responsibility for achieving this objective. high-speed breakers. Large strokes in order to interrupt the contact >> Market trends safely and within a very short time are the main The trends referred to on page 11 can be interpreted in terms of a number of requirements that must be met by electro singlesubtrends. The scarcity of natural resources and climate change, for example, are stroke solenoids in energy technology. A long resulting in the transition to more sustainable energy sources. Urbanisation and the lifecycle and high holding forces are further rapid growth of the population are leading to increased transportation needs for challenges to which single-stroke solenoid in both people and goods. Areas in which many people congregate are governed by energy technology must rise. increasingly stringent, building and transport system safety and environmental requirements. Population growth – and in some regions the ageing population – are accompanied by increasing healthcare requirements. These are accompanied by the trend towards continually smaller, lighter and faster products. The product portfolios of the business units are tailored precisely to the current trends in Kendrion’s customers’ markets. A number of the submarkets targeted by Kendrion’s business units are focused on these speciﬁc trends, such as the Industrial Division’s safety technology, renewable energy, explosion-proof technology and medical engineering, and the Automotive Division’s fuel efﬁciency, motor management, sound design and ﬁre-protection technologies. This enables Kendrion to create both added value and competitive advantages for its customers in a changing landscape that is governed by increasingly stringent standards, for example for emissions and safety. More information about these submarkets and the unique properties of Kendrion’s technologies and products is available in the ‘Industries’ section of Kendrion’s website. >> 40 kendrion csr report 2013 The majority of Kendrion’s products play a critical role in the systems and products of the company’s customers and end users, including systems and products such as lift braking systems, vehicle clutch systems, industrial robots, medical equipment and fast trigger solenoids for high voltage circuit breakers. For this reason quality and functionality are essential for all Kendrion products. This is in turn the reason why many projects have a lead time of a number of years, when large amounts of time and funds are invested in the development and testing of products in cooperation with the customer. Kendrion is renowned for the company’s technological know-how, innovative strength and high quality. Speciﬁc protocols have been implemented for dealing with quality issues raised by customers. Kendrion agrees on guarantee schemes with the company’s customers. The company’s suppliers also undergo comprehensive screening to verify compliance with Kendrion’s stringent quality standards. Despite the stringent internal and external quality standards for our products, it can never be completely ruled out that quality problems may arise. >> Green logo In 2013 we were carrying out investigations into whether a green logo could be introduced for one or more products of our business units. Key aspects of this are that the right criteria were adopted, and that a transparent system is introduced that tests our products against these criteria before a green logo is assigned. The introduction of a green logo must not only take place for marketing reasons; it also has to be apparent to customers and other third parties that the products in question provide a clear added value in the area of sustainability. This resulted in the introduction of the greensigned label for the KOBRA. More information is provided on page 25 of this Report. A G R I C U LT U R A L T E C H N O LO G Y Kendrion manufactures electromagnetic components for agricultural technology that are used particularly for agricultural and milking machines. In order to meet the high requirements, Kendrion offers special solenoid solutions for agriculture technology. Special materials and processes for surface treatment have been used to fulﬁl the particular environmental requirements. sustainable products >> 41 Kendrion and the automotive sector >> Interview Bernd Gundelsweiler ‘Green’ is a precondition in the automotive sector: if you’re not green, you’re out. Kendrion responds rapidly, effectively and proactively to sectoral developments and offers the market a remarkable range of energy-saving and CO2 emission reduction products. >> 42 kendrion csr report 2013 Kendrion and the automotive sector Ideas, solutions and state-of-the-art products ‘Before zooming in on Kendrion and reviewing the >> Taken for granted company’s contribution to developments in the Kendrion Automotive Division’s business unit Passenger automotive industry, it will be worthwhile to take a closer Car Systems focuses on gasoline and diesel fuel systems. look at some megatrends,’ says Bernd Gundelsweiler, CEO Kendrion’s US company, Kendrion (Shelby) Inc., of Kendrion’s Automotive Division. ‘Downsizing is an manufactures a spill valve for gasoline direct injection important trend – smaller engines, improved performance engines (pressure ranges up to 270 bar) that reduces fuel and lower CO2 emissions. There is a strong general public consumption and emission levels. ‘The business unit’s demand for environmental conservation. This is directly European plants manufacture high-pressure and lowrelated to the world’s ﬁnite natural resources. pressure valves for common rail systems that comply with The industry needs to ﬁnd new ways to keep mobility the Euro 5 & 6 standards and, as a result, make a large affordable. Consequently, fuel efﬁciency is another contribution to environmental conservation. Kendrion megatrend. Kendrion observes a shift in customer needs also markets a wide range of products for engine and requirements, which are increasingly focusing on management, such as valves that open and close oil downsizing, fuel efﬁciency, environmental aspects, safety feeds, variable camshaft timers and switching valves for and comfort.’ turbochargers. The automotive sector does not regard the environmental properties of Kendrion’s products as a >> Solutions unique selling proposition: they’re a precondition that Kendrion’s business units Commercial Vehicle Systems is taken for granted. Companies that do not develop and Passenger Car Systems, address the automotive and supply green products are out. It’s as simple as that.’ industry’s need for environmental conservation. Commercial Vehicle Systems’ work on sustainability >> Added value and environmental issues focuses on the thermal Bernd Gundelsweiler sees that companies throughout management of bus and truck engines. Bernd the automotive industry are beginning to formulate CSR Gundelsweiler: ‘Take Kendrion’s fan clutches, for example. targets. ‘Kendrion, as an innovative company focused This technical solution provides the capacity required on sustainability and environmental conservation, is in to prevent overheating in the speciﬁc environmental an excellent position to provide proactive support to circumstances and for the speciﬁc engine load. A fan customers in the form of ideas, solutions and state-of-thedoesn’t need to run at full speed when it’s not necessary. art products. ‘In the past, Kendrion might have been the Kendrion’s variable fan clutch enables truck and bus champion in the background, but now the company is OEMs, such as Ashok Leyland, to offer their customers certainly moving into the foreground and is conﬁdently enormous fuel savings.’ demonstrating the added value it offers to Kendrion’s customers. More importantly, Kendrion’s customers are allowing the company to move to the foreground. Kendrion is on the right track.’ kendrion and the automotive sector >> 43 Community investment Target 2013 Result Ambition 2014 More students in India project 6 in 2014; ﬁrst apprenticeships started >> General Kendrion intends to engage in community investment efforts as a means of promoting development and beneﬁting local stakeholders. An appropriate approach to community investments can help in establishing mutually beneﬁcial relationships between Kendrion and its local stakeholders and in contributing toward long-term improvements in the quality of life of local communities in a manner that is both sustainable and supports the company’s business objectives. At present, the local management bears the responsibility for determining the degree to which Kendrion companies are involved in community investment projects, as they are in the best position to determine the optimum means of providing local communities any necessary support. >> Sponsoring Kendrion carried out more than thirty sponsoring activities in 2013, including the sponsoring of local Red Cross organisations, support for a number of scientiﬁc activities, education for children, cultural and music events, art expression and local sports clubs. Kendrion promotes interaction with the company’s environment by means of including initiatives such as ‘Girls days’ and open days for schoolchildren and family days in various plants. Kendrion also organises regular meetings for its retired employees. Several business units have decided to donate funds which in previous years were spent on Christmas gifts to various local charities, in which employees are also involved. In 2014, Kendrion’s site in Villingen, Germany will be preparing an initiative to highlight and raise awareness of employee volunteer work. Kendrion introduced a sponsor policy for all local operating companies that can assist managers in reaching appropriate decisions on these investments. The objective is to arrive at more strategic choices with an impact and to link to strategic issues relating to the business, such as education. An increasing participation of the employees, many of whom originate from the local communities, will then be of importance. >> Corporate community investment project in India Kendrion is active in a number of countries which are developing rapidly but still exhibit substantial inequalities in the inhabitants’ standards of living and opportunities. Kendrion does not neglect these issues. One example is India, where Kendrion began a greenﬁeld operation in Pune in 2011. We are convinced that especially economic activity can contribute greatly to further growth. Kendrion has assessed the feasibility of a project to enable deprived young people in India to follow a technical education. As a result, a memorandum of understanding has been signed between Kendrion and the College of Engineering in Pune. The college is an autonomous institute of the government of Maharashtra, the province where Pune is located. Scholarships will be granted to poor students of the Electrical, Electronics or Mechanical Engineering faculty who have good study results and an interest in electromagnetism. At least half of the selected students should be female, as girls and women are at an even bigger structural disadvantage. The selected students will also have the opportunity to do >> 44 kendrion csr report 2013 summer apprenticeships at our plant in Pune. The intention is to offer some of them a job after graduation. This project is coordinated locally by our Plant Manager Sameer Deshmukh. Kendrion raised the necessary funds for this project by holding a CSR lottery throughout the group in the period before Christmas 2013. Kendrion was able to double the number of scholarships to four in 2013. The target for 2014 is to raise the number to six. Kendrion is glad that it can contribute to the development of these students. >> Support of local economies Kendrion offers its employees good terms of employment which are always assessed against local benchmarks. Kendrion has implemented a local sourcing strategy when the nature of the products and the quality of the suppliers permit procurement in the region. Kendrion has not introduced a speciﬁc policy for the recruitment of (some of ) the senior management from the local community. However, the local management must possess extensive knowledge of the local market conditions, culture and language. For this reason, in many instances the ideal manager will have been born or living for a long time in the region in which Kendrion’s company is located. Kendrion N.V. became a participant in the Utrechtse Ondernemers Academie (‘Utrecht Academy of Entrepreneurship’) in the Netherlands in 2013. This Academy helps starting and young innovative companies that are based in the region where Kendrion has its head ofﬁce to develop their operations at both national and international level. Kendrion’s staff make use of their own knowledge and expertise in providing these companies the high-grade support they need. This assistance is beneﬁcial to the region’s economic growth. Kendrion has not received any signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance from the authorities. However, in certain instances Kendrion companies do receive grants from local authorities for substantial investments in production equipment and personnel. The authorities are prepared to grant these subsidies since these investments are indirectly beneﬁcial to the local economy and employment where the companies are located. >> Taxes Kendrion believes that pursuing a transparent and fair tax policy is part of any sound CSR strategy. Tax payments can contribute to local development. Further it is in the interest of the company’s continuity and its ﬁnancial results to optimise its tax position – this, too, is part of sound business operations. Kendrion complies with local laws relating to taxes and, if necessary and feasible, it consults tax authorities in advance for additional certainty. Transactions conducted between group companies located in different countries are subject to the arm’s-length principle, in accordance with local transfer pricing rules. Kendrion uses the services of accredited tax advisers at both the local and group levels and has included tax compliance in its internal audit programme. The company does not employ any aggressive tax structures involving the movement of funds through tax havens. >> Dilemma Sometimes, because of commercial conditions or market developments, the decision has to be taken to make some employees who work in a local operating company redundant. In a small number of cases, the closure or relocation of production facilities may be necessary. The employment opportunities in the communities concerned can then be reduced, with all the inevitable impact of this. The individual employee’s interest in permanent employment needs to be weighed against the company’s interest in its continuity. Kendrion therefore does not take such decisions lightly, and always takes them with due regard for the applicable local social regulations and circumstances. Kendrion consults with the relevant trade unions and works councils in an endeavour to arrive at reasonable solutions. community investment >> 45 Kendrion CSR Award 2013 Target 2013 Reached Target 2014 First Kendrion CSR Award at Top Second Kendrion CSR Award Management Meeting At the Top Management Meeting held mid-September in Sibiu, Romania, Kendrion gave its ﬁrst CSR Award. With the Award, the Executive Board stresses the importance of putting our corporate social responsibility into practice in our operating companies. There were three nominees for this ﬁrst CSR Award: Industrial Magnetic Systems LOT T ERY TICKETS FOR (IMS) (the Donaueschingen and Engelswies sites in Germany), Passenger Car A BRIGH TER FUTUR E! Systems (especially the Eibiswald site in Austria) and Heavy Duty Systems in India. After an introduction by CSR Coordinator Wijgert Gooijer emphasising the business Kendrion is fully committed to living up to its relevance of the topics in question, the representatives of the three nominees gave social responsibility for ‘people, planet and proﬁt’. enthusiastic accounts of their efforts and activities. A key component of our company-wide CSR policy involves helping underprivileged Indian students IMS explained the valuable steps IMS has made in the areas of energy and CO2 complete their education in mechanical reduction, safety standards and community/employee investment. Martin Kollmann, engineering at the College of Engineering, Pune Managing Director of the Eibiswald plant, demonstrated the highly structured (India) to become electromagnetics professionals. working methods employed by management and employees in dealing with To help our students in India, Kendrion organised resources, environmental challenges and employee behaviour. The installation of a lottery in December 2013. ‘Sustainable’ prizes – environmental management software in Eibiswald was a noteworthy part. Kendrion including a solar backpack, DVDs, laptop sleeves (Pune) in India, in turn, focused on the signiﬁcant fuel efﬁciency improvements which and drinking bottles – were awarded to ten lucky fan clutch technology is able to offer customers and the community investment colleagues in the Czech Republic, Austria, project set up to help poor Indian students complete studies in technical subjects. Switzerland, Germany, India and the Netherlands. Around 600 tickets were sold altogether – enough Most of the votes of the business units and the Executive Committee went to to help build a life for a couple of new students! Kendrion (Pune) in India, although it was a close call, with PCS, in particular, only slightly behind. Sameer Deshmukh, Managing Director of the Pune plant, proudly received the ﬁrst Kendrion CSR Award for his dedicated team. We hope the introduction of the CSR Award and the presentations of various initiatives which have led to tangible results will boost all CSR-related efforts within Kendrion. A second CSR Award will be given in 2014. Wijgert Gooijer (left) congratulates Sameer Deshmukh (right). >> 46 kendrion csr report 2013 Financial key ﬁgures EUR million, unless otherwise stated Revenue Net investments 2012 284.9 2012 18.7 2013 354.0 > 24% 2013 18.5 > (1%) Operating result before amortisation (EBITA) 2, 3 Depreciation and amortisation 2012 22.3 2012 12.7 2013 23.9 7% > 2013 16.0 > 26% Operating result before depreciation Solvency (total equity/balance sheet total) and amortisation (EBITDA) 3 2012 32.7 2012 44.8% 2013 36.9 > 13% 2013 40.1% > (11%) Normalised net proﬁt 3, 4 Working capital 5 in % of revenue 6 2012 13.6 2012 11.9% 2013 14.3 > 5% 2013 10.2% > (14%) EBITA 2, 3, 8/invested capital 9 (ROI) Normalised net proﬁt per share (EUR) 3, 4 2012 12.4% 2012 1.16 2013 10.8% > (13%) 2013 1.14 > ( 2%) Organic growth 1 Solvency Free cash ﬂow 3, 4, 10 Target > 10% per year Target not below 35% Target healthy free cash ﬂow in relation to organic growth in % of net proﬁt Actual (1.2%) Actual 40% Actual 82% Return on Sales (ROS) 2, 3 Ratio of interest-bearing debt Dividend distribution and EBITDA 3, 7, 8 Target > 10.0% Target < 3.00 Target between 35-50% of net proﬁt Actual 6.8% Actual 1.22 Actual 50% of normalised net proﬁt Return on invested 1 Organic growth is excluding revenue Kendrion (Shelby) Inc. in 2012 and excluding revenue Kuhnke in 2013. capital (ROI) 2, 3, 8, 9 2 EBITA excluding amortisation related to acquisitions (part of other intangible assets). Target > 17.5% 3 Excluding release earn-out Kendrion (Shelby) Inc. in 2012 and excluding release earn-out, acquisition and Actual 10.8% integration costs related to Kuhnke and partial release provision for EC ﬁne in 2013. 4 Excluding non recurring tax gain and tax on restructuring and integration costs of Kuhnke in 2013. 5 Working capital is excluding EC ﬁne payable in 2014. 6 Revenue 2013 is including full year Kuhnke. 7 Excluding EC ﬁne payable. 8 EBITA and EBITDA in 2013 is including full year Kuhnke. 9 Total invested capital is property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, other investments and current assets less cash, current tax liabilities, trade payables and other payables (2013 including EC ﬁne). 10 Before cash ﬂow relating to acquisitions. >> 47 About this Report This CSR Report 2013 is the third CSR Report published by Kendrion. Kendrion intends to publish an annual CSR Report within three months of the end of each ﬁnancial year. This Report is intended for all Kendrion’s internal and external stakeholders, including investors, societal organisations, ﬁnanciers, employees, customers, suppliers and other interested parties. The Report endeavours to provide a full and transparent insight into Kendrion’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) efforts in 2013. The majority of the new targets formulated in this Report relate to the 2014 calendar year. This CSR Report encompasses all the Kendrion group companies in 2013, except for the companies of the former Kuhnke group, acquired in May 2013. In a number of instances the information provided in this Report relates solely to part of the operations. When this is the case, which is stated explicitly in the Report, this is due either to the operations not being carried out at all locations or to the lack of full information from other group companies at the time this Report was prepared. The contents of this Report, including the key issues, Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and targets formulated in the Report, were drawn up after comprehensive discussions with the Kendrion CSR Board. These discussions, which gave consideration to the CSR issues of greatest relevance to Kendrion and assigned priorities, were based on the nature of the company and its operations, as well as the perceptions (when known) of stakeholders including investors, suppliers, customers and employees. The underlying wish was to formulate realistic, feasible targets for this reporting year that can be reﬁned incrementally in the coming years. In the course of 2012, an internal management information system was implemented, designed to provide for the collection and consolidation of relevant CSR information from all Kendrion’s operating facilities. This is required for the preparation of periodic internal and external Reports about the KPIs. We realise that the ﬁgures and data presented in this Report are not always fully comparable with those of other companies. There are two reasons for this. Companies do not always select the same KPIs or apply the same deﬁnitions for them. Secondly the nature and spread of Kendrion’s activities mean that one-on-one comparisons with other industrial companies are not easy to make. But where possible we have stated our own prior-year ﬁgures and data, so that internal progress is visible. Other information used in this Report was collected from the existing management and ﬁnancial reporting systems. Any estimates or forecasts included in the Report are explicitly referred to as such. This CSR Report has not been reviewed by an external auditor. Kendrion will consider to call on the services of an external auditor after the full implementation of the Kuhnke companies in the CSR programme in 2014 again. This CSR Report, in combination with the 2013 Annual Report and the corporate website, has been compiled in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and complies with GRI’s 3.1 Level B requirements (self declared). The CSR Report and the accompanying GRI-index can be found on the corporate website (www.kendrion.com). Kendrion participates in the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation’s Transparency benchmark, which monitors the Netherlands’ 500 largest companies. In 2011, Kendrion ranked 137th, in 2012, Kendrion rose to rank 97 and in 2013 ranked 91. More information about Kendrion and the company’s strategy, results and products is available from Kendrion’s website (www.kendrion.com). Kendrion’s 2013 Annual Report and 2013 Annual Magazine have also been published on the website. >> 48 kendrion csr report 2013 Contact information Any questions or comments about this report or Kendrion’s CSR activities can be raised with: Mr Wijgert Gooijer CSR Coordinator Utrechtseweg 33 3704 HA Zeist, the Netherlands P.O. Box 931 3700 HA Zeist, the Netherlands Telephone: + 31 (0) 30 699 72 50 Fax: +31 (0)30 695 11 65 Email: wijgert.gooijer@kendrion.com The Executive Board wishes to thank everyone who has contributed to this CSR Report. Copy Wim Dieleman, teamtva! reclamebureau. Photography and images Jirí Büller, Jens Hagen Büro für Fotodesign. Organisation Wijgert Gooijer and Wilma Stuiver. Concept and realisation C&F Report. Kendrion N.V. Utrechtseweg 33 3704 HA Zeist P.O. Box 931 3700 AX Zeist The Netherlands Telephone +31 (0)30 699 72 50 Fax +31 (0)30 695 11 65 E-mail info@kendrion.com www.kendrion.com
