Communications on Progress Report 2013 0 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2013 Table of Contents A Statement from the Managing Director ....................................................................... 2 Our Approach to Sustainable Development ...................................................................... 3 1.0 Definition of Sustainable development ......................................................................... 3 2.0 Sustainable development and Intrepid?........................................................................ 3 3.0 How do we tie it all together? ........................................................................................ 3 3.1 Our Core Values ................................................................................................. 4 3.2 Our Core Purpose ............................................................................................... 4 3.3 Our BHAG (Big Hairy Audacious Goal) ................................................................. 4 3.4 Our Strategy ....................................................................................................... 4 4.0 So what are our sustainability objectives? .................................................................... 4 4.1 United Nation Global Compact ........................................................................... 5 4.2 Sustainable Development Policy ......................................................................... 5 4.2.1 ENVIRONMENT............................................................................................ 5 4.2.2 SOCIAL ........................................................................................................ 9 4.4.3 ECONOMIC ................................................................................................ 12 4.4.4 GOVERNANCE AND ETHICAL ...................................................................... 14 5.0 Stakeholders ................................................................................................................. 17 6.0 Communication............................................................................................................. 19 7.0 Awards and Recognition ............................................................................................... 20 1 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2013 A message from our Managing Director Intrepid Travel Pty Ltd signed up to the United Nations Global Compact on 16 December 2008 and continues to support the principles outlined in the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Since becoming a signatory, Intrepid has continually been working on integrating the Global Compact principles into the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. As part of our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and support for public accountability and transparency, we have produced this Communication on Progress Report. This is Intrepid Travel’s fourth Communication on Progress Report (COP), which builds on our previous COP reports and provides an update on the many and varied initiatives we’ve rolled out during the 2013 financial year (FY). There have been quite a few changes to the company structure over the 2013FY, and as a result, this is the first COP report that integrates our sister brands results in areas such as carbon management and stakeholder engagement. Of significant focus for us this past year has been our global business focus on gender equality. In 2012, we made a commitment to supporting gender equality programs in the destinations we take our travellers to, as well as within in our own operations. As such, we created a business initiative called Project SAMA (SAMA means ‘equal’ in Bahasa) and after 2 years of advocacy and fundraising we have reached out to 12,000 people around the issues of gender equality, and distributed over $150,000AUD to programs that give girls and women more opportunities. Research shows investing in girls and women has significant benefits for their families, communities and entire countries. Everyone benefits, including boys and men. As we settle into our 2014 goals, we continue to deepen our support of gender equality, as well as our commitment to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and further embedding them across our business operations. James Thornton Managing Director 2 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2013 Our Approach to Sustainable Development 1.0 Definition of Sustainable development Intrepid adopts the definition created in 1987 at the World Commission on Environment and Development (Brundtland Commission) for Sustainable Development: 'development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.' We see Intrepid Travel working toward sustainable development by incorporating environmental, social, economic and ethical considerations in our business practices and in our decision making processes. 2.0 Sustainable development and Intrepid Intrepid recognises that tourism impacts local communities and the environment and we believe that all tour operators must be responsible in the way they operate their business to ensure the welfare of people and conservation of the environment. We recognise the need for sustainable tourism and we believe in the principles of responsible travel; respecting the people, cultures and local environments; in the distribution of wealth; in good will and cross-cultural sharing and in balanced development. Although our company impact is largely indirect and through our travel products, we acknowledge that our direct business operations (our offices and retail stores) also have an impact on the environment, people and local communities where we are located. Given that we have an understanding of the responsibilities we have as a business, we are committed to maintaining our integrity, living out our values and ensuring that we are fulfilling the purpose of our business by operating in a responsible manner. We are committed to incorporating the principles of sustainable development (outlined in this document) in the way we go about giving Intrepid travellers 'real life experiences…' 3.0 How do we tie it all together? Intrepid has been built on the principles of Responsible Travel, so the principles of sustainability are not a foreign concept to our business. Sustainability is in our company's DNA: 3 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2013 3.1 Our Core Values Integrity Passion Growth Fun Innovative Responsible 3.2 Our Core Purpose Intrepid’s core purpose is to enrich people’s lives by creating unique, interactive travel experiences. We provide fun, affordable and sustainable travel that is profitable for Intrepid and beneficial to local communities. 3.3 Our BHAG (Big Hairy Audacious Goal) To be the world's most inspiring and innovative travel company. 3.4 Our Strategy Position: To focus on the “experiential” segment of the travel industry. How:  By supplying a diverse range of remarkable products;  By distributing these products broadly;  By developing Intrepid as a strong global brand;  By growing our resources of exceptional staff and developing best practice systems;  By developing a vertically integrated business model Our strategy is being executed with consideration to our environmental, social, economic impacts and objectives. 4.0 What are our sustainability objectives? In order to embed sustainability into our operations, we feel it's important to take a holistic view of our business and its impacts. This means looking beyond the health of our balance sheet and to the areas of which our business is intrinsically linked; the environment, society, economy and governance/ethics. We want to ensure that we are taking responsibility for our impacts in these areas and contributing to, rather than diminishing, their health and value through operation of our business. It is for these reasons that Intrepid decided to join other businesses and organisations in over 130 countries to tackle global sustainability issues and become a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. 4 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2013 4.1 Sustainable Development Policy The Sustainable Development policy sees Intrepid working toward its sustainability objectives in the social, environmental, economic and governance areas, to ensure the longevity of our business. The following section of the Report will outline Intrepid's responsibility under each area (as stated in our Sustainable Development Policy), examples of policies we have to help us manage these responsibilities and some of the actions taken to address these responsibilities. 4.1.1 ENVIRONMENT Our Environmental Responsibility To ensure we are working toward protecting the environment and using resources in an efficient, fair and responsible way. We want to ensure that our trips are designed in a way that limits the physical impact on the destinations we visit so that they may be enjoyed by many generations to come Example of policies and guidelines addressing environmental impact at Intrepid  Sustainable Development Policy  Responsible Travel Policy and Code of Conduct  Responsible Travel guidelines for passengers  Carbon Management Plan  Sustainable Procurement Policy Examples of environmental actions: Intrepid travel achieved Carbon Neutral status in late 2010. The three-year process Intrepid undertook to become carbon-neutral was the result of careful planning and execution which led to significant monetary contributions (over $970,000 AUD across the 3 years) on behalf of our sector, travellers, suppliers and staff to 7 different internationally certified carbon abatement projects. This in turn, contributed to;  the development of local communities through infrastructure development around the carbon abatement projects  improvement of the environment of the local communities by providing an alternative to fossil fuels and therefore produce less pollution  generation of employment for locals  increased energy availability and accessibility to communities and therefore improving quality of life 5 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2013 Our Carbon Management program continues to create awareness of the importance of addressing Climate Change among our stakeholders including staff, passengers and suppliers by engaging them in addressing the issue through the Intrepid business. Business Emissions (Offices/Stores): Intrepid travel adopts the following principles to manage our environmental footprint of our offices and stores globally;  Measure eg. measure emissions from electricity, gas, waste, business travel, etc.  Avoid eg. Avoid emissions by adopting energy efficiency measures such as automatic computer shut off at 8pm for head office staff, skype conferencing rather than travelling for face to face meetings  Reduce eg. reducing number of business trips we take, reducing paper we use and waste to land fill we generate  Offset whatever we can't avoid we offset by investing in high quality renewable energy projects Trips: A majority of Intrepid Travels trips are Carbon Offset (that’s over 800 trips). We measure and offset the main sources of the emissions created on our trips by our passengers:  Transport  Accommodation  Waste Our trips are also low impact by design. How? We try to use public transport where possible, stay in locally owned and simpler styles of accommodation and eat at locally owned eateries where the food has been locally sourced therefore reducing food mile emissions. Flights: We offer customers an opportunity to offset the most carbon intensive portion of their trip – their flight. When customers book their flight through Intrepid, we offer an offset component to their airfare. Renewable Energy Project investments Intrepid Travel currently offsets our carbon by investing in internationally accredited Voluntary Carbon Standard (VCS) and Gold Standard (GS) compliant projects that are based in our biggest destinations. These include:  Bargaran Mini Hydro project, INDIA  Hydro project, VIETNAM  Macahoe Hydro project, CHINA  LFG Project, THAILAND  Rice Husk Biomass project, THAILAND  Wind Energy Project, TURKEY  Biomass Project, BRAZIL 6 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2013 2013 Update: Addressing our Environmental Impact 2013FY Carbon Management: Offices: With a company-wide sustainability goal to reduce our business/office carbon emissions, we implemented a number of emission reduction initiatives into our global offices in the 2013FY. Our head office implemented a comprehensive waste management system that radically reduced the amount of waste sent to landfill. We implemented composting and worm farm systems to deal with our organic waste, and setup paper and plastic recycling. By doing so we avoided releasing over 8 tonnes of CO2 emissions entering the atmosphere. Our global offices also implemented various initiatives around their offices in an effort to reduce carbon emissions. Our 2 offices in Africa, one in Kenya and the other in South Africa, implemented water systems that collect the office grey water, which is then reused in the truck workshop for maintaining and washing the trucks. Our North American team installed energy efficient lighting and light sensors in the office and warehouse. The US team also introduced 3 alternate fuel vehicles into fleet in 2013 which resulted in more fuel efficient transportation for our trips. Our India office decommissioned its diesel generator and replaced it with green inverters and batteries as power back-up. The Cairo office also initiated a system to refill toner cartridges, replaced energy intensive light bulbs with low energy bulbs, moved from plastic to cardboard milk bottles for recycling purposes and over the summer set their AC at 24C rather than to the standard minimum of 18C. To track our progress against our annual goals to reduce our emissions, each year we measure and report on the business emissions for our global offices. Due to significant organisational changes whereby a number of companies now operate under The Intrepid Group banner, the 2013FY report has produced a new CO2 emissions (CO2-e) baseline. This new baseline for the Intrepid Group is 4004 Tonnes of CO2-e. This is by far the greatest amount of business emissions we have reported since we began recording our emissions 5 years ago. The new baseline has consolidated Intrepid, Peregrine, Gecko’s, The Family Adventure Company (TFAC), Adventure Tours Australia Group (ATAG) and Adventure Centre’s (AC) business emissions, which includes Intrepid’s 5 offices around the world, as well as the IMAS stores. As a business, brochure production is the biggest contributor to our growing footprint and accounted for more than 70% of our total business emissions. 7 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2013 One of these amalgamated brands, ATAG, have done a fantastic job in the past year to reduce their brochure footprint on the environment. ATAG’s achieved this by: • Reducing page count from 88pp to 57pp • Reducing paper weight on internal pages QTY 60k to 50k • Which ultimately led to over $20,000 in savings Trips: Our trips produced close to 30,000 tonnes of carbon emissions, all of which we offset. This offsetting equated to us investing more than $200,000 into an internationally accredited Gold Standard renewable energy project in Turkey, the Alize Çamseki wind farm. This wind farm produces approximately 82,000 MWh of electricity each year and in doing so, the wind farm prevents 52,000 tonnes of greenhouse gases from entering the atmosphere each year. Flights: More of our travellers than ever before, chose to offset their flights. This resulted in a further $23000 being invested into the internationally accredited Gold Standard renewable energy project in Turkey, the Alize Çamseki wind farm. The greater uptake of passengers choosing to offset their flights is a direct result of investing in extensive staff training and engagement programs around the flight offset program. Other annual environmental initiatives:  We participate in many International and National Environmental Days, including Ride to work day, and Earth Hour.  In November 2011, TRAFFIC Southeast Asia conducted training on the illegal wildlife trade for our group leaders as part of their leader training in Hanoi.  Plastic water bottle waste reduction we include information in all our trip notes about how Intrepid travellers can obtain safe drinking water in our destinations and avoid the purchase of plastic water bottles.  We provide travellers in many locations with a cloth bag made by a fair trade supplier, which we encourage travellers to use and 'say no to plastic bags' when they shop.  The Intrepid Head office hosts an annual tree planting day, where staff and Intrepid travellers plant around 1000 indigenous trees and shrubs in Melbourne's Yarra River corridor. This activity has been happening since 2000.  Our Waste Management system includes our very own worm farm and bokashi bins that composts all our fruit and vegetable scraps, tea bags and coffee grounds. 8 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2013 4.1.2 SOCIAL Our Social Responsibility To protect human rights within our sphere of influence and ensure that all our people including our staff, travellers, suppliers and local communities as well as other stakeholders who are impacted by our business, are treated with fairness and respect. We endeavour to engage our stakeholders on issues around responsible practices in order to promote justice and equity across our global community and protect our most vulnerable societies. e Example of Policies addressing our Social Responsibility  Sustainable Development Policy  Responsible Travel Policy and Passenger Code of Conduct  Responsible Travel guidelines for passengers  Supplier Code of Conduct  Porter policy  Global Human Rights Policy Examples of actions  Provide support for many grass root organisations globally to help advance local communities through The Intrepid Foundation  Global Business focus on Gender Equality – Project SAMA  Annual sustainability goals embedded into every business unit  Visit community projects tackling social issues on trips to raise awareness and engage passenger support for the projects  Leader training on safety and social issues in the areas they operate. This helps them educate our passengers on issues such as cultural etiquette, prostitution and child safety  Employee Volunteer Program  Provide HIV/AIDS training to our staff and leaders in Kenya  Work in partnership with ChildWise, ChildSafe, Child Safe Tourism (World Vision) to stamp out child exploitation in the areas we travel  Adopted a Global Human Rights Policy in 2011  Monitoring and evaluation of our RT policies on the ground via our Annual Responsible Travel Evaluations (ARTEs), 9 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2013 2013 Update: Addressing our Social Impact Intrepid continues the fight for Gender Equality – Project SAMA With the launch of Project SAMA in 2012, Project SAMA’s second year of operation had some very big goals put in place, and as such there was a lot to accomplish: 1. Advocacy Project SAMA reached out to 10,500 people about the issues of gender inequality 2. Fundraising Project SAMA raised over $90, 000 for 10 projects In 2013 Project SAMA committed to supporting 2 Early Education programs run by Plan, in both Laos and Uganda. In Uganda, our fundraising efforts: • Supported 2901 children access quality early education programs • Assisted 605 children to successfully transition from early learning programs to primary school • Trained 58 caregivers on inclusive practices – ensuring girls are given the same opportunities as boys • Supported 336 parents to participate in parenting groups • Provided health education sessions for 87 parents In Laos, our fundraising efforts: • Supported the enrolment of 9,351 primary school children aged 6–8 years • Trained 14 preschool teachers from 3 districts on age-appropriate child friendly teaching methodology and positive discipline • Trained 272 volunteers in parenting education and maternal and child health and nutrition • Engaged 1,449 parents in parenting education sessions • Increased parents’ knowledge of child rearing, including importance of vaccinations, nutrition and providing time and materials for children to play Project SAMA also committed to supporting 8 of The Intrepid Foundation community projects focused on education and health programs for women and girls. Project SAMA collectively raised over $26,000 for these projects located in the destinations Intrepid takes its travellers to. See the Project SAMA Projects page for more information about each of these programs. 10 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2013 The Intrepid Foundation th In 2013, The Intrepid Foundation (TIF) disbursed its 11 round of funding. This equated to $344,396 AUD for our various projects, partners and appeals. The total amount represents contributions received from Intrepid travellers, staff and matching funds contributed by Intrepid Travel. The funds are distributed between the areas outlined below; Community Projects On average approximately 80% of our funds raised through the Foundation go to support non-government organisations in the places Intrepid visits. We support projects working in the areas of healthcare, education, human rights, child welfare, sustainable development and in environmental and wildlife protection. In the 2013 financial year, we raised funds for 40 community projects. See full report for more details. Perpetual Fund Partners Donations made to this fund are divided in half. One half is used to conserve and grow capital for the future support of the Foundation and the other half goes toward supporting the work of respected international non-government organisations such as Amnesty International, Medecines Sans Frontiers (MSF), Plan and Greenpeace. One-Off Grant The Foundation often approves one off grants (rather than on-going support) to Submissions different initiatives looking to support environmental or social causes. In 2013, Intrepid’s Co-founder and TIF made a significant contribution to the making of the documentary, I Am A Girl, an inspirational feature length documentary that paints a clear picture of the reality of what it means to be a girl in the 21st century. Emergency Appeal These funds go to organisations who are assisting in emergency relief from natural Contributions disasters. Some of our Community Projects and Perpetual fund partners include: 11 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2013 4.1.3 ECONOMIC Our Economic Responsibility To ensure our wealth is distributed in a way that is beneficial to our staff, host communities, suppliers, and other key stakeholders while achieving responsible and sustainable growth of Intrepid and our associated companies. Example of Policies addressing our Economic Responsibility  Sustainable Development Policy  Responsible Travel Policy and Code of Conduct  Responsible Travel guidelines for passengers  Risk Management Policy  Global Remuneration Process Examples of actions that address our Economic Responsibility Our trips are designed to ensure that we support the local communities by;  Hiring local leaders and staff where Intrepid operate, therefore contributing directly to local employment and ensuring competitive local remuneration  Using locally owned ground transportation and accommodation  Recommending local eateries and stores to our passengers  Incorporating local public transport on our trips where possible  Investing in renewable energy projects that support the local economy through temporary and permanent employment as well as building on the communities’ infrastructure.  Responsible Hotels Forum – Green the supply chain in Morocco 12 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2013 2013 Update: Addressing our Economic Impact Our travellers economic impact Taking travellers on Intrepid trips to more than 120 countries around the globe, brings significant economic benefits into these countries through the local procurement of transport, accommodation and activity services as included in our trips. In the 2013 FY, this direct investment in local economies equated to in excess of AUD $60 million. Ha Giang – Vietnams final frontier The Ha Giang province is in northern Vietnam and is a region that is not visited by many international travel companies. In 2013, our local operating company, PEAK Vietnam, undertook some research into running sustainable tours that would bring benefit to a wide range of local people and businesses in this area. Ha Giang is one of the poorest provinces in the country and the local team found that operating trips in this region would bring numerous and immediate benefits to the local community. As a result of this research, we have now set up a partnership with the local organisations in the Ha Giang province who have developed community-based tourism projects in order to help improve the living conditions of the local population. Combining cultural tourism with new rural developments in a number of hamlets has helped in the preservation of the cultural identity of the ethnic minority groups and raised awareness of hygiene and environmental protection. Increasingly, locals are now being trained in hospitality skills that tourism relies on. Our trips to these areas support these and other projects that work towards making a lasting and positive social, economic and environmental benefit to these wonderful, friendly people. 13 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2013 4.1.4 GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS Our Governance & Ethical Responsibility To live out our core values, achieve our purpose and work toward our Big Hairy Audacious (BHAG) goal by being accountable for the impacts that we have on our planet and also have effective systems and good governance in place to help us understand and manage these impacts. We endeavour to implement best practices in everything we do and fight corruption in all its forms. Example of Policies addressing our Governance and Ethical Responsibility  Sustainable Development Policy  Responsible Travel Policy  Risk Management Policy  Leader Code of Conduct  Performance Management Policy  Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy  Animal Welfare Policy Examples of actions that address our Governance and Ethical Responsibility  Intrepid Travel conducts independent audits on our financials (including our Foundation disbursements), on an annual basis  Currently designing a global anti corruption and anti fraud policy  Risk Management framework  Global anti-bribery and corruption training  Elephant Welfare stance Ethical Network membership Intrepid Travel has also joined Ethical Tour Operators Group (operated by Tourism Concern) in the UK where we join our colleagues in understanding our impacts on the destinations we visit and looking at ways we can address sustainability issues together. 14 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2013 2013 Update: Addressing our Governance & Ethical Impact PEAK Sustainable Business principles In 2013, PEAK, our parent company, officially adopted a set of business principles that will guide the way the PEAK group (including The Intrepid Group) will manage its impacts on the environment, people and local economies. It’s essentially a document that recognises that we, as a business have an impact beyond the balance sheet and outlines our commitment to delivering value to our people (including local communities, suppliers and passengers), environment as well as delivering value to our business. As a result, in 2013, each of the PEAK businesses have committed to reducing their energy and paper consumption as well as work up a sustainability initiative that addresses a sustainability issue and that brings value back to the business. Elephant Welfare In 2013, we continued to implement the ethical stance we took regarding elephant welfare in 2012. This involved removing all elephant rides from Intrepid trips and transitioning away from performance venues. We continued to roll out staff and leader training around the issue and made our ‘Elephant Welfare Guidelines’ available on our website and trips notes, so our travellers can make informed decisions around elephant activities. For more information on our approach to Elephant welfare see http://www.intrepidtravel.com/sites/default/files/images/51033_Elephant_Welfare.pdf Community Based Tourism Research – Peru In July 2013, Intrepid commenced supporting a Community Based Tourism Research project in the Sacred Valley of Peru, conducted by Ph.D. candidate, David Knight, from Colorado State University. David's 6 months of field research is being spent in 4 Sacred Valley communities, and seeking answers to two primary research questions: 1. In addition to economic benefits, what changes have occurred as a result of Intrepid trips; and 2. How are Intrepid trips addressing/meeting community interests or concerns? The interim results at FY end for the two communities: Chichubamba and Amaru, found: for many households tourism brought them an increased quality of life; an increase in the independence of women; a recovered cultural identity and pride in their culture; communities have a strong interest in receiving more Intrepid groups in the future; some changes required in how Intrepid and the communities interact particularly in advance of a visit. The full research results will be published in June 2014. 15 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2013 Customer Satisfaction We monitor and evaluate our trip performance on an ongoing basis via our passenger feedback system. During the 2013FY, the business underwent a major system integration which included aligning the feedback systems of each of the brands within The Intrepid Group. This integration project unfortunately had some hiccups and as a result we could only monitor passenger feedback for the period June 1 to August 31, 2013. The results below are therefore based on this 3 month period, and incidentally resulted in a lower score than last year due to our inability to thoroughly monitor feedback and address issues for the period preceding June 1, 2013. The new system does however allow us to report on the results of each brand within The Intrepid Group and since integration our monitoring has resulted in a continuous improvement in results and we are aiming for an overall experience score of 4.68/5 in the 2014FY: 2013 Results: Overall Experience Average Intrepid 4.64/5 Overall Experience Average Peregrine 4.65/5 Overall Experience Average Geckos 4.71/5 Leader RT Average Intrepid 4.53/5 Leader RT Average Peregrine 4.27/5 Leader RT Average Geckos 4.32/5 RT Average – Intrepid 4.52/5 RT Average – Peregrine 4.36/5 RT Average – Geckos 4.42/5 * RT = Responsible Travel 16 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2013 5.0 Stakeholders Intrepid sees a stakeholder as any party who can affect or be affected by our company's operations. We believe that it's important to listen, understand and respond to the views of our stakeholders and exceed their expectations of our business. Our stakeholders include (but are not limited to):  Our staff  Our travellers  Potential travellers  Associated companies  Joint venture partners  Suppliers  Contractors  Local communities  Government bodies in destinations visited by Intrepid  Distributors/Travel Agents  The Intrepid Foundation  Media  Travel Industry Associations 2013 Update: Stakeholder Engagement Engaging our Stakeholders In 2013 the business put out a Global Sustainability Survey to gather staff feedback around the business’ Sustainable Development strategy and initiatives, and identify what areas our staff felt we need to focus on as a Responsible Business. Below is a snap shot of the findings of this survey: Environmental Priorities: 17 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2013 People Priorities: Economic Priorities: Other Comments: Other comments and ideas could be (mostly) grouped under the following topics; • Positive comments of PEAKs commitment to Sustainable Business practices • Education of our people including customers/passenger, staff/leaders and suppliers • Ensuring we approach ‘sustainability’ with integrity and real commitment • Having sustainable offices globally • Trip design and responsible travel considerations on trips • Foundation and charity activities The results from this survey are guiding our 2014 goals and priorities and progress against them will be reported in future reports. Staff Engagement Each year, Intrepid sets goals around key areas to ensure the sustainability and ongoing success of our business. One of these key areas is staff engagement. In the 2013FY, overall staff engagement results decreased on previous years: Measure 2013 2012 2011 2010 Staff Survey 3.85 4.05 3.98 3.85 The decrease in Staff engagement scores for the 2013FY can be attributed to the business going through a very complex merger that touched all departments across the company. Large scale change programs such as this will typically have an impact on engagement and we are now working to consolidate and rebuild from a new baseline. One of the steps we have taken is to create a strategic role focused on building the culture of the merged entity and are confident that in 2014 we will see great improvements in employee engagement. 18 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2013 Building a Responsible Culture At Intrepid, we’re genuine about engaging in responsible, sustainable operations and management at all levels. We’ve integrated respect for people and environment into our company culture in a variety of ways, most notably through the company's core values. Staff are also rated on their competency on being able promote sustainable development as well as their efforts in contributing to environmental and social sustainability in their annual Performance Reviews. Other smaller initiatives to engage staff include the Intrepid Annual Sustainability award for staff, as well as an incentives program to reward and encourage staff who promote environmental and social initiatives throughout the organisations. All these little initiatives help to build a culture around respecting people and environment and working toward its preservation. 6.0 Communication We communicate our sustainability performance to our stakeholders through a number of different methods; • Annual Communications on Progress Report (available from our web site) • Throughout our website • Our social media channels • Induction sessions • Public speaking events • Intrepid Express newsletters as well as internal newsletters and updates 19 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2013 Awards and Recognition 7.0 Awards and Recognition Intrepid Travel was honoured to receive the following awards and recognition in the 2013 FY for our responsible business approach and our environmental management; • 2013 Thailand Green Excellence Awards: Maritime, Nature & Heritage category • 2013 Highly commended: World Responsible Tourism Awards Child Protection Category • Winner 2013: EcoTrophea Award the German Travel Association (DRV) award for Environmental Protection and Social Responsibility in Tourism. Past Awards include: • Winner 2012: Conde Nast World Savers Award – Preservation Category • Winner 2012: Green Lifestyle Awards – Travel Category • 2012 Moroccan Government Responsible Travel Award Environment/International category • Winner 2011 : World Travel and Tourism Council: Tourism for Tomorrow Awards Global Tourism Business • Winner 2011: Australian Business Awards for Environmental Sustainability • Winner 2011: Flight Centre Environmental Award (Canada) • Winner 2011: Wanderlust Paul Morrison GOLD Guide Award (Bruno Dawson) • Voted #1 2011: Social Media Examiners Small Business Facebook Pages • Finalist 2011: Virgin Holidays Responsible Travel Award • In 2011 Intrepid Travel was also included in the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia’s Integrating Sustainability into business practices; a case study approach 20 Intrepid Travel Communications on Progress Report 2013
