RESPONSIBILITY 2013 Toms Confectionery Group A/S Toms Allé 1 DK-2750 Ballerup, Denmark Tel. (+45) 4489 1000 www.toms.dk 2 Toms in Brief Toms is the maker of strong confectionery brands such as Anthon Berg, Feodora and Hachez, and has a comprehensive product range covering chocolate, liquorice and sugar confectionery. Toms has a strong position in its domestic market, Denmark, with the brands Toms, Galle & Jessen, Ga-Jol and Pingvin, but more than 60 % of the turnover is generated internationally. Toms is owned by Gerda and Victor B. Strand‘s Trust. We have production facilities in Denmark (2), Germany (1), Sweden (1) and Poland (1), have a yearly production output of around 36.000 tons of confectionery products and employ up to 1200 people, depending on the season. 3 About this report This report is Toms Gruppen’s Communication of Progress report 2013 to UN Global Compact. The report aims to illustrate Toms Gruppen’s activities and progress made on social responsibility and sustainability during 2013 throughout its operations implemented in respect of the UNGC principles on Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. Also, according to the Danish Financial Statements Act, article 99a, this report is the statutory report on corporate social responsibility belonging to the management report in Toms’ annual financial report for 2013. Photo: William Vest-Lillesøe 4 CEO’s statement of continued support for the Global Compact With this Communication on Progress for 2013 I am pleased to express Toms Gruppen’s continued support of the principles of the UN Global Compact. As a signatory since 2006, we acknowledge our responsibility as a business to manage our impacts to contribute positively to sustainable development, socially, environmentally and economically in the world around us. Our social and environmental responsibility remains a strategic priority and we are proud to be able to report further progress in a number of areas. 2013 gave both new results and new opportunities, and we will continue down this path respecting our responsibility as a business. The interest for our CSR activities continues to grow among stakeholders, and through the recent years this report has increasingly become a qualifying document. We seek to exercise our influence to promote the principles of UN Global Compact when discussing sustainability with stakeholders and through our channels of communication. Chief Executive Officer, Jesper Møller 5 Human Rights and Labour Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Human rights Policy In order to highlight our commitment to respect human rights as a company Toms developed in 2013 a statement of policy for human rights. The intention is to publicly state our responsibilities, commitments and expectations to employees and business practice. Over the years already Toms has had related policies and implicit expectations in our culture, conduct and current CSR strategy, and Toms has in particular contributed towards combatting a serious human rights violation, child labour, in cocoa, an important part of our supply chain. However, this statement has been made to clearly align ourselves with UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP). The document is currently undergoing external and internal reviews, and will be publicized shortly. 6 Human rights due diligence To further align ourselves with the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP), the purchasers at Toms have been trained by Danish Ethical Trading Initiative in Responsible Sourcing as outlined by UNGP. A new QES policy for Toms developed in 2013 also implies that there are processes in place to identify and act upon any negative social or environmental impact in our supply chains. Toms traditionally prefers to have a long-term relationship with suppliers, entailing dialogue and transparency. Our Supplier Code of Conduct remains to be our core document to state our ethical requirements based UN Global Compact principles and UNGP. The following chapters will describe the activities carried out and results achieved during 2013 in areas that we know have high risk of human rights violations in our supply chains. 7 Promoting sustainable cocoa production Toms has had a long-standing engagement in the cocoa supply chain with partners working to tackle child labour, make sustainable improvements for farmers, and create traceability, innovation and good quality cocoa. In Ghana, from where we buy the majority of cocoa used, the challenges in the cocoa sector are high risk of child labour, lack of school teachers and quality education, and low farmer incomes due to low productivity because of overaged cocoa trees, crop losses from pests and diseases, depleted soil fertility, lack of agricultural skills etc. Furthermore, a long-term challenge and a risk for future supply is that cocoa farming is not – currently – attractive for young people. The risk of child labour exists in cocoa production in Ghana, primarily within the families through hazardous agricultural tasks. The heart of the problem is poverty, along with lack of awareness of the hazards of child labour, lack of social protection policies and systems, and lack of quality teaching in schools. When it occurs, child labour jeopardizes the children’s health and prevents them from going to school and develop the foundation for a successful future. Needless to say, child labour is a violation of fundamental human rights. It is therefore of paramount importance to work for a sustainable cocoa production and focusing on improving income and robustness of the farmers, the protection and education of children and making cocoa farming lucrative and attractive for future generations. Toms works actively on these issues both directly in our supply chain, by being an active member of international partnerships and organizations, and through the current development of an international standard for traceable and sustainable cocoa in CEN and ISO. 8 Working towards a sustainable supply chain in Ghana In 2012 Toms developed a 3-year program together with Source Trust, IBIS, Danish Coop and Danida that began implementation by the beginning of 2013. The project is implemented directly with the farmers and communities in Toms’ Ghana supply chain as we have full traceability to 96 societies in two districts, Bibiani and Sefwi Wiawso, Western Region. The partnership is within the Danida Business Partnership framework, funded by Toms, Coop, Danida and Source Trust to whom Toms pays a premium for each bag of traceable cocoa. The implementing partners are IBIS and Source Trust. In collaboration with the partners Toms has placed particular attention to having a full holistic program in order to achieve genuine transformative and sustainable results. We believe that the activities chosen collectively will have a high impact. To reach truly tangible improvements of the farmers’ productivity of cocoa production, we have incorporated a “full package” of mapping each farmers farm area and agricultural needs, providing new trees, farmer training and access to inputs such as fertilizer, chemicals etc. Likewise, the interventions to combat child labour and increase attendance to quality education encompass a number of activities: establishing child protection committees in communities and supporting their development of the community’s action plan, training the farmers and parents in children’s rights and child protection, gender training, training teachers, strengthening school management, and placing IT centers by schools. Furthermore, the activities to increase farmer productivity and thereby household income are expected to increase their capability to send their children to school. By revitalizing cocoa farming, making it more profitable and sustainable and providing improved services in the communities with boreholes, better schools etc. it is the intention to make cocoa farming more appealing for young people. 9 Results in 2013 3438 farmers out of the 4800 farmers Toms buys cocoa from have gone through farmer training in the fields. To deliver training to the farmers Source Trust uses a three-level cascading system of training starting by training-of trainers (ToT) and ending by training delivered to farmers by Lead Farmers. IBIS has added to the farmer training by training Lead Farmers to train in children’s rights and child protection systems. Lead Farmers serve as a critical component to the success and the sustainability of the training. To enhance the farmer training Source Trust has established 10 demonstration plots in the districts. These are farms run by farmers, where one half of the farm is being treated according to the good practices learned during farmer training (pruning, weeding, sanitation, pest and disease control, fertilizer application, shade management etc.), while the other half is left as managed before. These plots make a very visible demonstration of how to apply the good practices and, not least, the results: more cocoa pods on the trees of the well managed half. As the harvest season was not over by the end of 2013 it was too soon to measure increase in yields – this will be revisited in 2014. However, individual farmers do report observed yield increases even before the end of the season. The remaining farmers will be trained in 2014. 3010 farmers of the 4800 farmers we buy cocoa from have undergone GPS mapping and farm characterization in 2013. The remaining farmers will be followed up during the first quarter of 2014. For the 3010 farmers the average farm size is 1,8 Ha. Some farms are more than one field belonging to one farmer. GPS mapping and farm characterization took place before the farmers participated in farmer training. The reports from these data (which are not yet the full group of farmers) indicate poor management of many farms (inputs, pruning and weeding), trees too densely planted and replanting with their own beans rather than using improved planting materials from local nurseries. The data collected from each farm enable us to give specific recommendations to the farmers on how to improve the productivity of his or her farm. As many of the farmers have overaged, and therefore unproductive, cocoa trees, there is a strong need to rejuvenate farms by replanting with seedlings of improved cocoa varieties. In 2013 a seedling nursery site was established at Fawokabra community providing 40.000 seedlings to farmers in the project area. The cocoa pods sourced for these seedlings are from the Seed Production Unit of Cocoa Board. To provide water for the nursery a hand-dug well has been established on the site. The seedlings are expected to be ready for farmers by the end of May 2014. IBIS have selected 30 communities in the project area in which child protection committees and school management are to be revitalized, teachers trained and youth sensitized to literacy training, cocoa farming or other vocational training. 30 Community Child Protection Committees (CCPCs) have been formed in the project communities. 10 Each CCPC consists of 7 members. A total of 204 CPCC members have been trained on child development, rights and protection, on their role and on the development of Community Action Plans (CAP). The CAPs of the 30 communities are expected to be finished in March/April 2014. 165 teachers from the 30 communities have undergone teacher training on participatory childcentered methods. Measures will be taken in 2014 and 2015 to estimate the impact on the pupils’ performance. The School Management Committees (SMCs) of the above mentioned 30 communities have been reorganized and trained in effective governance. The total number of SMC members trained was 210 and they were taken through topics such as: the role and responsibilities of SMCs and PTAs, child labour issues, regulation, policies and documentation. 11 Partners in the Danida Business Partnership program IBIS: Development organization with expertise and focus on strengthening quality education, rights, civil society and on combatting child labour Source Trust: a not-for-profit organization set up by Armajaro Trading Ltd to help farmers improve livelihoods through better crop yields and quality, achieved through sustainable farming practices. Each bag of cocoa that Toms buys from Armajaro in Ghana is traceable to farmer society level and Toms pays a voluntary premium to Source Trust for each bag bought. Coop: A leading retail chain in Denmark with a strong ethical focus. Toms sells both own brands (Toms Ekstra, Anthon Berg etc.) through Coop and chocolate produced for Savannah, a house brand of Coop. The overall goal of the Savannah brand is to support development in Africa through ethical trade with products from the African continent. Danida: Denmark’s development cooperation, an activity under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark. Denmark’s development policy aims to combat poverty through promotion of human rights and economic growth. 12 The implementing partners have found that 353 youths have joined the cocoa farmers’ societies in the 30 communities in 2013, some as caretakers of farms, and others having inherited a farm. We estimate that this is a high number compared to other cocoa areas, but this will examined more and we will also follow the retention of youth over the next years. Vocational training was provided for 152 youths who considered alternative livelihood opportunities than cocoa farming. 5 boreholes have been established in these communities: Donkoto, Afamu, Gyereso (all in Bibiani district), Domuibo and Akpafo (Sefwi Wiawso) Photo: William Vest-Lillesøe 13 FairTrade cocoa Toms has for a number of years had a supply of FairTrade certified cocoa for our chocolate tablets on the Swedish market. This cocoa came from a part of Ghana outside the districts where we have traceability and the engagement that we have in the Source Trust districts. From 2013 Toms buys FairTrade certified cocoa, now traceable and in a Source Trust set-up, from Kukuom district in Brong Ahafo Region. Other cocoa sources The majority of cocoa that we buy is from Ghana, but through our German operation – acquired in 2012 – we also source cocoa from Ecuador, and smaller quantities from Brazil and other origins. The cocoa we source from Ecuador is Arriba cocoa which is traceable to the town Quinindé in the Esmeraldas district. From Brazil Toms sources wild cocoa growing in the Amazon rainforest along the Purus River. The supply of wild cocoa has been developed since 2005 by our German operation. The goal has been to realize the value of the wild cocoa in a sustainable way so that the Amazon rainforest remains protected and the local population can improve their living conditions by collecting and processing wild cocoa. So far 300 families have been mobilized and approx. 50 % of the collectors have been trained in proper harvesting, tree management, fermenting and drying. 3 post-harvest stations have been established along the river with fermentation boxes and solar dryers. Furthermore, a scientific assessment by the local university and Regenwald Institute has given sustainability ‘approval’ that the rainforest is not disturbed ecologically by the activities of the project. 14 Photo: William Vest-Lillesøe 15 International involvements West Africa: Cocoa Livelihoods Program Expanding our existing efforts to support cocoa farming, Toms decided in 2013 to engage in the Cocoa Livelihoods Program Phase II in West Africa. This partnership is funded by Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, several industry partners, international NGOs, government partners, and donor organizations, and managed by World Cocoa Foundation. The livelihoods program is an agricultural development program implemented across four countries (Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Nigeria and Cameroon). For the past five years, CLP Phase I has been very successful reaching its objectives of improving marketing efficiency, increasing cocoa productivity, and improving the resiliency of 200,000 small scale cocoa farmers. In the second phase of the program (2014-2018), CLP II will focus on scaling up best practices developed in Phase I addressing these objectives: 1. Increase farm-level cocoa productivity to 1,000 kg/ha 2. Improve service delivery efficiency – focusing on planting material distribution 3. Improve farmer resiliency – focusing on food crop productivity. As stated in last year’s COP, it is Toms’ goal to ensure a sustainable supply chain for cocoa butter. Cocoa butter on the market is normally a not-traceable blend made from cocoa from different origins in West Africa and South East Asia. While working to achieve a traceable chain through CLP II we can support sustainable cocoa farming in West Africa and then gradually focus our efforts to the areas from which we will source cocoa for cocoa butter, when this falls into place, also through CLP. Standard initiatives on Sustainable and Traceable Cocoa and on Sustainable Procurement Toms is actively participating in the initiative by the European Committee for Standardization (CEN) to develop standards for Sustainable and Traceable Cocoa, CEN/TC 415. The standards to be developed are • a standard for sustainable cocoa • a standard for traceable cocoa • a standard for conformity assessment Six Ad Hoc Working Groups cover the three pillars of People, Planet and Profit, as well as management issues, traceability and compliance. Toms is a member of the ad hoc groups for Planet, Profit and 16 Traceability, and participates in the CEN/TC 415 Project Committee meetings. The work is expected to be finalized in 2015. Furthermore, Toms is a member of the Danish mirror group to the ISO initiative ISO/PC 277 on Sustainable Purchasing. We are active members of: World Cocoa Foundation The World Cocoa Foundation (WCF) is an international membership foundation that promotes a sustainable cocoa economy by providing cocoa farmers with the tools they need to grow more and better cocoa, market it successfully, and make greater profits. WCF’s membership includes cocoa and chocolate manufacturers, processors, supply chain managers, and other companies worldwide, representing more than 80% of the global cocoa market. ICI The International Cocoa Initiative, ICI, is an independent, multi-stakeholder foundation composed of industry companies and civil-society organizations. ICI works for the elimination of child labour in cocoa production through a variety of projects and initiatives. Danish Ethical Trading Initiative The Danish Ethical Trading Initiative (DIEH) is the a Danish multi-stakeholder initiative that brings together trade unions, business associations, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and companies to promote ethical trade and responsible supply chain management among Danish companies and public institutions. DIEH is a member based resource center with the overall aim to promote international trade and responsible supply chain management that support the 10 principles of UN Global Compact. The focus is on implementing corporate codes of practice covering human rights and working conditions in the global supply chain, which contribute to sustainable development in developing countries and the new economies. 17 18 Palm oil In 2013 we reached the goal of 100% RSPO certified palm oil in our products. Palm oil is not a major ingredient for Toms (less than 2%) and much of it comes to our factories as a component in vegetable oil blends. In 2013 the Danish Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries of Denmark set up a working group to work towards a joint statement of responsibility for the import of soybean and palm oil in order to address the negative social, environmental and climatic consequences of the current production of soy and palm oil. The participants are selected food producers, retail chains, NGOs and organizations. The Minister expects that a statement should signal that the Danish food sector has a clear position on accountability when importing soya and palm oil, including how this accountability can be documented and verified. Toms is actively participating in this group. The statement is expected to be finished March 2014. Toms does not use soy products. 19 Employees at Toms Every year Toms conducts a comprehensive employee survey through Great Place to Work Institute to gather broad feedback from the organization and to determine the general status of the employee’s satisfaction with Toms as an employer. In 2013 Toms was recognized as the 8th best company of GPTW’s survey of larger companies in Danmark, based mainly on the responses of the employees (2/3), but also on the assessment of input given by management (1/3). Toms is the only production company on this Best Company list. Health and Well-being Over the years much effort has been made to offer employees at Toms opportunities to improve physical health, lose weight, stop smoking etc. either through voluntary programs or through easy and free access to treatment such as physiotherapy etc. Acknowledging that mental well-being is just as import for a healthy work environment, Toms has is now also focussing upon this area as well: Being a production company and based upon the findings from large-scale adult literacy surveys that a proportion of workers would be likely to have low literacy skills, Toms carried out a Read & Write program during 2011-2013. The program offered a voluntary reading test to all employees, followed by tailored training to improve each participant’s needs to improve their skills and capacity both at work and in everyday life. The project has received very positive feedback from the participants, and Toms received a special GPTW Social Responsibility award in 2013 for this initiative. Furthermore, Toms has in 2013 given all personnel managers training for healthy leadership putting emphasis on the manager’s responsibility to ensure a healthy work environment, set a culture of respect and tolerance and act appropriately when problems arise. 20 21 Gender diversity in corporate governance In Denmark the gender composition of corporate boards has been the object of public attention for several years, with a number of different initiatives implemented to increase the share of women in boardrooms and in management in general. New regulation came into force on 1 April 2013 requiring target setting for the number of board members representing the least present gender in the board. The long term target of the legislation is to achieve an equal proportion of men and women in corporate boards, defined as one of the two genders representing at least 40 percent of the board members elected by the general meeting. Currently all of the 6 board members elected by the general meeting are male. 2 of the 3 board members elected by the employees are female. The board of directors at Toms has currently set a target of achieving 1 female board member elected by the general meeting by 2018. The higher ranking management levels below the board are generally well balanced with none of the genders representing less than 40% of the members. An exception is the general management level, since the chief executive and the chief financial officer are currently both males. Over the last number of years there has been a focus on removing barriers for female managers to move to higher ranks. As an example steps have been taken to facilitate that parental leave does not hamper the possibilities to reenter the career path at the end of a leave. When recruiting for management positions there is a focus on securing that the final short list as far as possible contains qualified candidates of both genders. Occupational Health and Safety In 2013 we have particularly focused on the following subjects of occupational health and safety: • Workplace assessments (APV) • Safety walks • Ergonomics The health and safety organization in Denmark is organized in 16 safety groups that each is responsible for an area and the people employed in that area. In 2013 all safety groups made a complete workplace assessment of their area and on this basis produced an action plan. Eventually, things keep changing and we are aware that a safe work environment is very much about safe behavior. Therefore all safety groups are obliged to make a safety walk with a specified frequency. The aim is to check that the working conditions are adequate in relation to health and safety but also to stimulate employees to behave in a way that ensure their own and others’ health and safety. This is not that easy and therefore we gave all the safety groups training on this topic in 2013. 22 Ergonomics Since 2012 we have worked to minimize the places where employees carry out problematic lifting. We define problematic lifting as places where one of the following takes place: • Pallets that are filled or emptied manually should have a working height above the knee. • No finished goods, raw materials or semi-finished products of more than 15 kg must be lifted manually. • Pallets in the production of finished and semi-finished products must not exceed 132 cm in height, if they are to be handled manually. Until now we have solved 48 % and our target is to reach 71 % within 2014. Lost workday cases We believe that our total effort on this matter is best measured by focusing on our lost workday cases. A lost workday case is defined as any occupational illness or work related accident involving lost working time excluding those accidents in which time lost is restricted to the day of occurrence. It is worth mentioning that our statistic cower all accidents but only counts working hours of the blue color workers. The graph below shows the number of lost workday cases in the last years. As can be seen the chocolate factory and the sugar candy factory in Sweden are both at the lowest level ever. The factory in Sweden reached a rate of 0. However the sugar candy factory in Denmark has had a high rate. We investigated the high rate and have come to the conclusion that the management team has been lacking time for several reasons and therefore have not spend enough time on these issues. We are working hard to solve this. Because of the rate at the sugar candy factory in Denmark we did not reach our target of 25 accidents pr. million working hours in 2013. Instead we had 32 accidents pr. million working hours, which is still low, compared to the previous years. 23 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly echnologies. The Environment Environmental management The two Danish factories and the factory in Sweden have ISO 14001 environmental certification and we successfully completed an independent review in 2013. The review focused on our management system and our progress during the year. In 2013 our environmental targets have focused on the following subjects: • Reduction of dry matter in waste water • Reduction of use of HCF-gasses (Freon) • Reduction of energy and CO2 Dry matter in waste water and water consumption In order to use our resources as efficiently as possible Toms focus is at the amount of product residues we discharge to the sewage systems. At the Danish and Swedish factories we continuously try to find improvements and implement them. Our main focus in 2013 has been to make more precise measurements at the two Danish factories. Until recently we have only measured the concentration of different substances in the wastewater at the Danish chocolate factory, but during the last year we have worked hard to find a method so we also can measure the water flow in our waste water. With these two parameters we can calculate the total discharge of each substance – including dry matter. During the project we have encountered many obstacles, but we hope to finish it in 2014. Opposite the chocolate factory, the sugar factory has had a lot of measurement equipment for many years. In 2013 we wanted to make a detailed observation of the wastewater and our equipment but to our surprise we discovered that it did not measure correctly. We made a lot of investigations and had several visits from the supplier of the equipment, but in the end no one could explain the reasons. As a result of this we hired an external company to make all the measurements with their equipment. After a year we can now conclude that we discharge much more dry matter than our previous measurements showed. Therefore we are not able to show the trend from this factory. Many factors make it hard to make precise conclusions and the following graphs must be read in light of that. 24 25 Climate As a company the main focus of our climate action strategy is to continue our focus on reducing energy consumption and reducing emissions from our production. Our climate goals: • Reduce energy consumption by 10% in 2015 compared to 2008 • Reduce CO2 emissions by 75% in 2015 compared to 2008 The 25 % through energy savings and substitution of energy sources The 50 % by purchasing power fromrenewable sources Several projects have been taken on in 2013 at our factories to reduce energy consumption and thereby emission of CO2. Some of these had impact in 2013 already, and others are expected to impact in 2014 and 2015. Energy consumption: The energy consumption per ton product produced at Toms is steadily decreasing. Already in 2012 we reached our goal for 2015 to reduce energy by 10% compared to 2008. In 2013 we have reduced the consumption by 18% compared to 2008. The total energy consumption at Toms decreased by 1% in 2013, and is now 16% below the total consumption in 2008. Energy Consumption MWh (MWh) 60.000 55.000 50.000 45.000 40.000 35.000 2008 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 Real Real (tonnage corrected) Goal 26 Renewable power In 2013 Toms continued purchasing renewable electricity from offshore wind power, 5000 MWh, from the North Sea. This corresponds to 10% of Toms’ total energy consumption in 2013. Our goal is that all electricity consumption at Toms is converted to renewable power by 2015 – this corresponds to 32% of the total energy consumption at Toms. CO2 emissions: We have in 2013 reduced our total CO2 emission by 1% as a result of energy savings Compared to 2008 Toms has by the end of 2013 reduced total CO2 emission by 47 %. 10 % of Toms power supply in 2012 was renewable electricity from wind power Toms reduced CO2 emissions in 2013 by 1% CO2 emission ton 1000kg CO2 18.000 16.000 14.000 12.000 10.000 8.000 6.000 4.000 2.000 2008 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 Real Real (tonnage corrected) Goal 27 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Anti-corruption It is our policy to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and are committed to acting with integrity in all our business relationships wherever we operate. In order to strengthen our evaluation of suppliers and business partners, we have examined available IT systems to screen risk profiles of existing and potential suppliers and business partners. This is not only to counter bribery, but also to identify other issues such as infringements on human rights and environmental issues linked to the given company or organization. This work is still in progress. Furthermore, we will in 2014 increase our focus on implementing systems to counter bribery. 28 29 30
