Sustainability Report 2013 Trust. Everywhere About Gemalto 02 About Gemalto Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Table of contents Our performance in detail 42 Welcome How to use this report 03 Reducing our environmental impact 23 CEO’s message  04 Managing our environmental impacts  24 ...to our fifth Sustainability Report, Enabling trust in the digital world 05 Our carbon footprint program  25 which mainly relates to our activities in 2013. We hope you find it interesting Our customers and markets 06 Energy and transport  26 and informative. It is important for us, Our global presence 07 Water and waste 27 as a part of our vision and dedication, 08 28 and we look forward to receiving Our approach to sustainability Valuing our people your feedback. Gemalto and sustainability 09 Our Human Resources strategy 29 Performance overview 10 Our priorities 30 Sustainability across our activities 12 Learning and development 31 Our business case for sustainability 13 Diversity and employee engagement 32 Engaging with our stakeholders 14 A safe place to work 33 Managing and communicating sustainability 15 Supporting our employees’ charitable activities 34 Supporting our customers 17 Managing our business responsibly 35 Creating confidence  18 A responsible supply chain 36 Innovating for our clients’ futures 19 Ethics and governance 38 Delivering responsible solutions 20 Risk management and control 39 Offering eco-design products  22 Standards, compliance and management systems 40 Our performance in detail 42 Contact: Recognized by awards 43 www.gemalto.com/companyinfo/contact-us Performance indicators 44 More info on our website: www.gemalto.com/companyinfo/sustainability Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 02 About Gemalto 02 About Gemalto Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 How to use this report Our performance in detail 42 Guide to navigation Go home Go to start Go back Go forward Takes you to the main Takes you to the Takes you back to Takes you forward Use the buttons on the top line to contents page. beginning of the the previous page. to the next page. navigate in this report. section you’re in. Throughout the document there are links to pages, other sections and web addresses for additional information. Search Email Print Information Allows you to search Allows you to email a Opens up a print Brings you back to in Acrobat. PDF of this document. dialogue box. this information page. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 03 About Gemalto 02 About Gemalto Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 CEO’s message Managing our business responsibly 35 Being strategic about sustainability Our performance in detail 42 Making a positive contribution It also means being conscious of the resources we use, in all their “The need for our solutions is clearly set forms; looking after our employees, deepening their knowledge Sustainability is part of Gemalto’s vision and dedication. What to continue far into the future, and we we are doing is of increasing importance to people everywhere, and developing their careers by clearly privileging promotion from are determined to do it right – making who are going more and more digital and mobile. So the need for within; and running the Company in an ethical, prudent manner. a positive contribution to societies our solutions is clearly set to continue far into the future, and we So we have an active approach to sustainability, and we are everywhere around the world.” are determined to do it right – making a positive contribution to interested to see that investors have started paying greater societies everywhere around the world. attention to our performance in this area. Our customers are Our aim is to enable our customers and their end-users to trust also sensitive to it – and because their end-users are too, it is that their data and transactions are secure, and that their brand one more domain where we are happy to team up with them. and reputation are safeguarded. Taking action Building trust One of the ways we respond is by providing an increasing range Such trust can only be built up over time. We have already of products that are not only cost-effective and easy to use, but OLIVIER PIOU established a positive reputation over many years, and we need also environmentally friendly. For example, we have succeeded CHIEF EXECUTIVE to continue to deliver in the long term, proving ourselves over and in developing a banking card made from renewable, bio-sourced OFFICER materials, without compromising on either durability or security. over again. So for me, a central element of sustainability relates to the durability of our business. And through the process of continuous In 2013, we also continued to reduce our energy and water improvement that is central to our activities, we are developing consumption, and to increase the valorization of our waste. and deepening our focus on sustainability year after year. And we continued to emphasize diversity as a key part of our ‘people’ value. A wide-ranging approach Our approach comprises a wide range of topics organized A foundation for the future in four main areas: supporting our customers, reducing our Looking ahead, our Sustainability Board will help us during environmental impact, valuing our people, and managing our our new multi-year development plan to reach clearly defined business responsibly. targets based on a robust strategic vision. Our people and our shareholders understand what we are doing and where we This means, for example, listening to our customers through a are going – and they can be confident that we will continue to systematic, formal and far-reaching process; putting their needs adhere to the values that are the foundations of our success. at the heart of our activities; working behind the scenes, in line with their business models, so we do not interfere with their brands; and supporting their own sustainability strategies. Olivier Piou, Chief Executive Officer Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 04 About Gemalto 02 About Gemalto Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Enabling trust in the digital world Our performance in detail 42 Every day, everywhere, digital technology is Organizations and governments use our devices, software and generating new services. New ways to work and services to authenticate and manage identities, securely and reliably. play, to transact and interact. That’s what enables them – and billions of their end-users, employees and citizens – to pay, communicate and identify What’s our purpose? themselves with confidence. To enable our customers to offer those services in trusted and convenient ways to billions of individuals. We are the End-users Our annual world leader in benefitting from revenue 2013 digital security our solutions Gemalto provides the trust #1 2bn+ €2.4bn that digital services depend on. Every day. Everywhere. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 05 About Gemalto 02 About Gemalto Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Our customers and markets Our performance in detail 42 Our customers Our markets ...include some of the world’s best known mobile operators, financial institutions, governmental agencies, healthcare providers, Identity and transport operators, vehicle manufacturers Mobile and a vast number of other enterprises. Access We enable them to offer personal mobile services, payment security, authenticated cloud access, identity and privacy protection, Financial electronic documents, machine-to-machine applications and many other services. $€ Services and Retail Government What we do MachineWe embed our secure software in products to-Machine such as SIM cards, contactless banking cards, electronic passports and ID cards, password generators and machine identity modules. Then we continuously monitor and manage these devices across hundreds of networks, checking identities and managing transactions. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 06 About Gemalto 02 About Gemalto Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Our global presence Our performance in detail 42 Bringing global expertise Nationalities of our employees to our customers’ local needs and cultures... 110+ Personalization and data centers ...everywhere 34 Production facilities Research 15 44 and software development centers 25 Countries with an Countries where Our employees operational site our clients are based worldwide 190 12,000 Offices 85 Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 07 Our approach to sustainability Our approach to sustainability About Gemalto 02 Our approach to sustainability In this section: Gemalto and sustainability p09 Performance overview p10 Sustainability across our activities p12 Our business case for sustainability p13 Engaging with our stakeholders p14 Managing and communicating p15 sustainability Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Our performance in detail 42 Sustainability is a fundamental part of the solutions we offer and the way we work. Photo: Entering our site in Cuernavaca, Mexico Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 08 About Gemalto 02 Our approach to sustainability Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Gemalto and sustainability Our performance in detail 42 Materiality analysis Our approach In 2011, we performed a sustainability Risks and Opportunities Our values analysis with the support of external specialists. This led us to: Being a leader in digital security, Our approach to sustainability reflects • Gain an overview of Gemalto’s material sustainability issues; our three core values: our solutions touch billions of people’s • Identify and prioritize risks; lives – and sustainability is built into • Define objectives; many of them. From supporting remote healthcare services to enabling • Assign resources and develop action plans. The assessment involved conducting interviews with internal 1 Customers financial inclusion, what we do can functions interfacing with our main stakeholders, benchmarking We put their needs at the center of all offer a positive social outcome. against other organizations, analyzing internal and external we do, develop partnerships and exceed materials, and taking account of issues raised by clients, rating their expectations. agencies and other stakeholders. Sustainability is an important part of Gemalto’s way of working. As a long-term signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, External assessment We take a keen interest when external third parties examine our 2 People we benchmark our policies and performance against world-class sustainability performance since we can learn from their views. We value their diversity, encourage companies and review them annually against the Compact’s One such company is Vigeo, the leading European expert in the teamwork and conduct ourselves ten principles on human and labor rights, anti-corruption and assessment of organizations with regard to their practices and with integrity. the environment. performance on environmental, social and governance issues. In 2013, Gemalto was included in two Vigeo indexes, recognizing Innovation Our approach to sustainability also reflects our values. These are our CSR performance: combined in a robust ethical framework which underpins our • Euronext Europe 120 3 sustainability activities and focuses them on our strategic priorities: We continually develop valuable new • Supporting our customers. • Euronext Benelux 20. ideas and creative approaches to • Reducing our environmental impact. This means that Vigeo considers Gemalto to be among Europe’s business and technology challenges. 120 most advanced companies regarding CSR, and one of the • Valuing our people. 20 most advanced companies in the Benelux region. • Managing our business responsibly. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 09 About Gemalto 02 Our approach to sustainability Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Performance overview Our performance in detail 42 We focus on the areas that are of most importance to us and our stakeholders, and where we have the biggest influence and potential impact. Our priorities What we do 2013 progress summary and key figures 1 Supporting our We put customers’ evolving needs at the Customers annual survey heart of what we do, in the products and 86% of customers surveyed said they were ‘satisfied’ or ‘very satisfied’ with Gemalto customers platforms we create and the services we Research & Development offer. By consistently innovating, we retain 2,000 digital engineers the loyalty of existing customers, attract €143m invested new ones, and broaden our commercial Eco-design opportunities – at the same time as having 33 million ‘carbon offset cards’ sold since 2009 a positive impact on end-users. 50 employees trained in eco-conception (2012–2013) 2 Reducing our By managing our energy and water ISO 14001 certifications consumption, monitoring our waste Two new sites certified environmental and transport, and reducing our 75% of our employees work in ISO 14001 certified sites impact environmental footprint, we minimize CO2 reduction our costs, answer our customers’ 14% reduction of our CO2 eq. emissions linked to energy consumption 4% increase in emissions linked to transport but a stable impact/km growing demand for information and support our business strategy. Transport Reporting scope extended Doubling use of sea in our modes of transport Water consumption 8% reduction in water use Waste reduction and valorization 81% waste valorization rate Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 10 About Gemalto 02 Our approach to sustainability Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Our performance in detail 42 Performance overview continued Our priorities What we do 2013 progress summary and key figures 3 Valuing our people Fundamentally, Gemalto is built on the Diversity ingenuity and dedication of its people. Since 23% of our exempt employees work outside their country of origin we rely on a committed, motivated and 60/40 men/women ratio throughout the organization 44% of new recruits are women innovative workforce, we have clear Human A third woman has been appointed to the Board of Directors Resources programs and systems to attract, Two women – out of eight members – appointed to the Senior Management team nurture and retain the best talent. Employees’ engagement 81% of our employees are ‘satisfied’ according to the annual survey 150 actions carried out in 2013 were inspired by the employee survey Training and development 75% of our employees received training in 2013 Safety 1 new site OHSAS 18001 certified added to 16 existing certified sites Travel risk management principles upgraded Employees’ charitable activities 71 employees’ projects funded 4 M  anaging our Good governance and business ethics Supply chain are essential to enhancing investor 11 CSR audits conducted on selected Tier 1 suppliers business and customer confidence, building trust 87% of our suppliers covering 70% of our spending signed our CSR Charter responsibly and running a sound business. We actively Steering committee created to guide and inform all purchasers on responsible purchasing manage our risks, have robust anti-fraud Ethics systems, and apply our ethical standards Over 1,000 people undertook our new anti-fraud e-learning throughout our value chain. 15 out of 52 internal audits focused on fraud and ethics Risk management Fraud-focused Risk Analysis (FRA) action plan included in the Group’s Enterprise group Enterprise Risk Assessment action plan Updated our Crisis Management Framework Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 11 About Gemalto 02 Our approach to sustainability Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Sustainability across our activities Our performance in detail 42 Innovating Producing Delivering Managing We constantly innovate so We develop secure software We deliver a vast range of We use our platforms to we can address our clients’ and operating systems which solutions to our customers manage the products while rapidly changing needs, we embed in many kinds of so that they can offer secure, they’re in use, activating and respond to the opportunities trusted device which we then convenient, high-quality updating them so they retain of the digital age and enhance assemble and personalize. products and services to their value and offer the latest digital security. their end-users. services to end-users. CSR FOCUS CSR FOCUS CSR FOCUS CSR FOCUS Eco-design CO2, energy, water, waste Quality, safety and Data security eco-friendliness of our products Open standards Health and Safety at work Data privacy Responsible solutions Responsible purchasing Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 12 About Gemalto 02 Our approach to sustainability Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Our business case for sustainability Our performance in detail 42 Sustainability is fundamental to A trusted brand Our business is profoundly reliant on trust: on the trust that our customers have in the performance and ethics of what we do. By putting sustainability at the heart of our thinking Gemalto’s way of working for many and behavior we enhance the value of Gemalto’s corporate brand and promote the reasons, not the least that it’s simply Company as a trusted global partner. good for our business. Overall, it enables us to build resilience Risk management There are enormous opportunities for Gemalto in the digital world. We have a long-term vision, enriched by our understanding of global and social mega-trends. And, in order to make the in an ever-changing world – for Gemalto, most of these opportunities, we need an equally clear vision of the business risks that we face. This is part of the broad sustainability agenda and requires us to tackle risks proactively. for our customers, and for their endusers everywhere. Innovation By building sustainability into our innovation strategy, we strengthen our competitive advantage by regularly delivering new and improved products, services and business models that also happen to be environmentally friendly. This enhances our reputation, enables us to grow our markets and to develop new opportunities. Customer satisfaction Our customers want to deliver sustainable solutions to their end-users. It is therefore essential that, within their supply chain, we provide assurance that they are placing their confidence in a well-reputed and trustworthy brand, and that we also support their own sustainability objectives. This helps us to grow our market share, retain existing customers and to attract new ones. Talent attraction By building a highly reputable organization with a strong ethical foundation, sound governance and a respected culture of innovation, we attract and retain talented people who recognize that and retention Gemalto fits their own personal values and aspirations. Financial The cumulative result of these benefits favors our bottom line. It helps us to grow our revenues, and by encouraging us to manage our environmental impact throughout our operations, it also performance enables us to lower costs by increasing efficiencies and reducing waste. Sustainability is simply good for our business. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 13 About Gemalto 02 Our approach to sustainability Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Engaging with our stakeholders Our performance in detail 42 Our stakeholders How we engage with them We understand the value that sustainability brings to our business – for example Our customers We are in constant dialogue with our customers, so we can develop common interests and meet mutual objectives. We can also identify their sustainability requirements and develop in attracting and retaining loyal solutions together. Amongst other processes, our annual customer feedback survey, ‘Tell Me’, customers and talented employees. gives us a deep understanding of their views on many aspects of our business (see page 18 for further details). And we need to ensure that all our stakeholders understand what we are doing and why – so we regularly Our employees Our annual employee survey – PeopleQuest – helps Senior Management and HR to track their satisfaction globally. In 2013, we added two questions about diversity and ethical practices communicate with them, invite their (see page 32). With this feedback, we develop and implement action plans for specific sites, views and where possible join with regions, countries and divisions. them on specific initiatives. We also organize an annual event, the ‘Gemalto Sustainable Development Day’ (GSDD) when employees share and learn about each other’s views on cultural, social and environmental We focus here on our primary stakeholders issues (see page 16). – those with the greatest influence on our performance – though there are Our suppliers Our CSR Purchasing Charter explains what we expect from our suppliers. The Charter has now been signed by 87% of our Tier 1 suppliers. And we hold quarterly business review many others we also engage with. meetings with our main suppliers, which include discussions on sustainability topics. We also carry out supplier audits which allow us to get a realistic view of current practices and, if needed, share concerns on the issues raised (see page 36). Our investors Maintaining positive relations with investors and analysts is key to Gemalto’s growth and we use a wide variety of media to keep in regular contact. These include our Annual Report, Sustainability Report and press releases, as well as road shows, conference calls and face-to-face meetings. These enable us to understand their opinions and to adapt our policies with them in mind. Our communities We get involved in many of our local communities through developing alternative ways of commuting to work (e.g. car-pooling and cycle-ways) and promoting sustainability awareness among local organizations and residents. In addition, through our ‘Your World’ program, we support our employees’ involvement in their own communities (see page 30). Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 14 About Gemalto 02 Our approach to sustainability Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Managing and Valuing our people Managing our business responsibly 28 35 communicating sustainability Our performance in detail 42 How we manage sustainability Gemalto Board Sustainability is integrated in the The Gemalto Board has overall responsibility for the Company’s sustainability vision. This responsibility way we manage our company, from is incorporated into the Board charter, and our sustainability management is organized accordingly. the boardroom to our different sites worldwide. Everyone at Gemalto plays their part conducting a responsible business, and each The Sustainability Board function has a role in achieving this. In 2013 we established the Sustainability Board as the forum for reviewing our strategy in this area. It is chaired by our CEO and comprises the Executive Vice-Presidents who report directly to him. The CEO takes a strategic overview of all areas of our sustainability policy and performance. Sustainability Steering Committee Our sustainability policies and activities are coordinated by the Sustainability Steering Committee. It gathers representatives from most functions – Legal, Communication, Health, Safety and Environment (HSE), Human Resources, Purchasing, Research & Development (R&D), Manufacturing, Marketing – and is supervised by three Executive Vice-Presidents. It met three times in 2013 to monitor progress before assessing our end-of-year performance. The Committee defines and pilots the action plans necessary to drive performance. Site management Site managers around the world are responsible for implementing key aspects of our sustainability policies and action plans, including for example those relating to HSE, Human Resources and Purchasing. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 15 About Gemalto 02 Our approach to sustainability Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Our performance in detail 42 Managing and communicating sustainability continued Internal stakeholders External stakeholders How we communicate Informing, inspiring and engaging our people is essential. Since 2010, we have published this Sustainability Report as about sustainability That’s why: an annual stand-alone document, enabling us to share our • All our employees are invited to sign our Code of Ethics approach and performance externally (it was previously a section Sustainability is a broad idea that means of our Annual Report, from 2004). The report details the main • We communicate regularly about our sustainability initiatives achievements of the preceding year on the initiatives defined different things to different people. This through existing internal channels, which include a dedicated by our Sustainability Steering Committee, as well as any areas is why we communicate internally and section on our intranet for improvement. It also includes an updated set of performance externally on the topic to inform, inspire • Every year we share with our employees the priorities of our indicators resulting from our sustainability Risks and and engage our various stakeholders and strategic HSE and sustainability agenda. We also inform them Opportunities analysis. invite them to take part in our actions. of the publication of our Sustainability Report and invite them In addition, we have created a dedicated section on our website to give us their feedback (gemalto.com/sustainability) which includes all our Sustainability Being transparent about our performance • Each year we organize internal awareness and training sessions Reports as well as Global Compact Communication on Progress and management processes not only on subjects such as integrity and fraud. We also issue a Reports. It also gives access to case studies presenting specific builds trust and engages our stakeholders bi-monthly newsletter on internal control and risk management local achievements, key documents and policy statements such to work together to meet objectives, but • We hold an annual ‘Gemalto Sustainable Development Day’ as our Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Policy, Code of Ethics and Purchasing CSR Charter. also holds us accountable for the results. (GSDD) in June to update and engage our people about sustainability in general and Gemalto’s policies, performance and activities in particular. In 2013 the theme of the GSDD related to reducing our carbon footprint • The process of producing this Sustainability Report is itself of significant value, involving a large number of contributors, and requiring everyone involved to reflect on what we are doing, ask new questions, gather new ideas and consider future initiatives. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 16 Supporting our customers Supporting our customers About Gemalto 02 Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers In this section: Creating confidence  p18 Innovating for our clients’ futures p19 Delivering responsible solutions p20 Offering eco-design products  p22 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Our performance in detail 42 Our clients recognize Gemalto as a highly innovative company, helping them adapt to a rapidly changing digital world. Photo: Delivering our bio-sourced cards to customers (page 22) Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 17 About Gemalto 02 Supporting our customers Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Creating confidence Our performance in detail 42 Listening to our customers Our approach Every year we commission a customer listening program – the Key figures ‘Tell Me’ survey. This includes interviews with customers who rate We value our customers very highly. their satisfaction with various aspects of our business. It enables 86% In our 2013 ‘Tell Me’ survey, a large majority And we do everything we can to foster us to take account of their views on sustainability, amongst many of our customers said they are ‘satisfied’ or constructive, durable relationships with other topics, and hence affect our approach to CSR. It also ‘very satisfied’ with Gemalto provides a wealth of data, helping us to measure our performance them – focusing on their needs, living and improvements, and influencing our strategic direction. up to our promises and encouraging their feedback. In 2013, we held 300 ‘Tell Me’ interviews with our customers (representing the majority of our worldwide revenue), and 86% of those interviewed said they are ‘satisfied’ or ‘very satisfied’ with Gemalto – a world-class rating. A relationship based on trust Assessing our performance We base our relationships with customers on trust. This is vital Many of our customers monitor their suppliers’ CSR performance in every sector they work in – telecoms, public service, finance, through the Ecovadis platform. This enables companies in nearly enterprise and so on. With decades of experience in the field, our 100 countries to rate their suppliers in order to improve clients know they can trust us to manage their own digital data; environmental and social practices. and that their end-users – their subscribers, citizens, banking card In 2013 we were very proud to receive a Gold CSR rating from holders, employees and so on – can be confident of our capacity Ecovadis, based on our performance in 2012. to handle their personal information. They also need to trust us to deliver high-quality products and services to their end-users – Supporting end-users and provide support for any problems. Above: As a leader in digital security we have a role to engage directly Gold CSR rating from At Gemalto we work hard to earn and merit this trust. So we with end-users and help them better understand the digital world. Ecovadis, based on design our strategy and everyday operations around customer We can also help those needing quick advice and practical performance in 2012. needs. We also interact with customers in an open and guidance in all areas of digital security. transparent way. And we create solutions with dedication and an eye for excellence. Our response is a consumer advice website – JustAskGemalto.com – offering ‘practical answers for your digital life’. In four different languages, it looks at basic consumer issues and answers specific questions posted by users. In 2013, the four sites received a total of 986 questions from visitors. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 18 About Gemalto 02 Supporting our customers Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Innovating for our clients’ futures Our performance in detail 42 How we generate new ideas Open standards – access for all Innovation is one of Gemalto’s three core We have more than 2,000 digital engineers based in 25 research Gemalto is committed to making web technologies accessible values. It’s at the heart of what we do and software development centers worldwide. And in 2013, we and secure for everyone. One way we do this is through our and an essential element in developing applied for more than 110 patents for new innovations. membership to the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). a successful business for our clients What our engineers do is supported by the creativity of Gemalto’s entire W3C’s goal is to create patent-free standards for developers and for ourselves. As a result, we’re workforce, with innovation being a key element in our Human creating web applications. And Gemalto’s role is to help make constantly innovating so we can deliver Resources training program. them trusted and secure. The challenge is to devise technologies solutions that meet our customers’ For example, all employees are encouraged to submit ideas that enable developers to meet very specific security needs, while expanding demands, respond to the making solutions flexible and inter-operable globally. A standard through our Business Innovation Garage (BIG) think-tank. BIG library acting as a ‘one-click button’ for developers’ basic security opportunities of the digital age, enhance brings a structured process to funnel, nurture and then retain the operations should be launched in 2014. security and have a positive impact best projects as incubation cells – like start-ups going through venture capital selection. BIG has been in place since 2009 and on society and the environment. has developed some very innovative digital solutions. Every year some 200 ideas are submitted, and after a stringent process about Key figures four are selected to become incubation cells. Some of these are now starting to contribute to Gemalto’s business stream. Patent applications 110+ patents filed in 2013 R&D investment High-speed, low-energy SUCCESS STORY contactless technology In 2013, one of our leading R&D engineers, Jean-Paul Caruana, €143m invested in 2013 received a prize from the French National Research Agency for his F@CIL project ‘F@CIL’ project. The innovation enables high-speed, low-energy interactions in the fast-growing field of contactless transactions between smart cards and readers, with applications in, for example, payment, transport and ePassports. As a result, six patents were applied for with a view to deploying the technology worldwide. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 19 About Gemalto 02 Supporting our customers Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Delivering responsible solutions Our performance in detail 42 Solutions supporting road safety Solutions supporting energy savings As a leader in digital security, our We offer dedicated solutions relating to personal and public Supply and availability of energy and power is fundamental to solutions touch billions of people’s daily safety. For example, the European Commission makes a strong economic activity, wellbeing and growth. On the other hand, we lives. Our technologies enable them link between fake driving licenses and an increased risk of road need to ensure that increasing supply and demand of energy to have confidence in the applications accidents.1 In France alone, there are an estimated three million does not cause irrevocable environmental damage. offered by their service providers – our fake driving licenses, and since they are increasingly used for There is no single answer to this issue. Rather there will be a range identification as well as certifying the ability to drive, this is a customers – through the work we do serious and growing problem. To address the issue, the French of solutions, one of which is to improve the efficiency of energy behind the scenes in securing their Government chose Gemalto in 2013 to replace existing paper distribution networks. The US Department of Energy2 estimates identities and assets. that if the power grid were just 5% more efficient, the energy saved documentation with eDriving licenses. These include extra would equate to eliminating the greenhouse gas emissions from visual, physical and electronic security features while maintaining In addition, some of our solutions have robust protection of personal information. 53 million cars. wider social benefits beyond their Smart grids enable utility companies to reduce energy losses India, Australia, Ireland and Mexico have also replaced immediate use, particularly in areas traditional paper driving licenses with electronic versions. and allow better integration of distributed power generation and such as safety, carbon saving, health and renewable supply into the grid, contributing to energy efficiency In Mexico, for example, the state of Nuevo Leon adopted our and minimizing loss. At home, smart meters also enable welfare systems, and financial inclusion. eDriving cards in 2007. Between 2006 and 2008, road injuries consumers to track their consumption and change habits decreased by 22% and fatalities by 39%. Yet over the same to save money and resources. period, the number of vehicles increased by 19%. Gemalto, in collaboration with Oracle and V2COM, has created Gemalto has also worked on the development of eCall, a smart grid solution – a smart meter equipped with Machinea pan-European service which increases road safety by to-Machine (M2M) technology which allows the metering improving the response times of emergency services via infrastructure to communicate in real-time. These solutions are automatically established secure two-way links. now being implemented in several countries in Latin America, notably Brazil. 1 http://europa.eu/rapid/press-release_IP-13-25_en.htm 2 http://energy.gov/sites/prod/files/oeprod/DocumentsandMedia/ DOE_SG_Book_Single_Pages.pdf Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 20 About Gemalto 02 Supporting our customers Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Our performance in detail 42 Delivering responsible solutions continued Solutions supporting health and welfare systems Solutions supporting financial inclusion The incomes of rural households using M-Pesa in Kenya increased With the world’s population progressively growing and aging, new There are at least 2.5 billion adults in the world who do not have 3 by between 5% and 30% since they started using it in 2007–2008. solutions are needed to deliver healthcare. By 2020, for example, bank accounts, and most of them live in developing countries. Furthermore, M-Pesa has been credited with directly creating 7,000 it is predicted that the world will have around one billion people businesses and 12,000 jobs between then and 2011.4 For some it is because they do not trust banks. For others it aged over 60. And the growth in urbanization will result in further Today, Gemalto’s mobile payment solutions are deployed in is because they do not possess any formal identification, they impoverishment of healthcare provision in some rural areas. 16 countries including Cameroon, Colombia, Curacao, Ghana, live in isolated areas without access to retail banking, and their Tele-health – using M2M technology to deliver health services – income is too low to be serviced by traditional financial institutions. India, Ivory Coast, Mexico, Mongolia, Pakistan, Qatar, Rwanda, is playing a growing role in this context, increasing patients’ Suriname, Thailand, Uganda, Yemen and Zimbabwe. Having a bank account makes it easier to save, access cash, wellbeing and avoiding hospitalization. For example, it enables pay bills, receive payments from relatives abroad and develop a those with chronic illnesses such as diabetes and heart disease business. It also links with other vital public and private services to be monitored remotely and offers assistance to people such as healthcare. Thus individual financial inclusion is key to in isolated areas difficult for healthcare professionals to reach. the economic and social development of entire countries. Using Gemalto’s Tele-health solutions, patients wear a small device 16 However, most unbanked people do have a mobile phone and that uses mobile networks to link them automatically to doctors this presents a valuable opportunity to address the issue. and healthcare IT systems’ cloud-based services. In 2013, our technology was used by the Canadian company iLOC in a Gemalto enables its clients to provide a complete range of financial personal locator device – similar to a wristwatch – that enables services, including money transfers on mobile phones to nearly 24/7 GPS-tracking of vulnerable people such as those with one billion people worldwide, more than 67 million of whom live in dementia and Alzheimer’s disease, without the need for remote and deprived communities. These are available securely, countries use our mobile constant physical supervision. on even basic mobile devices. payment solutions Beyond this, eHealthcare programs – linking secure personal In Kenya, for example, 86% of all mobile phone users use eID with connected IT systems – can have multiple benefits for mobile money applications; in fact, there are more mobile money governments and national administrations, as well as patients, accounts than traditional bank accounts in the country. Gemalto health insurers and health professionals. They can reduce the provides the application for the ‘M-Pesa’ solution on SIM cards in 12,000 heavy administrative bills often associated with public healthcare; Kenya and Tanzania. help prevent fraud; and streamline the prescription process, improving the quality of care provided and simplifying the management of records. jobs created by M-Pesa* Gemalto is providing services and solutions for the implementation 3 Source: The Global Findex Database, Measuring Financial Inclusion, April 2012 of eHealthcare systems in Algeria, Azerbaijan, China, Finland, 4 http://www.mckinsey.com/insights/telecommunications/capturing_the_promise_of_ France, Gabon, Germany, Mexico, Puerto Rico, and Slovenia. mobile_banking_in_emerging_markets * see this page Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 21 About Gemalto 02 Supporting our customers Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Offering eco-design products Our performance in detail 42 What we do As part of our activity we produce and assemble smart banking and ID cards, Customers in many sectors of activity increasingly want us to incorporate sustainable solutions into the products they deliver to Key figures SIM cards, USB tokens, readers and their end-users. We help them by developing new materials and other personalized devices. Our strategy is to develop a range processes that meet those demands. We also invest in research and development, looking for new ways of balancing the marketability and sustainability of our products. 50 employees trained in eco-conception in 2012/2013 of products that have a lower environmental impact by using less Employing Life Cycle Assessment methodologies, we are able to quantify the environmental impact of our existing products and 11% of SIM cards sold were smaller format material, and derive from alternative materials. To this end we are using lifecycle assessments and carbon footprint apply eco-design principles to the development of new ones. In 2012, we issued a new bio-sourced banking card using polylactic acid (PLA) which has been validated and certified by Visa and 9m ‘carbon offset cards’ sold in 2013 measuring tools. MasterCard. Up to 90% of the materials in a PLA card are based on bio-sourced polymers, resulting in a greater degree of biodegradability than the traditionally used petroleum-based polymers. First bio-sourced payment For mobile network operators we have developed a range of cards in the Middle East eco-friendly SIM card bodies replacing the standard format – the WHAT WE DID size of a banking card – with smaller alternatives. They include In 2013, Byblos Bank, one of Lebanon’s top three half-sized bodies as well as SIMs with no extra card body that SUCCESS banks, selected Gemalto to supply bio-sourced can be directly plugged in to a handset. We developed new STORY banking cards – a first in the Middle East. manufacturing technologies specifically for this purpose. Authorized by MasterCard and Visa, the cards In addition, we have extended the principle of developing smaller use renewable materials that are easily recyclable and compostable. Furthermore, their products using eco-friendly materials to the creation of new lines environmental credentials have been achieved in card readers and packaging. without compromising security or durability. We have also pioneered tools such as our carbon footprint “Doing this underlines our strategic vision modelling which helps customers calculate the CO2 emissions regarding the environmental impact of our associated with a product, identify where improvements can be policies, products and initiatives,” says Byblos’ Assistant General Manager, Gilbert Zouein. made and establish plans for impact reduction. We also offer them “Gemalto was the only supplier in the market the opportunity to offset their associated CO2 emissions (see Tisséo able to fulfill our green ambitions and meet our case study on page 25). exacting standards for both environmental protection and customer service.” Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 22 Reducing our environmental impact Reducing our environmental impact About Gemalto 02 Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact In this section: Managing our environmental impacts p24 Our carbon footprint program  p25 Energy and transport  p26 Water and waste p27 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Our performance in detail 42 We’re always working to reduce the impact of our operations, creating efficiencies, generating savings and sharing the benefits with our customers. Photo: Offering our customers a carbon offset service (page 25) Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 23 About Gemalto 02 Reducing our environmental impact Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Managing our environmental impacts Our performance in detail 42 What we do Our approach All our production facilities and many of our personalization Key figures centers are covered by ISO 14001 certification. This covers 22 There are three main elements to the sites and more than 75% of our total workforce. These sites are management of our environmental impacts. These also address our audited at least once a year by ISO 14001-accredited companies. The auditors assess the effectiveness of our Environmental Management Systems, reviewing their risk and impact analyses, 22 sites with ISO 14001 certification in 2013 77% customers’ growing requests for and the relevance and efficiency of improvement plans. proportion of our workforce in sites details of our performance in this area: with ISO 14001 certification The principal impacts of our operations are managed through • ISO 14001 international certification • Compliance with national and site-specific action plans. These focus on reducing consumption (of energy, water, paper and manufacturing materials); waste management and pollution; and the reduction of our greenhouse 14% reduction in GHG emissions in 2013 international regulations gas (GHG) emissions. • Manufacturing processes and the Many of our customers now have programs and targets in place traceability of our supply chain. to reduce their own GHG emissions, and we respond to this increasing interest by measuring and reducing our own footprint (see next page for details). We also commission external auditors to evaluate the way in which we monitor and respond to changes in legal requirements and regulations (which in Gemalto’s context mainly relates to the management of hazardous materials such as printing inks and related solvents). Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 24 About Gemalto 02 Reducing our environmental impact Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Our carbon footprint program Our performance in detail 42 Measuring our footprint We also launched a carbon offset program, providing an easy Our carbon footprint program was solution for customers to offset the carbon emissions linked to By 2012, we had completed the measurement of the carbon launched in 2009 to help monitor and footprint of all our sites. The most significant impact comes from their products. Through this program they pay a certain amount reduce the carbon emissions arising raw materials in our production activities, which totals more than per card bought. This contribution supports a number of energy from our operations. half of our emissions, and of these microprocessor chips are saving or renewable energy projects across the world managed the single most important source. Beyond this, product freight by offset companies such as Carbon Neutral and CO2 Solidaire. We measured the six greenhouse gas represents around 20%, and business travel and energy Since 2009, more than 33 million Gemalto carbon offset cards (GHG) emissions covered by the Kyoto consumption each around 10% of our total impact. have been issued. protocol relevant to our activities, Having this clear overview has helped us to tackle the main In 2013 we did a new measurement of all our sites, including looking at energy and refrigerant gas sources of our emissions through a range of action plans: extrapolation of our small sales offices, which confirmed the 2012 results. In the future, we plan yearly corporate measurements of consumption, incoming materials and •M  icroprocessor chips: our purchasing teams are our main sources of emissions, and improvements in the services, incoming and outgoing freight, requesting updated information from suppliers on the amount measurement of our GHG savings. waste generation, and business travel of CO2 per product and data on incoming freight from their for both commuters and visitors. sites to Gemalto’s CASE STUDY •T  ransportation: our supply chain teams have developed and included a footprint calculation tool in their standard Tisséo France supplier reports • Business travel: our purchasing team is targeting reductions in professional travel FROM TRAMS IN TOULOUSE, FRANCE… •P  roduct eco-design: Research & Development (R&D) In 2013, Tisséo, a public transport operator in Toulouse (France), signed up and marketing teams have been trained to develop lower to our carbon offset service when they chose our contactless ticket cards. In doing so, they paid one additional cent per card to ‘CO2 Solidaire’. impact products …TO KITCHENS IN CAMBODIA •E  nergy consumption reduction: deployment of local facilities’ action plans and corporate energy audit program Our partner supports projects that aim to improve people’s living conditions while reducing greenhouse gas emissions (GHG). In Tisséo’s case, they help • Waste reduction and recycling: actions to reduce waste fund the distribution in Cambodia of cooking stoves using 20% less wood. production and increase valorization (recycling or incineration REDUCING CO2 EMISSIONS, INCREASING HEALTH with energy recovery) In many developing countries, people use inefficient stoves for cooking •C  ommuting (travel from home to work): local actions to and heating, thus polluting their homes. As a result many women and increase low-carbon modes of transportation (public children suffer from respiratory diseases. By using less wood, deforestation transportation, co-commuting, bicycling, walking). can be reduced, CO2 emissions lowered, and hard work alleviated. And by reducing toxic fumes, domestic health can be improved. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 25 About Gemalto 02 Reducing our environmental impact Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Energy and transport Our performance in detail 42 Energy This was mainly due to two significant changes: Our main energy needs are for the electricity and gas used for • At Vantaa, in Finland, we moved to a smaller, more energy Key figures air-conditioning and heating installations in all our sites and for efficient site with a more accurate means of measuring actual powering machinery in our manufacturing sites. Reducing our consumption than was previously the case environmental impact – and costs – by lowering consumption has long been a key objective. Some of our sites have been ISO 14001 certified for a decade. • At Montgomeryville, in the US, we drew on the energy audit to implement an action plan which yielded important results. 12% reduction of energy consumption worldwide in 2013 Over the past ten years our main achievements have come through improvements to our operational processes. We continue Transport Transport represents around 20% of Gemalto’s global carbon 4 new sites have launched sea shipment in 2013 to monitor energy usage in line with our corporate plans, footprint. Our policy is to promote low-emission modes of particularly those relating to efficiency and cost reduction which transport as much as possible. require us to lower consumption by 5% each year company-wide. It is becoming increasingly challenging to reduce our consumption Since 2011 we have been using our carbon measurement tool What’s next to calculate CO2 emissions related to freight. This covers our year after year because so many measures have already been principal logistics suppliers who transport goods between •  Continue to deploy energy audits on sites taken. Furthermore, Gemalto’s growing commercial success is Gemalto sites and deliver our products to customers. In 2013, resulting in increased orders and production, and hence increased •  Define CO2 savings measurements for transportation reporting was extended to cover the main procurement flows energy consumption. optimization projects. of our raw material suppliers to our manufacturing sites across Thus to continue to meet our reduction targets, we instigate a Europe, Asia and America. Four of these sites (in Brazil, England, variety of site-specific actions. In 2013, these were reinforced at Singapore and South Africa) launched lower emission sea corporate level by an energy audit program supported by external shipments for the first time in 2013. energy efficiency auditors. Sites now benefit from expert insight for We are also encouraging the use of transport by road rather than improving their diagnosis and action plans. air, particularly within Europe and between Mexico and the US. As a result of these and other measures, we not only met our This includes using ‘consolidated’ trucks as a standard mode target in 2013 but achieved a reduction in worldwide energy of road transportation. These contain freight from several consumption of 12%. companies. Alternatively, they may only carry our cargo but deliver to customers in several locations. We are also encouraging round-trip shuttles to airports and logistics hubs for import and export shipments as well as domestic deliveries. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 26 About Gemalto 02 Reducing our environmental impact Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Water and waste Our performance in detail 42 Water consumption Waste reduction and valorization Gemalto’s main use of water is for sanitary purposes, green To reduce and valorize our waste we particularly focus on three Key figures spaces and washing printing frames in some manufacturing sites. areas: non-hazardous waste (plastic and module residues Our policy is to continuously reduce its consumption companycontaining epoxy and metal), standard office waste (paper, Water wide by at least 5% a year. print cartridges and toners) and hazardous waste (including In 2013, we achieved a global reduction of 8% on a constant basis. Out of 19 sites, ten achieved the 5% reduction objective. inks and solvents). Our objective is to reduce all waste by 5% per year and to achieve a 75% valorization rate. 8% Waste reduction of water consumption in 2013 In addition, since we began measuring water use in 2009, the 81% water consumption per employee has reduced by 31% from In 2013 the waste amount increased by 13% and the valorization 21m3 to 14m3. waste decreased from 87% to 81%. This was mainly due to two valorized waste in 2013 important site moves leading to the production of non-recyclable construction trash and the scrapping of obsolete materials. However, the 81% valorization waste remains far beyond our annual target. Our performance increased annually over the past five years from 64% in 2009. This is a result of continuous improvement, as well as the separation for recycling of both plastic and lead-frame skeleton waste in our manufacturing processes. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 27 Valuing our people Valuing our people About Gemalto 02 Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people In this section: Our Human Resources strategy p29 Our priorities p30 Learning and development p31 Diversity and employee engagement p32 A safe place to work p33 Supporting our employees’ p34 charitable activities Managing our business responsibly 35 Our performance in detail 42 Our employees’ wellbeing and development are paramount. By looking after them as best we can, we’re also helping meet Gemalto’s future needs. Photo: Encouraging employees to share their vision of their role within the Company (see page 32) Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 28 About Gemalto 02 Valuing our people Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Our Human Valuing our people Managing our business responsibly 28 35 Resources strategy Our performance in detail 42 Our people are vital to our success Our approach Our business is founded on trust: the trust that our customers Our people in numbers have in the performance and ethics of what we do, and the trust Gemalto is built on the ingenuity of our employees have in their contribution to Gemalto’s future. Total employees its people. So our HR policies are 12,000 As our business evolves towards the provision of platforms critical to the long-term success of the and services, our customers are judging us not only on the Company. By creating a highly reputable technological quality of our solutions but also by the value of our organization with a strong ethical people. The quality of the relationships between our employees Regional split of workforce foundation and a culture of innovation, and our customers is becoming increasingly important to the we attract and retain talented people. We also believe that by being in line growth of our business. Maintaining the quality, loyalty and trust of our people are 26% Asia 52% EMEA* strategic imperatives for Gemalto. with our people’s personal values and aspirations, we can create a working environment where we can all thrive 16% Latin America 6% North America and feel we belong in a company that *EMEA: Europe, CIS, Middle East and Africa provides more than a day job. Engineers working in R&D 2,000 Gender diversity 60% Men 40% Women Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 29 About Gemalto 02 Valuing our people Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Our priorities Our performance in detail 42 Management by objectives Recruitment Our ‘8 Pillars’ for Human Resources This is an active agenda which we continually review to ensure our Our recruitment is based on criteria that help us ensure a fair goals remain relevant. In our annual Performance Review process and ethical approach, while identifying the best available talent Our overall approach to managing our employees meet their managers to assess progress against for the Company. Every year, we strengthen our talent pipeline Human Resources is based on our objectives and to set new targets. It provides a key benchmark to by recruiting in more than 35 countries. ‘8 Pillars’ which put our people at the heart guide people through their careers, and ensures we monitor the In 2013, we hired people of 65 nationalities in 40 countries. deliverables that are critical to business success. of our Company’s future development. In Compensation and benefits 96% of exempt employees have completed their 2013 fact, the ‘8 Pillars’ are the foundation on performance review on time. Our compensation and benefits charter provides a very precise which everything else is built: not only do method for determining how we reward our employees. It is they serve our employees’ needs, but they Ethics and community benchmarked internally and externally, ensuring fairness, Our Code of Ethics sets out the standards by which we operate. transparency, consistency and competitiveness. also support our business objectives. It is the foundation that governs our relationships with clients, Promotion from within suppliers, stakeholders and colleagues. This is fundamental to the development of our people. It ensures Our community program, Your World, encourages employees’ we have a sustainable leadership model and the core skills to meet Management by objectives activities in local non-profit organizations that focus on environmental our long range plans. When employees are trained, challenged Ethics and and humanitarian activities. and in control of their careers they are best placed to take us into Diversity community 71 employees’ projects supported in 2013. the future. Mobility 94% of our 250 most senior people had been promoted from within by the end of 2013. To gain an in-depth understanding of our business, our future Promotion from within 12,000 Mobility leaders need to see different aspects of our Company, through different roles in different domains. With schemes like the Young Diversity Our customers, their markets and the solutions they require are 16 Employees in % 44 countries Transfer Program we encourage geographical and functional varied, changing and complex. To understand them, we need mobility. This supports our strategy of developing experienced the open-mindedness of a diverse workforce. Our emphasis management teams and technical experts in key markets. on diversity gives us a clear competitive advantage, provides us Compensation 23% of exempt employees work outside their home country. with legitimate criteria from which to implement fair and equal Training and benefits employment practices and ensures we are behaving ethically. Training Recruitment In 2013, 44% of newly recruited staff were women. Our training program aims to help people accomplish their jobs today and evolve their careers for tomorrow. It is about giving people the additional knowledge, skills and creativity to deliver on our vision, while supporting their current activities. 36 training hours per employee in 2013 in average. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 30 About Gemalto 02 Valuing our people Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Learning and development Our performance in detail 42 Our objectives Training programs Because the digital world is evolving rapidly, one of our most We run a wide number of specific learning programs every year. Key figures important HR objectives is to invest in our people to grow their These include the ‘Gemalto University’ which comprises: skills in the relevant areas. Our employees need to be able to 94% • Discovery Leadership program, held every two years for new respond to the needs of our customers and markets, and to of our 250 most senior personnel recruits anticipate and adapt to new technologies and challenges. have been promoted from within So each year we invest 2% of our total salary costs in training, • Emerging Leadership program, through which we build a offering a wide range of courses and other schemes. In 2013, we delivered over 328,000 hours of training worldwide, benefiting over 9,000 individual employees. That means 75% of our total cross-functional, international network of participants who receive a diverse range of learning experiences focused on digital security 75% of our total workforce have received training in 2013 78% workforce received training in 2013. • Executive Learning expedition which allows our management learning and development satisfaction At the end of 2013, of the 250 most senior people in the team to explore and develop through benchmarking best over the last three years Company, over 94% had been promoted from within. This reflects practices in different industries and ecosystems. the quality of our learning programs and efforts to support the We have also developed a ‘Marketing Curriculum’ which enables career advancement of our people over the mid to long term. participants to evolve their skills and knowledge in world-class marketing practices. What’s next? Developing innovation •  Continue evolution of learning and development to meet business needs and fulfill our customers’ We place considerable emphasis on developing the innovative requirements. capacities of our teams to meet future needs and ensure our long-term success. •  Continue to ensure that people in all job functions receive high-quality learning programs suited to One of the ways we encourage this is through the ‘Gemalto their abilities and aspirations. Technical Ladder’. This enables our technical experts to develop their international career paths across different business groups. •  Offer three levels of Gemalto University in 2014, focusing on technical skills development. We have also continued to expand the number of ‘innovation cafés’. The idea is to enable our experts to present their technical work in different Gemalto sites, and to promote the importance of the Technical Community to the Company as a whole. This allows us to optimize our internal knowledge transfer by engaging with peers and sharing across the organization. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 31 About Gemalto 02 Valuing our people Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Diversity and employee engagement Our performance in detail 42 Demographics Employee engagement We try to recruit employees with a wide range of cultural and ‘PeopleQuest’ is our annual employee survey. It tracks satisfaction Key figures educational backgrounds, and always aim to be fair and inclusive across the Company, and is available online to our employees in in our recruitment and promotion processes. nine languages to encourage as much take-up and feedback as In 2013, 29% of our new employees came from Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), 43% from Asia and 28% from possible. Each year, we use the results to make improvements for the year ahead. We design these to meet employees’ expectations, in particular aiming for areas where survey scores are lower. 44% of new recruits are women North, South and Central America. Of the 65 nationalities recruited last year, the top five were, in descending order: China, Brazil, Mexico, France and the Czech Republic. Our geographical headcount broadly matches our geographical revenue distribution. In 2013, over 150 actions inspired by PeopleQuest were carried out including Family Days and improvements in work spaces. We also communicated around our HR Practices during a dedicated 81% satisfaction in our annual employee survey (+1%/2012) Gender diversity Women represented 44% of new recruits, and we aim to worldwide HR day which took place in November in our main locations worldwide. The survey response rate in 2013 was 82% compared to 78% 150 actions taken as a result of our employee survey encourage the promotion of women to more senior management in 2012 and of these 81% said they were satisfied with Gemalto. positions. In 2013, women represented 38% of the intake to our This high level of participation suggests that employees ‘Gemalto University’ leadership development program compared understand the correlation between PeopleQuest and improved to 35% in 2012. In addition, two women were appointed to the outcomes in their working lives. What’s next? Senior Management team as of 1 January 2014. The other six members are men. And amongst the 11 members of our Board, Our process of implementing improvement actions throughout •  Continuing promotion of diversity in 2014. we appointed a third woman as a Board member during 2013. the year is key to the success of PeopleQuest. By creating a stimulating work environment and providing continual •  Engagement in programs encouraging gender In 2013 Gemalto Mexico received a Certificate of Gender Equality balance such as our internal women’s network and management support we allow our people to thrive and feel from the country’s National Women’s Institute following a thorough our external outreach to universities and schools proud to work at Gemalto. audit of the Company’s policies, procedures and practices. We in recruitment. also sponsored the 2013 Grace Hopper Celebration (GHC) in During 2013, we also launched an internal campaign aimed at •  In 2014, we will focus our actions on communicating the US city of Minneapolis. strengthening our employees’ engagement with Gemalto’s brand more clearly on professional opportunities, and purpose. With a video based on images of building bricks or make sure our employees have the best information The GHC is now the world’s largest gathering of women in boxes, we invited them to share their own personal role and and tools available for building their careers. computing. Furthermore, we established our own women’s motivation with colleagues around the world. Over 2,000 professional network. This has 120 members around the world, people participated in the event (see photo page 28). and links with other women’s networks among our customers and external organizations, as well as spreading best practice internally. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 32 About Gemalto 02 Valuing our people Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 A safe place to work Our performance in detail 42 • Hazardous substances, compounds and chemicals used Health and safety in manufacturing Key figures • Business travel and commuting. We aim to provide a safe environment for all our employees and visitors. We ensure continuous improvement through our Human Resources and Ergonomics, MSDs and equipment Ergonomics issues are mainly related to the movement of materials in our production sites. Musculoskeletal disorders 17 OHSAS 18001 certified sites in 2013 Health and Safety management systems. And we use OHSAS 18001 (MSDs) are mainly linked both to repetitive movements in production areas, and to seating positions in offices. To mitigate all these problems, we regularly run awareness and training 67% employees covered by OHSAS certification to gain external assurance. programs. To reduce risks linked to equipment, we share experiences (lists of accidents, analysis and preventive actions) so that each site can improve its prevention plans. Focus on safety Managing hazardous substances What’s next? Our operations normally pose few direct safety risks. Nevertheless, we strive to ensure that our activities comply Some of the chemicals we use (such as inks and solvents) risk Reduce accidents and lost working days by 5% with the highest standards of control. All our production being flammable, irritating or toxic. We regularly train employees across the Company in 2014. areas and our two main administrative sites are OHSAS who work with them and as a result have not been subject to 18001 certified, covering 67% of our employees. We also any related accidents since 2010. We also conduct internal challenge our practices through external benchmarking audits to ensure that internal procedures are respected and Commuting and business travel and independent assessments. working conditions are safe. Commuting, including road accidents, represents 20% of In 2013, the total number of lost working days (LWD) resulting In addition, we have drawn up a list of substances to be Gemalto’s total lost working days (LWD). To mitigate this we from injuries across the Company rose to 1,082, compared to avoided in our products, based both on worldwide regulations run a Defensive Driving program for our ‘business drivers’ – 858 in 2012 and 1,295 in 2011. However, the total number of and market requirements. We share this with our main suppliers those who rent a car, are reimbursed for mileage or are required injuries resulting in at least one LWD fell to 60, which is 4% less and work with them to eliminate any substance of very high to drive as part of their duties. By the end of 2013, 17% of than in 2012 (63). concern as listed in the REACH regulation. We strengthened them had attended a course, and on some sites all employees these actions in 2013 by launching a program to proactively had participated. Where safety risks do exist, they mainly relate to four areas: assess the danger of the substances we use and, depending The security of employees travelling on company business • Ergonomics issues in our production sites; and on their potential impact on health or the environment, to is also vital. We apply rigorous principles in travel risk management musculoskeletal disorders (MSD) challenge suppliers to consider substitutions. which we upgraded in 2013. They include enforcing a travel • Manufacturing equipment, forklifts, pallet trucks and elevators validation process, offering pre-trip information and support, and having ‘security champions’ wherever we operate. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 33 About Gemalto 02 Valuing our people Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Supporting our employees’ charitable activities Our performance in detail 42 Your World projects Gemalto aims to make a positive contribution to the communities in In 2013, 71 Your World projects, involving more than 440 Key figures employees, received total funding of €78,000. These included: which we operate. Our employees often 71 • Taking part in a tree-planting activity organized by Hong Kong live close to the sites where they work, Green Nature Union employees’ projects funded through forming part of the local community. Your World program in 2013 • Running for ‘Presta tu pierna’ race organized in Colombia, We therefore help them to support local to protest against landmines environmental and humanitarian activities • Sponsoring Musiquelaine SA, an organization promoting and through our Your World program. supporting classical and jazz music within disadvantaged community schools in South Africa What’s next? • Participating in the Zumbathon for Autism in Canada Encouraging Your World Define a ‘cause’ to focus our community Those interested in Your World funding can apply as individuals or • Organizing a cultural trip for underprivileged families with efforts worldwide. as a team by sending a project description to a panel composed ‘Accueil Goutte d’Or’, a voluntary social center in France. of local managers and employees. For individual projects, the main selection criterion is strong personal involvement. For group Disaster relief projects, there should also be opportunities for team building. We also have a disaster relief policy. This sets out how Gemalto Funds allocated to each project range up to €2,000. responds to sudden natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, tsunamis and floods. We respond to disasters that occur in Each site also helps employees to organize activities separate countries where we operate, matching employees’ donations and from the Your World program, to target specific issues in the providing technical help and guidance. We only make donations to community. Gemalto employees can contribute in various reputable not-for-profit, non-governmental organizations. ways, giving time, money or donations in kind when relevant. When we conduct our annual PeopleQuest employee survey, we offer an incentive of one euro for each completed questionnaire, donated to organizations supported at Gemalto sites. In 2013, through our disaster policy, we supported NGOs providing help to the victims of the Western Sichuan earthquake (China), floods in Prague (Czech Republic), and the earthquake and Typhoon Haiyan (the Philippines). Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 34 Managing our business responsibly Managing our business responsibly About Gemalto 02 Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly In this section: A responsible supply chain p36 Ethics and governance p38 Risk management and control p39 Standards, compliance p40 and management systems Our performance in detail 42 For Gemalto, good governance and strong business ethics are fundamental to the trust at the heart of our activity. Photo: Careful management at our Singapore facility Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 35 About Gemalto 02 Managing our business responsibly Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 A responsible supply chain Our performance in detail 42 Responsible purchasing CSR supplier audits Our approach Our purchasing policy includes key environmental, social and The CSR risk analysis process is initially based on our suppliers’ ethical criteria. We also pay close attention to our suppliers’ self-assessments. However, this can also lead us to conducting We work with our suppliers to create a business practices – and particularly those on our Tier 1 list – rigorous audits when necessary. These entail providing on-site viable, high-quality, trustworthy supply so that we minimize any social and environmental risks related training and working with our suppliers to grasp and address chain that supports our business to their operations. the key issues identified and to develop detailed action plans objectives. In particular, we focus on and recommendations. Our responsible purchasing model is based on the UN Global the sourcing of raw materials; labor Compact electronics industry best practice, and includes: When critical issues are raised, we insist that immediate action policies and practices; compliance with is taken to quickly address any potential breaches of our CSR •T  he Gemalto Purchasing CSR Charter, which sets out our standards. environmental legislation; and transport. purchasing principles and expectations towards our suppliers We also strengthen our attention in respect of health and safety, environmental risk, and During 2013 we carried out eleven audits in five different countries. transparency. This has now been signed by 87% of our According to the severity of the issue(s) raised, these resulted in where there are specific local risks – Tier 1 corporate suppliers (notably for materials, chips, action plans which we then followed up with progress checks for example, placing a stronger focus support services and transport). These are part of the panel and additional site visits when needed. on business ethics in regions where of suppliers we work with regarding CSR and who account Our auditing process has multiple objectives: to ensure our corruption is known to exist. for around 70% of our spending supply chain is aligned with our standards, to retain the best • A Responsible Purchasing Steering Committee which guides suppliers, and to ensure all of them work with acceptable and informs all our purchasers from the different regions standards and processes. about our policies, yearly objectives, processes and results The maturity of our suppliers in terms of CSR depends on the • A CSR risk analysis of critical suppliers, which assesses, ranks country where they are established and their size and organization. and monitors their social, environmental, financial and business We aim to develop a good collaboration in order to help them performances. understand our requirements and follow up their development. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 36 About Gemalto 02 Managing our business responsibly Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Our performance in detail 42 A responsible supply chain continued Sourcing minerals Among the raw materials we use in our production processes – and specifically in making modules during the assembly of Key figures smart chips – only gold requires particular attention with regards to its origins. For this reason we require suppliers to guarantee that the minerals we purchase originate from ‘conflict-free’ sources, 87% of our Tier 1 corporate suppliers signed our Purchasing Charter based on the EICC’s (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition) definition. 11 audits were carried out in five countries/or suppliers The EICC is a coalition of the world’s leading electronics companies working together to improve efficiency and social, ethical and environmental responsibility in the global supply chain. We are therefore confident that we only use gold from acceptable sources. What’s next? •  articipate actively in the evolution of our suppliers’ P CSR journey by defining together objectives and action plans and planning specific audits • D  efine and use specific CSR KPIs according to each sector of activity (e.g. support services or manufacturing) during our supplier RFQ process • Use the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators as guideline to assess our purchasing performance •  btain 85% completion of our CSR self-assessment O questionnaires by members of our CSR supplier panel to assess their maturity and performance in this domain. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 37 About Gemalto 02 Managing our business responsibly Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Ethics and governance Our performance in detail 42 Our Code of Ethics was published in 2009 and we asked all our We also work with agents and other intermediaries to promote Working with integrity existing employees to sign and endorse it. At the end of 2012 our solutions and services in certain territories or projects. In this we updated it to include additional chapters covered by the UN context, our Agents policy categorically prohibits us from dealing To maintain the trust which is at the Global Compact. This new Code, validated by Gemalto’s Board, with those who have used, or are suspected of using, corrupt core of our business, we place great is now the reference for the work we do, how we work with practices and behaviors to gain or retain business. This policy was others and how we deal with each other. revised in June 2013 with additional information and standards on emphasis on conducting our business our employees’ management of agent relationships, including with honesty and integrity, complying The Code is also supported by additional Codes of Ethics that selection, commitment, follow-up, evaluation, renewal and payment. with best practice, and conforming specifically cover purchasing and Internal Audit. It is signed by all new recruits and is also part of our induction process for new to the highest standards of corporate Governance employees brought into the Company through acquisitions. governance. Our principles are Gemalto is a Dutch company listed on NYSE Euronext Amsterdam – our market of reference – and on NYSE Euronext Paris. shaped by codes and charters which Anti-fraud, bribery and corruption Gemalto’s corporate governance structure is based on the underpin the ethical backbone of our Gemalto’s anti-fraud framework aims at preventing, detecting, requirements of Dutch corporate law, the Dutch Act on Financial management practices. deterring and responding to fraudulent activities. It is overseen by the Supervision and the Dutch corporate governance rules. The Dutch anti-fraud commission, which comprises six senior managers and Autoriteit Financiële Markten (AFM: the Netherlands Authority for has met each quarter since 2008. Its remit includes continuous Financial Markets) is the Company’s supervising authority. Gemalto assessment of fraud risks and responsibility for our anti-fraud policy. Human rights also follows the French Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF: This requires all managers to inform the commission of any suspicion Gemalto supports and complies with The Universal Declaration French Financial Markets Authority) regulations where applicable, of fraud. Employees can also use a Gemalto whistle-blowing line to of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization (ILSO) and in addition has several complementary internal procedures. raise concerns about financial irregularities to a confidential advisor. In standards. 2013, 15 of our 52 internal audits were either focused specifically on The Board of Gemalto is committed to meeting the highest As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact we also fraud risk or partially motivated by fraud concerns. standards of corporate governance as a central element in benchmark our policies and results against world-class performers, Gemalto’s long-term success. To ensure its effectiveness, one of The commission is also responsible for employee training, and reviewing them annually against the Compact’s ten principles. its key aims is to have a rich blend of experience around the table in 2013 over 1,000 people undertook our anti-fraud eLearning to provide real insights into the global, technological environment Our internal HR rules help ensure that we avoid potential risks program, more than 700 key personnel received anti-fraud or Gemalto addresses. Since 2012 it has appointed three new and are usually above and beyond local rules and regulations. anti-bribery training and newsletters including these topics were non-executive Board members from Asia and the US, Homaira sent to over 2,000 employees. Akbari, Yen Yen Tan and Drina Yue – all active businesswomen Our Code of Ethics Gemalto also focuses on third parties. Our Purchasing CSR who are contributing a diversity of skills and experience for the Gemalto applies high ethical and professional standards, charter applies equally to employees and suppliers, and clearly benefit of the Company as a whole. whether or not imposed by law. states both sides’ obligation to flag, address and monitor any For more information on Gemalto’s governance structure see corruption concerns or verified practices. pages 61–66 of our 2013 Annual Report. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 38 About Gemalto 02 Managing our business responsibly Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Risk management and control Our performance in detail 42 • Fraud risk management We have also developed business continuity responses to avoid A distinctive feature of our business or minimize disruption to customers and our business in the event is that security, and therefore risk • Transfer to insurance. of a crisis. These measures include greater standardization of management, is an intrinsic part of Internal audit production tools and processes for greater flexibility between sites; our solutions and devices. multi-sourcing strategies so that we are not dependent on a single We have a dedicated Internal Audit department of eight people supplier; and the creation of redundancy in our infrastructure so that assesses our risk management and internal control systems. As some potential risks could impact The internal audit work conforms to the International Standards that support is available in the event of a problem. We reinforce our business’s operational security, this by storing certain types of key data in back-up sites, so for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing as published by enabling our operations to continue uninterrupted even in the integrity and continuity, we see effective the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) and is certified accordingly. face of difficulties. risk management as part of our The team has direct and unlimited access to Group operations, documents and employee records. To guarantee his In 2013, we started to build a central business continuity responsibility to customers, investors, organization, framework and templates with the objective of independence, the Internal Audit Director reports directly to employees and other stakeholders. the Chief Financial Officer and has an open, independent line making our business continuity initiatives across the Company Our customers trust us to make it of communication with the Audit committee Chairman and the even more consistent and ingrained. integral to our service and our culture. CEO. He also holds private sessions with the Audit committee, at least annually. Risk management Crisis management and business continuity Since we cannot identify all the risks we may face, our crisis Risk assessment is carried out at all management levels: management organization and business continuity responses corporate (e.g. for acquisitions and Group-wide risks), business are there to improve our resilience to unforeseen events. This (e.g. for major bids and contracts), function (e.g. ISS), domain (e.g. fraud) and site (e.g. operational risks). proactive approach has enabled us to respond effectively to What’s next? issues when they arose, minimizing their impact on our Our principal risks and related mitigation steps are explained stakeholders and reputation. In 2014, we will continue to evolve and build on our on pages 44–45 of our Annual Report 2013. existing risk management framework, enhancing risk Our crisis management framework encompasses basic escalation We have developed five dedicated risk management processes management across the business in line with best and communication rules, guidelines for anticipation and action, practices. Our next set of priorities includes: across the organization: and clear roles and responsibilities. Over 100 crisis management leaders are in place worldwide, trained through simulation •S trengthening our resilience to business interruption • Budgeting, planning and reporting exercises. In 2013, we continued to update and refine our crisis •P erforming a new Enterprise Risk Assessment for the • Risk assessment and treatment management framework and plans and ran a full-day simulation 2014–2017 Development Plan. • Crisis and business continuity management exercise with our Board of Directors (in Istanbul). Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 39 About Gemalto 02 Managing our business responsibly Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Standards, compliance Valuing our people Managing our business responsibly 28 35 and management systems Our performance in detail 42 External certifications However, we have strict procurement, due diligence and ethics In addition, our anti-fraud commission conducts or commissions Our sites and management systems are compliant with several policies and safeguards to counter this eventuality, and we are regular internal security audits, which also cover IT subcontractors. ISO standards and are subject to annual assessment and external also compliant with the international ‘Wassenaar Arrangement’ As confirmation of our high standards, we are regularly granted certification. These include: Quality (ISO 9001), Environment (ISO relating to ‘dual use’ goods. These are defined as items or security certifications by a number of third parties (including 14001), Health and Safety (OHSAS 18001) and Security (ISO 27001). technologies normally used for civilian purposes but which ISO 27001, EMV, GSM SAS, etc.). could theoretically have military applications. To further reinforce this aspect of our business, we appointed a International frameworks Within Gemalto, this applies to products containing specific Director of Global Data Privacy in 2013. His role is to establish and We support and comply with the United Nations Universal cryptographic functionalities. Our Trade Compliance department maintain Gemalto’s institutional knowledge of laws and regulations, Declaration of Human Rights, and the International Labor declares all such products to the local Export Control authorities provide training to ensure compliance, advise and implement Organization’s standards. of each country where they are exported, and obtains policies and practices, strengthen our management of privacy an additional export license if necessary. risks and promote privacy protection in all our activities. Management systems Overall, this multi-faceted approach to data protection contributes We apply a set of management systems including Risk Data protection and security management; Security management; Environmental to our ambition to create a world-class organization trusted for its In the course of its business, Gemalto routinely processes management; and Quality management. management of privacy and security. significant amounts of data relating to its customers and their end-users, as well as to its suppliers and employees. Since it Financial responsibility Trade compliance is of paramount importance that everyone concerned trusts Gemalto is committed to ensuring that it is in full compliance with Gemalto follows a deep-rooted policy of responsible financial us to manage the confidentially and privacy of this data, its international, regional and local laws and regulations relative to management. This is fundamental to the way we run the protection is equally as important to us as it is to them. customs and trade controls applicable to the Group wherever it Company, as it is vital for its long-term resilience and a predoes business. This commitment is expressed through a dedicated The data is stored in sites and centers that we own or control requisite for doing business with many of our clients. network of Trade Compliance champions, operating under the around the world. It is held under the responsibility of our As a Dutch-registered company with dual listing in Amsterdam leadership of the Corporate Trade Compliance Manager. The Trade Corporate Security and IT departments and subject to the and Paris, we comply with market regulations and robust financial Compliance department also organizes regular training sessions stringent safeguards of our Security Management System (SMS). control systems in both France and The Netherlands. These on key topics at global and local levels to improve awareness and This is based on a set of policies, processes and dedicated tools, include examination of our financial management by external efficiency in Trade Compliance management. Since 2010, more as well as a people awareness program. Its remit encompasses independent auditors as well as review by Gemalto’s Board of than 1,100 people have been trained in this way. not only the logical security of the data (confidentiality, integrity Directors, particularly the Audit committee. Its Chairman is an and availability) and the protection of networks by the use of Gemalto is aware that in exceptional and unforeseeable independent member and a specialist in audit activities. firewalls and other means; but also the physical security of circumstances, its products and solutions could potentially our sites, centers, equipment, transport and personnel. Gemalto pays taxes in the countries where it operates (see our be redirected from their originally intended purpose. The implementation of our SMS is assured by a worldwide Annual Report 2013 for further details). In this Annual Report we organization with security officers in all relevant sites and centers, also disclose the bridge between our effective tax paid and the support from corporate and regional security departments, as Dutch statutory tax rate that we would have incurred if we had well as regular training for employees. operated solely in The Netherlands. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 40 About Gemalto 02 Managing our business responsibly Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Our performance in detail 42 Standards, compliance and management systems continued Quality and reliability RoHS, REACH and WEEE compliance The quality and reliability of our products We operate using a ‘make-to-order’ process rather than a ‘making We continue to focus on improving our processes to ensure that and solutions is central to our commercial to stock’, sourcing raw materials according to customer requests. our products comply with the following directives and regulations: offer and working methods. Indeed, during We also make components based on specific functional RoHS (Directive on the Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous our annual customer satisfaction survey, specifications rather than generic characteristics. This allows Substances in electrical and electronic equipment): we use our customers have systematically ranked us to create bespoke products tailored entirely to our customers’ accredited third-party laboratories to provide chemical analysis needs – and ensure punctual delivery. quality as one of our main strengths. of our smart card and reader products, and we ask our suppliers Our ‘World Class Enterprise Group’, a global unit of some 60 to assess their compliance. people, is dedicated to continuous quality improvement. Its members, REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and restriction of who have undergone comprehensive training, also anticipate Chemicals): we optimize our processes and tools to improve the forthcoming standards to ensure Gemalto is always in line with monitoring of our compliance with regulations relating to certain best practice and fully compliant with current and future regulations. substances identified by the European Chemical Agency (ECHA). Our annual ‘Operations Excellence Award’ scheme identifies the Our buyers and Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) managers best contributions to customer satisfaction, quality, service and worldwide now have access to our central database. cost improvements. In 2013 it had two gold award winners: one WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) regulation: for the ramp up of a new production unit to serve one of our key we ensure the robustness of our compliance process by markets; and the other for a new product enabling us to serve subcontracting the declaration of sold quantities and eco-tax our customers in a more efficient and flexible way. payments to external experts, such as the European Recycling Platform (ERP) company. Key figures 28 sites ISO 9001 certified 81% of employees covered by ISO 9001 certification Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 41 Our performance in detail Our performance in detail About Gemalto 02 Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Our performance in detail In this section: Recognized by awards p43 Performance indicators p44 Every year, we measure our performance against targeted objectives, evaluate the results and set new action plans. Photo: Protecting Brazil’s Amazon rainforest with award-winning technology (see next page) Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 42 About Gemalto 02 Our performance in detail Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Recognized by awards Our performance in detail 42 International recognition • Serverside’s solution for Barclays Bank’s personalized debit Every year, Gemalto receives a number of card won the Best Card Design Award in the UK. 2013 was again a very good year for Gemalto, and in the technical awards for its work. Being so recognized and innovation area our solutions and services were widely Gemalto also got awards in 2013 recognizing our expertise and is important because it highlights our rewarded as follows: state-of-the-art best practices in various domains: performance and positions us among • Our innovative M2M-based pilot that helped thwart illegal • Legal teams received the prize for Best Legal Department for other leading international companies. deforestation in the Amazon rainforest won IDG’s an International Company at the French Legal Trophies Beyond our expertise in the technology Computerworld Honors and a Sesames awards at Cartes 2013. • Our Risk Management approach won the second prize in the field, the work of many of our support The solution enables the Brazilian Environmental Protection Risk Assessment Category at the Risk Management Trophies teams and individuals is often recognized Agency to track trees being removed from protected areas. Rugged, discreet sensors with high performance wireless • We received the Grand Prize of the E-Learning Excellence by third parties. connectivity have been installed in the trees. They use Gemalto’s Awards for our eLearning and knowledge management initiatives Cinterion M2M technology to send out alarms before illegally logged timber can be sold (see photo page 42) • The evolution in design and content of our corporate magazine – The Review – permitted an unprecedented fifth consecutive • We won the Best LTE Security Product Award at the LTE win at the International Content Marketing Awards in the Best World Summit – our fifth prize in the advanced connectivity B2B Technology and Telecoms category. field in two years People being one of our three values, it is always a pleasure to • M2M Technology’s role in improving Hurricane Sandy see Gemalto employees in the spotlight: efforts was honored with Connected World 2013 Gold Value Chain Award • Caroline Vignollet received the French Woman of Industry trophy in the R&D and Digital category by magazine L’Usine Nouvelle • Once again thanks to our M2M technology we were the recipient of the iMobility Industry & Technology Award and • Eric Besson was named Professional of the Year at the Business the ERTICO HeERO Award for the use of M2M in the eCall Travel Laurels European pilot • Jean-Paul Caruana was given the Valorization and Transfer • We also gathered two Future Mobile Awards from Industry prize for his work on the Very High Data Rate (VHDR) Analyst Juniper Research for NFC and Mobile Payments contactless technology by the French Agency for Research. • Gartner positioned Gemalto as a Leader in its 2013 Magic Quadrant for User Authentication • Frost & Sullivan named us ‘2013 Company of the Year’ for the Global Digital Identification Market Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 43 About Gemalto 02 Our performance in detail Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Performance indicators Our performance in detail 42 Supporting our customers Reducing our environmental impact continued 2012 2013 2012 2013 Customer satisfaction Waste management (in ISO 14001 certified sites) Customer survey results 4,207 5,140 Total waste generated (tons) (18 sites) (22 sites) Confidence index over 1,000 per year 710 723 Valorized waste (tons) 3,641 4,187 % of satisfied and very satisfied customers 85 86 Non-valorized waste (tons) 566 953 Consumers % of valorized waste (reused or recycled including Social benefits of our products energy recovery) 87 81 Number of people for whom solutions make Hazardous waste per year (tons) 193 365 financial access possible (qty in million) 67 934 Non-hazardous waste per year (tons) 4,014 4,775 Online support to end-users/consumers (www.justaskgemalto.com) Transport Number of new tips created and posted 157 147 Global distribution of freight transportation modes (tons) Air 6,249 Air 6,357 Road 5,112 Road 4,309 Number of questions received 821 986 Sea 1,023 Sea 2,202 Global distribution of freight transportation modes Air 35,547,765 Air 37,124,832 Reducing our environmental impact (tons/km) Road 4,664,394 Road 4,647,555 Sea 12,910,173 Sea 27,208,751 2012 2013 CO2 Carbon footprint CO2 emission linked to product transportation Number of Gemalto sites having calculated their (outgoing freight) CO2 footprint 21 23 CO2 eq ton emissions Air 47,559 Air 49,751 Number of carbon compensated cards produced per year Road 4,204 Road 4,107 (qty in million) 10 9 Sea 88 Sea 185 Water consumption (in ISO 14001 certified sites) CO2 eq ton/product ton 4.2 4.2 132,959 124,314 CO2 eq kg/ton x km emissions 0.00098 0.00078 Total consumption per year (m3) (18 sites) (19 sites) Number of sites reporting on monthly basis CO2 emissions Consumption per employee and per year (m3) 16.27 14.45 linked to outgoing freight 15 16 Energy consumption (in ISO 14001 certified sites) CO2 eq emissions, linked to energy consumptions 46,484 41,035 (scope 1 & 2), in certified sites (18 sites) (22 sites) 128,851 113,269 Total consumption of electricity, gas and fuel (in MWh) (19 sites) (22 sites) Note All measurements are metric. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 44 About Gemalto 02 Our performance in detail Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Our performance in detail 42 Performance indicators continued Reducing our environmental impact continued Valuing our people continued 2012 2013 2012 2013 ISO 14001 certification Training Number of certified sites 20 22 Training satisfaction (%) 78 78 % of covered employees 71 77 Average hours of training per person trained 26 36 in Asia 28 49 Valuing our people in EMEA 26 25 2012 2013 in Latam 42 46 Headcount 10,000 12,000 in Noram 11 38 in Asia 26% Training budget (% of total salaries) 2 2 in EMEA 52% % of Gemalto employees trained during the year 55 75 in Latam 16% in Asia 40 70 in Noram 6% in EMEA 59 49 Number of different employee nationalities 106 113 in Latam 29 87 % of women 40 in Noram 81 85 % of employees having permanent contract 95.5 95.8 % of employees having received training with a CSR content among employees trained during the year 37 45 Turnover rate Number of trainings with a CSR content in the training Turnover rate (for ‘exempt’ employees) (%) 6.1 7.9 catalog 15 15 in Asia 9.6 11.1 % of trainings with a CSR content in the training catalog 27 27 in EMEA 3.2 5.5 in Latam 9.8 9.9 in Noram 7.1 10.7 Exempt employees ‘Exempt’ employees are those who, because of their responsibilities and level of authority, are exempt from Key overtime provisions. As in other organizations, they are expected to work the time needed to accomplish their goals. They are most often found in managerial, supervisory, professional, administrative and other leadership roles. Asia: Asia Pacific. Non-exempt employees EMEA: Europe, Middle East and Africa. ‘Non-exempt’ employees are those who, because of the type of duties they perform, their level of authority and Latam: Latin America. method of payment, are subject to overtime provisions. They are therefore paid for all overtime hours worked. Noram: North America. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 45 About Gemalto 02 Our performance in detail Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Our performance in detail 42 Performance indicators continued Valuing our people continued Valuing our people continued 2012 2013 2012 2013 Promotion from within Employee satisfaction survey % of top management positions filled in house (%) 92.5 94.5 Answer rate (%) 78 80 Recruitment and diversity Answer rate by position (%) Number of people recruited 2,346 1,841 Exempt 79 82 in Asia 1,071 793 Non-exempt 77 79 in EMEA 718 536 Answer rate by region (%) in Latam 467 392 in Asia 86 90 in Noram 90 120 in EMEA 68 71 Number of nationalities recruited 69 65 in Latam 91 91 Recruitment by gender and by position (qty) in Noram 86 88 Men 1,313 1,038 Satisfaction rate (%) 80 81 Exempt 687 583 Satisfaction rate by region (%) Non-exempt 626 455 in Asia 86 84 Women 1,033 803 in EMEA 73 77 Exempt 300 300 in Latam 85 85 Non-exempt 733 503 in Noram 81 81 Number of graduates hired directly from the schools Satisfaction rate by position and universities 214 201 Exempt 80 83 Women graduates hired directly from the schools and universities (%) 39.2 44.0 Non-exempt 80 79 Exempt employees working in a different country than their mother country (%) 22 22.8 % of expatriates within exempt population 4.8 4.30 Key Asia: Asia Pacific. EMEA: Europe, Middle East and Africa. Latam: Latin America. Noram: North America. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 46 About Gemalto 02 Our performance in detail Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Our performance in detail 42 Performance indicators continued Valuing our people continued Valuing our people continued 2012 2013 2012 2013 Appraisal Community % of exempt employees with annual interviews 98 96 ‘Your World’ corporate funding program in Asia 100 98 Number of ‘employee-community’ projects funded 57 71 in EMEA 97 94 in Asia 6 5 in Latam 98 98 in EMEA 23 27 in Noram 99 99 in Latam 19 26 Health and safety in Noram 9 13 OHSAS 18001 certification Number of employees involved 436 443 Number of certified sites 16 17 Total amount of social investment (in €) 68,146 99,394 % of covered employees 65 67 Number of major non-conformities 0 7 Employee accidents/injuries Number of injuries with lost time (LTI) 63 60 Number of lost working days (LWD) 858 1,082 Hazardous substances Number of hazardous substances concerned by REACH regulation 138 151 Number of hazardous substances monitored by Gemalto 239 239 Key Asia: Asia Pacific. EMEA: Europe, Middle East and Africa. Latam: Latin America. Noram: North America. Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 47 About Gemalto 02 Our performance in detail Our approach to sustainability 08 Supporting our customers 17 Reducing our environmental impact 23 Valuing our people 28 Managing our business responsibly 35 Our performance in detail 42 Performance indicators continued Managing our business responsibly Managing our business responsibly continued 2012 2013 2012 2013 Supply chain Employee training (number of trained employees) % of suppliers who have signed the Purchasing Charter Legal and regulatory training among key suppliers 92 87 (Trade compliance, CFIUS, Contracts basics, Authority limits, Code of Ethics*, Bribery laws*, Number of suppliers who have signed the Purchasing sexual harassment*, etc.) 1,269 1,668 Charter among key suppliers 125 110 Training on fraud related matters** 767 730 Number of CSR suppliers’ audits eLearning focused on anti-bribery 1,062 Full CSR scope suppliers’ audits 5 1 Internal audit Partial CSR audits (suppliers’ audits including some questions on CSR topics Internal audits focused on fraud risk or partially motivated that have been conducted during the year and inducing by fraud concerns (qty) 25 15*** an audit report) 5 10 Security ISO 27001 certification Number of certified sites 9 8 Quality ISO 9001 certification Number of certified sites 26 28 % of covered employees 76 81 % of reduction of significant customers’ claims, compared to previous year –5.58 –18 * Figures were not disclosed in previous reports ** Legal trainings not included as in previous reports: now have been moved into business practices trainings *** Suppliers’ audit are now reported separately Note Key suppliers are the main ones, which represent the biggest part of our purchasing spending (using the 20/80 principle). Gemalto Sustainability Report 2013 48
