ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CONTENTS UPM Annual Report 2013 Contents UPM Group UPM in brief 1 Review by the President and CEO 3 Strategy 5 UPM as an investment 9 Financial targets and earnings sensitivities 11 Risk management 12 Businesses UPM Biorefining 13 UPM Energy 15 UPM Raflatac 17 UPM Paper Asia 19 UPM Paper ENA 21 UPM Plywood 23 Innovations and new business development 25 Stakeholders Finding the right fit with stakeholder dialogue 27 Continuous collaboration with customers 31 Suppliers are an integral part of UPM value creation 33 People enable company transformation 35 Focus on safety and wellbeing 38 Responsibility UPM’s Biofore strategy represents a commitment to sustainable development 39 Taking care of the entire lifecycle 43 Waste is today’s new material 44 Climate actions recognised and energy efficiency improved 45 UPM ensures that all wood is sustainably sourced 47 More results with responsible water management 48 UPM’s material balance 2013 49 GRI content index 51 Independent assurance report 53 Corporate governance Corporate governance 54 Management remuneration 58 Board of Directors 61 Group Executive Team 63 Corporate Governance Statement 136 Accounts for 2013 Contents 66 Key financial information 2004–2013 139 Production plants and sales network 141 Addresses 144 Annual General Meeting 146 UPM does not publish a separate environmental and corporate responsibility report but has integrated the contents into this annual report. Various highlights from the year 2013 can be found under the sections for each business area. The GRI content index is on pages 51–52. To find out more about UPM’s responsibility agenda, please visit www.upm.com/responsibility. UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM – The Biofore Company SALES, OPERATING PROFIT, MARKET CAPITALISATION, EUR MILLION EUR MILLION*) EUR MILLION UPM integrates bio and forest industries and builds a sustainable future across six business areas. 2013 2012 10,054 10,492 -4% 2013 2012 683 556 +23% 2013 2012 6,497 4,633 +40% *) excluding special items In 2013, UPM’s sales totalled EUR 10.1 billion. UPM has production plants in 14 countries and a global sales network. UPM employs approximately 21,000 employees worldwide. UPM shares are listed on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki stock exchange. At the end of 2013, UPM had 94,568 shareholders. UPM Biorefining UPM Biorefining consists of pulp, timber and biofuels businesses and plantation operations. UPM has four modern pulp mills in Finland and UPM Paper Asia UPM Paper Asia serves growing markets with fine papers in Asia and labelling materials globally. The operations Uruguay and four sawmills in Finland. UPM‘s biorefinery for producing consists of the UPM Changshu paper mill in China and labelwood-based renewable diesel will start up in summer 2014 in Finland. ling and packaging materials production lines at the UPM The main pulp customers are producers of tissue, speciality papers Tervasaari and UPM Jämsänkoski mills in Finland. The main and board as well as the oil and petrochemicals industry for biofuels. customers are retailers, printers, publishers, distributors and Timber customers are construction, joinery and furniture industries. paper converters. UPM Paper Asia seeks growth in office UPM aims to grow as a reliable pulp supplier and seeks growth in papers in China and the Asia-Pacific region, and in labelling advanced biofuels. materials worldwide. Our products are made of renewable raw materials and are recyclable. With our new business structure we will drive transformation and seek to further develop our business portfolio. UPM Plywood UPM Energy UPM Plywood offers plywood UPM Energy generates and veneer products, mainly cost competitive low-emisfor construction, transport and sion energy and operates other manufacturing industries. in physical and derivatives UPM is the leading plywood trading on the Nordic and supplier in Europe, with proCentral European energy duction in Finland, Estonia and markets. UPM’s energy genRussia. UPM Plywood aims to eration capacity consists of improve profitability and the value offering and service hydropower, nuclear power, condensing power and UPM Raflatac UPM Paper ENA packages for selected wind power. UPM Energy end-use customers. (Europe and North America) UPM Raflatac manufactures self-adhesive label materials for product and aims to grow on the Nordic information labelling for label printers and brand owners in the food, personal UPM Paper ENA produces magazine paper, newsprint CO2 emission-free energy Other operations care, pharmaceutical and retail segments, for example. UPM Raflatac is and fine papers for a wide range of end uses in market. the second-largest producer of self-adhesive label materials worldwide. 18 modern paper mills in Europe and the United States. UPM Raflatac aims to advance in growth markets and strengthen its position The main customers are publishers, retailers, printers in specialty labelstock products. Wood Sourcing and Forestry secures competitive and distributors. UPM has a global paper sales network wood and biomass for all UPM businesses using and an efficient logistics system. UPM Paper ENA wood and manages UPM-owned forests. In addifocuses on cost leadership and improved profitability tion, UPM offers a wide range of wood trade and to secure cash flow. forestry services to forest owners and forest investors. UPM Biocomposites and UPM Biochemicals CONTENTS units are also included in Other operations. In brief 1 UPM AS A COMPANY 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 2 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Our transformation continues – with a new gear More with Biofore – Resource efficiency as the cornerstone of UPM UPM aims to create more with less in all its operations. The efficient use of raw materials and energy brings savings in terms of the environment and costs. Water • We reduce water consumption and effluent load by investing in effluent treatment plants and developing production processes • UPM has reduced its specific wastewater volumes by approximately 25% and its effluent load (COD) per tonne of pulp by 50% in the last ten years Energy • We increase energy efficiency by innovating and sharing best practices between the mills During 2013, we launched a number of • The share of fossil fuels is reduced by Satisfactory results in 2013 the growth markets. Despite challenging curUPM’s business outlook for the first half focusing on the use of renewable energy measures to increase profitability. In terms of business performance, rency developments in Asia, the performance of of 2014 is broadly stable. UPM has a versatile • UPM has decreased its electricity Our growth initiatives also proceeded well. 2013 started off with a brisk headUPM Paper Asia was satisfactory. business portfolio with many well performing consumption by 20% per tonne of paper wind but ended with satisfactory businesses. and reduced the share of fossil fuels by results thanks to the many profit Responsibility brings Our spearhead investment project is proapproximately 10% in the past ten years improvement measures. Operating competitive advantages ceeding according to plan. The Lappeenranta profit excluding non-recurring items Sustainable and responsible operations are at biorefinery reached full construction height Raw materials and waste The implementation of the new company busiimproved to EUR 683 million (556 million). the core of UPM’s Biofore strategy. We are last year and will start the production of • We focus on seeking versatile and innovative ways to utilise every fibre of ness structure was a major milestone. The busiThanks to a strong operating cash flow we were strongly committed to continuous improvement renewable wood-based diesel during the sumthe renewable and recyclable wood ness group structure introduced in 2008 had able to reduce our net debt by EUR 170 million in economic, social and environmental performer of 2014. The advanced renewable diesel is biomass that we use as raw material fulfilled its purpose. Within that framework throughout the course of the year. mance. To enhance transparency towards our made from crude tall oil, a residue from pulp • Approximately 90% of the production we created commercial platforms and marketIn particular, the UPM Biorefining, UPM stakeholders, we have adopted the Global production. waste is reused driven business organisations for Energy and Plywood and UPM Paper ENA (Europe and Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting frameRenewable diesel opens up a new horizon Pulp. We also achieved profitability turnaround North America) business areas were able to work. Our target is sustainable operations that for the company’s growth prospects. In the Eco-labels in the Timber and Plywood businesses and improve their performance significantly through will bring us competitive advantages in various longer term, also biocomposites and biochem• Eco-labels demonstrate a good restructured our European Label business. active internal measures. businesses. icals will complement UPM’s range of new environmental performance These are all now healthy UPM businesses in Many pulp mills in the UPM Biorefining Also in 2013, UPM’s consistent work in products. • The share of eco-labeled products their own right. business area were able to break their production the area of responsibility received third-party The versatile use of forest biomass, increased by 7% to 75% in 2013 The new business structure is based on six records last year which boosted our pulp volrecognition. The company was again listed competitiveness and being at the forefront of compared to the previous year business areas and is already off to a good start. umes. The granting of permission to increase in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. The developments will advance UPM’s Biofore UPM sees by-products and waste We expect that the new structure will sharpen pulp production in the UPM Fray Bentos mill in companies which perform better against susstrategy in 2014. The transformation of the as today’s new raw materials. UPM’s focus the focus, targets and required actions for each Uruguay also had a positive impact on the tainability criteria than their competitors are company has proceeded rapidly and I am on resource efficiency has produced innobusiness. results for the final quarter of 2013. selected in the indices. proud of the change readiness that UPMers vations, where non-renewable materials At the same time we also announced Plywood performance has improved consistOur efforts to make UPM a safer place to have shown in the face of these changes. This can be replaced with renewables. UPM a short-term profitability improvement proently throughout the year. Both the sales strategy work were successful for a second year in a row. gives us confidence in proceeding further with BioVerno, UPM ProFi and UPM Formi are gramme targeting EUR 200 million in cost and production efficiency have been in manageThe Step Change in Safety programme has our profitability and growth initiatives. examples of these products. Resource effisavings by the end of 2014. The implementation ment’s particular focus with excellent results. reduced the accident frequency by over 60% in Our goal is to enhance the value of UPM cient innovations are also made in producof the programme is proceeding rapidly and In Paper ENA, decreasing volumes and prices two years. Every UPMer can take pride in businesses. The Board’s dividend proposal tion technologies and logistics. by Q4 we had achieved 48% of the targeted as well as unfavourable exchange rates were creating a safer working culture within UPM. of EUR 0.60 indicates the owners’ confidence savings. sources of serious headwind throughout the year There is still some way to go, but we are on the in UPM’s stable outlook and its ability to We have also set ourselves clear targets over and called for strong cost-saving actions. By the right track. reinvent itself. Read more the next three years for focused growth initiaend of the year the business had managed to The cases in the annual report and at www.upm.com/responsibility tives in biofuels, wood-free uncoated speciality restore its profitability to the level of the previous Outlook papers and labelling materials in China, label year and had a significantly more competitive Growth in the European economy is expected materials and pulp production.These projects cost structure than in early 2013. to remain low in 2014, but also to improve from aim to increase EBITDA by EUR 200 million. UPM Energy was able to maintain unchanged last year. Growth in the US and in developing In parallel with this process we also seek to average electricity prices. In UPM Raflatac there economies is expected to continue to outperJussi Pesonen simplify our business portfolio. were positive sales developments, particularly in form Europe. President and CEO CONTENTS Review by the President and CEO 3 UPM AS A COMPANY 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 4 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Shifting gear in UPM transformation Vision Purpose Values As the frontrunner of the new forest industry UPM leads We create value from renewable and Trust and be trusted the integration of bio and forest industries into a new, recyclable materials by combining Achieve together In 2013, UPM adopted a new business structure to facilitate UPM transformation sustainable and innovation-driven future. Cost leadership, expertise and technologies within fibreRenew with courage and performance and to drive clear change in profitability. Profit improvement change readiness, engagement and safety of our people based, energy-related and engineered form the foundation of our success. materials businesses. target is EUR 400 million from performance improvement and focused growth initiatives. Wood-free speciality papers and 3 Biofuels: Lappeenranta biorefinery labelling materials in China: Changshu expansion Pulp: 10% capacity increase 2 EBITDA target for UPM Biorefining UPM Paper Asia Business port­folio development and value creation growth iniatives EUR 200 million Self-adhesive labels: Advancing in growth markets and in higher UPM Raflatac value added products 1 Profit improvement programme EUR 200 million UPM Plywood 4 New business development UPM Energy Biofuels Biocomposites UPM Paper ENA Biochemicals The size of pictures corresponds the businesses’ portion of the Group’s EBITDA. CONTENTS Strategy 5 UPM AS A COMPANY 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 6 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Biofore strategy in a changing nesses in order to capture opportunities and EVENTS operating environment mitigate challenges in both the short and long The world around us is changing rapidly and term. 17 Jan: UPM changes Paper and Energy the future will bring both opportunities and businesses’ asset values to reflect the fair values challenges that we have never experienced New business structure to 14 March: UPM wins Sustainable Biofuels before. Global demand for resources – oil, food, facilitate UPM transformation Award in Rotterdam water and energy – is surging, driven by global and performance population growth, urbanisation and a growing In 2013, UPM adopted a new business struc11 June: UPM signs joint development agreement middle class in the emerging markets. Climate ture. The company now consists of the followUPM BIOFORE STRATEGY IN ACTION 2013 with Renmatix Inc. in biochemicals change has already emerged as a major global ing business areas: UPM Biorefining (pulp, phenomenon. Furthermore, the shifting of biofuels and sawn timber), UPM Energy, UPM 17 June: UPM and Ashland Inc. announce Business area Strategic targets Actions in 2013 economic power from West to East and the Raflatac, UPM Paper Asia, UPM Paper ENA collaboration on application development for UPM BIOREFINING Growth in cost-competitive, high quality Increased production permit for UPM Fray Bentos pulp mill in Uruguay increasing pace at which business is conducted (Europe and North America) and UPM PlyUPM’s biofibrils technology pulp and advanced biofuels Debottlenecking actions identified in all pulp mills targeting 10% increase in production capacity and digital technologies are becoming inte­ wood. Other operations include UPM’s wood Efficient sawn timber business grated into our everyday lives is changing sourcing and forestry and UPM Biocomposites 6 Aug: UPM announces its new business Strategic pulp sales and marketing co-operation with Canfor Pulp structure to be effective 1 November 2013 Utilise synergies and increase value added the operating environment considerably. and UPM Biochemicals business units. Each Continued construction of Lappeenranta biorefinery to produce wood-based renewable diesel, in biorefining UPM’s Biofore strategy fits well into this business area has a defined strategic role and recruitment and training of operational personnel started 12 Sept: UPM renews its world-class position changing world. clear targets, outlined in the adjacent table. Sale of Pestovo sawmill in Russia, Aigrefeuille further processing mill in France and Kaukas in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Renewables: UPM’s products are based With the new structure, UPM aims to: further processing operations in Finland on sustainably sourced renewable raw materials. Adopt a lean and simple structure: 16 Sept: UPM Formi wins Technology Innovation More with Biofore: Making more out The new structure enables faster decision makAward for plastic industry in China UPM ENERGY Expand in reliable, cost-competitive and Continued OL3 construction of less is central to UPM’s resource efficiency as ing and more differentiated target setting for the low-emission power generation 24 Oct: UPM announces plans to streamline OL4 planning well as a major source of cost efficiency. various businesses. The simplified organisation Value creation with physical trading and Recycling: Most of UPM’s products are is cost efficient and scalable to the business global functions and wood sourcing and forestry hedging Refurbishment of hydropower plants continued recyclable and UPM recycles many of them needs. into new products such as paper, biocomposites Drive performance: UPM aims for and energy. top business area performance in its respective UPM RAFLATAC Growth through product renewal and Growth in emerging markets continued based on expansion of distribution terminal in emerging markets network in 2012 Energy: In energy generation, whether in markets. To get a strong start towards this goal, Finland, under construction and coming into electricity, heat or biofuels, UPM’s operations UPM announced a short-term profitability operation in summer 2014. Other new busiGrowth based on new higher value added products continued are based on reliable, low-emission and costimprovement programme targeting EUR 200 nesses include biocomposites that are already Manufacturing operations in Switzerland, South Africa and Australia discontinued competitive energy sources. UPM is continumillion of annualised cost savings by the end being marketed to customers as well as bioas part of the profit improvement programme ously improving its energy efficiency. of 2014 as compared with Q2 2013. The prochemicals and biofibrils that are currently in Growth markets: UPM has an attracgramme includes both variable and fixed cost the development phase. UPM PAPER ASIA Growth in Chinese and Asian paper Investment in the new production unit for wood-free speciality papers and labelling materials tive platform for growth in Asia, Latin America savings and involves all business areas. markets at UPM Changshu, China and Eastern Europe in pulp, paper, label mateCapture growth opportunities: Focus on responsibility Growth in the global label papers market rials and wood products businesses – serving UPM has several businesses with attractive and leadership the growing consumption in a sustainable way. long-term fundamentals for growth and profitCorporate responsibility is an integral part of Efficient operations: Cost efficiency and ability. UPM has defined a portfolio of organic all our operations and is seen as a source of UPM PAPER ENA Cash flow generation and cost efficiency New, leaner organisation scalable operations are important in all busigrowth initiatives for the next three years and competitive advantage. UPM is strongly comConsolidation in Europe Profitability improvement actions involving fixed and variable cost savings nesses, but form the cornerstone of success in targets additional EBITDA of EUR 200 million mitted to continuous improvement in economic, Closure of UPM Stracel and UPM Docelles (closed in January 2014) paper mills in France, the mature European and North American when all the initiatives are in operation. The social and environmental performance. Over UPM Rauma PM3 in Finland and UPM Ettringen PM4 in Germany graphic paper business. growth initiatives include the renewable diesel the past years, UPM has focused heavily Construction of CHP power plant investment at UPM Schongau, Germany, continued Innovation: UPM’s knowhow and strong biorefinery in Lappeenranta, Finland, a 10% on improving safety at work and on further position in the wood processing – or biorefining increase in pulp production capacity through improving the environmental performance of – value chain is utilised to innovate new sustaindebottlenecking actions in all four existing pulp production units. Special attention has also UPM PLYWOOD Operational efficiency and flexibility Increased productivity on the restructured production assets able businesses with large target markets and mills, the new production unit for wood-free been paid to contractor safety. (Read more Improved sales following the customer-driven organisation initiated in 2012 higher value added. Many of these new renewspeciality papers and labelling materials at on pages 38 and 39). able alternatives will replace non-renewable UPM Changshu, China and continued growth Achieving the ambitious targets requires NEW BUSINESS UPM Biocomposites: Business creation and UPM Formi commercialisation progressed with several customers in various end-use segments products. in self-adhesive labelstock in emerging markets high performing people and teams to drive market entry in UPM Formi and continued DEVELOPMENT Responsibility: UPM applies the same and higher value added products. business transformation. This also highlights growth in UPM ProFi biocomposites high standards for environmental performance, Develop the business portfolio: the importance of being an attractive employer UPM Biochemicals: Further application Joint development agreement with Renmatix Inc. in biochemicals safety at work, sourcing and code of conduct UPM now has the opportunity to decide on with inspiring and empowering leaders who development of biofibrils and biochemicals Co-operation agreement with Ashland Inc. on development for UPM’s biofibrils technology everywhere in the world. how to best uncover and increase the value of offer diverse opportunities to perform and The majority of the global change drivers its business portfolio. This process may involve grow. To ensure the sustainable success of our support UPM’s businesses in the long term, but changes to ownership structures. businesses and the people who make it happen, WOOD Secure competitive biomass Sold 36,000 hectares of forest land remote from UPM mills they do not affect all UPM businesses equally. Create new businesses: Biofuels is UPM’s management is paying special attention SOURCING AND Development of supply chain efficiency and services This means that strategic direction, targets and a good example of UPM innovation, with the to performance orientation and employee FORESTRY Implementation of a new way of operating actions vary throughout different UPM busirenewable diesel biorefinery in Lappeenranta, engagement. DRIVERS FOR UPM’S BUSINESSES • Energy prices and security • Ageing population in developed markets • Digitalisation – from print to screen • Raw materials scarcity LOW-EMISSION AND of supply FAST MOVING CONADVERTISING, • Sustainability and renewability • GDP growth, urbanisation and growing • Change in economic gravity BIO-BASED MATERIALS RENEWABLE ENERGY • Integrating European markets SUMER GOODS, RETAIL OFFICE COMMUNICATION • Replacing oil-based materials middle class in emerging markets from mature to emerging markets • Climate change • Recycling and reusing CONTENTS Strategy 7 UPM AS A COMPANY 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 8 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM as an investment UPM aims to increase profitability, 5-YEAR SHARE PERFORMANCE AND VALUATION MULTIPLES UPM share price 2009–2013 UPM share price 2009–2013 and total shareholder return compared with indices growth outlook and the value of its 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 EUR EUR business portfolio. The target is to 20 Share price at 31 Dec, EUR 12.28 8.81 8.51 13.22 8.32 20 simplify and develop the business Earnings per share, excluding special items, EUR 0.91 0.74 0.93 0.99 0.11 16 portfolio to uncover and increase Dividend per share, EUR 0.60 *) 0.60 0.60 0.55 0.45 16 its value. Operating cash flow per share, EUR 1.39 1.98 1.99 1.89 2.42 12 12 8 8 Effective dividend yield, % 4.9 6.8 7.1 4.2 5.4 P/E ratio 19.5 neg. 9.2 13.4 75.6 4 4 P/BV ratio1) 0.87 0.62 0.60 0.97 0.66 UPM aims to increase EV/EBITDA ratio2) 8.3 6.0 5.8 7.6 7.6 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 shareholder value 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 At the business area level, UPM targets top UPM share price UPM share price Market capitalisation, EUR million 6,497 4,633 4,466 6,874 4,326 DJ STOXX 600 (rebased) performance in their respective markets. To Total shareholder return*) NASDAQ OMX Helsinki (rebased) reach this target, UPM has announced a *) 2013: Board’s proposal *) Assuming dividens reinvested in the company prof­itability improvement programme target1) P/BV ratio = Share price at 31.12./Equity per share ing EUR 200 million in cost savings by the 2) EV/EBITDA ratio = (Market capitalisation + Net debt)/EBITDA end of 2014 compared to Q2 2013 earnings. To expand the well performing businesses with positive long term fundamentals, UPM Sales 2013*) EBITDA 2013 Capital employed 2013 will implement designated growth initiatives EUR 10,054 million EUR 1,155 million EUR 11,583 million over the next three years, targeting additional EBITDA of EUR 200 million when all the portfolio changes that increase UPM’s sharegain external recognition in 2013 (read more initiatives are in full operation. holder value. on page 10). ■ UPM Biorefining ■ UPM Biorefining ■ UPM Biorefining ■ UPM Energy ■ UPM Energy ■ UPM Energy UPM is seeking to simplify and develop Responsibility is an integral part of UPM’s ■ UPM Raflatac ■ UPM Raflatac ■ UPM Raflatac its business portfolio in order to uncover and Biofore strategy. Good corporate governance, Dividend policy ■ UPM Paper Asia ■ UPM Paper Asia ■ UPM Paper Asia increase its value. Increasing the share of target-oriented leadership, appropriate working UPM intends to pay an annual dividend of ■ UPM Paper ENA ■ UPM Paper ENA ■ UPM Paper ENA highly profitable businesses with good fundaconditions and community involvement are at least one third of the net cash flow from ■ UPM Plywood ■ UPM Plywood ■ UPM Plywood mentals for growth improves the company’s essential to UPM’s way of working. oper­ating activities minus operational capital ■ Other operations ■ Other operations long term profitability and boosts the value UPM’s expertise in renewable and recyclable expenditure. To promote dividend stability, of the shares. materials, low-emission energy and resource net cash flow will be calculated as an average Strong operating cash flow is important efficiency is the key to developing new, sustainover a three-year period. Remaining funds *) Unconsolidated for UPM as it enables the realisation of organable business opportunities with high added will be shared between growth capital expendic growth initiatives and new business developvalue. Proactive corporate responsibility work iture and debt reduction. The net cash flow ment, as well as paying attractive dividends also enables business impacts and risks to be from oper­ating activities for 2013 was EUR to UPM shareholders. The company aims to efficiently identified and mitigated. UPM’s 735 million and operational capital expendimaintain a strong balance sheet to enable consistent efforts in this area continued to ture was EUR 209 million. AMONG THE WORLD’S LEADERS IN SUSTAINABILITY Cash flow-based dividend policy Profitability of UPM’s business areas UPM’s Biofore strategy received external recognition in 2013 for its climate, forestry and EURm EUR per share EURm EBITDA margin, % innovation actions. 1,500 1.0 500 50 UPM regained its position in both the Dow Jones 400 40 1,200 0.8 European and World Sustainability Indices (DJSI) 300 30 for 2013-2014. UPM was also assessed as the 900 0.6 industry leader in environmental sustainability 200 20 within the Paper and Forest Products sector, 600 0.4 100 10 with top scores. 300 0.2 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Innovation plays a key role in developing 0 0 -100 -10 resource-efficient solutions for a more sustaina09 10 11 12 13 ble world. In March, UPM Biofuels received ■ Operational capex ■ UPM Biorefining the Sustainable Biofuels Award for its success in ■ Cash flow from operating activities ■ UPM Energy developing an innovative production process for minus operational capex ■ UPM Raflatac an advanced renewable diesel, UPM BioVerno. Actual dividend, Board’s proposal for 2013 ■ UPM Paper Asia Minimum dividend based on dividend policy So, even before production has started, UPM’s ■ UPM Paper ENA ■ UPM Plywood wood-based diesel production process has ■ Other operations won a major international prize. Read more: www.upm.com/responsibility CONTENTS UPM as an investment 9 UPM AS A COMPANY 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 10 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Risk management Earnings sensitivities Changing exchange rates can also have indirect effects, such as change in relative comUPM’s business operations are subject to various risks which may have an adverse petitiveness between currency regions. effect on the company. The list below is not complete but it explains some of the risks Changes in sales prices with their potential impacts and how UPM manages those risks today.1) The biggest factor affecting UPM’s financial results is the sales price of paper. A change in the FOREIGN CURRENCY NET CASH FLOW volume delivered has less than half of the effect Risk description Impact Management Financial targets EURm of the same percentage change in sales prices. USD 970 STRATEGIC Structural changes in paper usage Low operating rates and weak pricing Ensure cost efficiency of operations result in decline in paper demand which power in the industry Proactive product portfolio management Exchange rate risk GBP 440 RISKS leads to overcapacity UPM sets internal financial targets for Changes in exchange rates over a prolonged JPY 190 each business area and the whole Group. period have a marked impact on financial results. Others, total 120 Delay in OL3 nuclear plant start-up and Material cost overrun Ensure that contractual obligations are The financial targets emphasise the imporIt is the company’s policy to hedge an average consequent loss of profit and cost overruns met by both parties Arbitration proceedings have been initiated tance of cash flow and the financial flexof 50% of its estimated net currency cash flow by both parties ibility of the company in steering the for 12 months ahead. Cost structure businesses. At the end of 2013, UPM’s estimated net The company’s biggest cost items are the cost Cost of an acquisition proves high and/ Return on investment does not meet targets Disciplined acquisition preparation to ensure The company’s long-term target is an currency flow for the coming 12 months was of fibre raw material and personnel expenses. or targets for strategic fit and integration the strategic fit, right valuation and effective of operations are not met integration operating profit margin that exceeds 10%. EUR 1,720 million. The US dollar represented The return on equity target is at least five the biggest exposure, at EUR 970 million. Regulatory changes such as EU climate Subsidies for alternative uses of wood Communicate the employment and value-added percentage points above the yield of a COSTS, EXCLUDING DEPRECIATION policy and new requirements for CO2 raw material increase costs creation impacts of such policies clearly 10-year risk-free investment such as the emissions Changes to relative competitiveness Invest in new, value-adding uses of biomass % 2013 2012 Finnish government’s euro-denominated EFFECT OF A 10% CHANGE IN PRICES of energy forms Cost competitive operations Delivery of own products 11 11 bonds. At the end of 2013, the minimum ON OPERATING PROFIT FOR THE YEAR Wood and fibre 29 28 Increased cost of raw materials and potential Long-term sourcing contracts and relying target for return on equity, as defined OPERATIONAL Availability and price of major EURm Energy 10 10 production inputs like chemicals, fillers or production interruptions would lower profitability on alternative suppliers above, was 7.1%. RISKS roundwood Ownership of forestland and long-term The gearing ratio is to be kept below Papers in UPM Paper ENA 553 Fillers, coating and chemicals 12 12 forest management contracts 90%. Fine and speciality papers in Other variable costs 13 13 90 UPM Paper Asia Ability to retain and recruit skilled personnel Business planning and execution impaired, Competence development Personnel expenses 15 15 Label materials 121 affecting long-term profitability Incentive schemes Other fixed costs 10 11 Plywood 39 Total 100 100 Sawn timber 29 Costs totalled EUR 9.1 billion in 2013 FINANCIAL Major trading currencies like USD Stronger euro weakens profitability of exports Hedging net currency exposure weaken against euro and attracts competitive imports to euro area on a continuous basis Chemical pulp (net effect) 13 (2012: 9.4 billion) RISKS Hedging the balance sheet Payment default or customer bankruptcy Loss of income Active management of credit risks and use of credit insurance HAZARD Environmental risks; Damage to reputation, possible sanctions Maintenance, internal controls and reports A leak, spill or explosion Direct cost to clean up and to repair potential Certified environmental management systems RISKS damages to production unit, loss of production (ISO 14001, EMAS) Physical damage to the employees Harm to employees and damage to reputation Occupational health and safety systems or property Damage to assets or loss of production Loss prevention activities and systems Operating profit excluding ROE compared with target Net interest-bearing liabilities and Emergency and business continuity procedures special items compared with target gearing % of sales % EURm Gearing % 12 12 5,000 100 1) A more detailed description of risks and risk management is included in the Report of the Board of Directors on page 67. 4,000 80 9 9 3,000 60 6 6 2,000 40 3 3 1,000 20 0 0 0 0 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 ■ Operating profit excluding special items, ■ ROE excluding special items, % ■ Net interest-bearing liabilities % of sales Minimum target Gearing ratio, % Target > 10% CONTENTS Financial targets and risk management 11 UPM AS A COMPANY 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 12 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Biorefining – Growth initiatives in KEY FIGURES 2013 2012 PULP PRODUCTION CAPACITY renewable diesel and pulp debottlenecking Sales, EURm Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 1,988 300 1,970 248 1,000 t/a UPM Fray Bentos January 2014 1,200 Capital employed (average), EURm 2,825 2,806 UPM Kaukas 740 ROCE excl. special items, % 10.6 8.8 UPM Pietarsaari 790 UPM Biorefining provides a versatile range Business performance BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Personnel on 31 Dec. 2,376 2,674 UPM Kymi 570 of chemical pulp for many growing end Operating profit increased due to higher pulp Pulp deliveries, 1,000 t 3,163 3,128 Production capacity, total 3,300 uses, such as tissue and speciality papers sales prices and increased deliveries. In sawn SALES and board, as well as printing and writing timber business, restructuring measures together 2013 1,988 +1% papers. with higher delivery volumes and sales prices 2012 1,970 EUR million resulted in improved profitability. Fixed costs UPM is an active operator in the global In November, UPM and Canfor Pulp UPM’s annual chemical pulp production decreased in spite of preparation of the commerpulp market as a reliable pulp supplier for Products Inc. entered into a strategic sales and capacity is 3.3 million tonnes, produced in cial launch of UPM BioVerno, UPM’s renewcustomers. In 2013, 1.9 million (1.6 million) marketing co-operation agreement, starting in Global end-use distribution OPERATING PROFIT *) +52 four modern, efficient pulp mills in Finland able diesel. tonnes of UPM’s total annual pulp production January 2014. UPM’s sales network represents of chemical pulp and Uruguay. 2013 300 capacity of 3.3 million tonnes were sold to and co-markets Canfor Pulp’s products in Business development 2012 248 EUR million external customers. Europe and China, while Canfor Pulp’s sales ■ Printing and Writing UPM is building the world’s first biorefinery In the UPM Biorefining business area, UPM UPM aims to grow further as a pulp pronetwork represents and co-markets UPM Pulp ■ Tissue producing wood-based renewable diesel. combines integrated production of pulp, renew*) excluding special items ducer, with its strengths being high quality, in North America and Japan. This co-operation ■ Specialty Production will start in summer 2014. able diesel, sawn timber and energy with a joint efficient logistics and the ability to provide provides customers with the most versatile ■ Other/Fluff supply chain of wood raw materials. Pulp mills different pulp grades sustainably with outstandrange of northern softwood, birch, eucalyptus ■ Packaging UPM’S The pulp mills produce renewable energy produce renewable energy in their recovery ing environmental performance. and mechanical pulp available on the global in their recovery boilers and provide boilers and provide CO2-neutral biomass-based OPERATING PROFIT 2013 In 2013, UPM continued to develop its global market, in combination with world-class (excl. special items) CO2-neutral biomass-based electricity for electricity. As a residue of the pulp production, pulp sales and marketing organisation around technical service. the Nordic and Uruguayan markets. mills produce crude tall oil, which is the raw the world, including logistics and supply chain. In 2013, UPM completed the rebuild of the Source: Hawkins Wright material in the world’s first biorefinery producPlantation-based pulp represents 36% of effluent treatment plant at the UPM Pietarsaari UPM operates four efficient sawmills in ing wood-based renewable diesel, in LappeenUPM’s total pulp production capacity. Forestal mill in Finland. The rebuild covered all the Finland offering certified sawn timber ranta, Finland. Sawmills have a central role in EUR Oriental, UPM’s eucalyptus plantation forestry main phases of waste water treatment and to its customers worldwide. the wood supply chain, as their by-products are 300 million, company in Uruguay, secures the supply of improves the mill’s production efficiency and used in the production of pulp and energy. In TOTAL 683 44% pulpwood for the UPM Fray Bentos pulp mill environmental performance. In 2013, the average softwood pulp (NBSK) UPM Biorefining, UPM benefits from efficient and is the centre of expertise for UPM plantaThe investment in the Lappeenranta bioremarket price was EUR 646/tonne (634/tonne) use of wood raw materials and integrated protion operations. finery proceeded according to schedule in 2013. and the average hardwood pulp (BHKP) marduction, where residues are refined into new The plantations are FSC® and PEFC™ The organisation was put in place, training of ket price was EUR 596/tonne (585/tonne). At value-added business. certified. UPM Forestal Oriental owns 234,000 operational staff began and commercial prepathe end of the year, the softwood pulp market hectares of land, approximately 60% of which rations were made. Production is scheduled to price was EUR 656/tonne (613/tonne) and the is planted with eucalyptus. The rest of the land start in the summer of 2014. The technology is hardwood pulp market price was EUR 557/ is used for cattle grazing and forestry-related based on UPM innovation and provides synertonne (587/tonne). infrastructure, or is protected and not used for gies with the existing businesses. As a product, Global chemical pulp shipments increased +25% plantation operations. UPM BioVerno is of premium quality in terms by 2% from the previous year. Shipments to UNIQUE MARKET POSITION IN ASIA In August, UPM announced plans to of greenhouse gas emissions and energy conChina and North America increased by 5%, expand production capacity in its pulp mills by tent. There is no blending wall and it is refined while shipments to Western Europe remained EXTERNAL PULP SALES In the past three years, UPM’s pulp sales in China and approximately 10% through debottlenecking from a sustainable residue from pulp producthe same. the Asia Pacific region (APAC) have multiplied more investments. Work started at the UPM Pietartion. The sustainability requirements of EU Sawn timber demand increased in 2013. The than five times. At the same time, the number of saari mill in autumn 2013 and, following combiofuel regulations are becoming stricter, thus increase was led by exports to Asia and North customers has multiplied by nine. The majority of pletion in summer 2014, will improve flexibility favouring UPM BioVerno, which is produced Africa. Demand in Europe remained fairly 3,163,000 Asian sales go to China but UPM has strengthened its presence geographically with new customers in South Korea, Indonesia, Taiwan and Vietnam. in the use of raw materials and increase mill production capacity. In October, the State of Uruguay granted outside of the food value chain and does not require indirect land use changes. (Read more on UPM BioVerno development on page 25.) stable. R&D TONNES PULP DELIVERIES permission for the UPM Fray Bentos mill to In its sawn timber business, UPM completed UPM has been able to reduce process water UPM focuses on customers operating in the growing increase its annual pulp production from the divestment of further processing operations consumption significantly in its pulp mills. In end-use areas of tissue, board and speciality papers. 1.1 million to 1.2 million tonnes. by selling the further processing mill in AigreUPM’s newest mill in Fray Bentos, Uruguay, Demand for their end products, such as facial tissues, feuille, France in October. In July, UPM sold the consumption of process water is among the toilet paper and label papers as well as packaging the Pestovo sawmill in Russia. UPM’s four lowest in the industry. board, is driven by urbanisation and economic growth. sawmills are closely integrated with the comIn plantations operations, development The biggest end-use area for UPM’s pulp in China is pany’s other mills using wood raw materials. work focuses on strengthening the tree breeding EVENTS programme and developing new frost-tolerant tissue. Demand for tissue papers is expected to grow by 7% in the next 5-10 years. 26 April: UPM and VTT initiate fleet tests of Market review eucalyptus clones in order to create more value wood-based diesel using Volkswagen cars Chemical pulp market prices increased during and improve productivity. UPM’s office in Shanghai is located close to its the first half of 2013. Softwood pulp (NBSK) UPM Pulp intensified joint development customers and the sales and service team is able to 15 July: UPM sells the Pestovo sawmill in Russia and hardwood pulp (BHKP) market prices activities with customers, mainly in Europe and support them or react promptly to any feedback or diverged during the second half of the year. China, in 2013. enquiries. Close co-operation with UPM’s global 14 Aug: UPM sells further processing operations Balanced market conditions supported In biofuels, R&D activities focused on at UPM Kaukas sawmill in Finland additional price increases for softwood market supporting the Lappeenranta biorefinery to R&D network enables technical analysis and studies in the local R&D centre in Changshu, China. pulp during the second half of 2013. The euroensure that the start-up is a success and support 2 Oct: UPM completes the sale of the Aigrefeuille denominated price remained stable as the USD/ the market entry of the UPM BioVerno renewfurther processing mill in France Read more: EUR exchange rate weakened. able diesel. www.upm.com/pulp 3 Oct: State of Uruguay grants UPM Fray Bentos In hardwood pulp, market prices decreased In the long term, one of the aims of mill permit to increase annual pulp production during the second half of the year as new research work is to extend biofuel production capacity entered the market impacting the to new processes and raw materials, such as 7 Nov: UPM and Canfor Pulp enter into supply-demand balance. pyrolysis oils and solid biomass. pulp sales co-operation CONTENTS UPM Biorefining 13 UPM as a company 1–12 BUSINESSES 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 14 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Energy – Profitability remained high KEY FIGURES CAPACITY TO GENERATE POWER 2013 2012 THROUGH OWN POWER PLANTS Sales, EURm 466 482 AND SHAREHOLDINGS Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 186 217 UPM Energy has a versatile set-up of cost Business performance BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Capital employed (average), EURm 2,882 3,266 Nominal MW competitive low-emission power generation Operating profit decreased due to lower hydroplants in Finland consisting of hydropower, power generation volumes in 2013 compared SALES ROCE excl. special items, % 6.5 6.6 Hydropower 708 nuclear power, condensing power and wind to record-high hydropower volumes in 2012 2013 466 -3% Personnel on 31 Dec. 92 101 Nuclear power 581 power. The electricity is sold on the Nordic as a result of exceptionally good hydrology in 2012 482 EUR million Electricity deliveries, GWh 8,925 9,486 Condensing power 320 electricity market. Finland. Thanks to a successful hedging stratWind power 1 egy the average electricity sales price increased UPM Energy in total 1,610 The total electricity generation capacity of by 2% to EUR 46.1/MWh (45.2/MWh). ProfitOPERATING PROFIT *) Combined heat and power the UPM Energy business area is 1,610 MW, -31 ability continued to be strong. 1,525 and hydropower at mill sites including UPM’s own hydropower plants 2013 186 remained above the long-term average. EVENTS Total UPM 3,135 and shareholdings in energy companies. Business development 2012 217 EUR million However, a prolonged period of dry weather UPM Energy operates on the Nordic electricity 9 April: UPM and Element Power establish a wind deteriorated the hydrological balance during UPM Energy’s largest shareholdings market in power generation and physical and *) excluding special items power development joint venture the third quarter, whereas wet weather condiinclude 44.7% of Pohjolan Voima Oy (PVO), financial trading. UPM’s versatile set-up of tions in the fourth quarter restored the balance ELECTRICITY GENERATION which is a majority shareholder (58.5%) cost competitive low-emission power genera12 June: UPM participates in PVO’s share issue to close to normal levels by year-end. UPM’S for Olkiluoto 3 with EUR 119 million in Teollisuuden Voima Oyj (TVO), and tion provides nuclear power as base load capacThe Nord Pool electricity system spot price TWh 2013 2012 19% of Kemijoki Oy’s hydropower shares. ity, hydropower as controllable capacity and OPERATING PROFIT 2013 was slightly higher than in the previous year, Hydropower 2.9 4.0 (excl. special items) condensing power as reliable peak load capacmainly due to a deteriorating hydrological Nuclear power 4.8 4.7 UPM owns nine hydropower plants in ity. UPM Energy is the second largest electricbalance in Scandinavia. The Finnish area price Condensing power 1.1 0.8 Finland. ity generator in Finland and is active in the was above the Nord Pool system price as transTotal 8.8 9.5 Nordic and Central European energy market UPM has continuously upgraded its hydromission cable maintenance work between for electricity, gas, coal and emission allowEUR power production assets. Through its ownership Finland and Sweden limited imports, and at ances. 186 million, of Länsi-Suomen Voima Oy, UPM decided to the same time imports from Russia remained Having achieved competence in physical TOTAL 683 27% refurbish and modernise the Harjavalta hydrolow. In the past, electricity has flowed from and derivatives trading and developed the power plant to increase generation capacity. At Russia to Finland at a fairly steady level based organisation over the past few years, UPM the Voikkaa hydropower plant, refurbishment on bilateral trade. Since 2011, electricity trade has turned its energy operations into a marketof the third unit was completed in 2013. between Finland and Russia has gradually driven utility business. Utilising its capacity In April, UPM and Element Power estabbecome price-driven, and import volumes are and trading competences, UPM Energy aims to lished a wind power development joint venture determined in the electricity exchange by the Electricity 1-year forward price grow on the Nordic CO2 emission-free energy company in order to develop wind power price levels in the markets on both sides of market. production possibilities at a number of sites the border. EUR/MWh throughout Finland, primarily on land leased The average Finnish area spot price on the 75 from UPM. Based on preliminary wind measNordic electricity exchange in 2013 was EUR +2% MORE VALUE IN HYDROPOWER urements, UPM has several land assets that are well suited to wind energy production. The largest ongoing project is at TVO, which 41.2/MWh, 13% higher than during the same period the previous year (EUR 36.6/MWh). As a result of a weak European economy 60 AVERAGE ELECTRICITY 45 is building a third nuclear power reactor, OL3, and oversupply of emission allowances, the SALES PRICE UPM is the owner or co-owner of four hydropower at Olkiluoto, Finland. The new unit will have CO2 emission allowance price decreased. The 30 plants operating on the Kokemäenjoki river in Finland. an annual nuclear power generation capacity of approval by a majority of EU member states 1,610 In 2013, UPM began to operate three of the plants. approximately 1,600 MW. In 2013, the civil for withdrawing (“backloading”) emission 15 MW construction works were completed and the allowances in the EU emissions trading system 0 Co-operation and co-ordination between plant main components of the reactor were installed. in the autumn did not stimulate the price in a 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 TOTAL ELECTRICITY owners has increased the production efficiency of Planning, documentation and licensing of the meaningful way. At the end of December, the EEX (Germany) GENERATION CAPACITY all power plants. Benefits of the co-operation are reactor plant automation continued. Through CO2 emission allowance price was EUR 4.7/t, NordPool (Nordic) Source: such as joint planning, transparency of processes and PVO, UPM is entitled to approximately 500 30% lower than on the same date the previous Finnish forward NASDAQ OMX, EEX better consideration of environmental aspects along MW of capacity, which accounts for approxiyear (EUR 6.7/t). the length of the river. mately 31% of the new plant’s output for the The Finnish area front-year forward price project. closed at EUR 38.9/MWh in December, 11% Thanks to its adjustability, hydropower plays an In June, UPM decided to participate in lower than on the same date last year (43.5/ integral part in the reliability of an energy system. the share issue from PVO to finance the OL3 MWh). Specific CO² emissions By co-ordinating and adjusting the operation of the in electricity generation project. UPM’s share of the issue is EUR 119 hydropower plants, UPM creates benefits for all of million, of which EUR 31 million was paid in R&D kg CO /MWh ² the power plant owners. Q2 2013. The remaining part of the share issue R&D work at UPM Energy focuses on improv1,200 will be implemented during the coming years ing the efficiency and cost competitiveness of 1,000 UPM’s hydropower plant renovation project will be based on the financing needs of the project. biomass-based energy technologies. continued in Harjavalta, where the plant will be In July 2010, the Finnish parliament ratified To reach its target, UPM Energy partici800 refurbished and modernised. The refurbishment will the government’s favourable decision-in-principle pates in several research programmes. These 600 increase generation capacity and adjustability, and concerning TVO’s application to construct programmes are looking for new innovative improve the operational efficiency and environmental OL4, its fourth nuclear power plant unit. UPM solutions to improve the design and operation 400 safety of the power plant. The project is scheduled for participates in the financing of the bidding and of large-scale energy conversion systems using 200 completion by the end of 2017 and will significantly engineering phase of OL4. biomass fuel mixtures. increase the production of renewable energy in Finland. In 2013, UPM Energy continued with the 0 Market review D Dr EI joint research programme covering the entire R x So WE a ut he rn ED Va E.O P UPM has systematically broadened and deepened its tte N nf The hydrological balance in Finland fluctuated value chain of biocoal, i.e. torrefied biofuel that Un Ed E ll io ipo ne a Do n G & n w l Fe er no Ib g: DF sh er El S dr sa u E CEZ ol m ez nB sa expertise in energy production, energy trading and ot a+ +E E W in 2013 and was on average lower than in 2012. is aiming to replace coal in energy production. ti Sc ne ro ot rg pe tis y u Sc h E2 Po w U er Fo PM rtu portfolio management in the last few years. Ve ED m During the first half of the year the balance The programme will be completed in 2014. r F St bun at d kr af tSource: PWC 2013, UPM CONTENTS UPM Energy 15 UPM as a company 1–12 BUSINESSES 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 16 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Raflatac – Healthy growth KEY FIGURES Advancing in rapidly growing markets in specialty labels and new markets Sales, EURm 2013 1,213 2012 1,202 Sales (Index 1.1.2004 = 100) Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 75 81 300 Capital employed (average), EURm 532 524 250 UPM Raflatac manufactures self-adhesive Business performance BUSINESS PERFORMANCE ROCE excl. special items, % 14.1 15.5 label materials for product and information Operating profit decreased from the previous 200 Personnel on 31 Dec. 2,869 2,873 labelling in industries such as food and year, mainly due to lower sales margin. SALES +1% 150 beverage, retail and logistics. Label Expanded operations enabled volume growth, 2013 1,213 100 materials are used for both high-volume more than offsetting the increase in fixed 2012 1,202 EUR million and specialised end-use applications. costs. Price pressure remained stiff. 50 Customers are mainly small and mediumBusiness development 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 OPERATING PROFIT *) sized label printers. However, in recent years, large label printers have become In the past few years, UPM Raflatac has expanded its product offering and presence in 2013 75 -6 Rapidly growing markets, all products Mature markets, high added value products an increasing part of UPM Raflatac’s rapidly growing markets, and has continued 2012 81 EUR million In growing markets such as Eastern stock demand is driven by private consumpMature markets, all products customer base and their role in the industry to strengthen its position in speciality labelEurope, Latin America and Asia, UPM tion and the remaining 20% depends on has also increased. stock products, particularly in developed mar*) excluding special items Raflatac has significantly enhanced its service industrial production. Continuous product kets. This growth strategy produced satisfying and manufacturing network by opening new development creates new end-use applications. Products are sold worldwide through results in 2013. slitting and distribution terminals and has The label materials market offers growth Global labelstock end-uses UPM’S a global network of sales offices and invested in new technology. UPM Raflatac potential around the world. In terms of volslitting and distribution terminals. OPERATING PROFIT 2013 achieved strong 17% growth in these markets ume, growth potential is strongest in Asia, (excl. special items) in 2013 compared to 2012. UPM Raflatac will Latin America and Eastern Europe. In the ■ Food continue to expand in these growing markets mature markets of Western Europe, the Unit■ Retail in line with its strategy. ed States and Japan, growth is mainly driven ■ Logistics & Transport In developed markets such as Western by product renewal and tailored solutions. ■ Office Products EUR Europe and North America, UPM Raflatac Although most growth is in developing mar■ Personal Care 75 million, ■ Beverage has continuously strengthened its offering in kets, the main volume still comes from mature ■ Pharmaceutical TOTAL 683 11% speciality products. Focused efforts in distribumarkets. ■ Home Care tion, marketing and product development have Along with a gradual, albeit slow, improve■ Oil & Industrial Chemical ■ Consumer Durables 12 also enabled faster growth in speciality prodment in the macro-economic environment, ucts. In 2013, UPM Raflatac achieved above growth in the global demand for self-adhesive ■ Automotive Source: AWA, UPM FACTORIES average market growth in high added value labelstock improved over the year. Demand in 21 SLITTING AND products: approximately 15% compared to 2012. Through continued initiatives, UPM Raflatac will enhance its speciality product Western Europe is estimated to have improved slightly, especially during the second half of the year, whereas in North America demand is DISTRIBUTION TERMINALS offering. estimated to have experienced modest growth In 2013, rapidly growing markets repre­ during the course of the year. In Eastern DELIVERIES +4.5% 30% UNIQUE PARTNERSHIP IN SUSTAINABLE sented approximately 30% of UPM Raflatac’s volumes, and developed markets 70%. UPM Raflatac has competitive labelstock Europe, Asia and Latin America growth continued, but at a lower level. Products driven by private consumption, EVENTS 3 July: UPM Raflatac announces plans to OF SALES FROM factories and a broad distribution network of e.g. those for food, beverage and personal care improve cost competitiveness in its manuLABEL PRODUCTS RAPIDLY GROWING sales offices and slitting and distribution termiend uses, fared better than products used in facturing operations in Europe, South Africa nals. Thanks to this set-up, UPM Raflatac was industrial production and logistics. and Australia MARKETS UPM Raflatac is working in a unique partnership with Unilever and a leading global label printer to able to restructure and improve efficiency in Average raw material costs remained determine the environmental impacts of packaging 2013 without impacting the product range, stable. Raw material costs decreased in the labels. Their common goal is to identify the areas in service and deliveries offered to customers. first half of 2013, and increased slightly dura self-adhesive label’s lifecycle where the environ­ In July, UPM Raflatac announced plans to ing the second half of 2013. Average sales mental impacts of product labelling can be reduced. reduce labelstock production capacity in prices decreased. Europe, South Africa and Australia to secure During the project, lifecycle assessments (LCA) have cost competitiveness and profitability in marR&D been carried out on 22 product labels from Unilever’s kets where the demand situation is not in line In the specialty business, UPM Raflatac home and personal care ranges. The calculations take with production capacity. Based on this plan, focused on developing new high added value into consideration environmental impacts throughout the labelstock factory in Martigny, Switzerproducts to its range. New adhesive solutions the entire labelling value chain, including raw material land, the coating operations in Durban, South for the wine industry and various new securisourcing, transport, manufacturing, printing and Africa, and the slitting and distribution termity-labeling solutions were introduced in 2013. various end-of-life scenarios. The results support the nal in Johannesburg, South Africa, were The product capabilities were also expanded development of increasingly sustainable labelling closed and production was reorganised and to gummed and pressure sensitive postage solutions to meet future needs. moved to other factories. The coating operastamps as well as multilayer film laminates. tions in Melbourne, Australia will be closed In the standard products, a large number By incorporating the impacts of the printing process, in spring 2014. of paper-based products were re-engineered the LCA model is the first of its kind and the most for greater cost efficiency and improved extensive in the labelling industry. The project is Market review performance. This re-engineering activity was a solid example of how co-operation between Label materials have a wide range of end uses: particularly focused on the Asian markets. different stakeholders in the labelling value chain food and beverage labelling, retail and logisNew thinner film products were also introcan help develop the industry’s competitiveness. tics, applications in personal care, home care duced to improve the cost competitiveness and durables, and security and pharmaceutical of the filmic products. labelling. Roughly 80% of self-adhesive labelCONTENTS UPM Raflatac 17 UPM as a company 1–12 BUSINESSES 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 18 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Paper Asia – Growth and KEY FIGURES UPM PAPER ASIA’S PRODUCTION healthy profitability Sales, EURm 2013 1,108 2012 1,131 CAPACITIES 1,000 t/a Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 80 101 Fine papers 800 Capital employed (average), EURm 882 915 Labelling and packaging materials 600 UPM Paper Asia serves growing markets Business performance BUSINESS PERFORMANCE ROCE excl. special items, % 9.1 11.0 Total 1,400 with fine papers in Asia and labelling Operating profit decreased in 2013, mainly Personnel on 31 Dec. 1,457 1,504 materials globally. due to lower fine paper prices. Deliveries SALES -2% Paper deliveries, 1,000 t 1,378 1,370 remained on the same level as the previous 2013 1,108 Success in fine papers is supported by high year. 2012 1,131 EUR million quality products, well established own brands and use of certified fibre. Superior Business development customer service is provided through an UPM Paper Asia seeks growth in office papers OPERATING PROFIT *) extensive sales network in Asia. in China and the Asia-Pacific region, and in labelling materials worldwide. 2013 80 -21 UPM Paper Asia is a global market leader The fine paper market is nearly 40 million 2012 101 EUR million in labelling materials with high quality tonnes in the Asia-Pacific region, and the In fine papers, UPM focuses on high Market review Graphic paper production capacities products and value for customers. demand outlook is healthy. China is by far *) excluding special items quality office papers and selectively on coated Fine paper prices decreased in Asia during and total deliveries in Asia the largest market in the Asia-Pacific region, and uncoated graphic papers, where UPM 2013. The slide levelled off towards the end of 1,000 t The annual production capacity is 0.8 offering the strongest growth opportunities. Paper Asia holds a strong position. Demand the year, and price increases in selected marUPM’S 75,000 million tonnes of fine papers, manufactured In recent years, new paper machine investin the office paper segment is expected to grow kets were implemented. On average, market at the UPM Changshu mill in China, and ments, especially in China, have increased OPERATING PROFIT 2013 by approximately 3-5% per annum in the prices were lower than the previous year, which (excl. special items) 60,000 0.6 million tonnes of labelling and production capacity faster than demand has Asia-Pacific region and by twice as much in was compounded with the negative currency packaging materials, manufactured at the increased, which has resulted in intensified China. impact in some of UPM’s major markets. 45,000 UPM Jämsänkoski and UPM Tervasaari competition. In labelling materials, UPM focuses on Office paper prices remained fairly stable. mills in Finland. high quality release liners and face papers for In 2013, demand for fine paper increased 30,000 various end uses. UPM has invested consistonly slightly in Asia, though the growth varied The investment for the third production unit EUR ently for labelling materials over the last 15 by product and market segment. There was 15,000 80 million, at the UPM Changshu site is proceeding. years, and current assets at the UPM overcapacity in all major fine paper grades in TOTAL 683 12% 0 Tervasaari and UPM Jämsänkoski mills are Asia. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 performing well, providing added value in a Demand growth and Chinese government ■ Capacity growing market. actions to shut down technically outdated, Deliveries Source: Euro-Graph, PPPC, PPI, RISI 1 KG The annual growth of UPM’s labelling non-environmentally friendly paper capacity materials is expected to be approximately 3-5% will relieve the situation in the medium term. worldwide. In developing markets, fast urbaniThis development is supported by a growing OF LANDFILL WASTE PER TONNE OF PAPER 5.4 M3 sation, growing middle classes and higher income levels are the main drivers for demand growth in labelling materials. Demand growth number of Asian customers who are looking for certified environmentally friendly products, enhancing UPM’s competitive position. Asia’s biggest paper producers PROCESS WASTEWATER is also supported by rapid development of Global demand for labelling materials Capacity 1,000 m/a PER TONNE OF PAPER retailers, distributor networks and automated picked up slightly during the course of the EMAS REGISTRATION FOR product labelling. Mature market demand is year and was approximately 4% higher than in 7,500 84% UPM CHANGSHU MILL driven by economic activity and characterised the previous year. In Asia and other develop6,000 by increasing demand for customer-specific ing markets, demand continued to grow at UPM Changshu is the first paper mill to be solutions. about double the average global growth rate in 4,500 OF UPM CHANGSHU’S awarded EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme Investment for the third production unit 2013. Prices for labelling materials remained FIBRE RAW MATERIALS IS (EMAS) registration in China. focusing on wood-free uncoated speciality stable. 3,000 CERTIFIED FIBRE papers and labelling materials at the UPM “The environmental performance of the UPM Changshu mill in China is proceeding. R&D 1,500 Changshu paper mill has been very good (see The investment will facilitate growth and The UPM Asia R&D centre based in Chang0 examples on the left) and we have already fulfilled enhance the cost efficiency and global market shu is responsible for research on local raw N A C ip PP he p nm on in the basic requirements set by the EMAS certificaue tsu Og Su K ji n ish Pa u coverage of labelling materials. In addition, it materials and focuses on supporting UPM’s p AP er H RIL an H so M uata l oo i rim tion, but registration only became a possibility Do M ILT M ubl C its eB C provides an excellent platform for strengthenproduction units in China and the Asia-Pacific ub A is UP hi M Hok recently,” explains Environmental Manager Lisheng ing UPM’s global partnerships with self-adheregion, with the main focus being R&D work Source: Pöyry, RISI Jin. sive labelstock customers and expanding with for paper products. Labelling materials R&D these products in Asia with a local production focuses on customer-specific solutions, effi“The certification highlights transparency regarding facility. The production unit is expected to ciency improvements and technologies for reporting emissions to water, air and soil. We start up by the end of 2015. sustainable solutions. have to follow and fulfil domestic and international environmental regulations very strictly. EMAS audits are an excellent way to improve our environmental performance further,” Jin notes. In 2012, the UPM Fray Bentos pulp mill in Uruguay became the first non-European site ever to achieve EMAS registration. Read more: www.upm.com/responsibility CONTENTS UPM Paper Asia 19 UPM as a company 1–12 BUSINESSES 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 20 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Paper ENA – Enhancing operational KEY FIGURES UPM PAPER ENA’S PRODUCTION focus through simplified structure Sales, EURm 2013 5,560 2012 6,192 CAPACITIES 1,000 t/a Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 0 -81 Magazine papers 5,270 Capital employed (average), EURm 2,672 4,732 Newsprint 2,720 UPM Paper ENA (Europe and North Business performance BUSINESS PERFORMANCE ROCE excl. special items, % 0.0 -1.7 Fine papers 2,200 America) provides magazine paper, Operating profit increased, mainly due to lower Personnel on 31 Dec. 11,081 11,861 Total 10,190 newsprint and fine papers for a wide depreciation. The reduction in fixed and variSALES -10% Paper deliveries, 1,000 t 8,910 9,501 range of end uses. able costs could not fully offset lower average 2013 5,560 paper prices and a reduction in deliveries. 2012 6,192 EUR million The main customers are publishers, Profitability was also partly impacted by unfaGraphic paper end-uses in Europe retailers, printers and distributors. vourable exchange rate developments in many markets. The average price of all paper deliverOPERATING PROFIT *) EVENTS The annual paper production capacity is 10.2 million tonnes, manufactured ies in euros was approximately 4% lower than in 2012. Paper deliveries decreased by 6% to 2013 0 +81 The strict capital expenditure policy continued in 2013. Capital expenditure within ■ ■ Newspapers Magazines in 18 modern paper mills in Finland, 8,910,000 tonnes (9,501,000), partly affected by 2012 -81 EUR million 7 Jan: Coated magazine paper production the Paper ENA business area was EUR 92 ceases at UPM Stracel mill ■ Commercial Printing, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, the sale of packaging paper operations of the million (155 million). The largest ongoing including catalogues, Austria and the United States. UPM Tervasaari and UPM Pietarsaari mills. *) excluding special items investment is the combined heat and power brochures and 17 Jan: UPM announces plans to reduce graphic plant project at UPM Schongau in Germany. direct mail paper capacity in Europe by 580,000 tonnes UPM has a global paper sales network Business development UPM’S With the EUR 85 million investment, UPM ■ Business and an efficient logistics system. The UPM Paper ENA business area focuses on aims to reduce energy costs significantly and ■ Other 8 April: UPM closes down the PM3 at UPM Rauma cost leadership and improved profitability to OPERATING PROFIT 2013 secure the energy supply for the mill. The mill in Finland and the PM4 at UPM Ettringen mill (excl. special items) The combined heat and power (CHP) secure cash flow. in Germany start-up is scheduled to take place by the end Source: Euro-Graph, RISI plants operating on paper mill sites The year 2013 was characterised by tougher of 2014. are included in the business area. market conditions, particularly during the first 6 May: UPM finalises the sale of its closed Stracel half of the year, due to decreasing paper prices. paper mill Market review Graphic paper production capacities and During the second half of the year, the price EUR The European paper market continued to be deliveries in Europe and North America slide levelled off and demand increased season0 million, impacted by the recession. In 2013, demand ally. To withstand the challenging market TOTAL 683 0% for graphic papers decreased by 5% in Europe. 1,000 t conditions, UPM announced plans to take and streamlining of the business area organiThe decrease was steeper in the first half of 125,000 restructuring measures to improve the cost sation. the year, which was also reflected in the paper competitiveness of its European operations in In April, UPM ceased production at UPM price development. Graphic paper prices 100,000 January. The plan included permanent paper Rauma pape machine 3 in Finland and UPM decreased at the beginning of the year and capacity reduction in Europe of 580,000 tonnes Ettringen paper machine 4 in Germany. Both remained largely stable during the second half 75,000 machines produced a total of 420,000 tonnes of the year. On average, graphic paper prices 50,000 of uncoated magazine paper annually. were 4% lower than in 2012. Due to the chal-45% The UPM Docelles paper mill in France was closed in January 2014. The mill produced 160,000 tonnes of uncoated wood-free papers lenging market conditions, graphic paper production capacity was closed during the year, especially in newsprint, where the supply25,000 -23% 0 FRESH WATER 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 annually. demand balance was also improved. NewsCONSUMPTION MATERIAL EFFICIENCY IMPROVED According to the previous asset review print prices increased during the second half ■ Capacity AT UPM STEYRERMÜHL announced in 2011, UPM ceased paper proof the year. Supported by continuous growth Deliveries WASTEWATER LOAD Source: Euro-Graph, PPPC, PPI, RISI duction and signed an agreement on the sale in the US economy, demand for magazine 3,200 UPM Steyrermühl paper mill has achieved significant of assets and part of the land at the UPM papers decreased only 1% in North America. TONNES results in material efficiency (see examples on the left). Stracel paper mill site in Strasbourg, France, The average US dollar price for magazine In total, the mill saves some 1.1 million euros annually in January 2013. papers was slightly lower than in the previous OF FIBRES AND FILLERS RETURNED due to production process improvements, including During the second half of the year, profityear. marketing provides higher returns on marketing BACK TO PRODUCTION savings generated by reduced process chemicals. ability improved, mainly due to lower costs. Magazine publishers in Europe experienced spend is also high among retailers. In August, UPM announced its decision to a slight decrease in readership and circulation Spending on internet advertising continued 2,200 The improvements are part of the Paper business’ move to a simpler, more scalable structure figures. The number of advertising pages to grow throughout the year and contributed MWh material efficiency programme launched in 2011. The to improve performance. The Paper Business decreased, mainly due to the continuously to the slight positive development seen in total programme aims to reduce process water consumption Group structure was discontinued, and the weak economy but also due to advertisers advertising expenditure in 2013. The role of IN ENERGY SAVINGS and lower the amount of suspended solids. Thanks to operations were separated into two business allocating spending from print to digital media printed media as an advertising medium these achievements, both material and cost efficiency areas: UPM Paper ENA and UPM Paper as a result of changes in consumers’ time decreased slightly, but remains important at the have improved. Asia. UPM Paper ENA’s management was usage. In Europe, magazine advertising core of multi-channel media and advertising relocated to Augsburg in Germany. The busiexpenditure decreased by 8% compared to the platforms. “The success of the material efficiency programme is the ness organisation was also streamlined and previous year. Spending on magazine advertisDemand for office papers remainded stable result of employee engagement and good co-operation reorganised based on customer segments. ing in North America, the Asia-Pacific region in Europe in 2013. at UPM Steyrermühl. We have already made major steps The reorganisation will sharpen the operaand Latin America, on the other hand, and we still have ideas for further improvement,” said tional focus of each strategic business unit decreased by approximately 2%. R&D General Manager Matthias Scharre. (SBU). The year 2013 was also challenging for The R&D work focuses on improving cost In connection with the reorganisation, newspaper publishers. Both printed newspaper efficiency through the material efficiency proThe project group consists of specialists from various UPM announced further actions to reduce titles and circulations decreased in Europe. gramme launched in 2011. One key target is to areas of mill processes. Based on the development ideas, fixed and variable costs, with the full impact Newspaper advertising expenditure decreased reduce water consumption at the paper mills. a total of 14 projects to improve material efficiency have to be achieved by the end of 2014. Fixed costs by 8% in Europe in 2013. (Read more on the outcome at the UPM been put into effect. will be reduced through delayering, downsizDirect mail end-use and demand from the Steyrermühl mill on page 21.) ing, increased scalability and simplification retail sector remained stable in 2013. AccordUPM is also studying ways to exploit deinkUPM Steyrermühl’s ideas and achievements have also of working procedures. Variable costs will be ing to several studies, direct mail continues to ing process waste and recycle surplus materials been shared with other UPM mills. reduced in areas such as sourcing, logistics play an important role in multi-channel marcoming from paper mills to use waste streams and manufacturing. keting campaigns. Confidence that direct more efficiently. CONTENTS UPM Paper ENA 21 UPM as a company 1–12 BUSINESSES 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 22 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Plywood – Improved profitability thanks KEY FIGURES Building permits to increased deliveries and strict cost control Sales, EURm 2013 429 2012 393 (Index 1.1.2004=100) Building permits index Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 21 2 200 Capital employed (average), EURm 286 300 160 Plywood is a composite product made Business performance BUSINESS PERFORMANCE ROCE excl. special items, % 7.3 0.7 of renewable raw materials with Operating profit increased due to higher Personnel on 31 Dec. 2,455 2,531 120 excellent strength-to-weight properties. delivery volumes and lower fixed costs. Mix SALES +9% Plywood deliveries, 1,000 m3 737 679 It is used in building and construction, adjusted average price was slightly higher 2013 429 80 as well as in a number of industrial than in the previous year, whereas variable 2012 393 EUR million applications such as transportation costs remained fairly stable. 40 equipment. Business development 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 OPERATING PROFIT *) UPM’s annual plywood and veneer production capacity is approximately The UPM Plywood business area is aiming to improve its profitability. It is also aiming 2013 21 +19 end-use segments in certain markets in R&D USA EU 17 Source: Eurostat and one million cubic metres. to improve the value offering and service 2012 2 EUR million Europe revived slightly compared to the UPM Plywood’s product and technology U.S. Census Bureau packages for selected end-use customers. second half of 2012. Deliveries for industrial development work focused on creating new Progress was good in demanding The market environment remained fairly *) excluding special items applications in Europe remained stable over customer-based solutions in addition to end-use segments. similar for UPM Plywood in 2013 compared the year. commercialising and piloting applications to the previous year. Activity in the EuroIn order to stand out in the competitive developed previously. Plywood end-uses in Europe UPM’S UPM sells its plywood and veneer pean construction sector remained weak in plywood market following a lengthy slowOne of the key areas was to improve the products under the registered trade­mark general, whereas deliveries to more demandOPERATING PROFIT 2013 down in Europe over the past few years, properties of the current LNG containment (excl. special items) WISA. The new thermoformable wood ing end-use segments outside Europe UPM Plywood has successfully established system. ■ Construction material is sold under the trademark increased. During the second half of the business outside Europe in more demanding For concrete forming end uses, R&D work ■ Furniture UPM Grada. year, deliveries to construction-related end-use segments, such as the LNG (liqueconcentrated on creating new customer■ Transport fied natural gas) industry. Investment activity focused products that are more economic ■ Other in LNG terminals and carriers is high, and with good functional properties. ■ Flooring EUR ■ Packaging 21 million, the outlook remains promising. UPM PlyDevelopment of rigid structures for vehiTOTAL 683 3% wood has also intensified its efforts to cle flooring continued with pilot installations improve customer focus, agility and cost for selected customers. In addition, plywood competitiveness alongside the major restrucwith high friction surface was in the developSource: FEIC ALL PRODUCTS AVAILABLE AS turing measures that have been implemented ment pipeline. FSC PEFC over the past few years. Through strict cost UPM Plywood also developed new patent control and focused cost reduction initiapending vision technology machine for veneer OR tives, cost inflation was largely mitigated in production. The new measuring technology Europe’s biggest plywood CERTIFIED 2013. enables improved raw material utilisation and producers The extension and modernisation work new type of product solutions. Capacity 1,000 m³/a DEVELOPING THE ULTIMATE at the Savonlinna birch plywood mill in 1,000 LIGHTWEIGHT TRAILER Finland was completed in 2012. As a result of the refurbishment, the Savonlinna mill is 800 The magnificent but fragile landscape of the Alps one of the world’s most technically advanced 13 TONNES sets special requirements for transport equipment. Despite the challenges of the region, road freight continues to be the dominant means of heavy birch plywood mills, with a broad product offering of high quality special birch plywood. Mill performance improved in 2013. 600 400 LESS CO2 EMISSIONS transport. Vehicles must meet strict weight DURING TRAILER LIFETIME requirements in order to minimise the impacts of Market review 200 transport on the environment as well as on the Following decreasing plywood demand in 0 road infrastructure. Europe during 2012, there were some initial ite ets ez d ä UP Sv M a signs of an improvement in demand during Pa W n La el G od o Sy tvi kt jas oup yv F r Ili kar inie m Tim Plyw ris Leading lightweight trailer manufacturer Schthe second half of 2013. The Eurozone M be oo G rG d ar ro ni Kr ca p as 20 u warzmüller’s solution to the challenge has been leading indicators and construction confiSource: ny Ya 0 Ko ko sk r Un in Companies www-pages en their groundbreaking ULTRA-LIGHT trailer, which dence in certain markets in Europe improved weighs only 4,800 kg – 25-30% less than a normal during the latter part of the year. Demand trailer. A lighter trailer allows for a bigger payload development in Europe was fairly similar in or lower fuel consumption. construction-related end-use segments and in industrial applications. Compared with UPM Plywood’s product specialists have provided pre-recession levels, overall demand in technical expertise to the Austrian Schwarzmüller’s Europe remained, however, significantly R&D team in an attempt to further reduce the lower. Raw material costs remained stable trailer’s weight. To achieve this, the WISA Bonded over the year. Floor Solution is being piloted. Attaching the In 2013, the plywood market in Europe plywood floor to the trailer chassis with glue was almost in balance, partly due to certain instead of screws increases trailer’s rigidity by delivery problems with overseas suppliers, making the floor an integral part of the overall but also due to strengthening demand in load-bearing structure. This means the chassis the United States. Market prices increased structure can be even lighter than before. somewhat during the year, and were on average slightly higher than in the previous The first pilot trailer was built during spring 2013 year. and is currently being tested. CONTENTS UPM Plywood 23 UPM as a company 1–12 BUSINESSES 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 24 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Innovations to replace non-renewable materials with renewable alternatives UPM ProFi products are used for decking mediates for subsequent downstream processUPM’s development expenditure and other outdoor end uses. They are made ing into biochemicals. The long-term goal mainly from the surplus paper and plastic left of the initiative is to offer cost competitive EURm % over from the production of self-adhesive label alternatives for selected petrochemicals on 150 25 materials. In 2013, the UPM ProFi decking an industrial scale. Biofuels are a topical example of UPM’s competitive. In particular, improvements in wear tests together with the Technical Research product portfolio was expanded to include a 120 20 innovation work, with the renewable material efficiency make it possible to consume Centre of Finland (VTT). new solid profile decking board. Co-operation to support 15 diesel biorefinery in Lappeenranta due fewer resources and raw materials in producOne key objective of the R&D work has UPM Formi composite is used to replace implementation 90 to start operating in summer 2014. Other tion processes. been to optimise the feedstock base, purificaplastic in many applications, from furniture to Tekes, the Finnish Funding Agency for 10 60 new businesses include biocomposites, In developing businesses, UPM’s develoption and hydrotreatment of crude tall oil used consumer electronics and high-end speakers. Technology and Innovation, is an important which are already being marketed to ment expenditure has increased steadily. The for the renewable diesel production. After the UPM Formi is manufactured from cellulose partner for UPM, as it is supporting several 30 5 customers, as well as biochemicals and majority of UPM’s R&D input is focused start-up of the biorefinery in summer 2014, fibre and plastics. Around half of the oil-based research projects, such as the development biofibrils, which are currently in the on new technologies and businesses. In total, the emphasis will be on optimising and plastic is replaced with cellulose fibres in the of biofuels, energy-saving technologies and 0 0 development phase. UPM spent approximately EUR 155 million increasing the efficiency of the production biocomposite. (Read more on the new applicabiochemical competence and biofibrils 09 10 11 12 13 (81 million) on research and development for processes. (Read more on biofuels under tions on page 43.) technology. ■ Developing businesses*) existing and developing businesses, which UPM Biorefining section on page 13.) Products manufactured from UPM Formi In 2013, UPM received approximately ■ Mature businesses equates to 20.6% (8.0%) of UPM’s operating comply with food contact material requireEUR 3.8 million (3.7 million) from Tekes Of operating cash flow cash flow. New applications ments stipulated in EU and US Food and for its research projects. These projects were *) Includes negative operating cash flow and The versatile use of renewable wood biomass, On top of the direct R&D expenditure of in UPM Biocomposites Drug Administration (FDA) regulations. The carried out in co-operation with research capital expenditures combined with innovation, resource efficiency approximately EUR 38 million (45 million), In 2013, UPM combined its two composite composite also complies with EU toy safety institutes, universities and other companies. and sustainability, is the cornerstone of UPM’s the figures include negative operating cash units, UPM ProFi and UPM Formi, to form regulations. In 2013, the European Commission and Biofore strategy. Innovations are at the foreflow and capital expenditures in developing UPM Biocomposites. The business unit develIn 2013, UPM Biocomposites developed the industries within the bioeconomy launched Annual patent filings 2009–2013 front in the creation and development of new businesses. The focus is on developing biofuels, ops, manufactures, markets and sells high new material and coating technologies comthe Public Private Partnership (PPP) proproducts that can be used to replace nonbiocomposites, biochemicals, biofibrils and quality composite products and granulates bining the two different composites which gramme, which aims to support biorefinery renewable materials with renewable, recyclable CO2-neutral energy. for a wide range of consumer and industrial improve product quality and the cost effectiveconcepts and the growth of the bioeconomy 400 and low-impact alternatives and provide applications. ness of the production processes. in Europe. The PPP is an important funding resource-efficient alternatives for the future. Biofuels – Getting ready UPM ProFi and UPM Formi composites element for speeding up the implementation 320 The objective of UPM’s R&D programmes for market entry combine the best characteristics of natural Business opportunities with of future investments in new areas such as and business development is to create new In 2013, UPM focused strongly on the preparafibres and plastic. Their principal ingredients UPM Biochemicals biochemicals, biocomposites and biofibrils. 240 technologies and products for UPM’s developtory work for the market entry of the UPM are cellulose fibres and polymers, which can In 2013, UPM combined its biochemicalsIn recent years, UPM’s intellectual proping businesses and to provide support for its BioVerno renewable diesel. UPM carried out be either virgin or recycled. The composites related business initiatives to form UPM erty rights applications have increased signifi160 current businesses and ensure that they remain comprehensive emission, performance and can be recycled and are non-toxic. Biochemicals. The unit develops wood-based cantly. The importance of patent registration chemical building blocks, performance chemihighlights the progress in new businesses. 80 cals and biofibrils. UPM is a shareholder in the Finnish Bioec0 Product development at UPM Biochemionomy Cluster (FIBIC). The Cluster’s research 09 10 11 12 13 cals is at the pre-commercial phase, and UPM programmes focus on the bioeconomy and is actively developing and testing industrial products based on renewable materials, thus UPM’s patent filings have grown steadily applications with its partners in Finland and supporting UPM’s internal R&D activities. since 2009. The filings are mainly related to UPM’s developing businesses such as abroad in order to create mill-scale industrial biofuels, biocomposites and biochemicals. 250 WOOD-BASED DIESEL TAKEN OUT ON concepts. Global network of research THE ROAD FOR A TEST DRIVE Chemical building blocks are a cost comcentres supporting businesses petitive replacement for fossil-based monoThe focus at the UPM Research Centre in PROFESSIONALS During 2013, UPM completed 20,000 kilometres mers and chemicals such as intermediates to Lappeenranta, Finland, is mainly on fibre raw Biofuels demand and supply in EU IN R&D WORLDWIDE (12,400 miles) of test drives in co-operation with bioplastics. Performance chemicals utilise the materials, paper and process development for VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland on vehicles basic structure of the natural biopolymers of pulping, biofuels and biochemicals. The UPM billion liters powered by UPM’s BioVerno diesel. The aim was to wood, such as lignin and hemicellulose. These Biorefinery Development Centre for piloting test the performance of the renewable diesel and its 25 structures provide a unique performance for biofuels and biochemicals is also located in effects on engines, as well as fuel consumption and adhesives, resins and plastics, for example. Lappeenranta. 20 emissions. Biofibrils are microand nano-fibrillated UPM’s recycled fibre research is based in 150 cellulose products that can be used to shape Augsburg, Germany. The WISA R&D Centre 15 The vehicles selected for the test drive were new materials and give them new characteristics. for plywood and composites is located in EUR MILLION Volkswagen Golf TDIs, awarded Car of the They are suitable for many industrial applicaLahti, while labelstock R&D takes place in 10 INVESTMENT TO BIOFUELS Year 2013. Engine and vehicle tests have previously tions that require a high stabilisation capacity Tampere, Finland. been conducted on UPM BioVerno by VTT as well and high viscosity. The UPM Asia R&D Centre in China is 5 ONGOING as a number of other laboratories. In 2013, the R&D work on biofibrils for responsible for research on local raw materials 0 developing pilotand plant-scale industrial and the specific market needs for UPM prod2015 2020 2025 UPM’s innovative renewable diesel, UPM BioVerno, applications continued. UPM signed a coucts, as well as manufacturing and technical Source: Hart Energy: significantly reduces greenhouse gas emissions operative agreement with Ashland Inc. to customer service support for UPM’s produc■ Biodiesel demand Global Biofuels Outlook ■ Ethanol demand to 2025 caused by traffic when compared with fossil fuels. develop and commercialise products containtion units in China and the Asia-Pacific ing UPM’s biofibrils technology. UPM and region. This high-quality biofuel is produced from tall oil, Ashland will jointly study the use of biofibrils At the UPM Fray Bentos pulp mill in a residue of the forest industry, with no raw materials in a wide range of industrial application Uruguay, UPM’s competence centre focuses EUR 155 MILLION suitable for food being used in the production process. UPM BioVerno is an ideal fuel for all diesel-powered vehicles. opportunities. UPM also signed a joint development agreement with Renmatix Inc. to further on researching eucalyptus species and their impact on end-product properties. The centre works in co-operation with Uruguayan UPM’S DEVELOPMENT develop Renmatix’s water-based Plantrose™ research institutes and universities. EXPENDITURE Read more: process to convert woody biomass into interwww.upmbiofuels.com CONTENTS R&D and new business development 25 UPM as a company 1–12 BUSINESSES 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 26 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Finding the right fit THE FOCUS OF UPM’S STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT WORK IN 2013 with stakeholder dialogue activate grassroots projects to promote the long-term, sustainable development of local communities. UPM continuously tracks stakeholder 1 Solid and future-oriented partner 1 Employment opportunities, views, monitors global sustainability megand transparent supplier dialogue on local topics and Dialogue, feedback and good co-operation in line with atrends and follows up on weak signals relating requirements Communities responsible restructuring UPM’s values are the most important ways of promoting to the changing operating environment. 2 Supplier collaboration projects 2 Exceeding the legal requirements UPM’s main stakeholders are customers, and improving contractor safety Suppliers in major restructuring situations mutual understanding with stakeholders. suppliers, investors, employees, media, non3 Cost-efficiency and value 3 Acceptance and collaboration governmental organisations (NGOs), governcreation Stakeholder engagement is a critical part of ments and regulators, as well as the communiUPM’s operations worldwide. The key focus ties where UPM operates. areas and activities vary locally and according Their feedback is analysed from the point Corporate responsibility is an to stakeholder needs. The company’s stakeof view of both risk and opportunity. Various 1 Proactive and responsive 1 Safe and encouraging integral part of the company’s long holder engagement procedures provide targets stakeholder feedback channels exist across the communications working environment term business development, which for co-operation and guidance for identifying company. 2 Active interaction Employees 2 Step Change in Safety stakeholders. In 2013, UPM conducted its materiality enables UPM to partner and create with media and initiative Several UPM mills have long-established analysis by studying global sustainability social media Media value with stakeholders, benefitting activity 3 Employee engagement community forums in place, such as the UPM megatrends, corporate risk mapping, internal both the business and local Blandin Advisory panel in the United States and external stakeholder feedback and other 3 Fact-based communities. and the Steyrermühl Bürgerbeirat in Austria. relevant sources to identify the issues that are media coverage In the Finnish pulp and paper mills, UPM critical to each business. Based on the work, UPM continuously develops tools has regional collaboration teams in place. The UPM has defined the following issues as and platforms to foster dialogue teams are headed by mill managers and meet critical: 1 Total shareholder value between the company and its monthly to discuss the main priorities includ1 Transparency and stakeholders. ing issues related to local stakeholder engage• safety and environmental risk management 2 Successful Biofore continuous dialogue ment. • sustainable forest management and raw strategy execution Investors Government 2 Strengthened diaUPM has also established new platforms material sourcing 3 Attractive investment and logue with authorities for stakeholder engagement, such as Kaukas • resource efficiency regulators and regulators forum at the UPM Kaukas integrate mill in • product characteristics such as safety and 3 Competitiveness Lappeenranta, Finland. The forum consists of eco-labels and collaboration representatives of local stakeholders. The Kaukas forum meets 2–3 times a year and its Addressing stakeholder views 1 Product quality and aim is to enhance dialogue with local stakeBased on stakeholder feedback, the main competitive price, 1 Transparency and environ­mental credentials Customers continuous dialogue holders. stakeholder concerns are discussed locally on a of the product The UPM Foundation in Uruguay proone-to-one basis. The main themes in 2013 with NGOs 2 Collaboration with IUCN, motes the development of communities regard to the production plants were short term 2 Co-operation projects and WWF, Birdlife and other NGOs transparent product information through education, training and entrepreneurair emissions such as smell and noise. Feedback 3 Collaboration ship. The goal is to facilitate, encourage and on wood sourcing and forest harvesting was 3 Business success UPM’s Biofore strategy forms the foundation of UPM’s stakeholder dialogue. The key 1 Stakeholders’ expectations stakeholders have been identified in the UPM’S MATERIALITY ANALYSIS 2013 company’s stakeholder strategy work. The key 2 Engagement activities focus areas and activities vary locally and 3 UPM’s target 21 according to stakeholder needs. Find out more 14 1 about our activities in 2013 in this picture. 1. Long-term profitability 4 12 13 High 2. Public policy 3. Responsible sourcing 5 20 4. Environmental performance 10 19 18 5. Climate change 6. Biofore brand DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED 11 7. Power shift from west to east 9 17 BY UPM IN 2013 (EUR MILLION) 3 15 Stakeholder interest 8. Material efficiency Direct economic value created Economic value distributed 9. Safety 16 10. Product safety 7 Operating costs –7,762 11. Land management Sales 10,054 2 12. Sustainable forestry Employee wages and benefits –1,326 13. Stakeholder engagement 8 Income from UPM’s economic impact is significant 14. Transparency sale of assets 36 Payments to providers of loans –70 in the surrounding communities. The 6 15. Corporate governance Income from Dividend distribution –317 company’s operations contribute to 16. Human rights financial investments 5 local, regional and national economies 17. People development and talent attraction Corporate income taxes paid by generating economic benefits for 18. R&D platform/Innovation Other income 41 and donations –162 different stakeholder groups. The Increasing 19. Forest certification 10,136 –9,637 related direct monetary flows indicate 20. Biodiversity the extent of added value globally. 21. Employee engagement Economic value retained 499 Increasing Impact on UPM High CONTENTS Stakeholders 27 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 STAKEHOLDERS 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 28 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 also discussed, and corrective actions were taken where necessary. Dialogue about product safety UPM HAS A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON SOCIETY – CASE FINLAND Dividends paid: Shareholders in Finland: issues also continued with several suppliers. EUR 139 million approx.94,000 In 2013, UPM conducted several stakeholder engagement surveys in co-operation with third UPM’s economic impact on Wood purchases Wood trade parties. These surveys included customer satisfacin Finland: approx. transactions Employee salaries: approx. tion surveys and the annual Employee Engagethe Finnish society is signifiwith private Withold from salaries: EUR 870 million EUR 464 million (estimate): EUR 139 million ment Survey (EES). (Read more on page 36.) cant. The value chain from forest owners: These stakeholder surveys were designed to forest creates broad econoover 20,000 identify how stakeholders perceive UPM and the annually mic prosperity. The most key areas for development. The studies also proimportant multiplied impacts Corporate vide information that is used to assess the impact income taxes: relate to employment, logisSocial security costs: of emerging sustainability trends and risks posed 1,000 truck loads EUR 119 million approx. EUR 114 million to the company’s operations. Based on the feedtics, raw materials supply, of wood every day back, UPM’s stakeholders appreciate the Biofore tax revenues, income from vision and the company’s strong track record in exports and investments. UPM Other taxes*, e.g. energy, real estate environmental performance. UPM’s operations and proInvestments: approx. Share of IN FINLAND: and waste taxes EUR 130 million *of which refund: EUR 41 million EUR 242 million depreciation: 88% Raising concerns duction plants have a partiUPM does not tolerate any violations of the cularly important role in Personnel: 8,110 UPM Code of Conduct or the rules and guidethe provinces outside the Production plants: 27 lines that accompany it. growth centres. Forest service offices 120 Share of Finland’s All employees and external parties are encouraged to report suspected violations anonymously Sales: EUR 4.3 billion electricity consumption: 9% R&D personnel Co-operation projects using the UPM Report Misconduct channel, and The economic impacts cover in Finland: with universities and the company has internal procedures in place to research centres: all UPM’s key stakeholders 200 approx. 70 deal with alleged breaches of the Code of ConUPM generates 21% of carbon duct. from investors and emploneutral electricity in Finland In 2013, a total of ten concerns were reported yees to customers, local through the UPM Report Misconduct channel. In communities and decisionall cases, UPM took the corrective actions considered appropriate to the circumstances. makers. The complaints related mainly to suspected Finnish suppliers: Share of Finnish over 10,000 Cleantech sales in Finland: failures to adhere to the company’s anti-bribery sea freight exports: approx. EUR 97 million procedures and suspected conflicts of interest. Some of the cases involved misconduct and led to approx. 12% disciplinary action including terminations of employment. THE BIOFORE CONCEPT CAR WILL BE LAUNCHED IN THE SPRING The Biofore Concept Car, a joint production by UPM and the LITTLE SCIENTIST LABS FOR PUPILS IN CHINA Helsinki Metropolia University of Applied Sciences, is to premiere at the Geneva International Motor Show in March UPM initiated a new project in co-operation with Beijing Green and 2014. Shine Foundation to promote rural education in China. The Little Scientist Lab aims to foster science skills in primary school pupils in This unique concept car is designed as a futuristic, street-legal remote areas that have little access to resources and lessons on vehicle that demonstrates the use of renewable biomaterials science and nature. in the automotive industry. UPM has donated lab facilities which can be used to conduct basic Various parts of the concept car will be made from UPM’s experiments in physics, chemistry and biology. biobased materials – the UPM Formi biocomposite and UPM Grada thermoformable wood material. The biobased Xinhua Central School in Guanghan city, Sichuan province was chosen as the first school. The school has materials will significantly improve the overall environmental close ties with the neighbouring Finnish Sichuan Charity School. UPM became one of the active performance of the car, without compromising quality. corporate sponsors of the Finnish Charity School after the 2008 earthquake in Sichuan. UPM Raflatac label materials will be used in spare parts as UPM’s support for the first “Little Scientist Lab” in the region will not only significantly improve the well as in the interior and exterior design of the car. The pupils’ capability to explore nature and science, but will also increase the ability to provide effective Concept Car will also be powered by UPM BioVerno education in rural areas. Furthermore, the lab project provides a great platform for strengthening UPM’s wood-based renewable diesel. local stakeholder engagement and reinforces UPM’s role as a responsible company operating in China. Students of automotive engineering and industrial design at the Helsinki Metropolia The Little Scientist Labs see the continuation of the co-operation between UPM and Beijing Green and University of Applied Sciences in Finland have constructed the car based on principles of Shine Foundation following the mini library project in Yunnan province. In 2013, UPM continued to sustainability, recyclability and Biofore thinking. donate books to several rural primary schools. Read more: www.bioforeconceptcar.upm.com CONTENTS Stakeholders 29 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 STAKEHOLDERS 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 30 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Continuous dialogue and collaboration with customers UPM offers a wide range of renewable and recyclable products to be further processed into a variety of useful everyday UPM’s interaction with customers is based on continuous products, and also provides dialogue and regular customer satisfaction surveys. services that meet the needs of a versatile range of customers. Customers value UPM’s comprehensive product range, reliability and excellent environmental performance. CUSTOMER COLLABORATION IN UPM’S BUSINESSES Wood Sourcing Pulp Biofuels Timber products Energy Paper Label Plywood and Forestry UPM’s businesses vary in the products and services they offer. Each business has its own Product Softwood, birch and Wood-based renewable Standard and special sawn timber Trading in physical and Magazine papers, newsprint, Self-adhesive paper and film Plywood and veneer products Wood and wood-based range eucalyptus pulp diesel for transport derivatives electricity fine papers, labelling and packaging labelstock biomass (logs, pulpwood, customer management process and way of markets materials chips, forest residues etc.), interacting with customers. A comprehensive forest estates and lakeshore understanding of the markets, knowledge of plots end-uses and an understanding of customers’ needs form the basis of UPM’s customer Services Technical and supply Co-operation in optimising Online order-delivery tracking Selected services Technical support, training and Technical support, services Technical support and Full range of forestry services relationship management. chain services, supply chain system, technical support, in strategic areas for consultancy, stocking and tailored to end-use needs, supply chain services, services covering the whole lifecycle UPM’s target is to provide customers with environmental product environmental services internal and external vendor-managed inventory services, environmental services tailored to end-use needs of forests and forest ownership solutions that improve customers’ business data customers environmental services processes, with a special focus on creating mutual benefits with increased efficiency. Topics related to environmental performance Customer Producers of tissue, Transportation, oil and Building, construction, furniture, UPM businesses and Newspaper and magazine publishers, Label printers, packers, brand Construction, transportation All UPM businesses using industries speciality, and printing petrochemicals industry joinery, packaging industries electricity supply sector printers, retailers and cataloguers, owners in the food, beverage, and parquet wood or wood-based biomass, are also at the centre of UPM’s customer and writing papers, in the Nordic countries distributors, converters personal care, pharmaceutical, industries forest owners offering. as well as packaging and Central Europe retail and logistics segments, board for example Collaboration with customers In addition to a continuous operative Sales and • Own sales network Co-operation and • Own sales network, agents, Electricity exchanges • Global sales and agent network • Roll products: through slitting • Own sales network • Own wood sourcing dialogue, UPM is engaged in various developdistribution • Own distribution negotiating take-off distributors, direct sales (Nord Pool, Spot, and distributors (paper merchants) and finishing terminals supported by agents network in North Europe ment projects with customers. Many of the agreements with chosen • Deliveries from the sawmills NASDAQ OMX, EEX, • Own distribution and • Sheet products: through • Landed stocks in main and Central Europe projects are related to product development, industry partners to customers ECX) and OTC markets partners agents and merchants markets • Forestry services through supply chain efficiency and optimisation, • Direct sales to major network of offices industrial customers and in Finland and the UK as well as the co-planning of activities. Customer satisfaction is measured reguto selected distribution partners larly in most businesses through customer satisfaction surveys conducted by a third party. These serve as a tool for developing Measurement Continuous dialogue, Continuous dialogue and Continuous dialogue and Continuous dialogue Continuous dialogue, annual Continuous dialogue, customer Continuous dialogue, Continuous dialogue and of customer customer surveys collection of feedback, collection of feedback, annual customer surveys surveys, training, seminars bi-annual customer surveys regular customer surveys actions, and bring an important customer end-user studies customer surveys satisfaction dimension to performance management. Customers interested in responsibility Actions • Strengthening of • Optimisation of raw • Focus on strategic markets • Strengthening of own • Launching a series of new products • Joint product development • Sales management • Development of supply Based on the dialogue and surveys, UPM’s in 2013 sales, supply chain material use • Optimisation of raw material use presence in Kokemäen­that bring savings to our customers • Local recycling solutions and customer-oriented chain efficiency and services and market support • Building supply chain joki river area, provision • Joint product development organisation • Implementation of a new customers are interested in the company’s teams of connected services • Environmental projects • Negotiating take-off • Develop a modular service offering • Definition of value way of operating environmental performance and the sustainto other owners at • Improved product packaging • Focus on pulp quality agreement propositions with customers • Development of web solutions ability of its operations. and appearance co-owned hydropower • Supply chain efficiency and • Improvement of supply chain • Establishing partnercompanies footprint optimisation • Customer categorisation to improve customer service Product safety, forest certification and • Introduction of a efficiency ships with selected • Leveraging commodity chains-of-custody, the origin of wood, sustainability companies scorecard risk management ecolabels, carbon footprints, recyclability and • Optimisation of waste reduction are among the most imporproduct features tant topics. UPM offers product declarations and environmental data for most products as a tool to provide customers with information Target To strengthen our Market entry, establishing To increase market share in To capture more value To secure competitive advantage and To ensure the mutual benefits To strengthen market position/ To secure competitive wood on the sustainability of products and the position in growing strong customer relations strategic markets and to improve in the electricity and our position in a growing market and of future customer projects and share in selected businesses and biomass for all UPM supply chain. end-use areas and and building platform for the customer service level further commodities market enhance our competence further increase responsiveness further by offering products and businesses in a sustainable markets wood-based biofuels services to improve customers’ manner process efficiency CONTENTS Customers 31 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 STAKEHOLDERS 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 32 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Suppliers are an integral part of UPM value creation businesses using wood as a basic raw material. WOOD DELIVERIES TO UPM MILLS UPM external purchasing spend UPM sources all wood assortments to ensure optimal utilisation of this valuable raw 1,000 m3 2013 2012 Sourcing operations play a significant role in ensuring the efficiency and Systematic supplier assessment material. Finland 17,907 16,591 ■ Fibre 29% profitability of UPM. The objective of UPM’s sourcing operations is to maintain and requirements In 2013, UPM sourced 28.0 million Germany 1,691 1,093 ■ Other raw Transparent and systematic supplier require(25.2 million) cubic metres of wood around Austria 1,098 833 materials 29% a supplier base that is capable of delivering material and service solutions ments are the basis for the company’s supplier the world. The majority of wood is purchased ■ Energy 12% Russia 352 613 that are both cost competitive and innovative to UPM businesses globally. selection process and supplier performance from the Finnish private forest owners to France 0 306 ■ Indirect materials and services 15% evaluation. UPM’s risk assessment covers whom UPM also offers a wide range of forest ■ Logistics 15% United Kingdom 297 313 environmental, social and economic risks and services. A network of local entrepreneurs Every year, UPM’s sourcing professionals purchase a wide range of products, is carried out at supplier level where appropritakes care of harvesting, logistics and forestry Estonia 123 119 materials and services. These include the company’s primary raw materials, ate. Supplier audits are initiated based on work operations. United States 881 879 such as wood, pulp, energy and recycled paper, as well as other direct and identified risks or gaps in supplier perforIn Finland, UPM’s total wood purchases Uruguay 4,519 3,527 mance. in the private wood market were 9.4 million Total 26,868 24,274 indirect materials such as chemicals, pigments, spare parts, and services from UPM’s recovered paper UPM requires all its suppliers to apply cubic metres in 2013, 24% higher than in 2012 IT and logistics to maintenance. The company’s sourcing network consists of the principles of the Code of Conduct and (7.5 million). consumption suppliers ranging from private forest owners and local companies to large to fulfil the criteria concerning social and 1,000 t global corporations. environmental responsibility. These supplier Tracing the origin of wood is 3,500 requirements are defined in the UPM Supa prerequisite for UPM plier Code. UPM’s tracing systems and chain of custody product safety survey with almost 200 paper, 2,800 In 2013, 64% (56%) of supplier spend model cover the requirements for both PEFC chemical and films suppliers. Suppliers were 2,100 was qualified against the Supplier Code. and FSC forest certification schemes. UPM given feedback based on their responses. Towards long-term co-operation Ensuring responsible sourcing is an Additional specific requirements are in place considers forest certification to be an excellent 1,400 with selected suppliers integral part of supplier performance manfor areas such as wood, chemicals, safety, tool for promoting sustainable forestry. Energy from renewable sources UPM aims to be a professional partner to agement. UPM works closely with suppliers logistics, pulp and packaging. With its chains of custody system, UPM UPM is both a significant purchaser and a 700 its suppliers and to develop supplier relationto ensure that all the company’s requirements Suppliers are encouraged to apply manensures full traceability of the origin of wood producer of energy. The majority of electrical ships in a responsible manner that delivers are met and to establish mutual understandagement systems based on internationally worldwide. and thermal energy is used for the company’s 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 long term benefits to both parties. ing on the issue of sustainability. recognised standards and the best available UPM verifies that the wood raw material pulp and paper production. UPM favours a Source: UPM Long-term co-operation plans based on In 2013, UPM co-operated with suppliers techniques and practices. supplied to its mills is sustainably sourced, wide range of low-emission energy sources mutual commitment and openness between with regard to safety in particular. A large legally logged and procured according to the and focuses on energy efficiency and energy companies are in place with key suppliers. The number of suppliers have been trained in Wood is the primary raw requirements of international forest certificasavings in its businesses. In 2013, 67% (65%) aim of this co-operation is to work together to the company’s new safety requirements. material for UPM’s businesses tion schemes and the new EU Timber Regulaof the fuels used by UPM were from renewable Monthly stumpage prices optimise the entire value chain, while sharing (Read more on the improvement of contracUPM is both a major forest owner and a tion. UPM therefore has control over the sources. for logs and pulpwood in Finland best practices for areas such as supply chains, tor work safety on page 37.) purchaser of wood. UPM’s wood sourcing origin of its own harvesting and ensures that In addition to the company’s own electricEUR/m³ manufacturing and product development. operations are closely integrated with UPM other sources are controlled through contracity generation, electricity is also purchased tual terms of agreement and supplier audits. from the Nordic and Central European energy 80 All of UPM’s wood supplies are covered markets. In Germany, the company also has by third-party-verified chains of custody and bilateral agreements in place with electricity 60 80% (77%) of the wood used is certified. suppliers. In 2013, 6.2 TWh (7.1 TWh) of 64% OF SUPPLIER (Read more on UPM’s sustainable forestry on page 47.) electricity was purchased. Logistics form the foundation 40 SPEND IS QUALIFIED UPM IS A SIGNIFICANT USER 20 Pulp and chemicals for on-time deliveries AGAINST THE SUPPLIER CODE AND BUYER OF PAPER FOR RECYCLING are purchased worldwide UPM delivers approximately 21,000 loads of UPM buys approximately 1.6 million tonnes products and raw materials around the world 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 UPM is the world’s largest user of paper for of chemical pulp from external suppliers. every week. Of all UPM deliveries, 69% are by WOOD AND recycling for the production of graphic papers. In Specific requirements are set for pulp suppliers rail and road and 31% are by sea traffic. The Spruce logs Spruce pulpwood 15% Pine logs Pine pulpwood BIOMASS PURCHASES 2013, the total consumption of paper for recycling with regard to environmental performance, majority of UPM’s haulage is handled by Birch logs Birch pulpwood 17 IN APPROXIMATELY OF was approximately 3.5 million tonnes. forestry, wood sourcing and performance contract partners. UPM aims to create strateSource: Metla reporting. gic long term alliances in order to create benCOUNTRIES UPM’S WOOD CONSUMPTION Efficient paper recycling depends on the local UPM is also a major purchaser of chemiefits for the company and its customers. COMES FROM COMPANY-OWNED infrastructure for national collection schemes and cals. Chemical suppliers are subject to specific The criteria for forming these alliances FORESTS recovery systems. The recycled paper used by UPM requirements with regard to product safety, are efficiency and the ability to meet environUPM group’s electricity supply is purchased from Europe, where the most signifisuch as the UPM Restricted Chemical mental and social responsibility requirements. cant suppliers are local authorities, waste manageSubstance List (UPM RSL) and EU Ecolabels. UPM has set compulsory requirements for TWh ment companies and printing houses. UPM aims to The UPM RSL was updated in 2013 and the handling, transportation and warehousing 20 36% optimise the value chain of paper for recycling by currently contains approximately 6,000 of UPM products. focusing on local supply close to the mills with restricted chemicals. The implementation As more stringent regulations on transport OF ALL minimal costs and environmental impact. 16 of the new list will start in 2014. (Read more emissions come into force, UPM is developing FIBRE USED IN UPM’S on page 41.) alternative logistics and fuel solutions with 12 PAPER PRODUCTION Some of the purchased paper for recycling is Environmental and social performance alliance partners. Regarding the new sulphur reprocessed at UPM’s own sorting facilities located data is collected regularly from UPM’s pulp regulation approved by the European Parlia8 IS RECYCLED FIBRE in the vicinity of the UPM Shotton mill in the UK, the and chemical suppliers. The results of these ment in September 2012, UPM is co-operating UPM Steyrermühl mill in Austria and UPM Chapelle 4 surveys are discussed with the suppliers, with shipping lines and ship owners to find Darblay mill in France. both on-site and off-site. The data collection ways of complying with the forthcoming 0 is an integral part of supplier risk and regulation, which comes into effect in 2015. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 performance management. ■ CHP production ■ Condensing In 2013, sourcing professionals at UPM ■ Hydro Electricity Raflatac conducted a responsibility and ■ Nuclear consumption CONTENTS Suppliers 33 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 STAKEHOLDERS 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 34 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 People enable company UPM PERSONNEL IN FIGURES PERSONNEL BY COUNTRY transformation Shop-floor 31 Dec. Finland 2013 8,110 2012 8,636 2011 9,639 Salaried Full time Germany 4,609 4,714 5,332 60% United Kingdom 1,136 1,205 1,497 97% 40% France 901 1,146 1,195 The main objective of UPM’s People Fixed term 60% Russia 771 970 1,006 97% Part time strategy is to drive the company’s 12% 40% 3% Austria 547 546 572 transformation into the Biofore 60% Poland 440 454 369 13% 98% 3% Company by enhancing the UPM 40% Estonia 206 217 201 culture. 2% Spain 194 212 226 11% Switzerland 68 110 12 As a result of the “Step Change in Permanent 88% 87% 89% 80% 79% 80% Male Italy 62 65 71 Safety” initiative, safety results Turkey 38 39 39 continued to improve significantly. 20% Belgium 32 35 36 2013 2012 20111) 21% Sweden 26 29 24 UPM’s responsible restructuring 20% Female 20,950 22,068 23,367 Other Europe 109 98 104 continued in impacted locations in Number of employees in total China 1) 1,412 1,430 1,414 2013. United States 2) 1,116 1,129 1,188 2013 2012 20111) Uruguay 562 576 554 Turnover % 12.45 15.06 10.17 Malaysia 174 185 170 Turnover% (voluntary) 5.49 5.95 5.20 Brazil 95 48 44 Australia 77 86 91 Average age of personnel 43.4 42.8 43.0 South Africa 66 72 82 UPM invests in the development of all People development India 41 36 33 employees, with a focus on supporting learnAverage training hours2) (hours employee) 15.5 17.3 15.5 Rest of the world 158 142 118 ing at work. UPM invests to develop multiOHS figures Total 20,950 22,180 24,017 skilled employees and their professional Lost-time accident frequency 5.4 8.5 15.2 1) Incl. Hong Kong competences. An additional focus area in employees is mostly attributable to the restrucUPM promotes active Absenteeism % 3.4 3.5 3.7 2) Incl. Madison 50%. The figures for 2011 and recent years has been the reinforcement of turing and sale of businesses. At the same participation 2012 have been recalculated to include Madison. a collaborative way of working. time, the number of employees in the biofuels UPM complies with international, national and business increased. local laws and regulations and respects interna1) HR figures for 2011 reflect active employees 2) Reflects active employees UPM offers opportunities UPM started its new two-year apprenticetional agreements with regard to human and to perform and grow ship programme at the UPM Kymi and UPM labour rights. UPM respects freedom of assoAs a global company, UPM offers a variety Kaukas mills in Finland. The aim of the prociation and abides by legally binding collective 85% of career opportunities all over the world. gramme is to attract new talent and enable the agreements. UPM promotes equal opportuniUPM aims to provide its employees with new working generation to work on a wider ties and objectivity in employment and career meaningful jobs where they are able to achieve range of tasks in various departments in the development and respects employee privacy. OF ALL UPM results, and a motivating and safe working mills. There were over 1,300 applications for the Employee participation and consultation are EMPLOYEES HAD A PERSONAL environment with a focus on employees’ 45 apprentice vacancies. The aim of the new organised in accordance with international and PERFORMANCE REVIEW wellbeing. As an employer, UPM has reward apprenticeship programme, which will begin in national rules and regulations. tion and changes within the company and Striving for achievements, WITH THEIR MANAGERS and recognition processes with an emphasis February 2014, is for apprentices to obtain a The UPM European Forum is the Group’s the business environment. personal growth and renewal on high performance. Responsibility is an vocational degree in the paper industry. The official international co-operative body, and Another way of promoting employee UPM utilises the 70/20/10 model stating that integral part of UPM’s Biofore strategy and programme is run in co-operation with a local representatives from UPM’s mills in Europe participation is the annual Employee Engage70% of learning takes place on the job, 20% EMPLOYEES IN 48 its everyday operations. vocational school. attend its meetings. The European Forum met ment Survey (EES). The survey provides comes from learning from others and their At the end of 2013, UPM had a total In Germany, more than 100 apprentices twice in 2013. Meetings covered topical issues information about development in the workexperiences and 10% is training off the job. of 20,950 employees. The reduction of 1,230 start in 15 professions at UPM every year. and open dialogue related to the business situaplace and provides feedback to managers. UPM’s performance management process COUNTRIES In 2013, the response rate stayed at the is used systematically to set strategy-related same level as the previous year (78%). The targets and development plans for employees Employees’ years of service with UPM 2011–2013 Age structure of UPM personnel 2013 UPM’s personnel by business area 2013 20,950 overall engagement index declined slightly to 60% (63%). The manager effectiveness index around the world. The focus of personal performance reviews is clear target setting, feedNEARLY -40% persons persons continued to increase (74%). The Occupational back and individually agreed development DECREASE IN ABSENTEEISM Health and Safety (OHS) index remained at areas. 5,000 4,000 ■ UPM Biorefining 11% DUE TO ACCIDENTS AT WORK the same level as the previous year (77%). UPM organises training and coaching for ■ UPM Energy 0% Based on the results of the survey, the managers in order to develop their performance 4,000 3,000 ■ UPM Raflatac 14% ■ UPM Paper Asia 7% company-wide areas for development are management skills. In 2013, 85% (84%) of all 3,000 ■ UPM Paper ENA 53% being carried over. Workplace safety remains UPM employees had a personal performance 2,000 ■ UPM Plywood 12% high up on UPM’s agenda. review with their managers. complexity. UPM aims to have inspiring and 2,000 ■ Other operations 3% UPM does not collect information on or empowering leaders that are able to lead in 1,000 report on its employees’ union membership Empowering leadership an agile and sustainable manner and for all 1,000 at a global level due to differences in national as a target employees to have strong self-leadership legislation in various countries. The estimated In 2013, UPM renewed the leadership developcapabilities. 0 0 <1 5 10 –1 0 0 0 <2 21 0 –2 26 5 –3 percentage of employees covered by collective ment programme portfolio to support the UPM continued its mentoring programme 1– 5 –2 –3 >3 31 0 –3 36 5 agreement mechanisms is 65%. ongoing transformation in the company. Key and its leadership development alumni 6– –4 41 0 –4 46 5 –5 11 16 21 51 0 –5 56 5 –6 61 0 –6 >6 5 5 ■ 2011, total 23,909 themes for the new development programmes and front-line managers’ development pro■ 2012, total 22,068 are self-leadership, coaching and leading in grammes. ■ 2013, total 20,950 CONTENTS Employees 35 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 RESPONSIBILITY 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 36 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Focus on safety and wellbeing UPM considers the health and safety UPM focused on a coaching style of senior executives and a Deferred Bonus Plan neurship. Active measures promoting of employees, visitors and other leadership throughout 2013. The aim is to for other key employees. Based on the results of employment and retraining are carried out people affected by its operations to increase employee engagement and empowerthe 2012 earning period, 640,000 shares were in close co-operation with various authorities be of paramount importance. UPM ment. earned under the Deferred Bonus Plan. These and other third parties. The company-wide “Step Change in Safety 2012-2014” initiative has aims to be an industry leader in shares will be distributed to the nominated In January 2013, UPM ceased paper resulted in a substantial improvement in safety results. In 2013, UPM’s safety and to have no fatal accidents Recognising high participants in 2015. Based on the results for production at the UPM Stracel paper mill at UPM premises. performance 2013, in Strasbourg, France. In April, UPM closed lost-time accident frequency (the number of lost-time work accidents UPM employs a total compensation the estimated number of earned shares to be down paper machine 3 at the UPM Rauma per one million hours of work) was 5.4 (8.5). The second year of approach consisting of base salary, benefits delivered to participants in 2016 is 254,000. mill in Finland and paper machine 4 at the campaign brought nearly 40% improvement from previous year. and incentives, which are determined by The earning period for the Performance the Ettringen mill in Germany. LOST-TIME ACCIDENT 5.4 UPM’s global rules, local legislation and Share Plan is three years. The first plan covers In July, UPM Raflatac announced the The target for the end of 2014 is below five. FREQUENCY FELL TO market practice. Intangible recognition is also the years 2011–2013, the second plan the years closures of the labelstock factory in MarAt the end of the year, 11 production units achieved more than one 60% included in the reward portfolio. Emphasis is 2012–2014 and the third plan the years 2013– tigny, Switzerland, coating operations in placed on striving for high performance when 2015. Approximately 600 key employees are Melbourne, Australia, and Durban, South year without any lost-time accidents. OVER decisions are made regarding pay. For significovered by the plans. Africa, and the slitting and distribution cant individual or team achievements, there The two long-term incentive programmes terminal in Johannesburg, South Africa. IMPROVEMENT IN TWO YEARS is a separate Achievement award practice in were launched in 2011 and are run on an annuThe UPM Docelles paper mill in France Unfortunately, there was one fatal travel accident during a business place. al basis. These programmes have replaced the was closed in January 2014. trip in Finland in 2013. All of UPM’s employees belong to Share Ownership Plan and Stock Option ProIn Timber operations, UPM sold its a unified annual short term incentive scheme. gramme launched in 2007. The Share Ownerfurther processing business at Kaukas in The plan combines company and businessship Plan has already ceased and the Stock Lappeenranta, Finland, and at Aigrefeuille level targets and personal and/or team Option Programme will cease in 2014. in France. The Pestovo sawmill in Russia The 2013 theme “We can prevent all accidents” Absences due to illness and accidents performance targets. EBITDA is one of was also sold. underlined the importance of the work commudecreased slightly from 2012. UPM’s global the key financial indicators for the company Ensuring responsible In addition, UPM restructured its wood nity’s role in making safety a natural part of absenteeism was 3.4% (3.5%). Absenteeism and business-level targets. restructuring sourcing and forestry activities, the operaeveryday activities. Evaluation, learning and decreased in France and in the United States The total amount of annual incentives UPM’s activities on permanently closed sites tions of global functions and the head office improvement, and making safety an integral in particular. In addition to the decrease in the for the year 2013 is EUR 38 million. and in restructuring typically focus on retrainactivities of the UPM Paper ENA business part of our business management system and number of accidents, absenteeism due to UPM has two long term incentive proing, re-employment and relocation within area. daily activities have been the focus areas. In accidents at work decreased significantly grammes: a Performance Share Plan for the company, as well as on supporting entrepreaddition, UPM introduced a new safety theme (nearly 40%). each month. UPM’s safety standards were also reviewed during the autumn. Monitoring employees’ UPM celebrated the company’s first Safety wellbeing Week in all UPM locations in April in connecAt UPM, there is a good co-operation between tion with the World Day for Safety and Health employer, employee and occupational health Focus on health at Work organised by the International Labour organisation to improve the occupational In connection with the Step Change in Safety Organization (ILO). health of personnel. Various metrics and initiative, a special focus area for 2014 will be The 2013 UPM Safety Award was given to indicators are used to monitor employees’ health. The aim of the “Focus on Health” STEP CHANGE IN CONTRACTOR SAFETY 400-2,000 two business units UPM Pellos plywood mill in wellbeing locally. These indicators include, for campaign is to support continuous improveFinland and NorService paper service centre in example, the annual employee engagement ment of employees’ health, quality of life, and Contractor safety is an integral part of the company’s Germany for outstanding safety performance survey (EES), follow-up of safety and absence ability to perform on a voluntary basis. CONTRACTORS WORKING safety performance. All contractors are required to and commitment. indicators and occupational health checks Most UPM sites already have activities and have a basic understanding of UPM’s safety proceAs well as its own employees, UPM’s safety aligned with national legal requirements. This practices to support a healthier lifestyle. Local ON EACH UPM PULP AND dures and to conduct job/work-specific safety training. requirements apply also to subcontractors and information is used to monitor individuals and management teams will review their health PAPER MILL ANNUALLY MORE THAN visitors. UPM requires its subcontractors to work communities and plan local activities to practices at all UPM sites. Based on the find13,000 As part of the safety initiative, UPM has updated its follow the safety guidelines, which enables them support wellbeing at work. ings, further development activities will be safety requirements for contractors. In addition to the to carry out their work safely whilst on UPM As of the beginning of 2013, all UPM’s arranged. In addition, a personal health plan general requirements, more specific requirements have premises. (Read more on contractor safety sites in Finland are non-smoking. Some consisting of a medical check, wellness assessCONTRACTORS TRAINED been introduced for contractors working at UPM’s improvements on page 37.) UPM sites in the UK and France were already ment and personal action plan will be piloted premises and for drivers of heavy-goods vehicles. non-smoking. at a few sites. IN UNITS’ SAFETY TRAININGS UPM introduced a special web-based safety induction to complement the UPM general safety and site-specifAbsenteeism % due to sickness and Absenteeism due to sickness Lost-time accident frequency, ic inductions. The safety induction is a prerequisite accidents at work, all UPM personnel and accidents at work, all UPM personnel before starting work at a UPM site or making all UPM personnel deliveries with a heavy-goods vehicle. More than % absence hours/theoretical working time % 17,000 contractors have completed the induction 5 5 25 already. -15% The target of the safety requirements and training sessions is to ensure that neither UPM employees nor 4 3 4 3 20 15 REDUCTION IN contractors are subjected to any risks when working THE NUMBER on UPM’s premises. UPM has also taken further risk 2 2 10 OF CONTRACTOR assessment measures by conducting safety self-assess1 1 5 ments with over 300 key contractors working in ACCIDENTS high-risk safety positions. 0 0 0 0 20 9 1 Bi o UP refi an y nd an e A US ua y na 0 20 9 Bi o UP refi Ki Un 20 0 1 M n c C 1 20 0 n 20 1 20 UP E ing la ng ite hi 1 20 1 UP M E ing From 2014 onwards, contractors will also be rewarded 1 20 2 13 UP M ne m Fi Fr ug 2020 12 UP M ne M R rg UP Pa afla y er n do d Ur 13 M R rg UP Pa afla y M pe ta P r c G m M pe ta P r c for their good safety performance, commitment and M UP ape Asi M rE a Pl NA yw UP UP ape Asia M rE Pl N yw A UP oo Absence hours/ M initiative with an annual safety award. oo ■ d Accidents at work d theoretical working time Lost-time accidents at work/ ■ Sick leave mill. hours of work CONTENTS Employees 37 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 RESPONSIBILITY 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 38 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM’s Biofore strategy represents MORE WITH BIOFORE: RESPONSIBILITY AS A SOURCE OF COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE a commitment to sustainable development EVENTS 4 7 March: UPM is awarded the EU Ecolabel Value creation with stakeholders Communication Award 2012 for its N Dialogue, feedback and commitment to sustainable products The foundation for corporate responsibility at UPM is the GN O engagement company’s Biofore strategy. It sets the direction for innovation, ITI 14 March: UPM wins Sustainable Biofuels Award in Rotterdam product development, and safe and sustainable operations. RE TY ILI CO New business 3 opportunities with ecodesign B LA TY 15 July: UPM receives EMAS registration Biofuels YC FE THIR A in China Biocomposites S D-P Biochemicals EW AN D AR AB UPM regained its position in both 12 Sept: UPM renews its world-class position ILIT T TY the European and World Dow Jones in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Sustainability Indices (DJSI) and EE I N Y AN EN NO Creating competitive 2 20 Sept: UPM renews apprenticeship received other external recognition advantage and long-term value D GA VA RE programme at UPM Kymi and UPM Kaukas for its climate, forestry and High performing people Resource efficiency GE TIO C mills in Finland M innovation actions. Ecolabels and certification EN N 26 Sept: UPM brings into use a new bio RE N heating plant that generates energy from More with Biofore: material efficiency EMP bark at UPM Korkeakoski sawmill in Finland in operations improved significantly. L OY 1 Anticipating and managing risks 8 Oct: UPM achieves a top position in Code of Conduct Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) Nordic UPM’s corporate initiative “Step Environmental performance Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) Change in Safety” proceeded Responsible sourcing and forestry for the fifth year running with excellent results – nearly 40% reduction in lost-time accident frequency in 2013. Businesses based on renewable and recyclable of its products are recyclable. These strengths Team (GET), headed up by the President and logical effluent treatment plant at the UPM raw materials form the core of UPM’s Biofore ensure that UPM will be well positioned in an CEO. The GET sets the agenda and direction Pietarsaari pulp mill in Finland. strategy. Responsible use of resources brings operating environment where renewable and for future development. The daily practices are UPM’s environmental costs, which were with it advantages with regard to energy, recyclable resources are acknowledged for integrated into each business and, at corporate mainly attributable to effluent treatment and production and cost efficiency. UPM products their environmental credentials. level, the responsibility agenda is managed by waste management, totalled EUR 134 million are produced in a way that uses less water, less the Environment and Responsibility team, (133 million), including depreciation. energy and fewer raw materials, and at the Committing to which co-ordinates the various initiatives by No significant environmental incidents same time generates less waste, giving the responsibility targets business areas and functions. occurred in 2013. However, there were several products more economic and environmental UPM has defined corporate responsibility In 2013, UPM revised its Anti-Bribery minor temporary deviations from permit condivalue. principles with forward-looking targets and Rules. The rules are available in 11 languages tions. These deviations were reported to the UPM’s long term commitment to responcorresponding measures in the key areas of and they complement company’s zero-tolerance relevant authorities immediately, and corrective sibility is evident throughout the lifecycle of economic, social and environmental respon­ policy on corruption and bribery, which is set and preventive measures were taken. The measCLEAN RUN IS ABOUT AWARENESS, products. The social and environmental sibility. out in the Code of Conduct, and explain in ures are part of the company’s internal Clean COMMITMENT AND CONCRETE ACTIONS impacts of raw material portfolio and sourcSustainable products and climate, water, further detail the ethical behaviour expected run campaign, which aims to improve environing, production, deliveries and product use forest and waste management have been from employees and also from third parties. mental performance further and to promote The Clean Run campaign, launched in 2011 at UPM pulp and are taken into account until the product is defined as the key areas of environmental Training on the rules has been organised. and maintain environmental awareness. paper mills, was expanded to other businesses in 2013. recycled, reused or disposed of. responsibility. In terms of social issues, sourcUPM is committed to monitoring and In addition, UPM’s wide range of expering, local stakeholder engagement, safety and reviewing its performance in relation to preCommitted to responsible Although the environmental challenges differ, the key focus of tise in biomass utilisation and recycling comresponsible restructuring are key focus areas. venting corruption and bribery. In connection business practices the campaign remains the same: to further improve the mills’ bined with the existing sourcing network UPM aims to improve its performance in all with this development, the Ethics Advisory The foundation for UPM’s responsible business environmental performance by promoting environmental awareprovides a solid platform for the development of these areas continuously. Committee has been established to periodically practice is the company’s Code of Conduct, ness, identifying issues before they have an environmental impact, of new, higher value-added businesses. Many In 2013, UPM’s corporate responsibility review and evaluate the effectiveness of the which provides the basis for the company’s encouraging immediate reporting and learning from others. of UPM’s current and new products provide activities focused on the company-wide safety Rules. The Committee reports regularly to the approach to human and labour rights, ethical alternatives to non-renewable materials. initiative, improving contractor safety and UPM Audit Committee on the status of antibusiness conduct, safety, environmental pracIn wood sourcing and forestry, Clean Run stands for consistent The evaluation of global sustainability expanding the internal Clean Run environbribery compliance within the company. tices and safeguarding company assets. The monitoring, meticulous recording of the findings and the active megatrends, risks and stakeholder expectamental campaign into new business areas. Code of Conduct is complemented by more follow-up of any corrective actions. tions is an integral part of UPM’s strategy (Read more on the safety initiative on page 38 Investments in resource detailed policies, rules and guidelines (read process. Renewability, recyclability and and contractor safety on page 37.) efficiency show returns more on the company’s policies on page 57). At the UPM Raflatac Scarborough factory in the UK, the Clean Run resource efficiency have been identified as UPM has invested to ensure compliance and UPM provides regular training in the area, and targets and mindset have been embedded in the regular safety critical issues for UPM’s current and future Managing the responsibility performance that exceeds environmental reguCode of Conduct training is part of the inducwalks. In practice, departmental teams inspect their area to business and a response to resource scarcity agenda lations. UPM’s investments in environmental tion of new employees. identify and classify items that need improvement or immediate and societal needs on a large scale. UPM’s responsibility principles form part performance are part of the Group’s investUPM requires all of its employees to paraction and share best practices. Although climate change or resource of the company’s strategy process, which is ment programme, and their aim is to promote ticipate in training on the Code of Conduct. By scarcity could potentially become a risk, a prerequisite for continuous improvement the efficient and responsible use of energy, the end of the year, over 17,000 employees had Read more on environmental performance: UPM also sees opportunities as its products and also guarantees attention from members water and raw materials. attended the training (85%). UPM aims to www.upm.com/responsibility are based on renewable raw materials, the of management. In 2013, UPM’s environmental investments reach 90% participation in the training by 2015. majority of its energy generation and use is UPM’s global corporate responsibility totalled EUR 29 million (35 million). The UPM is also committed to the ten principles based on fossil CO2-neutral sources and most agenda is managed by the Group Executive largest investment was the rebuild of the bioof the UN Global Compact. The ten principles CONTENTS Responsibility 39 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 RESPONSIBILITY 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 40 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Key Key area trends of responsibility Target Achievement 2013 ECONOMIC PRODUCT SAFETY STARTS WITH CHEMICAL PURCHASING Profit • Operating profit margin > 10% Operating profit excluding special items was 6.8% of sales. POWER SHIFT IN WORLD ECONOMY Shareholder value creation • Return on equity at least 5 percentage Return on equity excluding special items was 6.4%. UPM Restricted Chemical Substance List (UPM RSL), updated in 2013, takes product safety further to ensure that UPM’s products are safe to use and environmentally sound. points above the yield of a 10-year risk-free investment If it is anticipated that a chemical will include prohibited substances, UPM starts • Gearing ratio to be kept below 90% Gearing ratio as of 31 December 2013 was 41%. discussions with its suppliers about the role of restricted substances in the product. Governance • > 90% coverage of participation to UPM 85% of employees have completed the Code of Conduct training. Programme director Marja Koljonen from the Baltic Sea Action Group (BSAG) welcomes Accountability and compliance Code of Conduct training by 2015 2) UPM’s initiative in updating the list. UPM’s product safety approach guarantees that the substances will not enter the water system. SOCIAL 1) “UPM’s new list also includes hazardous chemicals that have been discovered only Leadership • Employee engagement index overall Employee engagement index overall favourable score Responsible leadership favourable score exceeding 70% by 2015 declined slightly to 60%. recently and are not yet officially prohibited. These chemicals are toxic, accumulative and long lasting and they will cause, among other things, harmful effects to • Employee engagement survey response Employee engagement survey response rate was 78%. rate reaching 70% and over by 2015 reproduction processes in humans and animals,” she says. People development • Employee Personal Performance Review (PPR) Employee Personal Performance Review (PPR) coverage The chemicals usually enter the water system High performing people coverage exceeding 90% globally by 2015 increased slightly and was at the level of 85% globally. through industrial or municipal water treatment plants as they can also be found in several consumer products. “They do not have a direct Working conditions • No fatal accidents (continuous) One fatal travel accident during a business trip in Finland. impact on water eutrophication, for example, but Safe and encouraging • Lost-time accident frequency below Nearly 40% improvement in lost-time accident frequency (LTAF) working environment 5 (per million hours or work) by 2015 from the previous year. In 2013, the LTAF was 5.4. they will accumulate and transfer into the food DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGE chain,” notes Koljonen. • Annual targets set for the reporting of near misses Annual targets set and exceeded in all business areas. and safety observations UPM has signed a voluntary commitment with BSAG to participate in the Baltic Sea rescue Community involvement • Continuous development of strategic sustainability Co-operation with IUCN, WWF and Birdlife continued. mission. According to Koljonen, UPM’s commitment Local commitment initiatives with leading NGOs is ideal as it fits the company’s own processes, New stakeholder forums established. • Continuous sharing of best practices business model and targets, and develops them in a of stakeholder initiatives direction that helps the Baltic Sea and the company. Responsible sourcing • > 80% of UPM supplier spend qualified 64% of supplier spend qualified against UPM Supplier Code with Read more: Value creation through against UPM Supplier Code by 2015 5) eight percentage points increase compared to the previous year. www.upm.com/suppliers and www.bsag.fi responsible business practices • Continuous supplier auditing based Supplier auditing continued. Auditing trainings organised to sourcing on systematic risk assessment practices personnel and new auditing tools introduced. ENVIRONMENTAL 2) 1,200 are derived from internationally recognised Coopers Oy, and congruence between the Products • Environmental management systems certified All except 2 sites have certified environmental management systems standards in the areas of human rights, English and Finnish versions has been checked. Taking care of the entire in 100% of production units (continuous) in place. UPM is a global frontrunner in the use of EU EMAS. labour, the environment and anti-corruption. PricewaterhouseCoopers has checked lifecycle • Environmental declarations for all product groups Environmental declarations are available for all relevant UPM products. In 2013, UPM conducted a high-level that UPM’s corporate responsibility reporting ENVIRONMENTAL OBSERVATIONS (continuous) In 2013, Raflatac developed a lifecycle assessment tool for its label Human Rights Due Diligence exercise to for 2013 meets the GRI requirements for AND IMPROVEMENT IDEAS products. identify UPM’s potential human rights Application Level B+, which does not indicate AT PULP AND PAPER MILLS • 25% growth in the share of eco-labeled products Increase of eco-labeled sales in line with the target. UPM was CLIMATE CHANGE impacts within the context of the UN “Proquality, but the number of indicators. by 2020 3) the first user of the new EU Ecolabel for newsprint paper grades. tect, Respect and Remedy” policy framework The GRI content index can be found on 7% and the associated UN Guiding Principles pages 51–52, and an extended version of on Business and Human Rights. the GRI content index, including detailed INCREASE IN THE SHARE According to the study, UPM has a range descriptions of the scope of the reporting Climate • 15% reduction in fossil CO2 emissions Development not in line with the target. Despite of good improvements OF ECO-LABELED PRODUCTS Creating climate solutions by 2020 3) in the fuel mix and energy efficiency, actions have not compensated of management systems to address human and data measurement techniques, is available the increased level caused by the Myllykoski acquisition. rights-related risks, but there is scope for at www.upm.com/responsibility. further enhancement. UPM will take the To support the company’s strong focus RESOURCE SCARITY necessary steps to consolidate the company’s on stakeholder engagement and sustainable Water • 15% reduction in waste water Development not in line with the target. Average specific waste water UPM does not publish a separate Using water responsibly volume by 2020 4) volume for UPM increased due to a higher weight of pulp in portfolio, position on the UN policy framework as well development further, UPM is committed to environmental and corporate responsibility despite of the fact that UPM Fray Bentos has one of the lowest process as the other human rights conventions and the principles of inclusivity, materiality and report but has integrated the contents water uses in the industry. principles. responsiveness, as defined in the AA1000 into this annual report. Various highlights • 20% reduction in COD load by 2020 4) Development in line with the target. 16% reduction achieved for AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008). from the year 2013 can be found under the UPM average product since 2008. More credibility UPM provides comprehensive environmenthe sections for each business area. with transparent reporting tal information that has been assured by third The GRI content index is on pages 51–52. Forest • Maintain high share of certified fibre 85% The share of certified fibre increased to 80% from 77% in 2012. At corporate level, UPM follows the Global parties from corporate level right through Keeping forests full of life To find out more about UPM’s • 100% coverage of chains of custody (continuous) Chains of custody coverage is approximately 99 %. Reporting Initiative’s G3 reporting guidelines, to the mills and individual products. Products responsibility agenda, please visit which enable companies to measure and with eco-labels, environmental product www.upm.com/responsibility. report on their sustainability performance. declarations and certified operations are the The corporate responsibility information methods used to inform the company’s stakeWaste • 40% reduction in solid waste to landfill Development nearly in line with the target, despite of the fact Reduce, reuse and recycle by 2020 that amount of landfilled solid waste increased. in English (see the Independent Assurance holders about sustainability, transparency Report on page 53) has been assured by and risk management. (Read more on EMAS an independent third party, Pricewaterhouseregistration in China on page 19.) 1) Social targets: from 2011 levels 4) Numerical targets relevant for pulp and paper production 2) Environmental targets: from 2008 levels 5) Covers all UPM business-to-business spend including wood CONTENTS 3) Includes paper, timber, plywood, pulp and label and wood-based biomass sourcing and excluding energy Responsibility 41 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 RESPONSIBILITY 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 42 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Taking care of the entire lifecycle Waste is today’s new material UPM’s products are made part of UPM to meet a wide range of sustainUPM’s eco-labeled sales*) UPM is committed to maximising from renewable, biodegradable ability criteria, set by external stakeholders. the reuse of materials and minimising UPM is the world’s UPM is the largest producer of EU Ecolaand recyclable raw materials. beled newsprint, graphic and copying papers. the generation of waste. largest user of paper for ■ EU Ecolabeled In 2013, UPM was awarded the EU Ecolabel sales 52% recycling for the production Communication Award for increasing public (incl. products with of graphic papers. multiple labeling) UPM has certified all its European pulp and awareness and knowledge of the EU Ecolabel. Nearly all organic production residues, includ■ Other eco-labeled paper mills and the UPM Fray Bentos pulp UPM also contributed heavily to the creation sales 23% ing bark and wood residues, as well as fibre36% mill in Uruguay in accordance with the of EU Ecolabel criteria for converted paper (FSC, PEFC, containing solids from deinking and effluent voluntary EU Eco-Management and Audit products. UPM’s papers can be used as subGerman Blue Angel) treatment, are used in energy generation OF ALL FIBRE Scheme (EMAS). EMAS promotes transparstrates in this new criterion, which will be ■ Sales without at mill sites. eco-labels 25% USED IN UPM’S PAPER ency and mitigation of environmental published in early 2014. Ash resulting from bioenergy generation impacts on the local area. In 2013, the UPM forms the most significant proportion of PRODUCTION IS RECYCLED *) incl. Paper, Pulp, Plywood, Timber and ProFi Changshu paper mill became the first paper Sustainability starts UPM’s solid waste. Ash is used on a large scale UPM ProFi composite FIBRE mill in China to be certified by EMAS (read with product development In 2013, 75% (68%) of UPM’s overall sales in applications ranging from landscaping to products are made from more on page 19). UPM businesses have adopted an ecodesign of paper, chemical pulp, plywood and timber road building. Today, approximately 90% of all the surplus paper and UPM uses eco-labels, such as the EU approach in their product development products was eco-labeled. This figure includes UPM’s production waste is reused or recycled. FSC, PEFC and EU Ecolabels, and national plastic left over from Ecolabel and German Blue Angel, PEFC processes, which means systematic integration UPM’s new construction product, Cinerit, APPROXIMATELY eco-labels. By 2020, UPM aims to increase the production of self90% and FSC forest certification labels. These of environmental aspects into product design made of fly ash from the thermal recovery of the share of eco-labeled products by 25% labels demonstrate a commitment on the at an early stage, covering the whole lifecycle. biogenic waste materials, is used to stabilise and adhesive label materials. compared with the 2008 level. In 2013, UPM received the Sustainable improve soils. Using fly ash instead of burning Biofuels Award 2013 for Breakthrough Innolimestone reduces CO2 emissions significantly. OF ALL PRODUCTION vation in Technology at the World Biofuels UPM has developed innovative ways to WASTE IS REUSED Markets Congress & Exhibition for its success reduce its own waste and reuse waste in new in developing an innovative production proproducts. These include UPM BioVerno, The majority of UPM’s production cess for an advanced renewable diesel, UPM Product safety plays an important part UPM’s renewable diesel made of crude tall UPM’s renewable diesel, sites, as well as its forestry operations, BioVerno. in providing customers with products that oil, which is a residue of pulp production. UPM BioVerno, is produced are covered by environmental, UPM’s aim is to deliver “More with Bioare safe to use and environmentally sound. In addition, UPM ProFi composite products from crude tall oil, a residue quality and health and safety systems, fore” by continuously reducing the environIn 2013, UPM updated the UPM Restricted are made from the surplus paper and plastic mental impact of its products over the whole Chemical Substance List (UPM RSL) origileft over from the production of self-adhesive of pulp production. which are certified in accordance lifecycle. For this ambitious goal to be nally launched in 2010. In total, the new list label materials. with the ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and achieved, material efficiency needs to play includes approximately 6,000 restricted UPM is also the world’s largest user of OHSAS 18001 standards a key role in all company operations. (Read chemicals. The implementation of the new paper for recycling for the production of graphrespectively. more on the results for UPM Steyrermühl list will start in 2014 (read more on page 41). ic papers, consuming 3.5 million tonnes of on page 21.) paper for recycling in 2013. By 2020, UPM aims to reduce the amount of its solid waste sent to landfill by 40% comUPM’s new construction pared with the 2008 level. The reduction target product Cinerit is made of was increased in 2012 because of the good fly ash from the thermal progress made. recovery of biogenic waste materials. ADDING VALUE TO SUSTAINABLY SOURCED NEW USES FOR UPM FORMI WOOD AND BIOMASS UPM’s total waste to landfills 2013 saw many new uses for UPM Formi biocomposite material. 1,000 t Biomass for own Plywood One of the world’s most well-known high-quality speaker manufacturers, energy genera250 0.7 million m3 the Finnish company Genelec, uses UPM Formi in their new speaker tion 27 TWh model. The material is easy to mould and has excellent acoustic features. ES 200 One of the key goals for Genelec was to find a sustainable material that DU L SI GS Sawn timber 150 would also guarantee pure audio quality. RE O 1.6 million m3 FOREST 100 The kitchen fitting manufacturer Puustelli Group developed, in co-operation with UPM, kitchen fitting frame components that increase Biofuels 50 the utilisation of renewable natural fibres and reduce the manufacturing Biocomposites carbon footprint by 35–45%. Biochemicals 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 “The new UPM raw material will revolutionise the manufacturing of kitchen fittings and also enable the frames to be recycled. The lighter The total amount of solid waste sent to PULP weight of the material also means lower transport costs and increased WO O D landfill has decreased by over 10% over the last ten years. However, from 2012 to energy savings”, says managing director Jussi Aine of Puustelli. 2013 the total amount of waste to landfills Pulp 3.2 million t Paper 10.2 million t increased significantly. The reason is that Read more about UPM Formi: former re-use possibilities for ash ceased at one of UPM’s paper mills and new www.upmformi.com ways of re-use are being investigated. CONTENTS Sustainable products • Waste 43 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 RESPONSIBILITY 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 44 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Climate actions recognised UPM’s CO² emission-free power generation capacity UPM’s electricity consumption per tonne of paper UPM’s fossil CO² emissions per tonne of paper and energy efficiency improved 2,500 MW 2,000 kWh/t 500 kg/t 2,000 1,600 400 UPM products offer an alternative to fossiltion. The plant improves the sawmill’s energy COMBINED HEAT AND POWER 1,500 1,200 300 based products, because they are renewable efficiency in an environmentally responsible PLANTS AT MILL SITES, TWH and store carbon. UPM is continuously way by using bark that is left over from the 1,000 800 200 reducing the carbon footprint of its operasawing process. TWh 2013 2012 tions and improving energy efficiency. UPM’s continuous target is to improve Electricity generation 5.9 6.2 500 400 100 UPM has a wide range of energy sources energy efficiency. Energy efficiency has been Heat generation 29.5 26.9 and it maximises the use of carbon-neutral significantly improved by energy audits, 0 0 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 energy. Biomass-based fuels make up approxipromoting innovation and internal campaigns mately 84% of the fuels used by UPM in over the last 15 years. FUELS USED FOR HEAT GENERATION ■ Biomass ■ Hydro The electricity consumption per tonne of Since 1990, specific CO2 (carbon dioxide) Finland and approximately 67% of those used From its energy-saving investments carried paper has decreased by 20% over the emissions per tonne of paper have been TWh 2013 2012 ■ Nuclear worldwide. UPM is the second-largest generaout in 2013, UPM gained savings of EUR 6.1 last ten years. reduced by approximately 25%. Big steps tor of biomass-based electricity in Europe. million, achieved 32,000 t avoidance in CO2 Black liquor 17.9 16.6 were made through investments in renewable In addition, UPM has invested signifiemissions and 138,000 MWh reduction in Bark and other biomass 9.4 8.8 energy production, but also by continuously increasing energy efficiency. Acquisition of cantly in renewable energy since 2000. energy consumption. The annual savings are Heat recovered from paper mills with a high share of fossil fuels The largest ongoing projects are the new EUR 8.7 million, 48,000 t and 195,000 MWh. TMP production 1.4 1.7 increased both the total and the specific combined heat and power (CHP) plant at the In 2013, UPM’s climate change actions Renewable fuels total 28.7 27.1 CO2 in 2011. UPM Schongau mill in Germany, due to be were recognised externally. UPM achieved a Peat 0.8 0.8 completed by the end of 2014, and the refurtop position in the Carbon Disclosure Project Purchased heat 0.2 0.4 bishment of the company’s own hydropower (CDP) Nordic 260 Climate Disclosure Leadproduction assets in Finland. UPM’s investership Index (CDLI) for the fifth year runNatural gas 8.5 9.1 Sources of UPM’s greenhouse gas emissions*) Paper mills’ fossil carbon dioxide emission ments in biomass-based power and heat ning. The index evaluates companies’ climate Oil 0.7 0.6 2004-2013 generation (CHP) at the production sites have reporting. Coal 3.6 3.3 1,000 t CO2/a 1,000 t more than doubled the capacity. By 2020, UPM aims to reduce fossil CO2 Total 42.6 41.3 ■ Stationery fuel 5,000 15,000 In 2013, the UPM Korkeakoski sawmill in emissions by 15% compared with the 2008 combustion 29% Finland introduced a new bio heating plant level. ■ Indirect emissions 4,000 12,000 that uses only bark for heat energy generafrom purchased power 22% 3,000 9,000 ■ Indirect emissions from supply chain 2,000 6,000 49% 1,000 3,000 78% OF ELECTRICITY 67% OF ALL FUEL *) measured in CO2-equivalents 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 0 GENERATED BY UPM IS FREE FROM USED BY UPM IS BASED ON ■ CO2 According to the calculation, approximately Paper production FOSSIL-FUEL CO2 EMISSIONS RENEWABLE BIOMASS 50% of the direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions are related to UPM’s energy ACIDIFYING use, but raw materials, transportation and Increased usage of renewable energy and 30% FLUE GASES processing of sold products also have improved energy efficiency are decreasing a significant impact. More details are fossil CO2 emissions. However, acquisition DOWN BY OVER available at www.upm.com/responsibility. and divestments of paper mills are having a major impact on the development. OVER THE LAST TEN YEARS UPM’s acidifying flue gases 1,000 t mio t 20 20 16 16 12 12 8 8 4 4 0 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 ■ Total NOx ■ Total SO2 Paper production Chemical pulp production Increases in total volumes are due to acquisitions (in 2010 and 2011). In 2013, improvements at pulp mills had a big impact on the further reduction of NOx and SO2 emissions. CONTENTS Climate 45 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 RESPONSIBILITY 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 46 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM ensures that all wood and More results with responsible wood fibre is sustainably sourced water management Wood is a renewable material and the primary Water has an important role in UPM’s pulp In 2013, the rebuild of the effluent treatment UPM’s process wastewater volumes raw material for UPM’s businesses. UPM is and paper production and hydropower genplant at the UPM Pietarsaari pulp mill in Finboth a major forest owner and a purchaser of eration. When using water, UPM’s target is land was completed. Read more about improving m³/t wood. (Read more on wood sourcing to minimise the impacts of operations on wastewater treatment plants below. 50 on page 33.) LOCAL CO-OPERATION WITH BIRDLIFE local water resources and safeguard the natuIn the pulp business, process water consumpUPM manages its forests with a view to ral water cycle in forests. UPM’s main protion has been defined as a strategic development 40 enhancing biological diversity, natural ecosysUPM is partnering with BirdLife as part of its global biodiversity programme. duction plants are located in areas where project. In 2013, UPM completed a project with tems and the carbon cycle, and operates there is sufficient water available. the aim of improving the existing mill processes 30 according to the principles of sustainable forest “UPM co-operates with expert networks locally and internationally. BirdLife UPM uses water responsibly in terms and developing the next-generation pulp process, 20 management. is a global organisation that is uniting a comprehensive network of environof the company’s water consumption and where the process water requirement per tonne UPM ensures that all wood and wood fibre mental organisations and experts. We are carrying out dozens of local effluent quality. All UPM’s pulp and paper of pulp is further reduced from the current level. 10 is sustainably sourced by using third-partyprojects with BirdLife, especially in regions where UPM is operating as mills have both mechanical and biological At the Uruguayan UPM Fray Bentos mill, which verified chains of custody and forest certificaa landowner or procuring wood,” explains Timo Lehesvirta, Director of wastewater treatment facilities. The material is UPM’s newest mill, the process water con0 Stakeholder Relations, UPM Forest Global. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 tions. efficiency programme, launched in 2011, sumption is among the lowest in the industry. All of UPM’s own forests and eucalyptus continued at the paper mills. The objective By 2020, UPM aims to reduce wastewater ■ per tonne of chemical pulp plantations are certified according to the FSC In 2013, UPM started a Chestnut Seedeater (Sporophila cinnamomea) is to reduce process water consumption and volume by 15% and COD load by 20% in pulp ■ per tonne of paper and/or PEFC certification schemes. In addition, conservation project in co-operation with the NGO Aves Uruguay to increase suspended solids. (Read more on the results and paper production compared with the 2008 UPM has an FSC Group Certificate in Finland the grassland bird population. The bird requires tall grasslands for nesting of the material efficiency programme at levels. UPM’s 2020 COD reduction target was UPM has reduced wastewater volumes and a UKWAS Group Certificate in the UK and feeding but local farmers also use these grasslands for cattle grazing. the UPM Steyrermühl mill on page 21.) increased in 2012 because of the good progress per tonne of paper by 25% and per to which private forest owners can sign up. made. tonne of chemical pulp by 20% over In 2012, some grassland areas were already excluded from cattle grazing the last ten years. The aim of UPM’s global biodiversity programme is to maintain and increase biodiwith the help of Aves Uruguay experts. Recent findings indicate that the versity in forests and to promote best practices strategy has been successful as both male and female Chestnut Seedeaters in sustainable forestry. In connection with the have been spotted for the first time. The next stage of the project is to expand biodiversity programme, UPM carried out the conservation area. UPM’s COD load several projects with stakeholders in 2013. UPM became a network partner in the “BiodiIn Finland, BirdLife renovated an old tower for bird watching in a 200-heckg/t versity in Good Company” initiative in Gertare protected area in Toivanjoki, Janakkala. Three quarters of the conserva25 many as part of the UN Decade Office for tion area is on UPM property. The Toivanjoki area is part of the EU’s Natura Biodiversity. 2000 network of protected areas and is an important feeding and resting 20 UPM continued its co-operation with the area for migrating birds. WWF’s New Generation Plantations Project in 15 Uruguay to develop and promote sustainable In the UK, UPM Tilhill has carried out an experimental project to restore 114 10 plantation practices. hectares of rough grazing and hill ground to native forest in Scotland. The In 2013, UPM became the sector leader fenced area helps wildlife such as the black grouse (Lyrurus tetrix), which has 5 for the materials industry in the CDP’s (Carbon suffered serious habitat loss. Altogether, some 410,000 trees were planted Disclosure Project) forests programme, which over the last two years in this region. 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 evaluates companies’ disclosure of their exposure to deforestation risks. Read more: IMPROVING WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANTS ■ per tonne of chemical pulp www.upm.com/responsibility ■ per tonne of paper Sustainable use of water is one of UPM’s core environmental principles. In 2013, UPM completed investments in wastewater The COD load has decreased by over treatment plants at the UPM Nordland paper mill in Germany and 30% per tonne of paper, and by 50% per the UPM Pietarsaari pulp mill in Finland. tonne of chemical pulp, over the last ten Certified wood supplied to mills years. UPM is currently reviewing water management and material % UPM WOOD AND BIOMASS efficiency at several mills. 100 RESOURCES UPM’s AOX load per tonne of 80% “Our primary objective is to operate the new wastewater treatment bleached chemical pulp 75 plants with minimal emissions and maximising energy efficiency. FOREST OWNED BY UPM 1) OF ALL WOOD The effluent treatment plant expansions help to achieve long term % 0,20 50 Hectares USED BY UPM IS SOURCED environmental targets and are in line with the company’s Biofore Finland 819,000 strategy,” explains Seija Vatka, Manager, Water. FROM CERTIFIED FORESTS 0,15 25 United States 75,000 United Kingdom 7,000 UPM Nordland mill expanded its effluent treatment plant to allow 83% the mill to further reduce Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) and 0,10 0 Total 901,000 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 OF UPM’S PAPER Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD5) loads. UPM Pietarsaari pulp mill completed the rebuild of its effluent treatment plant to improve the 0,05 PLANTATIONS OWNED BY UPM 1) IS PRODUCED USING FIBRE mill’s production efficiency and reduce its environmental impact. The average share of certified fibre supplied to UPM’s mills remains at a high Hectares THAT MEETS THE CRITERIA OF 0 Read more: and stable level of 80% (77%). By 2020, Uruguay 234,000 EITHER THE FSC OR THE PEFC 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 UPM aims to increase the share of certified www.upm.com/responsibility fibre to 85%. UPM’s 2020 target was FOREST CERTIFICATION SCHEME Acidifying flue gases down by over 60% increased in 2012 because of the good 1) In addition, UPM manages 1.5 million hectares over the last ten years. AOX indicates the progress made. of privately owned forests and 58,000 hectares amount of halogens bound to the organic of plantations. compounds present in the effluent. CONTENTS Forest • Water 47 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 RESPONSIBILITY 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 48 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM’s material balance 2013 Emissions to air EMISSIONS TO AIR 1) 2013 The majority of UPM´s airborne emissions for electricity as there is a direct supply from UPM’s material balance sums up the total material, energy and Energy ENERGY are caused by energy generation at its pulp Sulphur dioxide, t Nitrogen oxides, t 2,800 9,900 the neighbouring power plant. 2) In addition to direct CO emissions, UPM is 2013 and paper mills. 2 emission flows to and from UPM Carbon dioxide (fossil) 2), t 3,800,000 also evaluating and reporting its indirect CO2 The majority of electrical and thermal Fossil fuels, GWh 14,000 worldwide. In 2010, UPM set and other greenhouse gas emissions. Power energy is used for paper and pulp production. Renewable fuels 1), GWh 27,000 Choice of fuels, combustion technology and 1) Direct air emissions include emissions from UPM purchased from the grid results in an additional long-term environmental targets However, pulp mills are producing more 2), flue-gas purification are the primary ways power plants and a respective share of co-owned 3 million tonnes. Areas such as transport and raw Purchased electricity GWh 14,000 for 2020, and defined indicators energy than they are using. to reduce these emissions. power plants connected to UPM’s energy supply. material production result in an additional 7 million Purchased heat, GWh 200 to measure performance in key ­External power plants or boilers are considered tonnes. Detailed information can be found on areas. UPM has invested significantly in the use The targets for air emissions focus on the in terms of heat supply. Hürth is taken into account UPM’s website. 1) 78% from UPM processes (e.g. bark, fibre sludge, of renewable and CO2-neutral energy to reduction of fossil carbon dioxide emissions. black liqour) reduce the environmental load from energy In 2012, UPM revised the targets 2) Includes UPM shares of hydro, nuclear and generation. and tightened when reasonable. condensing power as well as purchases UPM aims to continuously reduce environmental impacts over the UPM’s CO2 target is strongly connected from the market Products PRODUCTS to energy sources and energy efficiency. 2013 entire lifecycle of its products and UPM products are mainly based on renewable Paper1), t 10,000,000 the company bases its annual raw materials that are recyclable and biodegradChemical pulp1), t 1,900,000 performance evaluation on these able. Fluff pulp, t 50,000 indicators. Converting materials, t 470,000 Third-party-verified eco-labels are commonly used to prove good environmental performance. Plywood and veneer, m3 750,000 In 2013, most of the total Sawn timber, m3 1,600,000 consumption and emission figures The targets for products are to increase the Heat, GWh 800 remained on a rather stable level share of eco-labeled products, certified environElectricity, GWh 4,500 compare to the previous year. mental management systems and availability By-products (waste for reuse), dry t 1,200,000 Improvements are visible in the of environmental product declarations. reduction of effluent load (COD, 1) Paper and chemical pulp volumes differ from AOX) and air emissions (NOx, the overall production of the paper and pulp SO2), which are resulting from mills because the paper and chemical pulp used both special projects and internally have been deducted from the number of products sold. continuous improvement efforts. Raw materials RAW MATERIALS Solid waste SOLID WASTE 1) 2013 2013 Biomass is the basis for all UPM businesses. Wood, m3 26,900,000 Much of the process waste is either used as To landfills 2), dry t 162,000 Certified chain of custody systems ensure that Market pulp, t 1,600,000 raw material or in energy generation. To temporary storage, dry t 8,000 wood is sourced from sustainably managed Paper for recovery, t 3,500,000 To municipal incineration plants, dry t 700 forests. Most production sites have reduced the volume Hazardous waste for special Purchased paper for converting, t 180,000 4,200 of solid waste and improved handling by treatment 3), t Minerals, t 2,500,000 sorting waste at the source. UPM’s Supplier Code defines suppliers’ miniPlastics, adhesives, resins, films, t 160,000 1) Includes process and production waste. Also mum compliance requirements in terms of Co-mingled domestic waste 1), t 200,000 The target for waste is to reduce the amount sorted waste from UPM Shotton’s MRRF plant is responsibility with regard to matters such as of production waste sent to landfills. included. Waste from exceptional major demolienvironmental impact, human rights, labour 1) At UPM Shotton, a Material Recovery and tion/construction work is not included but reported Recycling Facility (MRRF) sorts co-mingled waste, separately: approx. 8,000 dry t of exceptional practices, health and safety, and product of which the recovered paper fraction is reused construction waste at UPM Schongau in 2013. safety. at the paper mill. 2) The amount of waste to landfills increased significantly by approx 50,000 t. The reason is The targets related to raw materials concern that former reuse possibilities at one site ceased the certified fibre share and the coverage of and new ways are being investigated. chains of custody. 3) The main forms of hazardous waste are oil and Water WATER UPTAKE 1) Emissions to water EMISSIONS TO WATER 1) other oil waste that is either reused or recycled. UPM is working with local licenced external 2013 2013 partners on hazardous waste treatment. Water is an essential resource for pulp and Surface water, million m3 460 UPM`s paper and pulp production is the main Chemical oxygen demand 2), t 77,300 paper production, where water is used within source of emissions to water. Groundwater, million m3 22 Biological oxygen demand (7 days) 2), t 9,600 the process and for cooling. The share of the Sanitary water, million m3 4 Adsorbable organic halogens, t 250 other UPM units is minor. All effluents are treated both mechanically and Process waste water, million m³ 250 1) Rainwater is not used in the process but it can biologically in the effluent treatments plants, The majority of water that is used comes from be gathered and led to watercourses, depending before being released into watercourses. 1) The scope is pulp and paper mills: the impact rivers or lakes. A small amount comes from on the site. of other UPM units is minor. groundwater, where water levels are monitored. Emission levels and environmental impacts 2) Information includes the load from the Augsburg, are regulated and monitored. Caledonian, Hürth and Madison paper mills to The targets for water are to decrease process external effluent treatment plants as well as external wastewater volume and effluent load. The targets have been set for process wastewater users of UPM’s treatment plants. COD is not meavolume and chemical oxygen demand (COD). sured at Madison. BOD is not measured at Hürth. CONTENTS UPM’s material balance 2013 49 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 RESPONSIBILITY 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 50 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 GRI content index UPM follows the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) sustainability reporting guidelines (version 3.0) in its Profile Location Level corporate responsibility reporting. The reporting meets the GRI requirements for the Application Level B+, which refers to the quantity of indicators. The index below shows how and where the GRI indicators ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS are addressed in the annual report and the company internet pages. An extended version of Management approach to environmental responsibility AR Pages 42–43, 47–48 • the GRI content index can be found at www.upm.com/responsibility. Materials AR = Annual Report 2013 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume AR Page 49 • • Fully reported EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials AR Pages 33–34, 49 • Partially reported Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption AR Pages 45, 49 • EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source AR Page 49 Profile Location Level EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements AR Page 45 • EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services AR Pages 25, 45 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Water 1.1 CEO’s statement AR Pages 3–4 • EN8 Total water withdrawal by source AR Page 49 • 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities AR Pages 7–8, 12, 42 • EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Extended GRI content index • 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Extended GRI content index 2.1 Name of the organisation AR Page 82 • Biodiversity 2.2 Primary brands, products and services AR Pages 1–2, 4 • EN11 Location and size of land holdings in biodiversity-rich habitats AR Page 47, Ext. GRI*) • 2.3 Operational structure AR Pages 7, 117 • EN12 Significant impacts on biodiversity in protected areas and biodiversity-rich areas outside protected areas Extended GRI content index • 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters AR Page 143 • EN13 Habitats protected or restored Extended GRI content index • 2.5 Number of countries and locations of operations AR Pages 141–142 • EN14 Managing impacts on biodiversity AR Page 47, Ext. GRI*) • 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR Page 82 • Emissions, effluents and waste 2.7 Markets served AR Pages 31–32, 97 • EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions AR Pages 46, 50 • 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation AR Pages 1, 132 • EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight AR Page 46, Ext. GRI*) • 2.9 Significant changes regarding size, structure or ownership AR Pages 68–69 • EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions AR Page 45 • 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period AR Pages 7, 10, 40, Ext. GRI*) • EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions AR Page 50 • 3. REPORT PARAMETERS Report profile EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination AR Page 50 • EN22 Total amount of waste by type and disposal method AR Page 50 • 3.1 Reporting period 1 January 2013–31 December 2013 • EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related 3.2 Date of most previous report 26 February 2013 • habitats significantly affected by the reporting Extended GRI content index 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual • Products and services 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content AR Page 143 • EN26 Mitigating environmental impacts of products and services AR Pages 23, 25–26, 43–44 • Report scope and boundary EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products Extended GRI content index 3.5 Process for defining report content AR Pages 27, 41 • EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type AR Page 39 3.6 Boundary of the report Extended GRI content index • SOCIAL INDICATORS 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Extended GRI content index • Management approach to social responsibility AR Pages 35–43, Ext. GRI*) • 3.8 Basis for reporting subsidiaries, joint ventures and other entities affecting comparability Extended GRI content index • Labour practises and Decent Work 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Extended GRI content index • Employment 3.10 Explanation of re-statements Extended GRI content index • LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region AR Page 36 • 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods Extended GRI content index • LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region AR Page 36 Assurance Labour/management relations 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report AR Pages 41, 53 • LA4 Coverage of collective bargaining agreements AR Page 36 • 4. GOVERNANCE Governance LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements AR Page 37, Ext. GRI*) • Occupational health and safety 4.1 Governance structure AR Pages 54–56, 136–137 • LA7 Injuries, lost days, absentee rates and fatalities AR Pages 37–38 4.2 Position of the Chairman of the Board AR Page 136 • LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control AR Page 38 4.3 Independence of the Board members AR Pages 55, 136 • Training and education 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholder and employee consultation AR Pages 54–56 • LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee AR Page 36 4.5 Executive compensation and linkage to organisation’s performance AR Pages 55, 58–59 • LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning AR Page 36 • 4.6 Process for avoiding conflicts of interest AR Pages 54–56 • LA12 Employees receiving performance and career development reviews AR Page 36 • 4.7 Process for determining the Board members’ expertise in strategic management and sustainability AR Pages 54–55, 62 • Diversity and equal opportunity 4.8 Implementation of mission or values statements, Code of Conduct and other principles AR Pages 6, 33, 40, 57 • LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees AR Page 36, Ext. GRI*) • 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing management of sustainability performance, including risk management AR Pages 39, 57 • HUMAN RIGHTS 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s performance AR Page 55 • HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone hr screening and actions taken AR Page 33 Commitments to external initiatives HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning human rights relevant to operations AR Page 40–41 4.11 Addressing the precautionary approach AR Page 138 • HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for child labour AR Pages 40–41, Ext. GRI*) • 4.12 Voluntary charters and other initiatives AR Page 40 • HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for forced or compulsory labour AR Pages 40–41, Ext. GRI*) • 4.13 Memberships in associations Extended GRI content index • HR9 Number of incidents involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken Extended GRI content index • Stakeholder engagement SOCIETY 4.14 List of stakeholder groups AR Pages 27–28 • Community 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders AR Page 28 • SO1 Assessment and management of impacts of operations on communities AR Page 37 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement AR Pages 27–29, 31–32 • Corruption 4.17 Key topics raised through stakeholder engagement AR Pages 29, 36 • SO3 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures AR Page 40–41 5. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption AR Page 29 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Public Policy Management approach to economic responsibility AR Pages 11–12, 42, 138 • SO6 Contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions Extended GRI content index • EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR Page 28 • SO7 Number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practises and their outcomes AR Page 72–73 • EC2 Financial implications, risks and opportunities due to climate change AR Pages 12, 45 Compliance EC3 Coverage of defined benefit plan obligations AR Pages 108–111 • SO8 Significant fines and sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Extended GRI content index • EC4 Significant subsidies received from government AR Pages 26, 98 • PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Indirect Economic Impacts Product and service labelling EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts AR Page 37 PR3 Type of product information required by procedures AR Pages 43–44, Ext. GRI*) • PR5 Practises related to customer satisfaction and results of customer satisfaction surveys AR Pages 31–32, Ext. GRI*) • *) Extended GRI content index We have self-declared our reporting to be Application Level B+ of the GRI G3 Guidelines. CONTENTS PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy has checked our reporting and has confirmed it to be Application Level B+. GRI content index 51 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 RESPONSIBILITY 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 52 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Independent Assurance Report Corporate governance To the Management of UPM-Kymmene Corporation AA1000 AccountAbility Principles and that the Observations and recommendations UPM-Kymmene Corporation is a publicly listed limited liability company domiciled CR Reporting is not reliable, in all material respects, Based on our work described in this report, we in Finland, and its corporate governance is based on the Finnish Companies Act, We have been engaged by the Management of UPMbased on the Reporting criteria. provide the following observations and recommenthe Securities Market Act, UPM’s Articles of Association, the rules of NASDAQ Kymmene Corporation (hereinafter also the ComIn a limited assurance engagement the evidencedations in relation to UPM-Kymmene Corporation’s OMX Helsinki Ltd and the rules and regulations of the Finnish Financial Supervisory pany) to perform a limited assurance engagement on gathering procedures are more limited than for a adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. Authority. In addition, UPM complies with the recommendations of the Finnish corporate responsibility performance indicators in the reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less These observations and recommendations do not Corporate Governance Code issued by the Securities Market Association. areas of economic, social and environmental responassurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance affect the conclusions presented earlier. Furthermore, the company’s governance is based on the Board and Committee sibility for the reporting period of January 1, 2013 to engagement. An assurance engagement involves December 31, 2013. The assured performance indicaperforming procedures to obtain evidence about the • Regarding Inclusivity: UPM-Kymmene CorporaCharters and corporate policies approved by the Board of Directors, and tors are disclosed in UPM-Kymmene Corporation’s amounts and other disclosures in the CR Reporting, tion continues to demonstrate a strong commitcomplementary rules and guidelines approved by the Group Executive Team. Annual Report 2013, and on its website in section and about the Company’s adherence to the AA1000 ment to inclusivity and stakeholder engagement. “Responsibility”, and they are listed in section 5 AccountAbility Principles. The procedures selected The Company regularly engages in dialogue with “Performance Indicators” of the GRI Content Index depend on the practitioner’s judgement, including diverse stakeholder groups. In 2013, the Company (hereinafter CR Reporting). The GRI Content Index an assessment of the risks of material misstatement strengthened its approach to stakeholder engageUPM’s Corporate Governance Statement, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE is disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report 2013 of the CR Reporting. Our work consisted of, ment through the establishment of the Stakeholdprepared in accordance with RecommenOF UPM-KYMMENE CORPORATION and on its website. amongst others, the following procedures: er Relations function. On this basis, we recomdation 54 of the Finnish Corporate Furthermore, the assurance engagement has mend that the Company continues to further Governance Code, is presented on pages covered UPM-Kymmene Corporation’s adherence to • Interviewing senior management of the Company. develop the systematic management of stakehold136–138. UPM’s Remuneration StateGeneral Meeting of Shareholders the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles with moderate • Interviewing employees from various organisaer engagement. ment, dated 26 February 2014 and (limited) level of assurance. tional levels of the Company with regards to mate• Regarding Materiality: UPM-Kymmene Corporaprepared in accordance with RecommenElects Elects Issues riality, stakeholder expectations, meeting of those tion has further developed its materiality assessdation 47 of the Finnish Corporate Remuneration Committee Auditor’s Report Management’s responsibility expectations, as well as stakeholder engagement. ment process. In 2013, the Company updated its Governance Code, is available on the The Management of UPM-Kymmene Corporation • Assessing stakeholder inclusivity and responsivemateriality assessment, and identified the issues corporate website www.upm.com in the Nomination and Board of Directors Auditor Assist is responsible for preparing the CR Reporting in ness based on the Company’s documentation and that are critical for each business area, and also for Investors Section, under Governance. Governance Committee Appoints, steers, accordance with the Reporting criteria as set out internal communication. the Group as a whole. We recommend that the Reports monitors in the Company’s reporting instructions and the G3 • Assessing the Company’s defined material business areas are further involved in the identifiAudit Committee Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global corporate responsibility topics as well as assessing cation and prioritisation process to ensure a Reporting Initiative. the CR Reporting based on these topics. shared understanding of the key material topics. Control and President and CEO The Management of UPM-Kymmene Corporation is also responsible for the Company’s adherence • Performing a media analysis and an internet search for references to the Company during • Regarding Responsiveness: Being responsive to stakeholder needs and concerns is key to UPMgovernance Internal Audit Steers, monitors Appoints Reports Strategy Team to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles of inclusivthe reporting period. Kymmene Corporation, and evident from the use ity, materiality and responsiveness as set out in • Visiting the Company’s Head Office as well as of different channels to engage in dialogue and UPM’s control and governance is divided AccountAbility’s AA1000 AccountAbility Principles three sites in Austria, Finland and Germany. convey messages. The Company’s new business among the shareholders represented at the Group Executive Team Standard 2008. • Interviewing employees responsible for collection structure and the Stakeholder Relations function General Meeting of Shareholders, the Board and reporting of the information presented in provide further opportunities to increase the of Directors and the President and CEO as Practitioner’s responsibility the CR Reporting at the Group level and at effectiveness of stakeholder engagement. In shown in the illustration on the right. The Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the the different sites where our visits took place. future, we recommend that the Company increases General Meeting of Shareholders elects CR Reporting and on the Company’s adherence to • Assessing how Group employees apply the reportits disclosure on how stakeholder engagement has members to the Board of Directors, and the the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles based on our ing instructions and procedures of the Company. impacted the Company’s response to material Board appoints the President and CEO. The Under the Finnish Companies Act, matters General Meeting and who is pre-registered for work performed. Our assurance report has been made • Assessing the systems and practices used for corporate responsibility topics. President and CEO is assisted by the comto be decided upon at a General Meeting include: the meeting by the end of the pre-registration in accordance with the terms of our engagement. the collection and consolidation of quantitative pany’s Group Executive Team, the members period set by the company. We do not accept, or assume responsibility to anyone information. Practitioner’s independence and of which are appointed by the Board of • Amendments to the Articles of Association else, except to UPM-Kymmene Corporation for our • Testing the accuracy and completeness of qualifications Directors. • Adoption of the financial statements Board of Directors work, for this report, or for the conclusions that we the information from original documents and We comply with the independence and other ethical • Decision on the use of the profit shown on The company’s Board of Directors is comhave reached. systems on a sample basis. requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional General Meeting of Shareholders the adopted balance sheet posed of at least five but no more than twelve We conducted our work in accordance with the • Testing the consolidation of information and Accountants issued by the IESBA (the International The General Meeting of Shareholders is the • Discharge from liability for the President directors elected by the Annual General International Standard on Assurance Engagements performing recalculations on a sample basis. Ethics Standards Board for Accountants). company’s supreme decision-making body. and CEO, and the Board of Directors Meeting. Directors are elected for a term that (ISAE) 3000 “Assurance Engagements Other than Our multi-disciplinary team of corporate The Annual General Meeting is held within • Election of members to the Board of Direcbegins at the end of the Annual General Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial InformaConclusion responsibility and assurance specialists possesses the six months of the closing of the financial tors and resolution on their remuneration Meeting at which they are elected and ends at tion”. This Standard requires that we comply with Based on our work described in this report, nothing requisite skills and experience within financial and period. UPM’s Annual General Meeting 2013 • Election of the company’s auditor and the conclusion of the next Annual General ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurhas come to our attention that causes us to believe non-financial assurance, corporate responsibility was held on 4 April in Helsinki, Finland. resolution on auditor’s remuneration Meeting. The Articles of Association do not ance engagement to obtain limited assurance whether that UPM-Kymmene Corporation does not strategy and management, social and environmental A total of 1,769 shareholders attended the contain other limitations concerning the any matters come to our attention that cause us to adhere, in all material respects, to the AA1000 issues, as well as the relevant industry knowledge, to meeting in person or through a legal or proxy A shareholder has the right to have the General election of members to the Board of Direcbelieve that the CR Reporting has not been prepared, AccountAbility Principles. undertake this assurance engagement. representative, representing 42.4% of the Meeting deal with a matter that falls within its tors. According to the Board Charter, a perin all material respects, in accordance with the Furthermore nothing has come to our attention company’s registered share capital and voting competence, provided that the shareholder subson who has reached 70 years of age will not Reporting criteria. that causes us to believe that UPM-Kymmene rights at the time of the meeting. mits a written request to the Board of Directors be proposed for re-election unless there is a In addition, we have conducted our work in Corporation’s CR Reporting has not been prepared, well in advance of the meeting so that the matter specific reason to do so. accordance with the AA1000 Assurance Standard in all material respects, in accordance with the Helsinki, 14 February 2014 can be included in the notice of the meeting. The The Directors must have the qualifications 2008. For conducting a Type 2 assurance engagement Reporting criteria, or that the CR Reporting is request is deemed to have been delivered on time required to perform their duties and must be as agreed with the Company, the AA1000AS (2008) not reliable, in all material respects, based on the PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy if the Board of Directors has been notified of the able to devote a sufficient amount of time to requires planning and performing of the assurance Reporting criteria. request at least four weeks prior to publication Board work. The Board appoints a Chairman engagement to obtain moderate (limited) assurance When reading our assurance report, the inherent Juha Wahlroos Sirpa Juutinen of the meeting notice or, according to the Board and a Deputy Chairman from its members. on whether any matters come to our attention that limitations to the accuracy and completeness of Authorised Public Partner, Charter, by 15 January, whichever date is later. The Board of Directors is deemed to have a cause us to believe that UPM-Kymmene Corporation sustainability information should be taken into Accountant Sustainability & The right to attend a General Meeting applies quorum if more than half of its members are does not adhere, in all material respects, to the consideration. Climate Change to any shareholder who is registered as a compresent and one of them is either the Chairpany shareholder eight working days prior to the man or the Deputy Chairman. CONTENTS Gorporate governance 53 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 GOVERNANCE 54–64 Accounts 65–135 54 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM’s Annual General Meeting 2013 set BOARD REMUNERATION minutes are kept for all committee meetings and BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ COMMITTEES 2013 2013 2012 the number of Directors at ten and decided to distributed to all Directors. Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Nomination and re-elect Matti Alahuhta, Berndt Brunow, Karl Annual fees (EUR) of which shares (pcs) Annual fees (EUR) of which shares (pcs) The Audit Committee carries out a quarterly Committee Governance Committee Grotenfelt, Wendy E. Lane, Jussi Pesonen, Chairman 175,000 8,925 175,000 7,216 review of the company’s financial results and Members Karl Grotenfelt (Ch.) Berndt Brunow (Ch.) Björn Wahlroos (Ch.) Ursula Ranin, Veli-Matti Reinikkala, Kim interim financial statements for the period in Wahl and Björn Wahlroos to the Board. PiiaDeputy Chairman 120,000 6,120 120,000 4,948 question and reviews reports on assurance and Piia-Noora Kauppi Ursula Ranin Matti Alahuhta (as of 4 April) Noora Kauppi was elected as a new member Audit Committee Chairman 120,000 6,120 120,000 4,948 legal matters including reports on internal of the Board. The Directors’ personal details, control, internal audit, risk management, and Wendy E. Lane Veli-Matti Reinikkala Karl Grotenfelt Members *) 95,000 4,845 95,000 3,917 career histories and key positions of trust are litigations and other legal proceedings. The Kim Wahl presented on page 62 and on the corporate * The President and CEO does not receive any financial benefits for his role as a member of the Board. ) external auditor attends all committee meetings website. and provides the committee with a review of the Number of meetings 5 6 4 Björn Wahlroos was re-elected Chairman interim audit as well as an account of the audit Attendance-% 95 100 100 and Berndt Brunow Deputy Chairman of the and non-audit fees. The committee also reguBoard of Directors. Mr Wahlroos has served as larly meets with the internal auditor and the Board Chairman since his election to the Board Independence of the members • Appointing the President and CEO and external auditor without members of managein 2008 and Mr Brunow as Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors members of the Group Executive Team, ment being present. since 2005. The company’s Nomination and Governance and approving their compensation When preparing its proposal to the Annual ment or positions of trust so that it can assess The President and CEO may take measures Committee assists the Board of Directors in • Determining the dividend policy and General Meeting for the election of the external the potential effects of such changes on directhat are considered unusual or extensive in view Remuneration of the Board the assessment of the independence of the presenting a proposal for payment of the auditor, the Audit Committee evaluates the tors’ independence and availability. of the scope and nature of the company’s of Directors Directors on an ongoing basis based on infordividend to the Annual General Meeting qualifications and independence of the external The committees’ duties and responsibilities business only with authorisation from the The Annual General Meeting 2013 approved mation provided by the Directors. In January auditor on an annual basis. At regular intervals, are defined in the Committee Charters, and Board of Directors, unless the time required to the Nomination and Governance Committee’s 2013, prior to making its proposal to the AnnuIn accordance with the Board Charter, the the committee also arranges an audit tendering they are also presented in the Corporate obtain such authorisation would cause substanproposal that the fees of the Board and Comal General Meeting for the election of the Board of Directors reviews its performance process for the audit services to ensure the Governance Statement on pages 136–138. tial harm to the company, in which case the mittee members remain unchanged. The fees members of the Board of Directors, the Comand working methods annually. The Board independence and cost efficiency of the external President and CEO must first consult with the have remained unchanged since 2007. The fees mittee assessed that all Director nominees were self-evaluation survey is conducted in Novemaudit. President and CEO Chairman of the Board of Directors. of non-executive Directors are shown in the independent of the company and of its signifiber and its results are reviewed at the Board The Remuneration Committee carries out an The Board of Directors appoints the President Information on the President and CEO’s table on the right. cant shareholders, with the exception of Presimeeting in December. annual review of the company’s short and long and CEO of the company. Jussi Pesonen has financial benefits, retirement age and severance Of these annual fees, totalling EUR 985,000, dent and CEO Jussi Pesonen, who is not indeThe Board of Directors convenes according term incentive plans and related incentive measserved as the company’s President and CEO pay is available on page 58. 60% was paid in cash and 40% in the form of pendent of the company. The assessment was to a pre-determined meeting schedule and when ures and targets, evaluates the performance of since January 2004. The Board has approved his company shares purchased on the Board memmade based on the independence criteria of deemed necessary. The meeting schedule is the President and CEO and other senior execuservice contract, including financial benefits Group Executive Team bers’ behalf. The company is responsible for any the Finnish Corporate Governance Code. based on the company’s financial reporting tives and makes recommendations to the Board and other terms of service. Mr Pesonen has also The company’s business structure was changed costs and transfer tax related to the acquisition schedule and is complemented by the Board of of Directors for the compensation and benefits been a member of UPM’s Board of Directors during the year, and this change was also of company shares for the Board members. In Responsibilities of the Board Directors’ strategy and budget meetings. Items of the President and CEO and other senior since March 2007. reflected in the corporate management system. addition to the annual fees, the Board members The duties and responsibilities of the Board of are discussed at Board meetings based on a executives. In addition, the committee carries The President and CEO is responsible for The Group Executive Board consisting of the do not receive any other financial benefits for Directors and its committees are defined in the pre-prepared agenda. Minutes are kept for each out an annual review of the procedures and developing the company’s strategic and business President and CEO, CFO and Business Group their Board or Committee membership. Board and Committee Charters approved by meeting and reviewed and approved by the development strategies for senior positions and plans for submission to the Board and for the Presidents was discontinued, as were the busiAccording to the Board Charter, the Board the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors Board. In 2013, the Board held nine meetings. succession plans for the President and CEO and day-to-day management of the company’s ness groups. As of 1 November, the Group members are encouraged to own company reviewed the Charters during the year. This On average, the Directors attended 97.8% of other senior executives, and reports to the Board affairs in accordance with the instructions and Executive Team consists of the Business Area shares on a long term basis. The Directors’ review resulted in the clarification of committee the meetings. of Directors on such matters. orders given by the Board of Directors. and Function Heads. The members of the new shareholdings in the company at the end of duties and responsibilities and the division of When preparing its proposal to the Annual The President and CEO is responsible for Group Executive Team are shown in the illusthe year are shown in the table below. Up-tothese duties and responsibilities between the Committees of General Meeting regarding the election or the company’s accounts complying with the law tration below. Their personal details, career date information on Directors’ shareholdings committees. The amended Charters are availthe Board of Directors re-election of the members of the Board of and the company’s financial administration and histories and key positions of trust are presentand any changes therein can be found on the able on the corporate website in the Investors The Board of Directors has established three Directors, the Nomination and Governance management being organised in a reliable ed on page 64. Information on their financial corporate website. section, under Governance. committees composed of its members: the Committee reviews the composition of the manner. The President and CEO provides the benefits and share and stock option holdings Pursuant to its Charter, the Board of DirecAudit Committee, the Remuneration CommitBoard and initiates a search for potential new Board of Directors with the information it in the company is provided on pages 59–60. tors handles all matters pertaining to its area tee (previously the Human Resources Commitdirectors early in the autumn. When reviewing requires to perform its duties. SHAREHOLDINGS OF THE MEMBERS of responsibility under Finnish law. Under the tee) and the Nomination and Governance the composition of the Board, the committee OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON Finnish Companies Act, the Board of Directors Committee (previously the Nomination and considers whether the Board is sufficiently 31 DECEMBER 2013 is responsible for the administration and approCorporate Governance Committee). The Board diverse and represents an appropriate balance priate organisation of the company’s operations appoints the members of the committees and of competences in order to address the needs of Director Shares and the appropriate arrangement of control their chairmen annually. A committee always the company’s business operations and strategic Matti Alahuhta 55,954 of the company’s accounts and finances. has at least three members. In 2013, all Board agenda. The committee has determined that Further responsibilities of the Board of committees fulfilled their respective independdesirable skills and qualifications for the direcGROUP EXECUTIVE TEAM Berndt Brunow 296,867 Directors include: ence and desirable qualification requirements tors include, among others, relevant industry President and CEO Jussi Pesonen Karl Grotenfelt 54,121 as set out in the Finnish Corporate Governance experience, experience in finance and accountPiia-Noora Kauppi 5,145 • Evaluating and approving the company’s Code and Committee Charters. The President ing, international business experience, experistrategic direction and CEO may not be appointed as a member ence in leadership and strategy formation and CFO 1) Tapio Korpeinen UPM Biorefining Heikki Vappula Wendy E. Lane 27,612 • Approving the strategic plans of the comof these committees. experience in corporate governance. General Counsel Juha Mäkelä UPM Energy Tapio Korpeinen Jussi Pesonen 195,294 pany and its business areas and evaluating The table on the following page contains When preparing its proposal to the Annual Ursula Ranin 27,534 the implementation of such plans information on the committees’ composition, General Meeting regarding the Board’s remuStrategy Kari Ståhlberg UPM Raflatac Tapio Kolunsarka • Reviewing and approving financial objecthe number of meetings and attendance in neration, the committee considers, among other Veli-Matti Reinikkala 30,784 Technology 2) Jyrki Ovaska UPM Paper Asia Kim Poulsen tives and major corporate plans and 2013. things, the development of director remuneraKim Wahl 8,762 transactions tion and the level of director remuneration in Human Resources Riitta Savonlahti UPM Paper ENA Bernd Eikens Björn Wahlroos 244,654 • Establishing acceptance limits for capital Committee responsibilities peer companies. expenditures, investments, divestitures and The committees assist the Board of Directors To assist the Board in the evaluation of the Stakeholder Relations 3) Pirkko Harrela UPM Plywood Mika Sillanpää Total 946,727 financial commitments by preparing matters within the competence of directors’ independence and ability to devote • Overseeing strategic and operational risk the Board of Directors. The committee chairtime to Board work, the committee has adopted 1) Incl. Finance & Control, Treasury, IR, IT, Sourcing and Real Estate (incl. Finnish forest assets) The shareholdings above include also shares management and internal control men report to the Board of Directors on coma procedure whereby the committee is regularly 2) Incl. Investment Management, R&D, new business development (biocomposites, biochemicals) held by the Directors’ closely associated persons mittee activities on a regular basis. In addition, reported any changes in the directors’ employ3) Incl. Corporate Communications, Corporate Responsibility and Environmental Affairs and controlled entities. CONTENTS Gorporate governance 55 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 GOVERNANCE 54–64 Accounts 65–135 56 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 The Group Executive Team assists the AUDITOR’S FEES These rules and guidelines include Anti-Bribery Commerce of Finland and the Confederation disclosed. Trading is allowed during the open accordance with the Trading Guidelines for President and CEO in the operational manageRules, Competition Law Compliance Rules, of Finnish Industries. window periods, which are three-week periods Insiders issued by the Finnish Financial SuperEURm 2013 2012 ment of the company. The main duties and Contract Management Rules, Human ResourcUPM’s public insiders include the memcommencing on the first business day following visory Authority. responsibilities of the Group Executive Team Audit 2.6 2.9 es Rules, Environmental Rules and the Equality bers of the Board of Directors, the President disclosure of the company’s annual or quarterly relate to group strategy and budget, financial Audit related 0.1 0.0 Rule. and CEO, the Chief Financial Officer, the results. Periods between the open and closed Acceptance Policy forecasts and financial performance of the Business Area Heads and the auditor in window periods are referred to as clearance periThe purpose of the Acceptance Policy is to Tax consulting 0.9 1.0 group and its business areas, function budgets Disclosure Policy charge. The holdings of the public insiders ods. Trading during clearance periods requires determine the monetary limits according to and functional plans, and corporate procedures Other services 0.1 0.5 The purpose of the company’s Disclosure are public information available on the corpoadvance permission from the company’s Insider which various organisational levels are authorand guidelines. Total 3.7 4.4 Policy is to guarantee fair disclosure of inforrate website and from Euroclear Finland Ltd. Administration. When necessary, project-specifised to accept investments, disinvestments and In matters pertaining to the preparation mation to the public and to make sure that Certain trading procedures apply to both ic insider registers will be set up and trading risks and to conclude major sales, purchase, of group and business area strategies, financial disclosure is timely and consistent at all levels. public insiders and permanent insiders (i.e. restrictions will be imposed as a result. Persons charter and service agreements in the ordinary targets, strategic projects, capital expenditure, Internal Control and Internal Audit The company’s external reporting follows the employees who regularly have access to inside possessing inside information are not allowed to course of business. The principles stated in the M&A initiatives and other strategic developThe purpose of internal control is to ensure principle of providing accurate and complete information) of the company. Insiders are not trade in the company’s securities. The company’s Policy are adopted in more detailed guidelines, ment initiatives, the President and CEO is that the company’s operations are effective information in a timely and non-selective manallowed to trade in the company’s securities Insider Administration monitors compliance manuals and rulings within the company’s assisted by the Strategy Team consisting of the and profitable, that financial and other inforner to all parties in the market. Any informaduring closed window periods. The closed with trading restrictions. business areas and functions. The Policy was CFO and the Heads of the Strategy, Technolmation is reliable and that the company tion disclosed must be correct, relevant and window periods are four-week periods preTo avoid any suspicion related to the use of last amended in 2013. ogy and Legal Functions. complies with the relevant regulations and clear, and it must not be misleading. Informaceding and including the date on which the inside information, the company’s public insidEach of the company’s business areas and operating principles. The company’s Board tion must be released promptly. company’s annual or quarterly results are ers are advised to employ trading plans in functions has its own management team, the of Directors, assisted by the Audit CommitTo ensure the fulfilment of the company’s purpose of which is to assist the Business Area tee, is responsible for monitoring the comdisclosure obligations, the company has estabor Function Head in the preparation and implepany’s internal control system. The company’s lished the Disclosure Committee to monitor mentation of strategies, budgets, commercial Group Executive Team has approved internal and set guidelines for external disclosure. The strategies, business development plans, and the control rules. Internal control pertaining to Committee addresses the general content of operating model and organisation for the busifinancial reporting is described in the Corposuch disclosures, including regular and ness area or function in question. rate Governance Statement on pages 136–138. unscheduled releases of financial information, The Internal Audit function assists the their timely delivery and their compliance with Auditor For the purpose of auditing the company’s Board of Directors with its supervisory responsibility by ensuring that the group’s regulatory requirements. The Disclosure Committee consists of the Chief Financial Officer Management remuneration administration and accounts, the Annual Gencontrol measures have been planned and set and the Heads of Investor Relations and Comeral Meeting elects an auditor, which must be up effectively. The Internal Audit function is munications, as well as the General Counsel. a firm of public accountants authorised by the administratively subordinate to the President The total remuneration of the President and Financial benefits for In accordance with the President and CEO’s Central Chamber of Commerce of Finland. and CEO, but has direct access to the Audit Risk Management Policy CEO and of the members of the Group Executhe President and CEO service contract, the retirement age of President The auditor’s term of office begins at the end Committee and reports to it quarterly on the UPM’s Risk Management Policy comprises the tive Team consists of base salary and benefits, The performance of the President and CEO is and CEO Jussi Pesonen is 60. The target penof the Annual General Meeting at which it is adequacy and effectiveness of the group’s objectives, roles and responsibilities of the short term incentives and equity-based long evaluated annually by the Remuneration Comsion is 60% of the average indexed earnings elected and ends at the conclusion of the next control systems. The basic operating princicompany’s risk management system and defines term incentives under the share reward plans. mittee and, based on this evaluation, the Remufrom the last 10 years of employment calculated Annual General Meeting. The Annual General ples for internal audit are defined in the how risk management activities are conducted neration Committee recommends total comaccording to the Finnish statutory pension Meeting 2013 re-elected PricewaterhouseCooInternal Audit Charter, which was confirmed within the UPM Group. The Policy covers all Decision-making process pensation of the President and CEO to the scheme. The cost of lowering the retirement age pers Oy, a firm of authorised public accountby the Board of Directors. The internal audit business areas, mills and functions. Each unit for remuneration Board for approval. The President and CEO’s to 60 is covered by supplementing the statutory ants, to act as the company’s auditor, with Juha operations cover all the fields of the business is responsible for the identification of risks and The Board of Directors resolves on the remuannual salary and other financial benefits are pension with a voluntary defined benefit penWahlroos, Authorised Public Accountant, as operations, units, companies, processes and their management in practice. The Group neration of the President and CEO based on shown in the table below. sion plan. Should the President and CEO leave the auditor in charge. functions of the group. Executive Team monitors changes in risks and the proposal by the Board of Directors’ Remuthe company before reaching the age of 60, an risk concentrations. A description of the comneration Committee. immediate vesting right corresponding to 100% Audit fee Corporate policies pany’s strategic, operational, financial and The President and CEO presents a proposal SALARIES, INCENTIVES AND OTHER of the earned pension (pro rata) will be applied. The remuneration of the company’s auditor is The Board of Directors approves the corpohazard risks is included in the Report of the for the remuneration of the members of the BENEFITS FOR THE PRESIDENT AND CEO If notice of termination is given to the approved by the Annual General Meeting based rate policies that govern the management and Board of Directors on pages 67–77. Group Executive Team to the Remuneration President and CEO, severance pay of 24 on the proposal prepared by the Board of administration of the company. These policies Committee, which prepares a proposal to the EUR 1,000 2013 2012 months’ base salary will be paid, in addition Directors’ Audit Committee. The AGM 2013 include the Code of Conduct, Disclosure Group Treasury Policy Board of Directors for resolution. Salaries and benefits to the salary for the six-month notice period. resolved that the audit fee would be paid Policy, Risk Management Policy, Group The Group Treasury Policy provides the frameTerms and conditions of incentive plans are Should the President and CEO give notice of against invoices approved by the Audit ComTreasury Policy and Insider Policy, and the work of rules according to which treasury prepared by the Remuneration Committee in Salaries 1,059 1,059 termination to the company, no severance pay mittee. Following the AGM, the Audit CommitAcceptance Policy, which defines the contract, activities are to be conducted within the UPM consultation with independent advisors and Incentives 553 508 will be paid in addition to the salary for the tee approved the annual audit plan, including trading and investment acceptance procedure. Group. It also defines the allocation of responapproved by the Board. notice period. Benefits 26 36 the proposal for the audit fee and framework sibilities for treasury activities and sets guideIf there is a change of control in the comfor non-audit fees. In addition, the Committee Code of Conduct lines for the financial risk exposure permitted at Total 1,638 1,603 pany, the President and CEO may terminate his carried out a quarterly review of the auditor’s The Code of Conduct forms the baseline for UPM and for the identification, measurement service contract within three months from the report on audit and non-audit fees, verified the all company operations and sets out standand control of financial risks. date of the event that triggered the change of fees against invoices received by the company ards of behaviour for each individual at UPM Pension costs control and shall receive compensation equivaand approved the invoices in question. The fees globally. It covers topics relating to legal Insider Policy Finnish statutory pension 282 276 lent to 24 months’ base salary. paid to the auditor are shown in the following compliance and disclosure, conflicts of interThe company’s Insider Policy sets out guidescheme table. est, gifts and bribes, HR practices, human lines for the company’s insiders and for the Voluntary pension plan 677 672 rights issues and environmental matters. management and administration of insider Violation of the Code will lead to disciplinary matters. The Policy was last amended in 2013. Total 959 948 action up to and including termination of The company complies with the securities In addition, a single premium of EUR 1.1 million has employment. The Code of Conduct is comlaws and regulations applicable to it, including been paid into the President and CEO’s voluntary plemented by more detailed rules and guidethe Guidelines for Insiders issued by NASDAQ group pension plan in 2013 to cover past service pension liabilities. lines approved by the Group Executive Team. OMX Helsinki Ltd, the Central Chamber of CONTENTS Management remuneration 57 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 GOVERNANCE 54–64 Accounts 65–135 58 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Financial benefits for PERFORMANCE SHARE PLANS SHARES AND STOCK OPTIONS HELD BY THE MEMBERS OF THE GROUP EXECUTIVE TEAM IN 2013 the Group Executive Team Performance share plan PSP 2011-2013 PSP 2012-2014 PSP 2013-2015 The Remuneration Committee reviews the Name 2013 Shares 2007B options 2007C options performance of the members of the Group No. of participants 30 27 36 Jussi Pesonen*) 1 Jan. 195,294 170,000 360,000 Executive Team annually based on the evaluaMax No. of shares to be paid: 31 Dec. 195,294 0 200,000 tion and proposal of the President and CEO. to President and CEO 0 219,000 219,000 Based on this review, the Remuneration Bernd Eikens*) (GET member since 1 Nov.) 1 Nov. 21,536 23,714 Committee recommends total compensation to other members of GET 0 355,000 385,000 31 Dec. 21,536 0 of the Group Executive Team members to the to other key individuals 0 560,000 595,000 Pirkko Harrela 1 Jan. 35,488 20,000 70,000 Board for approval. The annual salary and 31 Dec. 35,488 0 70,000 other financial benefits for the Group ExecuTotal max No. of shares to be paid 0 1,134,000 1,199,000 tive Team are shown in the table below. Tapio Kolunsarka*) (GET member since 1 Sept.) 1 Sept. 13,140 Share delivery (year) 2014 2015 2016 31 Dec. 10,000 Operating Operating Operating Earning criteria cash flow and EPS cash flow and EPS cash flow and EPS Tapio Korpeinen*) 1 Jan. 45,792 70,000 180,000 SALARIES, INCENTIVES AND OTHER 31 Dec. 45,792 0 30,000 BENEFITS FOR THE GROUP EXECUTIVE The share reward estimates indicated above represent the gross value of the rewards, from which the applicable taxes will be deducted before the shares are delivered to the participants. Juha Mäkelä 1 Jan. 32,068 40,000 100,000 TEAM (EXCL. THE PRESIDENT AND CEO) *) 31 Dec. 32,068 0 50,000 Jyrki Ovaska 1 Jan. 64,612 95,000 180,000 EUR 1,000 2013 2012 31 Dec. 64,612 0 60,000 Salaries and benefits DEFERRED BONUS PLANS Kim Poulsen*) (GET member since 2 May) 2 May Deferred bonus plan DBP 2011 DBP 2012 DBP 2013 Salaries 3,396 2,975 31 Dec. No. of participants (at grant) 520 580 560 Incentives 1,067 496 Riitta Savonlahti 1 Jan. 24,570 27,205 70,000 Max No. of shares to be paid 1,200,000 1,800,000 1,640,000 31 Dec. 16,570 0 5,000 Benefits 137 121 (at grant) Total 4,600 3,592 Mika Sillanpää*) (GET member since 1 Nov.) 1 Nov. 9,000 10,000 No. of participants 445 550 530 31 Dec. 9,000 10,000 on 31 Dec. 2013 Kari Ståhlberg (GET member since 1 Nov.) 1 Nov. 4,212 40,875 Pension costs Max No. of shares to be paid 335,000 640,000 254,000 on 31 Dec. 2013 (approx.) 31 Dec. 4,212 20,875 Finnish statutory pension 740 522 Share delivery (year) 2014 2015 2016 Jussi Vanhanen (GET member until 31 Aug.) 1 Jan. 45,792 25,000 180,000 scheme 31 Aug. 25,792 0 180,000 Voluntary pension plan 531 456 Earning criteria Participant’s Participant’s Group/Business STI targets STI targets Group EBITDA Heikki Vappula*) 1 Jan. 25,920 40,000 180,000 Total 1,271 978 31 Dec. 10,000 0 0 The share reward estimates indicated above represent the gross value of the rewards, *) 11 members at the end of 2013, from which the applicable taxes will be deducted before the shares are delivered to the participants. Harmut Wurster (GET member until 31 Oct.) 1 Jan. 38,692 70,000 8 members in 2012. 31 Oct. 38,692 0 *) Executives belonging to UPM’s public insiders. Their shareholdings above include shares held by Members of the Group Executive Team are Short term incentive plan Performance Share Plan their closely associated persons and controlled entities. covered by the statutory pension plan in the In 2013. the short term incentive plan for the The Performance Share Plan consists of annucountry of residence, supplemented by volunPresident and CEO and the members of the ally commencing three-year plans. The plan is tary defined contribution pension plans. The Group Executive Team was linked to achieveaimed at the Group Executive Team and other retirement age is 63. Executives belonging to ment of the predetermined financial targets of selected members of management. Under the the Group Executive Team as of 1 January the Group or Business Group (70% of the total plan, UPM shares are awarded based on the Stock option programme Share ownership 2010 have fully vested rights corresponding to maximum) and the executive’s individual and group-level performance during a three-year The stock option programme 2007 originally recommendation 100% of the accumulated account. Executives safety improvement targets (together 30% of earning period. The shares earned are delivered included three option series (2007A, 2007B and The Board encourages the Group Executive who have become members of the Group the total maximum). This amounted to a maxiafter the earning period has ended. The Perfor2007C) entitling their holders to subscribe for a Team to have direct share ownership in the Executive Team after 1 January 2010 are mum annual incentive of 100% of the annual mance Share Plans are presented in the table maximum of 15 million company shares. Each company. The Board has therefore given an entitled to fully vested rights five years after base salary for the members of the former above. series had a two-year subscription period, the ownership recommendation for the Group becoming a member of the Group Executive Group Executive Board and 70% of the annual last of which will end on 31 October 2014 Executive Team. The Board recommends that Team. base salary for the members of the Group Deferred Bonus Plan (2007C). The maximum number of shares that the President and CEO maintain share ownerMembers of the Group Executive Team Executive Team. For the President and CEO, The Deferred Bonus Plan is aimed at selected can be subscribed for by exercising 2007C ship corresponding to a two-year gross base receive severance pay in the event that their the maximum annual incentive amounted to other key employees of the company and it options with the strike price of EUR 10.49 is salary, and the other members of the Group service contract is terminated by the company 150% of the annual base salary. In the annual consists of annually commencing plans. Each 4,500,500. The stock option holdings of the Executive Team share ownership corresponding prior to the retirement age. The period for incentive plan for 2013, the financial target was plan consists of a one-year earning period and Group Executive Team are presented in the to a one-year gross base salary. severance pay is 12 months in addition to the based on EBITDA. a two-year restriction period. During the table above. This programme has been replaced six months’ salary for the notice period, Due to the change in the company’s business restriction period, prior to share delivery, the by the Performance Share Plan and Deferred unless notice is given for reasons that are structure, which became effective on 1 Novemshare rewards earned are adjusted with diviBonus Plan. solely attributable to the executive. ber 2013, the plan has been aligned with the dends and other capital distribution, if any, If there is a change of control in the new structure as of the start of 2014. paid to all shareholders. The first plan began at company, each member of the Group Executhe beginning of 2011 and the shares earned tive Team may terminate his/her employment Long term incentive plans will be delivered in the spring of 2014. The contract within one month from the date of As of 2011, the company’s long term incentives Deferred Bonus Plans are presented in the table the event that triggered the change of control, consist of the Performance Share Plan (PSP) above. and will receive compensation equivalent to for senior executives and the Deferred Bonus 24 months’ base salary. Plan (DBP) for other key employees. CONTENTS Management remuneration 59 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 GOVERNANCE 54–64 Accounts 65–135 60 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Board of Directors 31 December 2013 Björn Wahlroos Piia-Noora Kauppi Veli-Matti Reinikkala Chairman Member since 2013 Member since 2007 Member and Chairman since 2008 Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Independent of the Company and significant Independent of the Company and significant Committee shareholders shareholders Independent of the Company and significant Born 1975 Born 1957 shareholders LL.M. eMBA Born 1952 Managing Director of the Federation of Finnish FiPresident of ABB Process Automation Division and Ph.D. (Econ.) nancial Services since 2009. Member of the European Member of the Group Executive Committee of President and CEO of Sampo plc 2001–2009. ChairParliament and member of various parliamentary ABB Ltd since 2006. Business Area Manager for man of the Board of Mandatum Bank plc 1998–2000, committees 1999–2008, Head of the Finnish DelegaABB Process Automation 2005. Automation TechCEO and Vice Chairman of the Board of Mandatum tion in the EPP-ED Group 2004–2008. Legal advisor nologies Division Manager in ABB China 2003–2004. & Co Ltd 1992–1997 and Member of the Executive for the Parliamentary Group of the National CoaliManager for ABB Drives 1997–2002. CFO of ABB Committee and Executive Vice President of the Union tion Party Kokoomus 1997–1999. Industry 1994–1996. Before 1994, various positions Bank of Finland 1985–1992. Prior to 1985, Professor in paper and packaging companies in Finland. Board member of Sulava Oy and the Finnish Finanof Economics. cial Ombudsman Bureau. Member of the Supervisory Chairman of the Board of Sampo plc, Nordea Bank Board of Helsinki Deaconess Institute and HSE Kim Wahl Member since 2012 AB (publ) and Hanken School of Economics. Foundation. Chairman of the Executive Committee Member of the Audit Committee of European Banking Federation. Independent of the Company and significant Berndt Brunow shareholders Deputy Chairman Wendy E. Lane Born 1960 Member since 2002, Deputy Chairman since 2005 Member since 2005 MBA, Harvard Graduate School of Business Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit Committee Administration Independent of the Company and significant Independent of the Company and significant BA, Business Economics (University of San Diego) shareholders shareholders Born 1950 Born 1951 Chairman of the Board of the investment firm B.Sc. (Econ.) MBA, Harvard Graduate School of Business Stromstangen AS since 2009. Deputy Chairman and Administration Co­founder of the European private equity firm IK President and CEO of Oy Karl Fazer Ab 2002–2007. Investment Partners 1989–2009. Associate, Corporate President and CEO of Sanitec Corporation 2000– Chairman of the Board of the American investment Finance, Goldman, Sachs & Co. 1986–1989. Prior 2002. Over 20 years of experience in executive posifirm Lane Holdings, Inc. since 1992. Managing Directo 1986, positions in International Marketing and tions at Finnpap and UPM-Kymmene Corporation. tor and Principal at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Financial Analyst at Trade Commission of Norway, Securities Corp. 1981–1992. Banking Associate at Chairman of the Board of Lemminkäinen CorporaMerrill Lynch and Norsk Hydro, Petroleum Division. Goldman, Sachs & Co. 1977–1980. tion and of Oy Karl Fazer Ab. Board member of Board member of DNB Bank ASA and Hartwall Capital Oy Ab. Board member of Laboratory Corporation of Intermediate Capital Group plc. Chairman of Voxtra America and Willis Group Holdings PLC. AS and Voxtra Foundation. Adjunct Professor at Matti Alahuhta INSEAD business school. Member since 2008 Jussi Pesonen Member of the Nomination and Governance Member since 2007 Committee Independent of significant shareholders, Independent of the Company and significant non-independent of the Company shareholders Born 1960 Born 1952 M.Sc. (Eng.) D.Sc. (Eng.) President and CEO of UPM-Kymmene CorporaPresident and CEO of KONE Corporation since tion since 2004. COO of the Paper Divisions and 2006 and Board member of KONE Corporation since Deputy to the President and CEO 2001–2004. Several 2003. President of KONE Corporation 2005–2006. management positions in UPM Paper Divisions Executive Vice President of Nokia Corporation 2004, 1987–2001. President of Nokia Mobile Phones 1998–2003 and Chairman of the Board of Ilmarinen Mutual Pension President of Nokia Telecommunications 1993–1998. Insurance Company and the Finnish Forest IndusChairman of the Board of Outotec Oyj and Aalto tries Federation (FFIF). Co-Chairman of the Forest University Foundation. Member of the Foundation Solutions Group (FSG) in World Business Council for Board at the International Institute for Management Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Board member Development (IMD, Switzerland). Vice Chairman of of the Confederation of European Paper Industries the Board of the Confederation of Finnish Industries (CEPI) and East Office of Finnish Industries Oy. (EK). Ursula Ranin Karl Grotenfelt Member since 2006 Member since 2004 Member of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee, Member of Independent of the Company and significant the Nomination and Governance Committee shareholders Independent of the Company and significant Born 1953 shareholders LL.M., B.Sc. (Econ.) MATTI ALAHUHTA Born 1944 BERNDT BRUNOW VELI-MATTI REINIKKALA Employed by Nokia Group within the legal function JUSSI PESONEN KIM WAHL LL.M. BJÖRN WAHLROOS 1984–2005. Vice President and General Counsel WENDY E. LANE URSULA RANIN PIIA-NOORA KAUPPI KARL GROTENFELT Chairman of the Board of Directors of Famigro 1994–2005 and, since 1996, also secretary of the Oy since 1986. Served A. Ahlström Oy as General Board of Directors. Counsel, Administrative Director of Paper Industry and Member of the Executive Board responsible for the Paper Industry 1970–1986. CONTENTS Board of Directors 61 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 GOVERNANCE 54–64 Accounts 65–135 62 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Group Executive Team Jussi Pesonen Kim Poulsen Juha Mäkelä President and CEO Executive Vice President, UPM Paper Asia General Counsel M.Sc. (Eng.) M.Sc. (Econ.) LL.M. Born 1960 Born 1966 Born 1962 Member of the Group Executive Team since 2001. Member of the Group Executive Team since 2013. Member of the Group Executive Team since 2008. Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since 1987. 2011. 2005. Several management positions in the UPM Paper General Manager, Koskisen Ltd. 1993–1996. Several Several positions in law firms 1991–1996. Positions Divisions 1987–2001. COO of the Paper Divisions management positions at Finnforest Ltd. in Finland, as legal counsel and senior legal counsel in KONE and Deputy to the President and CEO 2001–2004. United Kingdom and Germany 1996–2006. President Corporation 1997–2004. President and CEO since 2004. and CEO, Paloheimo Group and Fenestra Ltd. Supervisory Board member of Kemijoki Oy. 2006–2010. Senior Vice President, UPM Plywood Chairman of the Board of Ilmarinen Mutual Pension 2011–2013. Executive Vice President, Paper Business Insurance Company and the Finnish Forest IndusAsia Pacific and Corporate Relations 2013. Jyrki Ovaska tries Federation (FFIF). Co-Chairman of the Forest Executive Vice President, Technology Solutions Group (FSG) in World Business Council for M.Sc. (Eng.) Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Board member Bernd Eikens Born 1958 Executive Vice President, UPM Paper ENA of the Confederation of European Paper Industries Member of the Group Executive Team since 2002. Ph.D. (Eng.) (CEPI) and East Office of Finnish Industries Oy. Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since Born 1965 1984. Member of the Group Executive Team since 2013. Tapio Korpeinen Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since Several management positions at United Paper CFO, Executive Vice President, UPM Energy 1998. Mills Ltd and UPM in the Printing Papers Division M.Sc. (Tech.), MBA 1984–2001. President, Fine and Speciality Papers Born 1963 Senior Process Engineer, International Paper Co. Division 2002–2003. President, Magazine Paper Member of the Group Executive Team since 2008. 1996–1998. Several management positions at UPM Division 2004–2008. President, Paper Business Group Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since Nordland Papier 1998–2005. President, UPM2008–2013. 2005. Kymmene Inc. North America 2005–2008. Senior Vice President, Supply Chain, Paper Business Group Board member of AmCham Finland (The American Several management positions at Jaakko Pöyry 2008–2013. Chamber of Commerce in Finland). Consulting in Finland and North America 1991–1998 and 1999–2005. A.T. Kearney in Finland 1998–1999 Chairman of EUROGRAPH, the European Associaand McKinsey & Company in Sweden 1988–1990. tion of Graphic Paper Producers and the Owners’ Riitta Savonlahti Vice President, Corporate Development and Senior Committee of Madison Paper Industries. Board Executive Vice President, Human Resources Vice President, Strategy, UPM 2005–2008. President, member of Johann Bunte Bauunternehmung GmbH M.Sc. (Econ.) Energy and Pulp Business Group, 2008–2010. & Co. KG. Born 1964 CFO since 2010. Member of the Group Executive Team since 2004. Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since Chairman of Pohjolan Voima Oy. Board member Mika Sillanpää 2004. Executive Vice President, UPM Plywood of Teollisuuden Voima Oyj and Kemijoki Oy. Super­ M.Sc. (Eng.) HR Specialist positions at ABB 1990–1994. Human visory board member of Varma Mutual Pension Born 1958 Resources Manager at Nokia Mobile Phones, Salo Insurance Company. Member of the Group Executive Team since 2013. Operations 1995–2000. Senior Vice President, Human Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since Resources at Raisio Group 2000–2001. Senior Vice Heikki Vappula 1985. President, Human Resources at Elcoteq Network Executive Vice President, UPM Biorefining Corporation 2001–2004. M.Sc. (Econ.) Several management positions at UPM Raflatac in Born 1967 Finland and in France 1985–2000. Vice President, Board member of Itella Corporation and ManageMember of the Group Executive Team since 2010. UPM Raflatac Europe 2001–2003. Senior Vice Presiment Institute of Finland MIF Ltd. Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since dent, Strategic Development, UPM Raflatac Group 2006. 2003–2008. Vice President, Sourcing at UPM Raflatac Pirkko Harrela Group 2008–2013. Sales Manager, Balance Consulting Oy 1992–1993. Executive Vice President, Stakeholder Relations Management Accountant, Nokia Group, Finland M.A. 1993–1995. Several management positions at Nokia Kari Ståhlberg Born 1960 Executive Vice President, Strategy Member of the Group Executive Team since 2004. Networks Corporation in Finland, Denmark, the M.Sc. (Eng.) Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since UK and Hungary 1996–2002. Vice President of Born 1971 1985. Nokia Mobile Phones Supply Line Management Member of the Group Executive Team since 2013. 2002–2006. Senior Vice President, UPM Sourcing Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since Several positions in Communications in Finnpap 2006–2010. President, Energy and Pulp Business 2007. and UPM Paper Division 1985–2002. Vice President, Group 2010–2013. Corporate Communications of UPM 2003, ExecuManagement Consultant at Jaakko Pöyry Consulttive Vice President, Corporate Communications Board member of the Finnish Forest Industries ing Oy 1998–2000. M&A Advisor at JP Capital 2004–2013. Federation (FFIF). International Limited in the UK 2000–2006. Investment Manager at Finnish Industry Investment Ltd Tapio Kolunsarka 2006–2007. Director, M&A, UPM-Kymmene CorpoJUHA MÄKELÄ BERND EIKENS Executive Vice President, UPM Raflatac TAPIO KOLUNSARKA RIITTA SAVONLAHTI PIRKKO HARRELA ration 2007–2010. Senior Vice President, Corporate JUSSI PESONEN HEIKKI VAPPULA JYRKI OVASKA KIM POULSEN M.Sc. (Eng.), M.Sc. (Econ.) Strategy 2010–2013. TAPIO KORPEINEN MIKA SILLANPÄÄ KARI STÅHLBERG Born 1975 Member of the Group Executive Team since 2013 Employed by UPM-Kymmene Corporation since 2002. Associate, McKinsey & Company 2000–2002. Several management positions at UPM Raflatac in Finland and in the USA 2002–2008. Senior Vice President, UPM Raflatac, Europe 2008–2011. Senior Vice President, UPM Raflatac, Europe, Middle-East and Africa 2011–2013. CONTENTS Group Executive Team 63 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 GOVERNANCE 54–64 Accounts 65–135 64 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Accounts for 2013 67 Report of the Board of Directors 77 Board of Directors’ proposal for the distribution of profits 78 Consolidated financial statements, IFRS 78 Consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income 79 Consolidated balance sheet 80 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 81 Consolidated cash flow statement 82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Accounting policies 20 Biological assets 2 Critical judgements in applying accounting 21 Investments in associated companies policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty and joint ventures 3 Financial risk management 22 Available-for-sale investments 4 Segment information 23 Non-current financial assets 5 Acquisitions and disposals and notes to the 24 Other non-current assets cash flow statement 25 Inventories 6 Other operating income 26 Trade and other receivables 7 Costs and expenses 27 Equity and reserves 8 Change in fair value of biological assets 28 Deferred income taxes and wood harvested 29 Retirement benefit obligations 9 Share of results of associated companies 30 Provisions and joint ventures 31 Interest-bearing liabilities 10 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 32 Other liabilities 11 Gains on available-for-sale investments, net 33 Trade and other payables 12 Finance costs 34 Financial instruments by category 13 Income taxes 35 Derivative financial instruments 14 Earnings per share 36 Principal subsidiaries and joint operations 15 Dividend per share 37 Share-based payments 16 Goodwill 38 Related party transactions 17 Other intangible assets 39 Commitments and contingencies 18 Property, plant and equipment 40 Events after balance sheet date 19 Investment property 121 Parent company accounts 127 Information on shares 131 Key figures 2004–2013 133 Quarterly figures 2012–2013 135 Auditor’s report CONTENTS 65 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 66 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Report of the Board of Directors gramme resulted in net restructuring charges of EUR 27 million in million was paid in Q2 2013. The remaining part of the share issue will Other operations. UPM booked a EUR 40 million write-down of receivbe implemented during the coming years based on the financing needs of ables due to the Finnish Customs’ decision to dismiss UPM’s application the project. for the statutory refund of energy taxes for the year 2012. UPM has appealed against the decision of the authorities. Restructuring in Paper and streamlining Market environment in 2013 Key figures The increase in the fair value of biological assets net of wood harof functions vested was EUR 68 million (45 million). In January 2013, UPM announced that it is planning to permanently Growth in the global economy in 2013 remained largely on the same low Profit before tax was EUR 475 million (loss of EUR 1,271 million) 2013 2012 reduce paper production capacity in Europe by 850,000 tonnes during level as in the previous year. Slowing growth in the US offset strengthenand excluding special items EUR 610 million (471 million). Net interest Sales, EURm 2013. UPM also announced plans to streamline the European paper ing sentiment in the Euro area, while growth in large developing econo10,054 10,492 and other finance costs were EUR 84 million (2 million including the EBITDA, EURm 1) operations and the Group’s global functions. The restructuring plans mies such as China, India and Brazil remained on the previous year’s 1,155 1,312 dividend of EUR 105 million from Pohjolan Voima Oy as special % of sales were estimated to result in annual fixed cost savings of EUR 90 million. level. Global GDP growth was approximately 3% in 2013. 11.5 12.5 income). Exchange rate and fair value gains and losses resulted in a gain Operating profit (loss), EURm The one-off cash restructuring cost was estimated to be EUR 100 milThe Euro area climbed out of recession during the second quarter 548 –1,318 of EUR 10 million (11 million). excluding special items, EURm lion. EUR 82 million of the restructuring costs were recognised in the and confidence in growth prospects improved during the second half of 683 556 Income taxes were EUR 140 million (149 million positive). The net % of sales 2013 results. the year. Although growth improved slightly during the second half, 6.8 5.3 impact of special items in income taxes was EUR 10 million negative Profit (loss) before tax, EURm Production at the UPM Stracel mill was ceased in January 2013. The 2013 was revealed to be almost as weak as 2012. The real economy was 475 –1,271 (230 million positive), including charges of EUR 120 million related to a excluding special items, EURm mill produced 270,000 tonnes of coated magazine paper annually. The held back by austerity programmes and weak labour markets, as the area 610 471 change in estimated recoverability of deferred tax assets in Canada and Net profit (loss) for the period, EURm assets and part of the land at the mill site were sold to Blue Paper SAS in recovered gradually from the sovereign debt crisis. 335 –1,122 income of EUR 76 million related to the corporate income tax rate Earnings per share, EUR May. The new owner will convert the mill to produce recycled fibreIn the US, the avoidance of the fiscal cliff and the expansion of 0.63 –2.14 change from 24.5% to 20.0% in Finland. excluding special items, EUR based fluting and test-liner. monetary easing, along with a continued recovery in the housing and 0.91 0.74 Profit for 2013 was EUR 335 million (loss of EUR 1,122 million) Diluted earnings per share, EUR Paper machine 3 at the UPM Rauma mill in Finland and paper labour markets improved growth prospects. The US economy sustained 0.63 –2.13 and earnings per share were EUR 0.63 (-2.14). Earnings per share Return on equity, % machine 4 at the UPM Ettringen mill in Germany were permanently moderate growth in 2013, albeit at a slightly lower rate than in 2012. 4.5 neg. excluding special items were EUR 0.91 (0.74). excluding special items, % closed in April 2013. Both machines produced uncoated magazine paper; In China, growth was on the same level as in the previous year, and 6.4 4.2 Operating cash flow per share was EUR 1.39 (1.98). Return on capital employed, % in total 420,000 tonnes annually. the government strived to rebalance the economy by reducing depen4.8 neg. excluding special items, % Paper production at the UPM Docelles paper mill in France was dence on investments and exports in favour of consumption. 6.0 4.2 Financing permanently discontinued in January 2014. Docelles produced 160,000 The Euro strengthened against many important currencies in 2013, Operating cash flow per share, EUR 1.39 1.98 In 2013, cash flow from operating activities before capital expenditure tonnes of uncoated woodfree paper annually. which weakened the competitiveness of European exporters. Against the Equity per share at end of period, EUR 14.08 14.18 and financing totalled EUR 735 million (1,040 million). Working capital US dollar, the Euro strengthened during the second half of the year, and Gearing ratio at end of period, % 41 43 was on average 3% stronger compared to the previous year. Likewise, the Net interest-bearing liabilities at end of period, EURm 3,040 3,210 increased by EUR 128 million (decreased by EUR 34 million) during the New business structure to sharpen operational Euro strengthened against the British pound sterling, and considerably Capital employed at end of period, EURm 11,583 11,603 period, mainly due to the decrease in current liabilities. focus and facilitate portfolio change The gearing ratio as of 31 December 2013 was 41% (43%). Net interagainst the Japanese yen. Emerging market currencies depreciated in Capital expenditure, EURm 362 357 On 6 August 2013, UPM announced that it would implement a new est-bearing liabilities at the end of the period came to EUR 3,040 million 2013 amid talks of tightening monetary stimulus in the US. Capital expenditure excluding acquisitions and business structure to drive clear improvement in profitability. The comshares, EURm 329 347 (3,210 million). In UPM’s businesses, the recession in the Euro area continued to pany also seeks to simplify and further develop its business portfolio. Personnel at end of period On 31 December 2013, UPM’s cash funds and unused committed have a negative impact on the European graphic paper markets in partic20,950 22,180 UPM’s new structure consists of the following business areas and credit facilities totalled EUR 1.8 billion. ular during the first half of 2013. In the global pulp and label materials reporting segments: UPM Biorefining, UPM Energy, UPM Raflatac, 1) EBITDA is operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment UPM Paper Asia, UPM Paper ENA (Europe and North America) and markets business conditions remained favourable, with growing demand charges, excluding the change in fair value of biological assets, excluding the Personnel UPM Plywood. Forests and wood procurement are reported in Other during the year. The hydrological situation in Finland normalised after a share of results of associated companies and joint ventures, and special items. In 2013, UPM had an average of 21,898 employees (23,151). At the operations. The new structure has been valid as of 1 November 2013. record year in 2012, resulting in lower hydropower availability. During beginning of the year the number of employees was 22,180, and at as The new Paper business areas are located at the centres of their marthe second half of the year there were also some early signs of improving Information on key financial and share-related indicators is presented in 31 December 2013 it was 20,950. kets. UPM Paper Asia is headquartered in Shanghai, China, and UPM demand in certain construction-related products in Europe. financial statements. More information (unaudited) on personnel is published in UPM's Paper ENA in Augsburg, Germany. The Group Head Office remains in Annual Report 2013. New reportable segments Helsinki, Finland. UPM adopted a new business structure as of 1 November 2013. FinanResults Through the new business structure, the company aims to sharpen 2013 compared with 2012 Capital expenditure the targets and required actions for each business. The new structure will cial reporting according to the new structure has taken place from Q4 Sales in 2013 were EUR 10,054 million, 4% lower than the EUR 10,492 In 2013, capital expenditure excluding investments in shares was EUR also increase the transparency of company performance. 2013 onwards. The financial figures for the comparison periods have million in 2012. Sales decreased due to a reduction in paper deliveries 329 million, 3.3% of sales (347 million, 3.3% of sales). Operational UPM will also seek to simplify its business portfolio and uncover the been restated according to the new business and reportable segments and prices. capital expenditure totalled EUR 209 million (248 million). value of its assets. These opportunities will be explored in parallel with structure. EBITDA was EUR 1,155 million, 11.5% of sales (1,312 million, UPM is investing in a biorefinery, which will produce renewable diethe profitability improvement and growth initiatives and may involve 12.5% of sales). The decrease in EBITDA was mainly attributable to the sel from crude tall oil in Lappeenranta, Finland. The biorefinery will changes in ownership structures. UPM Paper ENA business area, as a result of lower average paper prices produce approximately 100,000 tonnes of advanced renewable diesel for and lower delivery volumes. Fixed and variable costs in the UPM Paper transport each year. Diesel production is expected to begin in summer Profit improvement through simplified ENA business decreased significantly but, in the early part of the year, 2014. The total investment will amount to approximately EUR 150 milbusiness structure could not compensate for lower paper prices and deliveries. lion. On 6 August 2013, UPM announced that it had identified actions with The Group’s fixed costs decreased by EUR 134 million from the UPM is building a new combined heat and power plant at the UPM an overall profit improvement impact of EUR 200 million in its existing comparison period. Schongau mill in Germany. The target is to significantly reduce energy businesses. Each business is implementing a profit improvement proOperating profit excluding special items was EUR 683 million, 6.8% costs as well as to secure the mill’s energy supply. Start-up is planned for gramme with a simplified business model and variable and fixed cost of sales (556 million, 5.3%). Reported operating profit was EUR 548 the end of 2014. Total investment is approximately EUR 85 million. savings. These planned actions do not include additional capacity clomillion, 5.5% of sales (loss of EUR 1,318 million). Depreciation totalled The rebuilding of the UPM Pietarsaari pulp mill’s effluent treatment sures at this time. EUR 545 million (2,614 million), and excluding special items EUR 542 plant was completed in December 2013. Total investment was EUR 32 The profit improvement programme includes the remaining part of million (803 million). million. the EUR 90 million savings announced in January 2013, as well as furOperating profit includes net charges totalling EUR 135 million as UPM is building a new woodfree speciality paper machine at the ther actions resulting from the new business structure and consequent special items. The UPM Paper ENA business area recognised net UPM Changshu mill in China. The new paper machine will be capable profit improvement measures. restructuring charges of EUR 59 million, mainly related to the restrucof producing label papers and uncoated woodfree grades. The total The full impact of the programme is expected to materialise by the turing of UPM Docelles mill and closures of paper machines Rauma investment cost is CNY 3,000 million (approximately EUR 390 million), end of 2014 as compared with the Q2 2013 results. PM3 and Ettringen PM4. The UPM Raflatac business area recognised and the machine is expected to start up in 2015. In Q4 2013, the actions under the profit improvement programme restructuring charges of EUR 15 million. The streamlining of global In June, UPM announced that it is participating in the share issue reduced UPM’s costs by EUR 24 million, i.e. approximately 48% of the functions and other actions under UPM’s profit improvement profrom Pohjolan Voima Oy to finance the Olkiluoto 3 nuclear power plant annualised savings had been achieved. project. UPM’s share of the issue is EUR 119 million, of which EUR 31 CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 67 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 68 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM has conducted employee consultations in UPM Paper ENA, Operating profit increased due to higher pulp sales prices and The decrease in operating profit was mainly due to lower hydroUPM Raflatac 2013 2012 Global Functions and in UPM Wood Sourcing and Forestry. The comincreased deliveries. In sawmill operations cost efficiency improved as a power generation volumes. The average electricity sales price increased bined estimated total impact of the plans was a maximum of 275 posiresult of restructuring. Fixed costs decreased in spite of preparation for by 2% to EUR 46.1/MWh (45.2/MWh). Sales, EURm 1,213 1,202 tions, of which 195 in Finland and 80 in other countries. The realised the commercial launch of UPM BioVerno – UPM’s renewable diesel. EBITDA, EURm 1) 109 115 impact is expected to be approximately 215 positions, of which 135 in In July, UPM sold the Pestovo sawmill in Russia. UPM Energy 2013 2012 % of sales 9.0 9.6 Finland and 80 in other countries during 2014-2015. UPM will follow and update the progress of the programme in its Depreciation, amortisation and ­ UPM Biorefining 2013 2012 Sales, EURm 466 482 impairment charges, EURm –36 –34 quarterly reporting. EBITDA, EURm 1) 198 228 Operating profit, EURm 60 78 Sales, EURm Growth initiatives for the next three years 1,988 1,970 % of sales 42.5 47.3 % of sales 4.9 6.5 EBITDA, EURm 1) 435 391 Share of results of associated companies and Special items, EURm 2) –15 –3 On 6 August 2013, UPM announced quantified targets for its growth % of sales 21.9 19.8 joint ventures, EURm –1 – Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 75 81 initiatives in the coming three years. Biofuels, woodfree specialty papers in China and continued growth Change in fair value of biological assets and Depreciation, amortisation and ­ % of sales 6.2 6.7 in UPM Raflatac are expected to provide top line growth for UPM in the wood harvested, EURm 15 15 impairment charges, EURm –11 –11 Capital employed (average), EURm 532 524 coming years. In addition, opportunities have been identified to expand Share of results of associated companies and Operating profit, EURm 186 217 ROCE (excl. special items), % 14.1 15.5 production capacity in UPM’s existing pulp mills by approximately 10%. joint ventures, EURm 1 2 % of sales 39.9 45.0 1) EBITDA is operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment With these growth initiatives, the company is targeting additional Depreciation, amortisation and ­ Special items, EURm – – charges, excluding the change in fair value of biological assets and wood harvestEBITDA contribution of EUR 200 million when in full operation. impairment charges, EURm –152 –191 Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 186 217 ed, the share of results of associated companies and joint ventures, and special The total investment requirement in these projects is EUR 680 milOperating profit, EURm 306 205 % of sales 39.9 45.0 items. lion, including the earlier-announced EUR 540 million in the Changshu % of sales 15.4 10.4 Electricity deliveries, GWh 8,925 9,486 2) In 2013, special items of EUR 15 million relate to restructuring charges, including paper machine and Lappeenranta biorefinery. EUR 132 million has Special items, EURm 2) 6 –43 Capital employed (average), EURm 2,882 3,266 impairments of EUR 2 million. In 2012, special items of EUR 3 million relate to already been invested, and the total remaining capital expenditure in the Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 300 248 ROCE (excl. special items), % 6.5 6.6 restructuring charges. coming three years would be EUR 548 million. % of sales 15.1 12.6 1) EBITDA is operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment Pulp deliveries, 1,000 t 3,163 3,128 charges, excluding the change in fair value of biological assets and wood harvestMarket review Events after the balance sheet date Capital employed (average), EURm 2,825 2,806 ed, the share of results of associated companies and joint ventures, and special Along with a gradual, albeit slow, improvement in the macro-economic On 22 January 2014, UPM announced that it will permanently close ROCE (excl. special items), % 10.6 8.8 items. environment, growth in the global demand for self-adhesive labelstock down the UPM Docelles paper mill in France. The production ceased by improved over the year. Demand in Western Europe is estimated to have 1) EBITDA is operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment the end of January. Employee information and consultation negotiations improved slightly, especially during the second half of the year, whereas charges, excluding the change in fair value of biological assets and wood harvestMarket review were completed on 13 December 2013 and the Social Plan was approved ed, the share of results of associated companies and joint ventures, and special in North America demand is estimated to have experienced modest The hydrological balance in Finland fluctuated in 2013 and was on by the French authorities on 13 January 2014. items. growth during the course of the year. In Eastern Europe, Asia and Latin average lower than in 2012. During the first half of the year the balance Docelles mill employed 161 people and produced 160,000 tonnes of America growth continued, but at a lower level. 2) In 2013, special charges of EUR 2 million relate to restructuring measures and remained above the long-term average. However, a prolonged period of uncoated woodfree papers annually. Charges of EUR 25 million have special income of EUR 8 million to a capital gain from a sale of property, plant dry weather deteriorated the hydrological balance during the third quarbeen recognised related to the restructuring of the mill in Q4 2013. and equipment. In 2012, special items of EUR 43 million relate to the restructuring ter, whereas wet weather conditions in the fourth quarter restored the UPM Paper Asia of sawn timber and further processing operations including an impairment charge balance to close to normal levels by the year-end. 2013 compared with 2012 Outlook for 2014 of EUR 31 million. The average Finnish area spot price on the Nordic electricity Operating profit excluding special items for UPM Paper Asia was EUR Growth in the European economy is expected to remain low in 2014, but exchange in 2013 was EUR 41.2/MWh, 13% higher than during the 80 million (101 million). improve from last year. Growth in the US and in the developing econoSales were EUR 1,108 million (1,131 million). Paper deliveries Market review same period the previous year (36.6/MWh). The Finnish area price was mies is expected to continue to outperform Europe. above the Nord Pool system price as transmission cable maintenance remained virtually on the previous year’s level of 1,378,000 tonnes Chemical pulp market prices increased during the first half of 2013. This environment is expected to be supportive for the global pulp work between Finland and Sweden limited imports, and at the same time (1,370,000). Softwood pulp (NBSK) and hardwood pulp (BHKP) market prices and label materials demand, as well as paper demand in Asia. The slight imports from Russia remained low. The operating profit decreased in 2013 mainly due to lower fine diverged during the second half of the year. Balanced market conditions improvement in the European economy may moderate the negative Coal prices were lower than in the previous year. The CO2 emission paper prices. Deliveries remained on the same level as the previous year. supported additional price increases for softwood market pulp during demand development seen in the European graphic paper market in the allowance price was EUR 4.7/tonne at the end of the period, 30% lower the second half of 2013. The euro-denominated price remained stable as past two years and stimulate European demand for wood products. The than on the same date the previous year (EUR 6.7/tonne). The Finnish the USD/EUR exchange rate weakened. In hardwood pulp, market UPM Paper Asia 2013 2012 current hydrological situation in Finland is close to the long-term averarea front-year forward price closed at EUR 38.9/MWh in December, prices decreased during the second half of the year as new capacity age level, and the forward electricity prices in Finland for H1 2014 are 11% lower than on the same date the previous year (43.5/MWh). entered the market, impacting the supply-demand balance. Sales, EURm 1,108 1,131 somewhat lower than the realised market prices in H1 2013. In 2013, the average softwood pulp (NBSK) market price was EUR EBITDA, EURm 1) UPM’s business outlook for H1 2014 is broadly stable. 161 185 646/tonne (634/tonne) and the average hardwood pulp (BHKP) market UPM Raflatac % of sales In H1 2014, UPM’s performance is expected to be underpinned by 14.5 16.4 price was EUR 596/tonne (585/tonne). At the end of the year, the soft2013 compared with 2012 Depreciation, amortisation and stable overall outlook for UPM Energy, UPM Raflatac, UPM Paper wood pulp market price was EUR 656/tonne (613/tonne) and the hardOperating profit excluding special items for UPM Raflatac was EUR 75 Asia and UPM Plywood, as compared to H2 2013. ­impairment charges, EURm –81 –84 wood pulp market price was EUR 557/tonne (587/tonne). million (81 million). Sales increased by 1% to EUR 1,213 million (1,202 Profitability in UPM Paper ENA is expected to improve due to the Operating profit, EURm 80 101 Global chemical pulp shipments increased by 2% from the previous million). on-going cost reduction measures. In H1 2014 compared to H2 2013, % of sales 7.2 8.9 year. Shipments to China and North America increased by 5%, while Operating profit decreased from the previous year, mainly due to the however, performance is negatively impacted by lower delivery volumes, Special items, EURm – – shipments to Western Europe remained the same. lower sales margin. Expanded operations enabled volume growth, more including seasonal factors. Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 80 101 Sawn timber demand increased in 2013. The increase was led by than offsetting the increase in fixed costs. UPM Biorefining is starting the year in a stable market. Capacity % of sales 7.2 8.9 exports to Asia and North Africa. Demand in Europe remained fairly In July, UPM announced plans to reduce labelstock production additions in the global pulp market may impact the pulp market balance Paper deliveries, 1,000 t 1,378 1,370 stable. capacity in Europe, South Africa and Australia. unfavourably during 2014, depending on the timing of the new start-ups. Capital employed (average), EURm 882 915 UPM Energy ROCE (excl. special items), % 9.1 11.0 Business area reviews 2013 compared with 2012 UPM Biorefining 1) EBITDA is operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment Operating profit excluding special items for UPM Energy decreased to charges, excluding the change in fair value of biological assets and wood harvest2013 compared with 2012 EUR 186 million (217 million). Sales decreased by 3% to EUR 466 ed, the share of results of associated companies and joint ventures, and special Operating profit excluding special items for UPM Biorefining increased million (482 million). The total electricity sales volume was 8,925 GWh items. to EUR 300 million (248 million). Sales increased by 1% to EUR 1,988 (9,486 GWh). million (1,970 million). Pulp deliveries increased by 1% to 3,163,000 tonnes (3,128,000). CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 69 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 70 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Market review Market review biological assets (growing trees) was EUR 112 million (101 million), shares of the company as follows: (i) The maximum number of new Fine paper prices decreased in Asia during 2013. The slide levelled off In 2013, demand for graphic papers decreased by 5% in Europe. The including gains on sales of forest. The cost of wood harvested from own shares that may be issued and the company’s own shares held by the towards the end of the year and price increases in selected markets were decrease was steeper in the first half of the year, which was also reflected forests was EUR 59 million (71 million). company that may be transferred is, in total, 25,000,000 shares. This implemented. On average, market prices were lower than the previous in the paper price development. Graphic paper prices decreased at the In 2013, UPM sold 36,000 (31,000) hectares of forests. figure also includes the number of shares that can be received on the year, which was compounded with the negative currency impact in some beginning of the year and remained largely stable during the second half basis of the special rights. (ii) New shares and special rights entitling to of UPM’s major markets. Office paper prices remained fairly stable. In of the year. On average, graphic paper prices were 4% lower than in Other operations 2013 2012 shares of the company may be issued and the company’s own shares held 2013, demand for fine paper increased only slightly in Asia, though the 2012. Graphic paper production capacity was closed during the year, by the company may be transferred to the company’s shareholders in growth varied by product and market segment. There was overcapacity especially in newsprint, where the supply-demand balance was also proportion to their existing shareholdings in the company, or in a Sales, EURm 490 540 in all major fine paper grades in Asia. improved. Newsprint prices increased during the second half of the year. directed share issue, deviating from the shareholder’s pre-emptive subEBITDA, EURm 1) –16 1 Global demand in label papers picked up slightly during the course In North America, demand for magazine papers decreased by 1% scription rights. This authorisation is valid until 4 April 2016. Change in fair value of biological assets of the year and was approximately 4% higher than in the previous year. and the average US dollar price for magazine papers was slightly lower UPM has one option series 2007C that would entitle holders to suband wood harvested, EURm 53 30 In Asia and other developing markets, demand continued to grow at than in the previous year. scribe for a total of 5,000,000 shares. Share of results of associated companies and about double the average global growth rate in 2013. Label paper prices Aside from the above, the Board of Directors has no current joint ventures, EURm 1 –1 remained stable. UPM Plywood Depreciation, amortisation and authorisation to issue shares, convertible bonds or share options. 2013 compared with 2012 The number of shares entered in the Trade Register on 31 December impairment charges, EURm –13 –14 UPM Paper ENA Operating profit excluding special items for UPM Plywood was EUR 21 Operating profit, EURm –42 13 2013 was 529,301,897, including subscriptions of 3,177,487 shares 2013 compared with 2012 through exercising 2007B and 2007C share options. Through the issumillion (2 million). Sales increased by 9% to EUR 429 million (393 Special items, EURm 2) –67 –4 ance authorisation and share options, the number of shares may increase Operating profit excluding special items for UPM Paper ENA was EUR million) and deliveries by 9% to 737,000 cubic metres (679,000). Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 25 17 to a maximum of 559,300,397. 0 million (loss of EUR 81 million). Operating profit excluding special items increased due to higher Capital employed (average), EURm 1,533 1,561 The share subscription period for share options 2007B ended on 31 Sales were EUR 5,560 million (6,192 million). delivery volumes and lower fixed costs. ROCE (excl. special items), % 1.6 1.1 October 2013. During the entire share subscription period 4,330,009 Paper deliveries decreased by 6% to 8,910,000 tonnes (9,501,000), 1) EBITDA is operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment shares were subscribed for through exercising 2007B share options. partly affected by the sale of packaging paper operations of the UPM UPM Plywood 2013 2012 charges, excluding the change in fair value of biological assets and wood harvestAt the end of 2013, the company held 230,737 of its own shares, repTervasaari and UPM Pietarsaari mills. ed, the share of results of associated companies and joint ventures, and special resenting approximately 0.04% of the total number of the company Operating profit increased, mainly due to lower depreciation. The Sales, EURm 429 393 items. shares and voting rights. reduction in fixed and variable costs could not fully offset lower average EBITDA, EURm 1) 43 24 2) In 2013, special items of EUR 40 million relate to write-down of receivable due to paper prices and a reduction in deliveries. Profitability was also partly impacted by unfavourable exchange rate developments in many markets. % of sales 10.0 6.1 the Finnish Customs’ decision to dismiss UPM’s application for the statutory refund Company directors Depreciation, amortisation and ­ of energy taxes for the year 2012. In addition, special items include charges of At the Annual General Meeting held on 4 April 2013, the number of The average price of all paper deliveries in Euros was approximately impairment charges, EURm –22 –22 EUR 27 million mainly related to the streamlining of global functions. In 2012, members of the Board of Directors was increased from nine to ten and 4% lower than in 2012. special items include restructuring charges of EUR 22 million, reimbursement of Operating profit, EURm 21 2 Matti Alahuhta, Berndt Brunow, Karl Grotenfelt, Wendy E. Lane, Jussi fine of EUR 6 million, and a capital gain of EUR 12 million from the sale of RFID % of sales 4.9 0.5 Pesonen, Ursula Ranin, Veli-Matti Reinikkala, Kim Wahl and Björn UPM Paper ENA 2013 2012 business. Special items, EURm – – Wahlroos were re-elected to the Board for a term continuing until the Operating profit excl. special items, EURm 21 2 end of the next Annual General Meeting. Piia-Noora Kauppi was electSales, EURm 5,560 6,192 % of sales Shares ed as a new Board member. 4.9 0.5 EBITDA, EURm 1) The company has one series of shares. There are no specific terms relat232 400 Deliveries, plywood, 1,000 m3 737 679 At the organisation meeting of the Board of Directors, Björn Wahl% of sales ed to the shares except for the redemption clause which is presented in 4.2 6.5 Capital employed (average), EURm 286 300 roos was re-elected as Chairman, and Berndt Brunow as Deputy Chairthe consolidated financial statements (Note 27). Information on the Share of results of associated companies and ROCE (excl. special items), % 7.3 0.7 man of the Board of Directors. In addition, the Board of Directors biggest shareholders and break-down by sector and size is disclosed in joint ventures, EURm 1 1 elected Karl Grotenfelt as Chairman of the Audit Committee, and Piia1) EBITDA is operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment Information on shares. Depreciation, amortisation and Noora Kauppi, Wendy E. Lane and Kim Wahl as other members of the charges, excluding the change in fair value of biological assets and wood harvestThe company is a party to certain agreements concerning its ­impairment charges, EURm –233 –2,261 Committee from among its members. Berndt Brunow was elected as ed, the share of results of associated companies and joint ventures, and special resource-related businesses which contain provisions as to the change of Operating profit, EURm –59 –1,905 items. Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and Ursula Ranin and Velicontrol in the company. The company has entered into service contracts % of sales –1.1 –30.8 Matti Reinikkala were elected as members. Björn Wahlroos was elected with its President and CEO, and Group Executive Team members which Special items, EURm 2) as Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee, and Matti –59 –1,824 Market review include provisions regarding a change of control due to a public tender Operating profit excl. special items, EURm Alahuhta and Karl Grotenfelt were elected as members. 0 –81 Following decreasing plywood demand in Europe during 2012, there offer. The service contracts have been presented in the consolidated % of sales 0.0 –1.3 financial statements (Note 7). The share ownership of President and Paper deliveries, 1,000 t 8,910 9,501 were some initial signs of an improvement in demand during the second CEO and the members of the Board of Directors is presented in the Litigation half of 2013. The Eurozone leading indicators and construction confiCapital employed (average), EURm On 31 March 2011, Metsähallitus (a Finnish state enterprise which 2,672 4,732 dence in certain markets in Europe improved during the latter part of financial statements (Information on shares). ROCE (excl. special items), % administers state-owned land) filed a claim for damages against UPM 0.0 –1.7 the year. Demand development in Europe was fairly similar in construcInformation of the authority of the Board of Directors in regard to and two other Finnish forest companies. The claim relates to the Finnish tion-related end-use segments and in industrial applications. Compared the issuance and buy back of own shares, and regulations to amend the 1) EBITDA is operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and impairment Market Court decision of 3 December 2009 whereby the defendants charges, excluding the change in fair value of biological assets and wood harvestwith pre-recession levels, overall demand in Europe remained, however, Articles of Association is disclosed in the consolidated financial statewere deemed to have breached competition rules in the Finnish rounded, the share of results of associated companies and joint ventures, and special significantly lower. Raw material costs remained stable over the year. ments (Note 27). wood market. In addition to Metsähallitus, individuals and companies, items. In 2013, the plywood market in Europe was almost in balance, In 2013, UPM shares worth EUR 5,308 million (5,534 million) in as well as municipalities and parishes, have filed claims relating to the partly due to certain delivery problems with overseas suppliers, but also total were traded on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki stock exchange. This 2) In 2013, special items include charges of EUR 25 million related to the restructurMarket Court decision. The capital amount of all of the claims total ing of the UPM Docelles mill in France and net charges of EUR 34 million mainly due to strengthening demand in the US. Market prices increased someis estimated to represent approximately two-thirds of all trading volume EUR 208 million in the aggregate jointly and severally against UPM and related to the ongoing restructurings. In 2012, special items include impairment what during the year, and were on average slightly higher than in the in UPM shares. The highest quotation was EUR 13.02 in November and two other companies; alternatively and individually against UPM, this charges of EUR 1,771 million, including EUR 783 million related to goodwill and previous year. the lowest was EUR 7.30 in June. represents EUR 38 million in the aggregate. In addition to the claims on EUR 988 million related to fixed assets in European graphic paper operations, The company’s ADSs are traded on the US over-the-counter (OTC) capital amounts, the claimants are also requesting compensation relating restructuring charges of EUR 60 million and impairment charges of EUR 8 million Other operations market under a Level 1 sponsored American Depositary Receipt proto value added tax and interests. UPM considers all the claims unfoundrelated to the Stracel mill closure, and other restructuring charges of EUR 20 gramme. Other operations include forests and wood sourcing, UPM Biocomposed in their entirety. No provision has been made in UPM’s accounts for million. In addition, special items include a net gain of EUR 35 million including The Annual General Meeting, held on 4 April 2013, authorised the ites, UPM Biochemicals business units and Group services. any of these claims. a capital gain of EUR 51 million from the sale the packaging paper operations of Board of Directors to acquire no more than 51,000,000 of the compathe Pietarsaari and Tervasaari mills and a charge of EUR 16 million from goodwill In November 2012, UPM commenced arbitration proceedings 2013 compared with 2012 ny’s own shares. This authorisation is valid for 18 months from the date allocated to the operations sold. against Metsäliitto Cooperative and Metsä Board Corporation due to Operating profit excluding special items was EUR 25 million (17 milof the decision. their breaches of UPM’s tag-along rights under the shareholders’ agreelion). Sales decreased by 9% to EUR 490 million (540 million). The same Annual General Meeting authorised the Board to decide ment concerning Metsä Fibre Oy in connection with the sale of the The increase in the fair value of biological assets net of wood haron the issuance of new shares and/or the transfer of the company’s own shares in Metsä Fibre to Itochu Corporation. UPM claims jointly from vested was EUR 53 million (30 million). The increase in the fair value of shares held by the company and/or the issue of special rights entitling to Metsäliitto and Metsä Board a capital amount of EUR 58.5 million in CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 71 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 72 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 damages. Metsäliitto and Metsä Board sold a 24.9% holding in Metsä Strategic risks The main earnings sensitivities and the Group’s cost structure are preHazard risks Fibre to Itochu Corporation for EUR 472 million. In connection with Competition, markets and customers. The energy, pulp, timber, paper, sented in the Annual Report of 2013, on page 11. UPM operates a significant number of manufacturing facilities globally, the transaction with Itochu, Metsäliitto exercised a call option to purlabel, plywood and biofuels markets are cyclical and highly competitive. Availability and price of major inputs. In 2013, third-party suppliers mostly UPM-owned, and is also the largest private owner of forestland chase UPM’s remaining 11% ownership in Metsä Fibre for EUR 150 In all of these markets the price level is determined as a combination of accounted for approximately 85% of UPM’s wood requirements. Other in Finland. UPM is exposed to risks in areas such as occupational health million. The arbitral tribunal is expected to render its final decision durdemand and supply, and shocks to either demand (decrease/increase in production inputs, such as chemicals, fillers and recovered paper, are and safety, environment, fire, natural events and site security. These risks ing Q1 2014. No receivables have been recorded by UPM on the basis of end-use demand, change in customer preferences etc.) or supply (e.g. obtained from third-party suppliers. Disruptions in the supply of key are managed through established management procedures and loss claims presented in the arbitration proceedings. new production capacity entering the market or old capacity being inputs would impact upon manufacturing operations, for example, by prevention programmes. UPM’s insurance programme also provides Neste Oil Oyj, a Finnish company producing traffic fuels (Neste), closed) may impact both the volume and the price level for UPM. Also interrupting or resulting in the downscaling of production or a change in coverage for insurable hazard risks, subject to terms and conditions. has filed an action for declaratory judgment against UPM in June 2013 competitor behaviour influences the market price development. the product mix. They could also cause price increases for critical inputs in the Helsinki District Court. Neste seeks a declaration from the court UPM performance is also impacted by the performance of substior shifts in the availability and price of wood. It is also uncertain how Research and development that Neste enjoys protection on the basis of its patent against the techtute or alternative products. Most notably, the demand in graphical the EU energy policies may impact upon the availability and costs of The versatile use of renewable wood biomass, combined with innovation, nology that Neste alleges UPM intends to use at the biorefinery which is papers in the mature markets is forecasted to continue to decline, due to fibre and energy. resource efficiency and sustainability, is the cornerstone of UPM’s Biobeing constructed at UPM’s Kaukas mill site. The said action relates to the shift away from print media to electronic media. Project execution. Investment projects in UPM businesses such as fore strategy. Innovations are at the forefront in the creation and develthe same Neste patent concerning which UPM has filed an invalidation Consumers’ environmental awareness has also increased, and this energy, pulp, paper or biofuels are often large and take one or more opment of new products that can be used to replace non-renewable claim in December 2012. The invalidation claim was filed as a procemay have either a positive or negative impact on the consumption of years to complete. UPM has experience in such projects in various busimaterials with renewable, recyclable and low-impact alternatives and dural precautionary measure to avoid unfounded legal processes. UPM UPM's products, depending on the product area. nesses and locations around the world, and applies vigorous planning, provide resource-efficient alternatives for the future. considers Neste’s action to be without merit. UPM sells a proportion of its products to several major customers. project management and follow-up processes. Participation in large projIn 2013, UPM’s direct expenditure on research and development was In Finland, UPM is participating in a project to construct a new The largest customer in terms of sales represented approximately 3% of ects involves risks such as cost overruns or delays, as well as achievement approximately EUR 38 million (45 million), or 0.4% (0.4%) of the nuclear power plant unit (Olkiluoto 3) through its shareholdings in PohUPM's sales in 2013, and the ten largest customers represented approxiof the economic targets set for the investment. Group’s sales. The majority of UPM’s R&D input is focused on new jolan Voima Oy. Pohjolan Voima Oy is a majority shareholder of Teolmately 14% of such sales. Partnerships. UPM currently works together with many partners technologies and businesses. In total, UPM spent approximately EUR lisuuden Voima Oyj (TVO), holding 58.47% of its shares. UPM’s indirect M&A and changes in the business portfolio. UPM’s strategic direction without control over strategic direction and operational output. The 155 million (81 million) on research and development for existing and share of Olkiluoto 3 is approximately 31%. Originally the commercial is to increase the share of growing businesses with positive long-term highly competitive market situation and, for example, new developments developing businesses including negative operating cash flow and capital electricity production of the Olkiluoto 3 plant was scheduled to start at fundamentals. This may require acquisitions of new businesses or divestin biofuels or bioenergy are likely to increase the importance of partnerexpenditures in developing businesses, corresponding 20.6% (8.0%) of the end of April 2009. The completion of the project, however, has been ments of existing businesses. Participation in M&A involves risks such as ships in the search for higher efficiency or new products and businesses. UPM’s operating cash flow. delayed. Based on the progress reports received from the AREVA-Siesuccessful implementation of a divestment and the ability to integrate Partnerships, however, may create risks to the profitability, for example, mens Consortium (Supplier), which is constructing Olkiluoto 3 under a and manage acquired operations and personnel successfully, as well as to through changes occurring within the partner entity or changes in how Biofuels fixed-price turnkey contract, TVO has announced that it will prepare for achieve the economic targets set for an acquisition/divestment. the partnership operates. In Biofuels UPM focused strongly on the preparatory work for the the possibility that the start of regular electricity production may be Regulation. UPM is exposed to a wide range of laws and regulations. Ability to recruit and retain skilled employees. To meet the challenges market entry of the UPM BioVerno renewable diesel. UPM carried out postponed until the year 2016. The Supplier is responsible for the schedThe performance of UPM businesses, for example the biofuels busiof sustaining growth and improving the effectiveness of operations, a comprehensive emission, performance and wear tests together with the ule. In December 2008, the Supplier initiated arbitration proceedings ness, the paper businesses and the energy business, are to a high degree skilled workforce is necessary. UPM is continuously evaluating its Technical Research Centre of Finland (VTT). In the long term, research before an International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) arbitration tribudependent on the current regulatory framework, and changes to regularecruitment, compensation and career development policies and taking work aims to extend biofuel production to new processes and raw matenal in relation to the delay of Olkiluoto 3 and related costs. At the end tion, direct and indirect taxation or subsidies would have a direct impact measures to attract and retain skilled personnel, thereby seeking to avoid rials, such as pyrolysis oils and solid biomass. of 2013, the Supplier submitted its updated claim to the ICC arbitration on the performance of UPM. In addition, regulation may structurally shortages of appropriately skilled personnel in the future. proceedings concerning the delay of the project and the ensuing costs. restrict or exacerbate UPM’s ability to compete for raw material. Biocomposites The updated quantification until the end of June 2011, together with the UPM’s environment related processes and management are based on Financial risks earlier claim, is in total approximately EUR 2.7 billion. Among other In Biocomposites UPM combined its two composite units, UPM ProFi full compliance with such laws and regulations, and environmental Changes in exchange and interest rates. Exchange rate exposure primarily things, the sum includes approximately EUR 70 million of payments and UPM Formi. Their principal ingredients are cellulose fibres and investments, audits and measurements are carried out on a continuous affects export operations when sales are denominated in currencies other delayed by TVO under the plant contract as well as approximately EUR polymers, which can be either virgin or recycled. The composites can be basis. UPM is currently not involved in any major proceeding concernthan those in which manufacturing costs are incurred. Part of UPM’s 700 million of penalty interest and approximately EUR 120 million of recycled and are non-toxic. ing environmental matters, but the risk of substantial environmental sales and purchases are denominated in currencies other than the euro alleged loss of profit. The Supplier’s previous monetary claim was In 2013, the UPM ProFi decking product portfolio was expanded to costs and liabilities is inherent in industrial operations. (primarily the US dollar and the British pound sterling). To manage approximately EUR 1.9 billion. TVO has considered and found the earinclude a new solid profile deck. Political and economical risks. UPM has major manufacturing locaexposure to such exchange rate fluctuations, close monitoring of the lier claim by the Supplier to be unfounded and without merit. TVO will UPM Formi is used to replace plastic in many applications, from tions in Finland, Germany, the UK, France and the US. In these counexposure to currency risks is carried out simultaneously with the hedging scrutinise the new material and respond to it in due course. TVO has furniture to consumer electronics and high-end speakers. UPM Formi is tries, the slow development of the individual economies and/or of of such risks, using financial instruments including forward foreign submitted a claim and defence in the arbitration proceedings concerning manufactured from cellulose fibre and plastics. Around half of the oilEurope as a whole influences adversely UPM’s performance. Furtherexchange agreements and currency swaps. Furthermore, changes in the delay and the ensuing costs incurred in the Olkiluoto 3 project. The based plastic is replaced with cellulose fibres in the biocomposite. more, policies (on European and/or national level) that hamper ecointerest rates may have a considerable impact on the values of the comquantification estimate of TVO’s costs and losses in the claim that TVO In 2013, UPM Biocomposites developed material and coating technomic growth or lower the competitiveness of UPM (for example pany’s assets (e.g. biological assets or available-for-sale investments, such submitted in the arbitration in September 2012 was approximately EUR nologies mixing the two different composites in order to improve prodthrough adverse regulation or increase in direct or indirect taxation) may as energy assets), which are valued on a discounted cash flow model. 1.8 billion, which included TVO’s actual claim and estimated part. The uct quality and the cost effectiveness of the production processes. have an adverse impact on UPM’s performance. In the developed counAvailability of capital and liquidity. Availability of capital to UPM is arbitration proceedings may continue for several years, and the claimed tries, the low transparency and predictability of the political system and dependent on conditions of the financial markets and the Group's finanand counter-claimed amounts may change. No receivables or provisions cial health. If either or both of these factors were to change dramatically Biochemicals regulation may lead to an increasing uncertainty and risk level when have been recorded by TVO on the basis of claims presented in the arbiinvesting in or operating in these countries. for the worse, the cost and availability of capital would be at risk. To In 2013, UPM combined its biochemicals-related business initiatives to tration proceedings. UPM has manufacturing operations in a number of emerging marmitigate possible materialisation of these risks, the UPM has liquidity form UPM Biochemicals. The unit develops wood-based chemical buildket countries, such as China, Uruguay, Russia and Brazil. In the emergreserves in the form of committed multi-year loan facilities. UPM’s availing blocks, performance chemicals and biofibrils. Risks ing market countries, the lack of transparency and predictability of the able-for-sale investments are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet. Product development at UPM Biochemicals is at the pre-commercial Risk management political, economic and legal systems may lead to an increasing uncerChanges in the assumptions used (e.g. electricity price estimate and startphase, and UPM is actively developing and testing industrial applicatainty and risk level when investing in, or operating in these countries. up schedule of the Olkiluoto 3 nuclear power plant) might have a signifitions with its partners in Finland and abroad in order to create mill-scale UPM regards risk management as a systematic and proactive means to These uncertainties may materialize as unfavourable taxation treatment, cant impact on UPM’s financial position. industrial concepts. analyse and manage the opportunities and threats related to its business trade restrictions, inflation, currency fluctuations and nationalization of Payment defaults. There is a risk of non-payment or non-perforIn 2013, the R&D work on biofibrils for developing pilotand plantoperations. This includes also risks avoided by careful planning and assets. mance by the Group's customers in connection with the sale of products. scale industrial applications continued. UPM signed a co-operative evaluation of future projects and business environment. UPM has various programmes in place to monitor and mitigate cusagreement with Ashland Inc. to develop and commercialise products UPM seeks to transfer insurable risks through insurance arrangecontaining UPM’s biofibrils technology. ments if the risks exceed the defined tolerance. The insurance cover is Operational risks tomer credit risk, and insurance policies cover most of the trade receivables. UPM also signed a joint development agreement with Renmatix Inc. always subject to the applicable insurance conditions. Earnings uncertainty. The main short-term uncertainties in UPM’s earnAdditional information about financial risks and the maturity of to further develop Renmatix’s water-based Plantrose™ process to conThe main risk factors that can materially affect the company’s busiings relate to sales prices and delivery volumes of the Group’s products, long term debt is disclosed in the consolidated financial statements vert woody biomass into intermediates for subsequent downstream proness and financial results are set out below. They have been classified as as well as to changes in the main input cost items and exchange rates. (Notes 3 and 31). cessing into biochemicals. The long-term goal of the initiative is to offer strategic risks, operational risks, financial risks and hazard risks. Most of these items are dependent on general economic developments. cost competitive alternatives for selected petrochemicals on an industrial scale. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 73 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 74 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 External networks UPM Plywood UPM ensures that all wood and wood fibre is pleted by the end of 2014, and the refurbishment of the company’s own hydropower production assets in Finland. In 2013, the UPM KorkeaTekes, the Finnish Funding Agency for Technology and Innovation, is UPM Plywood’s product and technology development work focused on sustainably sourced koski sawmill in Finland introduced a new bio heating plant that uses an important partner for UPM, as it is supporting several research creating new customer-based solutions in addition to commercialising All of UPM’s own forests and eucalyptus plantations are certified acprojects, such as the development of biofuels, energy-saving technologies and piloting applications developed previously. only bark for heat energy generation. cording to the FSC and/or PEFC certification schemes. All of UPM’s and biochemical competence and biofibrils technology. One of the key areas was to improve the properties of the current wood supplies are covered by third-party-verified chains of custody. 80% In 2013, the European Commission and the industries within the LNG containment system. (77%) of all wood used by UPM is sourced from certified forests. 83% of More results with responsible water management bioeconomy launched the Public Private Partnership (PPP) programme, For concrete forming end uses, R&D work concentrated on creating UPM has reduced wastewater volumes per tonne of paper by 25% and UPM’s paper is produced using fibre that meets the criteria of either the which aims to support biorefinery concepts and the growth of the bionew customer-focused products that are more economic with good funcper tonne of chemical pulp by 20 % over the last ten years. The COD FSC or the PEFC forest certification scheme. economy in Europe. The PPP is an important funding element for speedtional properties. load has decreased by 30% per tonne of paper, and by 50% per tonne of In connection with the biodiversity programme, UPM carried out ing up the implementation of future investments in new areas such as Development of rigid structures for vehicle flooring continued with pulp, over the last ten years. several projects with stakeholders in 2013. UPM became a network partbiochemicals, biocomposites and biofibrils. pilot installations for selected customers. In addition, plywood with high The material efficiency programme, launched in 2011, continued at ner in the Biodiversity in Good Company initiative in Germany as part In recent years, UPM’s intellectual property rights applications have friction surface was in the development pipeline. the paper mills. The objective is to reduce process water consumption of the UN Decade Office for Biodiversity. UPM continued its co-operaincreased significantly. The importance of patent registration highlights UPM plywood also developed new patent pending vision technology and suspended solids. In 2013, the rebuild of the effluent treatment plant tion with the WWF’s New Generation Plantations Project in Uruguay to the progress in new businesses. machine for veneer production. The new measuring technology enables at the UPM Pietarsaari pulp mill in Finland was completed. UPM comdevelop and promote sustainable plantation practices. UPM is a shareholder in the Finnish Bioeconomy Cluster (FIBIC). improved raw material utilisation and new type of product solutions. pleted a project with the aim of improving the existing pulp mill proThe Cluster’s research programmes focus on the bioeconomy and prodcesses and developing the next-generation pulp process, where the proClimate actions recognised and energy saved ucts based on renewable materials, thus supporting UPM’s internal Environmental performance Since 1990, specific CO2 (carbon dioxide) emissions per tonne of paper cess water requirement per tonne of pulp is further reduced from the R&D activities. In 2013, UPM’s environmental investments totalled EUR 29 million (35 current level. have been reduced by approximately 25%. UPM has a wide range of million). The largest investment was the rebuild of the biological effluent energy sources and it maximises the use of carbon-neutral energy. BioBusinesses treatment plant at the UPM Pietarsaari pulp mill in Finland. mass-based fuels make up 84% of the fuels used by UPM in Finland and Corporate Governance Statement UPM Biorefining UPM’s environmental costs, which were mainly attributable to efflu67% of those used worldwide. UPM is the second-largest generator of UPM presents the Corporate Governance Statement as a separate report UPM has reduced process water consumption significantly in its pulp ent treatment and waste management, totalled EUR 134 million (133 which is available in UPM's Annual Report 2013 on pages 136-138 and biomass-based electricity in Europe. mills. In UPM’s newest mill, UPM Fray Bentos, Uruguay, the consumpmillion), including depreciation. on the company's website www.upm.com. The largest ongoing projects are the new combined heat and power tion of process water is among the lowest in the industry. No significant environmental incidents occurred in 2013. However, (CHP) plant at the UPM Schongau mill in Germany, due to be comIn plantations operations, development work focuses on strengthenthere were several minor temporary deviations from permit conditions. ing the tree breeding programme and developing new frost-tolerant eucaThese deviations were reported to the relevant authorities immediately, lyptus clones in order to create more value and improve productivity. and corrective and preventive measures were taken. The measures are UPM Pulp intensified joint development activities with customers, part of the company’s internal Clean run campaign, which aims to mainly in Europe and China, in 2013. improve environmental performance further and to promote and maintain environmental awareness. UPM Energy UPM Energy focuses on improving the efficiency and cost competitiveTaking care of the entire lifecycle ness of biomass-based energy technologies. UPM’s products are sustainably made from renewable, biodegradable To reach its target, UPM Energy participates in several research and recyclable raw materials. UPM businesses have adopted an ecodeprogrammes. These programmes are looking for new innovative solusign approach in their product development processes, which means tions to improve the design and operation of large-scale energy conversystematic integration of environmental aspects into product design at sion systems using biomass fuel mixtures. an early stage, covering the whole lifecycle. The majority of UPM’s production sites, as well as its forestry operUPM Raflatac ations, are covered by environmental, quality and health and safety sysIn the specialty business, UPM Raflatac focused on developing new high tems, which are certified in accordance with the ISO 9001, ISO 14001 added value products to its range. During 2013 new adhesive solutions and OHSAS 18001 standards respectively. UPM has certified all its for the wine industry and various new security-labelling solutions were European pulp and paper mills and the UPM Fray Bentos pulp mill in introduced. The product capabilities were also expanded to gummed and Uruguay in accordance with the voluntary EU Eco-Management and pressure sensitive postage stamps as well as multilayer film laminates. Audit Scheme (EMAS). In 2013, the UPM Changshu paper mill became In the standard products a large number of paper-based products the first paper mill in China to be certified by EMAS. were re-engineered for greater cost efficiency and improved performance. UPM is the largest producer of EU Ecolabelled newsprint, graphic This re-engineering activity was particularly focused on the Asian marand copying papers. In 2013, UPM was awarded the EU Ecolabel Comkets. New thinner film products were also introduced in order to improve munication Award for increasing public awareness and knowledge of the the cost competitiveness of the filmic products. EU Ecolabel. UPM Paper Asia More waste reduction through recycling and reuse UPM R&D centre based in Changshu concentrates to support UPM’s Today, over 90% of all UPM’s production waste is reused or recycled. production units in China and in the Asia Pacific region, with main UPM has developed innovative ways to reduce its own waste and reuse focus being R&D work for paper products. Label paper R&D focuses on waste in new products such as UPM BioVerno, UPM’s renewable diesel customer specific solutions, efficiency improvements and technologies for and UPM ProFi composite which utilises partly waste from the producsustainable solutions. tion of self-adhesive label materials. UPM is also the world’s largest user of recovered paper for the production of graphic papers, consuming 3.5 UPM Paper ENA million tonnes of paper for recycling in 2013. The total amount of solid waste sent to landfill has decreased by The R&D work focuses on improving cost efficiency through the materiover 10% in the last ten years. However, from 2012 to 2013 the total al efficiency programme launched in 2011. One key target is to reduce amount of waste to landfills increased significantly. The reason is that water consumption at the paper mills. UPM is also studying ways to former re-use possibilities at one site ceased. New ways of re-used are exploit deinking process waste and recycle surplus materials coming being investigated. from paper mills to use waste streams more efficiently. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 75 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 76 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Consolidated financial statements, IFRS Board of Directors’ proposal for the distribution of profits The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting of UPM-Kymmene Corporation to be held on 8 April 2014 that based on The aforementioned number of shares includes 230,737 treasury shares held by the Company. Treasury shares held by the Company do not Consolidated income statement the adopted balance sheet as per 31 December 2013 a dividend of EUR entitle to dividend. Based on this, the proposed dividend would total 0.60 per share be paid. The dividend will be paid to a shareholder regisEUR 317.4 million. Year ended 31 December tered in the Company's shareholders' register held by Euroclear Finland No material changes have taken place in respect of the Company’s 2012 Ltd on the record date for dividend payment being 11 April 2014. The financial position after the balance sheet date. In the opinion of the EURm Note 2013 Restated *) Board of Directors proposes that the dividend be paid on 24 April 2014. Board of Directors the proposed distribution of profits does not risk the On 31 December 2013, the distributable funds of the parent comsolvency of the ­Company. Sales 4 10,054 10,492 pany were EUR 2,923,698,889.92. On the dividend proposal date, 30 Other operating income 6 60 110 January 2014, the Company's registered number of shares is 529,301,897. Costs and expenses 7 –9,091 –9,353 Change in fair value of biological assets and wood harvested 8 68 45 Share of results of associated companies and joint ventures 9 2 2 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 10 –545 –2,614 Operating profit (loss) 4 548 –1,318 Gains on available-for-sale investments, net 11 1 38 Exchange rate and fair value gains and losses 12 10 11 Interest and other finance costs, net 12 –84 –2 Profit (loss) before tax 475 –1,271 Income taxes 13 –140 149 Profit (loss) for the period 335 –1,122 Attributable to: Owners of the parent company 335 –1,122 Non-controlling interests – – Signatures of the annual accounts and the report of the Board of Directors for the year 2013 335 –1,122 Earnings per share for profit (loss) attributable to owners of the parent company Basic earnings per share, EUR 14 0.63 –2.14 Helsinki, 30 January 2014 Diluted earnings per share, EUR 14 0.63 –2.13 Björn Wahlroos Berndt Brunow Matti Alahuhta Chairman Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Year ended 31 December 2012 Karl Grotenfelt Piia-Noora Kauppi Wendy E. Lane EURm Note 2013 Restated *) Profit (loss) for the period 335 –1,122 Jussi Pesonen Ursula Ranin Veli-Matti Reinikkala Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax: President and CEO Items that will not be reclassified to income statement: Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit obligations 69 –98 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement: Kim Wahl Translation differences –219 –14 Net investment hedge 77 4 Cash flow hedges –28 46 Available-for-sale investments 58 –672 –112 –636 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 13, 27 –43 –734 Total comprehensive income for the period 292 –1,856 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the parent company 292 –1,856 Non-controlling interests – – 292 –1,856 The income tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income is disclosed in Note 13. Disclosure of components of other comprehensive income is presented in Note 27. The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. *) Retrospective application of new and revised IFRS. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 77 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 78 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated statement of changes in equity As at 31 December As at 1 January 2012 2012 Attributable to owners of the parent company EURm Note 2013 Restated *) Restated *) Reserve Translafor invested Assets tion Fair value nonNonNon-current assets Share Treasury differand other restricted Retained controlling Total Goodwill 16 219 222 1,022 EURm Note capital shares ences reserves equity earnings Total interests equity Other intangible assets 17 342 366 467 Property, plant and equipment 18 4,757 5,089 6,505 Balance at 1 January 2012 890 –2 161 129 1,199 5,084 7,461 16 7,477 Investment property 19 40 39 39 Effect of new and revised IFRS, net of tax – – –3 2,728 – –573 2,152 –10 2,142 Biological assets 20 1,458 1,476 1,513 Balance at 1 January 2012 (restated *)) 890 –2 158 2,857 1,199 4,511 9,613 6 9,619 Investments in associated companies and joint ventures 21 22 20 28 Available-for-sale investments 22 2,661 2,587 3,345 Profit (loss) for the period – – – – – –1,122 –1,122 – –1,122 Other non-current financial assets 23 282 441 423 Actuarial gains and losses on defined Deferred tax assets 28 564 739 529 benefit obligations, net of tax – – – – – –98 –98 – –98 Other non-current assets 24 142 87 81 Translation differences – – –14 – – – –14 – –14 10,487 11,066 13,952 Net investment hedge, net of tax – – 4 – – – 4 – 4 Current assets Cash flow hedges, net of tax – – – 46 – – 46 – 46 Inventories 25 1,327 1,388 1,439 Available-for-sale investments, net of tax – – – –672 – – –672 – –672 Trade and other receivables 26 1,948 1,982 2,016 Total comprehensive income for the period – – –10 –626 – –1,220 –1,856 – –1,856 Income tax receivables 50 21 26 Cash and cash equivalents 3 787 486 512 Share options exercised – – – – 8 – 8 – 8 4,112 3,877 3,993 Share-based compensation, net of tax – – – 1 – 5 6 – 6 Assets classified as held for sale – – 24 Dividend distribution 15 – – – – – –315 –315 – –315 Total assets 14,599 14,943 17,969 Other items – – – – – –1 –1 – –1 Total transactions with owners for the period – – – 1 8 –311 –302 – –302 As at 31 December As at 1 January Balance at 31 December 2012 27 890 –2 148 2,232 1,207 2,980 7,455 6 7,461 2012 2012 EURm Note 2013 Restated *) Restated *) Balance at 1 January 2013 890 –2 148 2,232 1,207 2,980 7,455 6 7,461 Equity and liabilities Profit (loss) for the period – – – – – 335 335 – 335 Equity attributable to owners of the parent company Actuarial gains and losses on defined Share capital 27 890 890 890 benefit obligations, net of tax – – – – – 69 69 – 69 Treasury shares –2 –2 –2 Translation differences – – –219 – – – –219 – –219 Translation differences 6 148 158 Net investment hedge, net of tax – – 77 – – – 77 – 77 Fair value and other reserves 27 2,256 2,232 2,857 Cash flow hedges, net of tax – – – –28 – – –28 – –28 Reserve for invested non-restricted equity 1,226 1,207 1,199 Available-for-sale investments, net of tax – – – 58 – – 58 – 58 Retained earnings 3,073 2,980 4,511 Total comprehensive income for the period – – –142 30 – 404 292 – 292 7,449 7,455 9,613 Non-controlling interests 6 6 6 Share options exercised – – – – 19 – 19 – 19 Total equity 7,455 7,461 9,619 Share-based compensation, net of tax – – – –6 – 9 3 – 3 Dividend distribution 15 – – – – – –317 –317 – –317 Non-current liabilities Other items – – – – – –3 –3 – –3 Deferred tax liabilities 28 501 612 702 Total transactions with owners for the period – – – –6 19 –311 –298 – –298 Retirement benefit obligations 29 680 745 641 Balance at 31 December 2013 27 890 –2 6 2,256 1,226 3,073 7,449 6 7,455 Provisions 30 189 207 327 Interest-bearing liabilities 31 3,485 3,724 3,972 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Other liabilities 32 164 142 79 *) Retrospective application of new and revised IFRS. 5,019 5,430 5,721 Current liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities 31 643 417 906 Trade and other payables 33 1,419 1,566 1,682 Income tax payables 63 69 37 2,125 2,052 2,625 Liabilities related to assets classified as held for sale – – 4 Total liabilities 7,144 7,482 8,350 Total equity and liabilities 14,599 14,943 17,969 The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. *) Retrospective application of new and revised IFRS. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 79 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 80 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Consolidated cash flow statement Notes to the consolidated financial statements (In the notes all amounts are shown in millions of euros unless otherwise stated.) Year ended 31 December 1 Accounting policies of its returns from the entity. 2012 Business combinations are accounted for by using the acquisition EURm Note 2013 Restated *) method of accounting. The consideration transferred in a business comThe principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the bination is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred Cash flow from operating activities consolidated financial statements are set out below: and the equity instruments issued at the acquisition date. The considerProfit (loss) for the period 335 –1,122 ation transferred includes the fair value of any assets or liabilities resultAdjustments 5 750 2,278 Principal activities ing from a contingent consideration arrangement. Transaction costs Interest received 3 7 UPM-Kymmene Corporation (“the parent company” or “the company”) related to an acquisition are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets Interest paid –50 –83 together with its consolidated subsidiaries (“UPM” or “the Group”) is a acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business Dividends received 2 15 global paper and forest products group, mainly engaged in the produccombination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition Other financial items, net –20 –16 tion of paper, with an emphasis on the manufacture and sale of printing date. For each business combination, the Group measures any non-conIncome taxes paid –157 –73 and writing papers. UPM reports financial information for the following trolling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlChange in working capital 5 –128 34 business areas (segments): UPM Biorefining, UPM Energy, UPM Rafling interest's proportionate share of the acquiree's net assets. Net cash generated from operating activities 735 1,040 latac, UPM Paper Asia, UPM Paper ENA, UPM Plywood and Other The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any nonoperations. The Group’s activities are centred in European Union councontrolling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of Cash flow from investing activities tries, North and South America and Asia with production plants in 14 any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Capital expenditure –337 –379 countries. identifiable net assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill. Acquisition of businesses and subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 5 – –10 UPM-Kymmene Corporation is a Finnish limited liability company, If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary Acquisition of shares in associated companies and joint ventures –1 – domiciled in Helsinki in the Republic of Finland. The address of the acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised Acquisition of available-for-sale investments –31 – company’s registered office is Alvar Aallon katu 1, 00100 Helsinki, where directly in the income statement (see below “Intangible assets” for goodProceeds from sale of tangible and intangible assets 33 100 a copy of the consolidated financial statements can be obtained. will accounting policy). Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries 5 –2 –7 The parent company is listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is Proceeds from disposal of shares in associated companies and joint ventures – 3 These Group consolidated financial statements were authorised for transferred to the Group and are no longer consolidated from the date Proceeds from disposal of available-for-sale investments 1 150 issue by the Board of Directors on 30 January 2014. According to the when control ceases. Change in other non-current assets 40 –39 Finnish Companies Act, the General Meeting of Shareholders is entitled All intercompany transactions, receivables, liabilities and unrealised Dividends received – 110 to decide on the adoption of the company’s financial statements. profits, as well as intragroup profit distributions, are eliminated. UnreNet cash used in investing activities –297 –72 alised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence Basis of preparation of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of subCash flow from financing activities These consolidated financial statements of UPM are prepared in accorsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with Proceeds from non-current liabilities 553 140 dance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the policies adopted by the Group. Payments of non-current liabilities –323 –937 the European Union (IFRS as adopted by the EU) and IFRIC InterpreWhen the Group ceases to have control in subsidiary, any retained Change in current liabilities –64 110 tations. interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, with the change in Share options exercised 19 8 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the carrying amount recognised in income statement. Dividends paid –317 –315 historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of biological Net cash used in financing activities –132 –994 assets, available-for-sale investments and certain other financial assets Joint operations and financial liabilities. Share-based payments are recognised at fair A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have Change in cash and cash equivalents 306 –26 value on the grant date. joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets and obligations The preparation of financial statements requires the use of accountfor the liabilities, relating to the arrangement. Joint control is the conCash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 486 512 ing estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets tractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists Foreign exchange effect on cash and cash equivalents –5 – and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous Change in cash and cash equivalents 306 –26 date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues consent of the parties sharing control. Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 787 486 and expenses during the reporting periods. Accounting estimates are The Group accounts in relation to its interest for the assets, liabiliemployed in the financial statements to determine reported amounts, ties, revenues and expenses related to a joint operation in accordance The notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. including the realisable value of certain assets, the useful lives of tangible with IFRS applicable for the particular item. Transactions with joint *) Retrospective application of new and revised IFRS. and intangible assets, income tax and other items. Although these estioperations are recognised in the consolidated financial statements only mates are based on management’s best knowledge of current events and to the extent of other parties’ interests in the joint operation. actions, actual results may ultimately differ from them. The preparation of financial statements also requires management to exercise its judgeAssociated companies and joint ventures ment in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The Associated companies are entities over which the Group has significant most significant critical judgements are summarised in Note 2. influence but no control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Joint ventures are joint Consolidation principles arrangements whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangeSubsidiaries ment have rights to the net assets of the joint arrangement. The consolidated financial statements of UPM include the financial Interests in associated companies and joint ventures are accounted statements of the parent company, UPM-Kymmene Corporation, and its for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are those entities in which the Group has cost. Under this method the Group’s share of the associated company control. The Group has control over an entity if it has power over the and joint venture profit or loss for the period is recognised in the income entity; it is exposed or has rights to variable returns from its involvement statement and its share of movements in other comprehensive income is with the entity and has the ability to use its power to affect the amount recognised in other comprehensive income. The Group’s interest in an CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 81 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 82 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 associated company and joint venture is carried on the balance sheet at On the date a derivative contract is entered into, the Group designates Segment reporting controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference an amount that reflects its share of the net assets of the associated comcertain derivatives as either hedges of the fair value of a recognised Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the interwill not reverse in the foreseeable future. pany and joint venture together with goodwill on acquisition (net of any assets or liabilities or a firm commitment (fair value hedge), hedges of a nal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker. The chief Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is accumulated impairment loss), less any impairment in the value of indihighly probable forecasted transaction or cash flow variability in funcoperating decision maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and probable that there will be future taxable profits against which the temvidual investments. Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between tional currency (cash flow hedge), or hedges of net investment in a forassessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as porary differences can be utilised. the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the eign operation (net investment hedge). The fair value of derivative finanthe President and CEO. extent of the Group’s interest in the associated company and joint vencial instrument is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the The accounting policies used in segment reporting are the same as Special items ture, unless the loss provides evidence of an impairment of the asset remaining maturity is more than 12 months and as a current asset or those used in the consolidated accounts, except for that the joint operaCertain financial performance indicators have been reported excluding transferred. Associated company and joint venture accounting policies liability when the remaining maturity is less than 12 months. tion Madison Paper Industries (MPI) is presented as subsidiary in UPM special items. These indicators are non-GAAP measures applied in the have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the poliThe Group applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging fixed Paper ENA segment reporting. The costs and revenues as well as assets Group's financial statements to eliminate the income statement impact cies adopted by the Group. Equity accounting is discontinued when the interest risk on interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in the fair value of and liabilities are allocated to segments on a consistent basis. All interof certain significant transactions which are unusual or infrequent in carrying amount of the investment in an associated company or interest derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges and that segment sales are based on market prices, and they are eliminated on nature. The Group believes that non-GAAP measures enhance the in a joint venture reaches zero, unless the Group has incurred or guaranare highly effective both prospectively and retrospectively are recorded in consolidation. understanding of the historical performance. Any measures derived with teed obligations in respect of the associated company or joint venture. the income statement under financial items, along with any changes in eliminating special items are not measures of financial reporting under the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the Revenue recognition the IFRS, and they may not be comparable to other similarly titled Non-controlling interests hedged risk. The carrying amounts of hedged items and the fair values Group's sales mainly comprises of sale of energy, pulp, sawn timber, measures of other companies. The profit or loss attributable to owners of the parent company and nonof hedging instruments are included in interest-bearing assets or liabiliIn the UPM Biorefining, UPM Paper Asia and UPM Paper ENA papers, self-adhesive label materials and plywood. controlling interests is presented on the face of the income statement. ties. Derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges segments the transaction (income or expense) is considered to be special Sales are recognised when it is probable that future economic beneNon-controlling interests are presented in the consolidated balance sheet mature at the same time as hedged items. If the hedge no longer meets item, if the impact is one cent (EUR 0.01) after tax per share or more, fits will flow to the entity, the associated costs and the amount of revenue within equity, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount and if it arises from asset impairments, asset sales or restructuring meacan be measured reliably and the following criteria are met: evidence of company. of a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is amorsures, or relate to changes in legislation or legal proceedings. In other an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been renTransactions with non-controlling interests are treated as transactised to profit or loss over the period to maturity. segments the impact is considered to be significant if it exceeds EUR 1 dered, price to the buyer is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is tions with equity owners of the Group. For purchases from non-controlThe effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that million pre-tax. reasonably assured. Delivery is not considered to have occurred until the ling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the releare designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other customer takes title and assumes the risks and rewards of ownership and vant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary comprehensive income. Amounts deferred in equity are transferred to the Group has neither continuing managerial involvement with the Intangible assets is recorded in equity. Gains or losses of disposals to non-controlling the income statement and classified as income or expense in the same Intangible assets with finite lives are carried at historical cost less amortigoods nor a continuing right to dispose of the goods nor effective coninterests are also recorded in equity. period as that in which the hedged item affects the income statement (for sation. Amortisation is based on the following estimated useful lives: trol of those goods. The timing of revenue recognition is largely depenexample, when the forecast external sale to the Group that is hedged dent on delivery terms. Group terms of delivery are based on Incoterms Foreign currency transactions takes place). The period when the hedging reserve is released to sales 2010, the official rules for interpretation of trade terms issued by the Computer software 3–5 years Items included in the financial statements of each Group subsidiary are after each derivative has matured is approximately one month. However, Other intangible assets 5–10 years International Chamber of Commerce. Revenue is recorded when the measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of product is delivered to the destination point for terms designated Delivwhich the subsidiary operates (“the functional currency”). The consolia non-financial asset (for example, fixed assets) the gains and losses preGoodwill and other intangible assets that are deemed to have an ered Duty Paid (“DDP”) or Delivered at Place ( DAP ). For sales transdated financial statements are presented in euros, which is the functional viously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the indefinite life are not amortised, but are tested annually for impairment. actions designated Free on Carrier (“FCA”), Carriage paid to (“CPT”) and presentation currency of the parent company. initial measurement of the cost of the asset. The deferred amounts are or Carriage and Insurance Paid to ( CIP ), revenue is recorded at the Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional curultimately recognised in depreciation of fixed assets. Goodwill time of shipment. rency using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of transaction. ForWhen a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no Revenues from services are recorded when the service has been perGoodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred, the eign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or formed. amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisitransactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised Sales are recognised net of indirect sales taxes, discounts, rebates tion date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are when the committed or forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in and exchange differences on sales under hedge accounting. The costs of the fair value of the identifiable net assets of the acquired subsidiary, recognised in the income statement, except when recognised in other the income statement. However, if a forecast transaction is no longer distributing products sold are included in costs and expenses. associated company or joint arrangement at the date of acquisition. comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive a payment Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. investment hedges. is immediately transferred to the income statement. is established. Goodwill on acquisitions of associated companies and joint ventures is Foreign exchange differences relating to ordinary business operaHedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate included in investments in associated companies and joint ventures and tions of the Group are included in the appropriate line items above opersimilarly to cash flow hedges. The fair value changes of forward method. is tested for impairment as part of the overall balance. Goodwill is iniating profit and those relating to financial items are included in a sepaexchange contracts that reflect the change in spot exchange rates are rectially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost ognised in other comprehensive income. Any gain or loss relating to the rate line item in the income statement and as a net amount in total interest portion of forward exchange contracts is recognised immediately Income taxes less any accumulated impairment losses. finance costs. The Group’s income taxes include current income taxes of Group comCash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are Income and expenses for each income statement of subsidiaries that in the income statement under financial items. Gains and losses accumupanies based on taxable profit for the financial period, together with tax tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indihave a functional currency different from the Group’s presentation curlated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign adjustments for previous periods and the change of deferred income cation that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the rency are translated into euros at quarterly average exchange rates. operation is partially disposed of or sold. taxes. cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries for each balance sheet presented are At the inception of the transaction, the Group documents the relaDeferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, difference is an impairment loss, which is allocated first to reduce the translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet. All resulttionship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to other ing translation differences are recognised as a separate component in risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial stateassets of the unit. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not other comprehensive income. On consolidation, exchange differences transactions. This process includes linking all derivatives designated as ments. However, deferred income taxes are not recognised if they arise reversed in a subsequent period. arising from the translation of net investment in foreign operations and hedges to specific assets and liabilities or to specific firm commitments or from initial recognition of goodwill; deferred income tax is not other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are forecast transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability Research and development recognised in other comprehensive income. When a foreign entity is parthe hedge inception and on an on-going basis, as to whether the derivain a transaction other than a business combination that, at the time of Research and development costs are expensed as incurred, except for tially disposed of, sold or liquidated, translation differences accrued in tives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetthe transaction, does not affect either accounting or taxable profit or certain development costs, which are capitalised when it is probable that equity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss ting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that a development project will generate future economic benefits, and the on sale. Certain derivative transactions, while providing effective hedges have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and cost can be measured reliably. Capitalised development costs are amorunder the Group Treasury Policy, do not qualify for hedge accounting. are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is tised on a systematic basis over their expected useful lives, usually not Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Such derivatives are classified held for trading, and changes in the fair realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled. exceeding five years. value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge Derivatives are initially recognised on the balance sheet at fair value and Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement as other thereafter remeasured at their fair value. The method of recognising the investments in subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures, Computer software operating income or under financial items. resulting gain or loss is dependent on whether the derivative is designatexcept where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes and ed as a hedging instrument, and on the nature of the item being hedged. costs related to the preliminary project phase of internally developed CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 83 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 84 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 software are recognised as an expense as incurred. Development costs profit. Assets accounted under IFRS 5 that are to be disposed of are for impairment. Provision for impairment is charged to the income statelease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the relating to the application development phase of internally developed reported at the lower of the carrying amount and the fair value less sellment when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to remaining balance of the liability for each period. Property, plant and software are capitalised as intangible assets. Capitalised costs include ing costs. collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter external direct costs of material and services and an appropriate portion Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor of the asset’s useful life and the lease term. of the software development teams' relevant overheads. Computer softGovernment grants will enter bankruptcy, or default or delinquency in payments more than Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards ware development costs recognised as assets are amortised using the Grants from the government are recognised at their fair value where 90 days overdue are considered indicators that the trade receivable may of ownership are classified as operating leases. Payments made as a lesstraight-line method over their useful lives. there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and the be irrecoverable. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written see under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a Group will comply with the attached conditions. Government grants off are credited to the income statement. straight-line basis over the period of the lease. Other intangible assets relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment are deducted Available-for-sale investments are non-derivatives that are either Separately acquired patents, trademarks and licences with a finite useful from the acquisition cost of the asset and recognised as a reduction to designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categoInventories life are recognised at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairthe depreciation charge of the related asset. Other government grants are ries. They are included in non-current assets unless they are intended to Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost ment. Contractual customer relationships or other intangible assets recognised in the income statement in the period necessary to match be disposed of within 12 months of the balance sheet date. Purchases is determined by the method most appropriate to the particular nature acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at the them with the costs they are intended to compensate. and sales of financial investments are recognised on the settlement date, of inventory, the first-in, first-out (FIFO) or weighted average cost. The acquisition date. Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line methwhich is the date that the asset is delivered to or by the Group. Investcost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, od over their estimated useful lives. Other intangible assets that are Investment property ments are initially recognised at cost, including transaction costs, and direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads (based deemed to have an indefinite life are not amortised and are tested annuInvestment property includes real estate investments such as flats and subsequently carried at fair value. on normal operating capacity) but excludes borrowing costs. Net realisally for impairment. other premises occupied by third parties. Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of able value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of busiInvestment property is treated as a long-term investment and is investments classified as available-for-sale are recognised in other comness, less the costs of completion and selling expenses. Emission rights stated at historical cost. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line prehensive income. When investments classified as available-for-sale are The Group participates in government schemes aimed at reducing greenbasis and the carrying value is adjusted for impairment charges, if any. sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments in equity are Cash and cash equivalents house gas emissions. Emission rights received from governments free of Useful lives are the same as for property, plant and equipment. The balincluded in the income statement as gains and losses from available-forCash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits held at call charge are initially recognised as intangible assets based on market value ance sheet value of investment property reflects the cost less accumulated sale investments. with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original at the date of initial recognition. Emission rights are not amortised but depreciation and any impairment charges. The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts are included within are recognised at an amount not exceeding their market value at the objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is current interest-bearing liabilities in the balance sheet. balance sheet date. Government grants are recognised as deferred inBiological assets impaired. In the case of equity investments classified as available-forcome in the balance sheet at the same time as emission rights and are sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security Treasury shares Biological assets (i.e. living trees) are measured at their fair value less recognised in other operating income in the income statement, systematibelow its cost is considered when determining whether the investments estimated costs to sell. The fair value of biological assets other than Where any Group company purchases the parent company’s shares cally, over the compliance period to which the corresponding emission are impaired. If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale investyoung seedling stands is based on discounted cash flows from continuous (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly attributrights relate. The emissions realised are expensed under other operating ments, the cumulative loss – measured as the difference between the operations. The fair value of young seedling stands is the actual reforesable incremental costs (net of income taxes), is deducted from equity costs and expenses in the income statement and presented as a provision acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on tation cost of those stands. Continuous operations, the maintenance of attributable to the owners of the parent company until the shares are in the balance sheet. Emission rights and associated provisions are derecthat financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss – is removed currently existing seedling stands and the felling of forests during one cancelled or reissued. Where such shares are subsequently reissued, any ognised when disposed. Any profit or loss on disposal is recognised in from equity and recognised in the income statement. Impairment losses rotation, are based on the Group’s forest management guidelines. The consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental the income statement. recognised in the income statement on equity investments are not subsecalculation takes into account growth potential, environmental restrictransaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity quently reversed through the income statement. tions and other forests conditions. Felling revenues and maintenance attributable to the owners of the parent company. Property, plant and equipment costs are calculated on the basis of actual costs and prices, taking into Property, plant and equipment acquired by Group companies are stated account the Group’s projection of future price development. Impairment of non-financial assets Interest-bearing liabilities at historical cost. Assets of acquired subsidiaries are stated at fair value Periodic changes resulting from growth, felling, prices, discount rate, Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation Interest-bearing liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, net of at the date of acquisition. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line costs and other premise changes are included in operating profit on the and are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortransaction costs incurred. In subsequent periods, interest-bearing liabilbasis and the carrying value is adjusted for impairment charges, if any. income statement. tisation (or depreciation) are reviewed for impairment whenever events ities are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method; any The carrying value of property, plant and equipment on the balance or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not difference between proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redempsheet represents the cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairFinancial assets be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by tion value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the ment charges. which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The Financial assets have been classified into the following categories: finaninterest-bearing liabilities. The Group has not used the option of desigBorrowing costs incurred for the construction of any qualifying recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell cial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables and nating financial liabilities upon initial recognition as financial liabilities assets are capitalised during the period of time required to complete and and its value in use. The value in use is determined by reference to disavailable-for-sale investments. The classification depends on the purpose at fair value through profit or loss. prepare the asset for its intended use. Other borrowing costs are counted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. For the for which the financial assets were acquired. Management determines the Most non-current interest-bearing liabilities are designated as expensed. purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels Land is not depreciated. Depreciation of other assets is based on the classification of financial assets at initial recognition. hedged items in a fair value hedge relationship. Fair value variations for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating following estimated useful lives: Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash resulting from hedged interest rate risk are recorded to adjust the carryunits). flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the ing amount of the hedged item and reported in the income statement Non-financial assets, other than goodwill, that have suffered impairBuildings 25–40 years Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownerunder finance income and expenses. If hedge accounting is discontinued, ment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reportHeavy machinery 15–20 years ship. the carrying amount of the hedged item is no longer adjusted for fair ing date. Where an impairment loss is subsequently reversed, the carryLight machinery and equipment 5–15 years Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial value changes attributable to the hedged risk and the cumulative fair ing amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recovassets held for trading. Derivatives are categorised as held for trading, value adjustment recorded during the hedge relationship is amortised erable amount, but the increased carrying amount will not exceed the Expected useful lives of assets are reviewed at each balance sheet unless they are designated as hedges. These are measured at fair value based on a new effective interest recalculation through the income statecarrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment date and, where they differ significantly from previous estimates, depreciand any gains or losses from subsequent measurement are recognised in ment under finance income and expenses. loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. ation periods are changed prospectively. the income statement. The Group has not used the option of designating Interest-bearing liabilities are classified as non-current liabilities financial assets upon initial recognition as financial assets at fair value unless they are due for settlement within 12 months of the balance sheet Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recthrough profit or loss. Leases date. ognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group, as a lessee, the future economic benefit associated with the item will flow to the Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as Trade payables Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying finance leases. Finance leases are recognised as assets and liabilities in amount of the replaced part is derecognised. All other repairs and mainare included in non-current assets unless they mature within 12 months Trade payables are obligations due to acquisition of inventories, fixed of the balance sheet date. Loan receivables that have a fixed maturity are the balance sheet at the commencement of lease term at the lower of the tenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period assets, goods and services in the ordinary course of business from supplimeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Loan fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum in which they are incurred. Major renovations are depreciated over the ers. Such operating items are classified as current liabilities if they are receivables are impaired if the carrying amount is greater than the estilease payments. remaining useful life of the related asset or to the date of the next major due to be settled within the normal operating cycle of the business or mated recoverable amount. Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance renovation, whichever is sooner. within 12 months from the balance sheet date. Trade payables are recogTrade receivables are non-derivatives that are recognised initially at charges. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the disnised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using the fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less provision included in other long-term interest-bearing liabilities. The interest eleposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included in operating effective interest method. ment of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 85 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 86 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Employee benefits may obtain the necessary shares by using its treasury shares or may purAdoption of new and revised International Financial The amendment has not had an impact on the Group's financial statePension obligations chase shares from the market. Reporting Standards interpretations and amendments ments. Interpretation IFRIC 20 Stripping Cost in the Production Phase of The Group operates a mixture of pension schemes in accordance with to existing standards local conditions and practices in the countries in which it operates. These Provisions a Surface Mine is not relevant for the Group’s operations. New and revised standards, interpretations and amendments to The amendment to IFRS 7 Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets programmes include defined benefit pension schemes with retirement, Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and it is probable that an existing standards effective in 2013 and Financial Liabilities requires information about all recognised finandisability and termination benefits. Retirement benefits are usually a outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliIn 2013, the Group has adopted and early adopted the following new, cial instruments that are set off in accordance with paragraph 42 of IAS function of years of employment and final salary with the company. able estimate of the amount can be made. Where the Group expects a revised and amended standards and interpretations: 32 and all recognised financial instruments subject to enforceable master Generally, the schemes are either funded through payments to insurance provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the The amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits eliminates the corrinetting arrangements and similar agreements even if they are not set off companies or to trustee-administered funds as determined by periodic reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when such dor approach and calculates interest costs on a net funding basis. Upon under IAS 32. actuarial calculations. In addition, the Group also operates defined reimbursement is virtually certain. the adoption the Group has retrospectively recognised all actuarial gains The amendment to IFRS 10, 11 and 12 Transition Guidance procontribution pension arrangements. Most Finnish pension arrangements and losses arising from its defined benefit plans and replaced interest vides additional transition relief by limiting the requirement to provide are defined contribution plans. Restructuring and termination provisions cost and expected return of plan assets with a net interest amount that is adjusted comparative information to only the preceding comparative The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liabilperiod. For disclosures related to unconsolidated structured entities, the benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligaRestructuring provisions are recognised in the period in which the Group ity. amendment will remove the requirement to present comparative infortion at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. The becomes legally or constructively committed to payment and when the New IFRS 10 builds on existing principles by identifying the conmation for periods before IFRS 12 is first applied. The amendment has defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuarrestructuring plan has been announced publicly. Employee termination cept of control as the determining factor in whether an entity should be not had an impact on the Group’s financial statements. ies using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the charges are recognised when the Group has communicated the plan to included within the consolidated financial statements of the parent comThe amendments related to Improvements to IFRSs (2009–2011) defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated the employees affected. Costs related to the ongoing activities of the pany. The standard provides additional guidance to assist in the determirelate to five different standards and one interpretation. The amendfuture cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds Group are not provisioned in advance. nation of control where this is difficult to assess. New IFRS 11 provides ments have not had impacts on the Group's financial statements. that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid for a more realistic reflection of joint arrangements by focusing on the and that have terms to maturity approximating the term of the related Environmental provisions rights and obligations of the arrangement, rather than its legal form. The impact of the changes in accounting policies on the 2012 Group pension liability. The cost of providing pensions is charged to the income Expenditures that result from remediation of an existing condition Under IFRS 11, joint arrangements are classified as joint operations or consolidated financial statements are presented below: statement as personnel expenses so as to spread the cost over the service caused by past operations and that do not contribute to current or joint ventures, depending on the rights and obligations of the parties to lives of employees. Changes in actuarial assumptions and actuarial gains future revenues are expensed. The recognition of environmental provithe arrangements. In addition, proportional consolidation of joint venImpact on consolidated income statement and losses arising from experience adjustments are charged or credited in sions is based on current interpretations of environmental laws and tures is no longer allowed. IFRS 12 is a new and comprehensive stanother comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Past serregulations. Such provisions are recognised when it is likely that the Q1-Q4/ dard on disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entiEURm 2012 vice costs and gains or losses on settlement are recognised immediately liability has been incurred and the amount of such liability can be reaties, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles in income when they occur. sonably estimated. Amounts provisioned do not include third-party Sales 54 and other off balance sheet vehicles. Revised IAS 27 standard includes For defined contribution plans, contributions are paid to pension recoveries. Other operating income 2 the provisions on separate financial statements that are left after the coninsurance companies. Once the contributions have been paid, there are Costs and expenses –13 trol provisions of IAS 27 have been included in the new IFRS 10 and Share of results of associated companies and no further payment obligations. Contributions to defined contribution Emission rights revised IAS 28 standard includes the requirements for joint ventures, as joint ventures 16 plans are charged to the income statement in the period to which the Emission obligations are recognised in provisions when the obligation to well as associates, to be equity accounted following the issue of IFRS 11. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges –27 contributions relate. return emission rights has incurred, based on realised emissions. The The adoption of the new and revised standards resulted into a change of Operating profit (loss) 32 provision is recognised based on the carrying amount of emission rights the accounting treatment of Pohjolan Voima Oy (PVO) hydropower (A), Interest and other finance costs, net 103 Other post-employment obligations held. In case of deficit in emission rights, the shortage is valued at the nuclear power (B, B2) and thermal power (C, C2, H, M and V) shares, Profit (loss) before tax 135 Some Group companies provide post-employment medical and other market value at the balance sheet date. Kemijoki Oy and Länsi-Suomen Voima Oy (LSV) shares that are recogIncome taxes –3 benefits to their retirees. The entitlement to healthcare benefits is usually Profit (loss) for the period 132 nised as financial assets (available -sale investments) at fair value. PVO’s conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued Basic earnings per share, EUR 0.25 combined heat and power plant Wisapower Oy (G7 shares) is consoliDiluted earnings per share, EUR 0.25 and the completion of a minimum service period. The expected costs of operations dated as subsidiary under IFRS 10. UPM’s interest in other PVO’s comthese benefits are accrued over the period of employment, using an Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as assets held for bined heat and power plants (G, G2, G3, G4 and G9 shares), 50% interaccounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension Impact on consolidated statement of comprehensive income sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs est in Madison Paper Industries (MPI), a paper mill in the United States plans. Valuations of these obligations are carried out by independent to sell, if their carrying amount is recovered principally through a sale and some other investments are consolidated as joint operations under Q1-Q4/ qualified actuaries. transaction rather than through continuing use and a sale is considered IFRS 11. Previously, all PVO shares have been accounted for as an assoEURm 2012 highly probable. Non-current assets classified as held for sale, or includciated company and MPI as joint venture, using equity method and LSV Profit (loss) for the period 132 Share-based compensation ed within a disposal group that is classified as held for sale, are not has been accounted for as a subsidiary. Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit Under the Group’s long term incentive plans the Group has granted depreciated. The amendment IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements – Other obligations –98 share options to executive management and key personnel. From 2011 A discontinued operation is a component of an entity that either has Comprehensive Income requires entities to group items presented in Available-for-sale investments –635 Other comprehensive income for the period, the Group’s long term incentive plans are long-term share incentive been disposed of, or that is classified as held for sale and represents a ‘other comprehensive income’ (OCI) based on whether they are potennet of tax –733 plans, a Performance Share Plan for senior executives and a Deferred separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, or is tially reclassifiable to profit or loss subsequently. The amended standard Total comprehensive income for the period –601 Bonus Plan for other key employees. These compensation plans are a part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line has changed the presentation of items of OCI in Group’s financial staterecognised as equity-settled or cash-settled share-based payment transacof business or geographical area of operations, or is a subsidiary ments. tions depending on the settlement. The fair value of the granted options acquired exclusively with a view to resale. The post-tax profit or loss New IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement standard aims to improve and shares are recognised as indirect employee costs over the vesting from discontinued operations is shown separately in the consolidated consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of period. income statement. fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure The fair values of the options granted are determined using the requirements for use across IFRSs. The requirements do not extend the Black-Scholes valuation model on the grant date. Non-market vesting Dividends use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options Dividend distribution to the owners of the parent company is recognised applied where its use is already required or permitted by other standards expected to vest. Estimates of the number of exercisable options are as a liability in the Group’s consolidated financial statements in the within IFRSs. revised quarterly and the impact of the revision of original estimates, if period in which the dividends are approved by the parent company’s The amendment to IAS 12: Currently IAS 12 requires an entity to any, is recognised in the income statement and equity. shareholders. estimate, which part of the carrying value of an item measured at fair The proceeds received, net of any directly attributable transaction value is recovered through use and which part through sale. The amendcosts, are credited to equity when the options are exercised. Earnings per share ment introduces a presumption that certain assets measured at fair value Under the Performance Share Plan the UPM shares are awarded are recovered entirely by sale. Presumption applies to deferred tax arising The basic earnings per share are computed using the weighted average based on the Group’s financial performance and under the Deferred from investment properties, property, plant and equipment or intangible number of shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per Bonus Plan share incentives are based on the participants´ short-term assets that are measured using the fair value model or revaluation model. share are computed using the weighted average number of shares outincentive targets. Shares are valued using the market rate on the grant standing during the period plus the dilutive effect of share options. date. The settlement is a combination of shares and cash. The Group CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 87 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 88 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Impact on consolidated balance sheet New and revised standards, interpretations and amendments to are not expected to have material impacts on the Group’s financial stateIncome taxes existing standards that are not yet effective and have not yet ments. The amendments are not yet endorsed by the EU. Management judgement is required for the calculation of provision for EURm 31.12.2012 1.1.2012 been early adopted by the Group Annual improvements to IFRSs 2011–2013 cycle, a collection of income taxes and deferred tax assets and liabilities. The Group reviews at ASSETS amendments to IFRSs, in response to issues addressed during the 2011– IFRS 9 Financial Instruments includes requirements for recognition and each balance sheet date the carrying amount of deferred tax assets. The Non-current assets 2013 cycle are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July Other intangible assets 9 9 measurement, derecognition and hedge accounting. The IASB is adding Group considers whether it is probable that the subsidiaries will have 2014. Four standards are affected by the amendments. The amendments sufficient taxable profits against which the unused tax losses or unused Property, plant and equipment 243 263 to the standard as it completes the various phases of its comprehensive Investments in associated companies are not expected to have material impacts on the Group’s financial statetax credits can be utilised. The factors used in estimates may differ from project on financial instruments, and so it will eventually form a comand joint ventures –569 –689 ments. The amendments are not yet endorsed by the EU. actual outcome which could lead to significant adjustment to deferred plete replacement for IAS 39. IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the mixed Available-for-sale investments 2,440 3,085 measurement model and establishes two primary measurement categotax assets recognised in the income statement. Income taxes are disclosed Other non-current financial assets 10 8 ries for financial assets: amortised cost and fair value. The basis of in Note 13 and deferred income taxes in Note 28. Deferred tax assets 53 21 classification depends on the entity’s business model and the contractual 2 Critical judgements in applying accounting Other non-current assets –163 –157 2,023 2,540 cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. The accounting and policies and key sources of estimation Legal contingencies presentation for financial liabilities shall remain the same except for Management judgement is required in measurement and recognition of Current assets Inventories 11 10 those financial liabilities for which fair value option is applied. IFRS 9 uncer ­tainty provisions related to pending litigation. Provisions are recorded when the Trade and other receivables –2 13 introduces a new hedge accounting model that will allow entities to Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past Cash and cash equivalents 18 17 better reflect their risk management activities in the financial statements. Impairment of non-current assets event, an unfavourable outcome is probable and the amount of loss can 27 40 An effective date for IFRS 9 will be added to the standard when all phasbe reasonably estimated. Due to inherent uncertain nature of litigation, Goodwill, intangible assets not yet available for use and intangible assets Total assets 2,050 2,580 es of the project are complete and a final version of IFRS 9 is issued. with indefinite useful lives are tested at least annually for impairment. the actual losses may differ significantly from the originally estimated The IFRS 9 standard is expected to have some impacts on accounting Other long-lived assets are reviewed when there is an indication that provision. Details of legal contingencies are presented in Note 39. EQUITY AND LIABILITIES for Group's financial assets. The standard is not yet endorsed by the EU. impairment may have occurred. Estimates are made of the future cash Equity attributable to owners of The amendment to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Finanflows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposAvailable-for-sale investments the parent company cial Liabilities is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 Janal. If the balance sheet carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverGroup's available-for-sale investments include investments in unlisted Translation differences –3 –3 uary 2014. The amendment provides clarifications on the application of equity shares that are measured at fair value in the balance sheet. The able amount, an impairment loss is recognised. Actual cash flows could Fair value and other reserves 2,093 2,728 the offsetting rules. The Group is assessing the impact of the amendment fair valuation requires management's assumptions and estimates of –540 –573 vary from estimated discounted future cash flows. The long useful lives Retained earnings on the Group’s financial statements. of assets, changes in estimated future sales prices of products, changes in number of factors (e.g. discount rates, electricity price, start-up schedule 1,550 2,152 The amendment to IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements is Non-controlling interests –10 –10 product costs and changes in the discount rates used could lead to signifof Olkiluoto 3 nuclear power plant), that may differ from the actual effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. Many icant impairment charges. Details of the impairment tests are provided outcome which could lead to significant adjustment to the carrying Total equity 1,540 2,142 Non-current liabilities funds and similar entities will be exempted from consolidating controlled in Note 16. amount of the available-for-sale investment and equity. Fair value estiDeferred tax liabilities 15 27 investees under amendments to IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated financial statemation of financial assets is disclosed in Note 3 and available-for-sale ments’. Amendments have been made to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27. Retirement benefit obligations 269 151 Biological assets investments in Note 22. Provisions 2 1 The amendment is not relevant for the Group. The Group owns about 1.1 million hectares of forest land and plantaInterest-bearing liabilities 203 222 Interpretation IFRIC 21 Levies is effective for annual periods begintions. Biological assets (i.e. living trees) are measured at their fair value Other liabilities –2 – ning on or after 1 January 2014. IFRIC 21 clarifies the criteria when to 487 401 recognise a liability for a levy imposed by a government, both for levies at each balance sheet date. The fair value of biological assets other than 3 Financial risk management Current liabilities young seedling stands is based on discounted cash flows from continuous that are accounted for in accordance with IAS 37 and those where the Current interest-bearing liabilities 21 23 operations. The fair value of biological assets is determined based timing and amount of the levy is certain. The interpretation is not The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market Trade and other payables 2 15 among other estimates on growth potential, harvesting, price developexpected to have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements. risk (including foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk), credit risk Income tax payables – –1 ment and discount rate. Changes in any estimates could lead to recogni23 37 The interpretation is not yet endorsed by the EU. and liquidity risk. tion of significant fair value changes in income statement. Biological Total liabilities 510 438 Amendment to IAS 36 Impairment of assets: recoverable amount The objective of financial risk management is to protect the Group assets are disclosed in Note 20. Total equity and liabilities 2,050 2,580 disclosures for non-financial assets, is effective for annual periods beginfrom unfavourable changes in financial markets and thus help to secure ning on or after 1 January 2014. IFRS 13 amended IAS 36 to require profitability. The objectives and limits for financing activities are defined disclosures about the recoverable amount of impaired assets. The new Employee benefits in the Group Treasury Policy approved by the company’s Board of Impact on consolidated cash flow statement The Group operates a mixture of pension and other post-employment amendment clarifies that the scope of those disclosures is limited to the Directors. EURm Q1-Q4/2012 recoverable amount of impaired assets that is based on fair value less benefit schemes. Several statistical and other actuarial assumptions are In financial risk management various financial instruments are used Cash flow from operating activities costs of disposal. The amendment is not expected to have an impact on used in calculating the expense and liability related to the plans. These within the limits specified in the Group Treasury Policy. Only such Profit (loss) for the period 132 the Group’s financial statements. factors include, among others, assumptions about the discount rate, instruments whose market value and risk profile can be continuously and Adjustments –93 Amendment to IAS 39 is effective for annual periods beginning on expected return on plan assets and changes in future compensation. reliably monitored are used for this purpose. Interest paid –3 or after 1 January 2014. A narrow-scope amendment that allows hedge Statistical information used may differ materially from actual results due Financial services are provided and financial risk management carChange in working capital –10 accounting to continue in a situation where a derivative, which has been to, among others, changing market and economic conditions, or changes ried out by a central treasury department, Treasury and Risk ManageNet cash generated from operating activities 26 designated as a hedging instrument, is novated to effect clearing with a in service period of plan participants. Significant differences in actual ment (TRM). The centralisation of Treasury functions enables efficient central counterparty as a result of laws or regulation, if specific condiexperience or significant changes in assumptions may affect the future financial risk management, cost-efficiency and efficient cash manageCash flow from investing activities amounts of the defined benefit obligation and future expense. Retiretions are met. The amendment is not expected to have impact on the ment. Capital expenditure –5 ment benefit obligations are disclosed in Note 29. Change in other non-current assets –2 Group’s financial statements. Net cash used in investing activities –7 Amendments to IAS 19 Defined benefit plans: employee contribuForeign exchange risk tions are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014. Environmental provisions The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various Cash flow from financing activities The amendments clarify the requirements that relate to how contribuOperations of the Group are based on heavy process industry which currency exposures, primarily with respect to the USD the GBP and the Proceeds from non-current liabilities 14 tions from employees or third parties that are linked to service should be requires large production facilities. In addition to basic raw materials, JPY. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, Payments of non-current liabilities –27 attributed to periods of service. In addition, it permits a practical expeconsiderable amount of chemicals, water and energy is used in processes. from recognised assets and liabilities and from translation exposure. Change in current liabilities –5 dient if the amount of the contributions is independent of the number The Group’s operations are subject to several environmental laws and The objective of foreign exchange risk management is to limit the Net cash used in financing activities –18 of years of service. The amendments are not expected to have material regulations. The Group aims to operate in compliance with regulations uncertainty created by changes in foreign exchange rates on the future impacts on the Group’s financial statements. The amendments are not related to the treatment of waste water, air emissions and landfill sites. value of cash flows and earnings as well as in the Group’s balance sheet Change in cash and cash equivalents 1 yet endorsed by the EU. The Group has provisions for normal environmental remediation costs. by hedging foreign exchange risk in forecast cash flows and balance sheet Annual improvements to IFRSs 2010–2012 cycle, a collection of Unexpected events occurred during production processes and waste exposures. Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 17 amendments to IFRSs, in response to issues addressed during the 2010– treatment could cause material losses and additional costs in the Group’s Change in cash and cash equivalents 1 operations. Provisions are disclosed in Note 30. 2012 cycle are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 18 2014. Seven standards are affected by the amendments. The amendments CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 89 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 90 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Transaction exposure The following assumptions were made when calculating the sensitiv• Fixed rate interest-bearing liabilities that are measured at amortions of customers’ financial condition are performed. Most of the The Group hedges transaction exposure related to highly probable ity to changes in the foreign exchange risk: tised cost and which are not designated to fair value hedge relationreceivables are covered by credit risk insurances. In certain market areas, future commercial foreign currency cash flows on a rolling basis over the • The variation in exchange rates is 10%. ship are not subject to interest rate risk sensitivity. measures to reduce credit risks include letters of credit, prepayments and next 12-month period based on the units’ forecasts. According to the • Major part of non-derivative financial instruments (such as cash • Variable rate interest-bearing liabilities that are measured at bank guarantees. The ageing analysis of trade receivables is disclosed in Group’s Treasury Policy 50% hedging is considered risk neutral. Some and cash equivalents, trade receivables, interest bearing-liabilities Note 26. The Group considers that no significant concentration of cusamortised cost and which are not designated as hedged items are highly probable cash flows have been hedged for longer than 12 months and trade payables) are either directly denominated in the functomer credit risk exists. The ten largest customers accounted for approxiincluded in interest rate sensitivity analysis. mately 17% (18%) of the Group’s trade receivables as at 31 December ahead while deviating from the risk neutral hedging level at the same tional currency or are transferred to the functional currency • Changes in the market interest rate of interest rate derivatives 2013 – i.e., approximately EUR 240 million (260 million). The credit risk time. Forward contracts are used in transaction exposure management. through the use of derivatives i.e. the balance sheet position is (interest rate futures, swaps and cross currency swaps) that are relating to the commitments is disclosed in Note 39. Most of the derivatives entered into to hedge foreign currency cash flows close to zero. Exchange rate fluctuations have therefore minor or no effects on profit or loss. not designated as hedging instruments in hedge accounting affect meet the hedge accounting requirements. At 31 December 2013, 46% (51%) of the forecast 12-month currency flow was hedged. • The position includes foreign currency forward contracts that are the financial income or expenses (net gains or losses from remeaElectricity price risk The table below shows the nominal values of all cash flow hedging part of the effective cash flow hedge having an effect on equity. surement of the financial assets and liabilities to fair value) and UPM is hedging both power production and consumption in the marinstruments at 31 December 2013 and 2012. • The position includes also foreign currency forward contracts are therefore included in the income-related sensitivity analysis. kets. UPM’s sensitivity to electricity market price is dependent on the that are not part of the effective cash flow hedge having an effect electricity production and consumption levels and the hedging levels. In the Nordic and Central European market areas the operative risk Nominal values of hedging instruments on profit. Liquidity and refinancing risk • The position excludes foreign currency denominated future cash management is done by entering into electricity derivatives contracts. In 2013 2012 The Group seeks to maintain adequate liquidity under all circumstances addition to hedging UPM is also trading electricity forwards and futures. Currency EURm EURm flows. by means of efficient cash management and restricting investments to As well as hedging, proprietary trading risks are monitored on a daily those that can be readily converted into cash. The Group utilises comUSD 462 457 basis. Value-At-Risk levels are set to limit the maximum risk at any given GBP 196 255 Interest rate risk mercial paper programmes for short term financing purposes. Committime. Cumulative maximum loss is limited by stop-loss limits. The interest-bearing debt exposes the Group to interest rate risk, namely ted credit facilities are used to secure financing under all circumstances JPY 142 279 repricing and fair value interest rate risk caused by interest rate moveand as a backup for commercial paper programmes. AUD 41 40 Electricity derivatives price sensitivity Refinancing risks are minimised by ensuring balanced loan port­folio Others 10 17 ments. The objective of interest rate risk management is to reduce the Sensitivity analysis for financial electricity derivatives is based on posiTotal 851 1,048 maturing schedule and sufficient long maturities. The average loan matufluctuation of the interest expenses caused by the interest rate movetion on 31 December 2013. Sensitivities change over time as the overall rity at 31 December 2013 was 5.1 years (5.9 years). ments. hedging and trading positions change. Underlying physical positions are UPM has some financial agreements which have Gearing as finanExternal forwards are designated at group level as hedges of foreign The management of interest rate risk is based on the 6-month avernot included in the sensitivity analysis. Sensitivity analysis is calculated cial covenant. According to this covenant gearing should not exceed exchange risk of specific future foreign currency sales on gross basis. age duration of the net debt portfolio as defined in the Group Treasury separately for the hedge accounted and non-hedge accounted volumes. 110% (31.12.2013 gearing was 41%). The Group has several currency denominated assets and liabilities in Policy. This relatively short duration is based on the assumption that on In the analysis it is assumed that forward quotation in NASDAQ OMX its balance sheet such as foreign currency loans and deposits, accounts average yield curves will be positive. Thus this approach reduces interest Liquidity Commodities and EEX would change EUR 1/MWh throughout the payable and receivable and cash in other currencies than functional curcost in the long term. The duration may deviate between 3 and 12 period UPM has derivatives. rency. The aim is to hedge this balance sheet exposure fully using finanmonths. At 31 December 2013 the average duration was 6 months (7 EURm 2013 2012 cial instruments. The Group might, however, within the limits set in the months). The Group uses interest rate derivatives to change the duration Cash at bank 462 386 EURm Effect 2013 2012 Group Treasury Policy have unhedged balance sheet exposures. At 31 of the net debt. Cash equivalents 325 100 +/EUR 1/MWh in electricity forward quotations December 2013 unhedged balance sheet exposures in interest-bearing The Group’s net debt per currency corresponds to the parent Committed facilities 1,025 1,400 Effect on profit before taxes +/9.6 5.1 assets and liabilities amounted to EUR 7 million (16 million). In addi­company’s and subsidiaries’ loan portfolios in their functional currenof which used – – Used uncommitted credit lines –49 –115 Effect on equity +/5.8 0.8 tion the Group has non-interest-bearing accounts receivable and payable cies. The nominal values of the Group’s interest-bearing net debts Long-term loan repayment cash flow –506 –271 balances denominated in foreign currencies. The nominal values of the including derivatives by currency at 31 December 2013 and 2012 were as Liquidity 1,257 1,500 hedging instruments used in accounts payable and receivable hedging ­follows: Capital risk management were EUR 675 million (723 million). The Group’s objective in managing its capital is to ensure maintenance The most important financial programmes in use are: of flexible capital structure to enable the Group to operate in capital 2013 2012 Uncommitted: Translation exposure markets. Currency EURbn EURbn • Domestic commercial paper programme, EUR 1,000 million To measure a satisfactory capital balance between equity investors The Group has net investments in foreign subsidiaries that are subject to EUR 4.0 4.2 Committed: and financial institutions the Group has set a target for the ratio of net foreign currency translation differences. The exchange risks associated USD 0.1 0.2 • Revolving Credit Facility, EUR 500 million (matures 2016) interest-bearing liabilities and total equity (gearing). To ensure sufficient with net investments in foreign subsidiaries are hedged in Canada, China GBP –0.2 –0.1 and Uruguay. The net investments of all other foreign operations are not flexibility, the aim is to keep the gearing ratio well below 90%. CAD –0.7 –0.8 The contractual maturity analysis for financial liabilities is presented in The following capitalisation table sets out the Group’s total equity hedged. Others –0.2 –0.3 Total 3.0 3.2 Note 31. and interest-bearing liabilities and gearing ratios: Foreign exchange risk sensitivity At 31 December 2013, if Euro had weakened/strengthened by 10% Most of the long-term loans and the interest rate derivatives related to Credit risk As at 31 December against the USD with all other variables held constant, pre-tax profit for them meet hedge accounting requirements. Financial counterparty risk EURm 2013 2012 the year would have been EUR 8 million lower/higher (11 million higher/ The financial instruments the Group has agreed with banks and financial Equity attributable to owners of lower) due to balance sheet foreign exchange exposure. The effect in Interest rate risk sensitivity institutions contain an element of risk of the counterparties being unthe parent company 7,449 7,455 equity would have been EUR 42 million (61 million) lower/higher, arisAt 31 December 2013, if the interest rate of net debt had been 100 basis able to meet their obligations. According to the Group Treasury Policy Non-controlling interests 6 6 ing mainly from foreign currency forwards used to hedge forecasted points higher/lower with all other variables held constant, pre-tax profit derivative instruments and investments of cash funds may be made only Total equity 7,455 7,461 foreign currency flows. for the year would have been EUR 4 million (2 million) lower/ higher, with counterparties meeting certain creditworthiness criteria. The Group Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 3,485 3,724 As of 31 December 2013, if Euro had weakened/strengthened by mainly as a result of higher/lower interest expense on floating rate interminimises counterparty risk also by using a number of major banks and Current interest-bearing liabilities 643 417 10% against the GBP with all other variables held constant, pre-tax financial institutions. Creditworthiness of counter­parties is constantly Interest-bearing liabilities, total 4,128 4,141 est-bearing liabilities. There would be no effect on equity. profit for the year would have been EUR 0 million (0 million) higher/ monitored by TRM. Total capitalisation 11,583 11,602 The following assumptions were made when calculating the sensitivlower due to balance sheet foreign exchange exposure. The effect in Interest-bearing liabilities, total 4,128 4,141 ity to changes in interest rates: equity would have been EUR 20 million (25 million) lower/higher, arisOperational credit risk Less: Interest-bearing financial assets, total –1,088 –931 • The variation of interest rate is assumed to be 100 basis points Net interest-bearing liabilities 3,040 3,210 ing mainly from foreign currency forwards used to hedge forecasted forWith regard to operating activities, the Group has a credit policy in place eign currency flows. parallel shift in applicable interest rate curves. Gearing ratio, % 41 43 and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Open As of 31 December 2013, if Euro had weakened/strengthened by • In the case of fair value hedges designated for hedging interest trade receivables, days of sales outstanding (DSO) and overdue trade rate risk, the changes in the fair values of the hedged items and 10% against the JPY with all other variables held constant, pre-tax profit the hedging instruments attributable to the interest rate movereceivables are followed on monthly basis. Fair value estimation for the year would have been EUR 1 million higher/lower (14 million Potential concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade and The different levels of fair value hierarchy used in fair value estimation lower/higher). The effect in equity would have been EUR 14 million (13 ments balance out almost completely in the income statement in other receivables are limited due to the large number and geographic the same period. However, the possible ineffectiveness has an have been defined as follows: million) lower/higher, arising mainly from foreign currency forwards dispersion of companies that comprise the Group’s customer base. Cuseffect on the profit of the year. Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical used to hedge forecasted foreign currency flows. tomer credit limits are established and monitored, and ongoing evaluaassets or liabilities. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 91 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 92 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that The following table presents the changes in Level 3 instruments UPM Energy Other operations are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) for the year ended 31 December 2013 UPM Energy segment operates in power generation and physical and Other operations include forests and wood sourcing, UPM Bioor indirectly (that is, derived from prices). derivatives trading. The segment consist of UPM’s hydro power assets in composites, UPM Biochemicals business units and Group services. AvailableLevel 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observfor-sale Finland and shareholdings in energy companies, with total electricity able market data (that is, unobservable inputs). EURm investments generation capacity of 1.6 GW. The information reported for each segment is the measure of what the The fair values of commodity derivatives traded in active markets Opening balance 2,587 Group’s President and CEO uses internally for evaluating segment perare based on quoted market rates and included in Level 1 UPM Raflatac Additions 31 formance and deciding on how to allocate resources to operating segFair values of Level 2 financial instruments (e.g. over-the counter UPM Raflatac segment manufactures self-adhesive label materials for Transfers into Level 3 1 ments. derivatives) have been estimated as follows: Interest forward rate agreeproduct and information labelling. Transfers from Level 3 – The performance of an operating segment is evaluated primarily ments and futures contracts are fair valued based on quoted market Gains and losses based on the segment’s operating profit. The joint operation Madison rates on the balance sheet date; forward foreign exchange contracts are UPM Paper Asia Recognised in income statement, Paper Industries (MPI) is reported as subsidiary in UPM Paper ENA fair valued based on the contract forward rates in effect on the balance under gains on available-for-sale investments –1 UPM Paper Asia segment consists of UPM Changshu paper mill in segment reporting. In addition, the changes in fair value of unrealised sheet date; foreign currency options are fair valued based on quoted Recognised in statement of China and label paper operations in the Tervasaari and Jämsänkoski commodity hedges are not allocated to segments. Otherwise the segmarket rates on the balance sheet date; interest and currency swap agreecomprehensive income, under available-for-sale investments 43 mills in Finland. The production capacity of UPM Paper Asia is 1.4 ment’s operating profit is measured on a basis consistent with the consolments are fair valued based on discounted cash flows; and commodity Closing balance 2,661 million tonnes of fine and label papers. idated financial statements. Sales between the segments are based on derivatives are fair valued based on quoted market rates on the balance market prices. sheet date. The fair values of non-traded derivatives such as embedded UPM Paper ENA The amounts provided to the President and CEO in respect of segderivatives are assessed by using valuation methods and assumptions that are based on market quotations existing at each balance sheet date. The following table presents the changes in Level 3 instruments UPM Paper ENA segment produces magazine paper, newsprint and fine ment assets and liabilities are measured on a basis consistent with confor the year ended 31 December 2012 paper in 19 modern paper mills in Europe and North America. The solidated financial statements. Assets and liabilities are allocated to the Embedded derivatives that are identified are monitored by the Group Availableproduction capacity of UPM Paper ENA is 10.2 million tonnes. segments based on segment operations. Unallocated assets and liabilities and the fair value changes are reported in other operating income in the for-sale Other comprise other than energy shares under available-for-sale investments, income statement. The Group's fair valuation procedures and processes are set by the EURm investments receivables Total UPM Plywood non-current financial assets, deferred tax assets and liabilities, other nonUPM Plywood segment is capable of producing approximately one current assets, income tax receivables and payables, cash and cash equivGroup management. Fair valuations are performed quarterly by respecOpening balance 3,345 3 3,348 million cubic metres of plywood and veneer products in Finland, Russia alents, assets classified as held for sale and related liabilities, retirement tive business areas or functions. Fair valuations are reviewed by the Additions 33 – 33 and Estonia. benefit obligations, provisions, interest-bearing liabilities and other liabilGroup’s Finance & Control management and overseen by the Audit Transfers into Level 3 – – – ities and payables. Committee. Transfers from Level 3 – – – Available-for-sale investments categorised in Level 3 are disclosed in Gains and losses Note 22 and biological assets categorised in Level 3 in Note 20. Recognised in income statement, The following table analyses financial instruments carried at fair under gains on available-for-sale value, by valuation method. investments –109 –3 –112 Recognised in statement of Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value comprehensive income, under available-for-sale investments –682 – –682 Fair values as at 31 December 2013 Closing balance 2,587 – 2,587 Total EURm Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 balance Assets Trading derivatives 1 56 – 57 4 Segment Information Derivatives used for hedging 101 307 – 408 Available-for-sale investments – – 2,661 2,661 The Group’s management has determined the operating segments based At 31 Dec. 102 363 2,661 3,126 on management reporting regularly reviewed by the Group’s chief operLiabilities ating decision maker. The chief operating decision maker has been Trading derivatives 20 166 – 186 identified as the Group’s President and CEO. Derivatives used for hedging 104 43 – 147 The operating segments are organised on a product basis. At 31 Dec. 124 209 – 333 In August 2013, UPM announced that it implements a new business structure to drive clear improvement in profitability. The company also seeks to simplify and further develop its business portfolio. As of 1 Fair values as at 31 December 2012 Total November 2013, UPM’s business structure consists of the following EURm Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 balance business areas and reporting segments: UPM Biorefining, UPM Energy, UPM Raflatac, UPM Paper Asia, UPM Paper ENA (Europe and North Assets America) and UPM Plywood. Forests and wood sourcing, UPM BioTrading derivatives 1 92 – 93 composites, UPM Biochemicals business units and Group services are Derivatives used for hedging 78 417 – 495 reported in Other operations. Financial reporting according to the new Available-for-sale investments – – 2,587 2,587 At 31 Dec. 79 509 2,587 3,175 structure has taken place from Q4 2013 onwards. The financial figures for the comparison period have been restated according to the new Liabilities business and reportable segments structure. Trading derivatives 12 124 – 136 Derivatives used for hedging 66 38 – 104 Reportable segments At 31 Dec. 78 162 – 240 UPM Biorefining UPM Biorefining segment consists of pulp, timber and biofuels busiThere have been no transfers between levels. nesses. It has an annual capacity of 3.3 million tonnes of chemical pulp, produced by four modern pulp mills in Finland and Uruguay, plantation operations, four efficient sawmills in Finland and a biorefinery under construction in Lappeenranta, Finland. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 93 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 94 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Segment information for the year ended 31 December 2013 Segment information for the year ended 31 December 2012 UPM UPM Eliminations UPM UPM Eliminations UPM UPM UPM Paper Paper UPM Other and reconciUPM UPM UPM Paper Paper UPM Other and reconciEURm Biorefining Energy Raflatac Asia ENA Plywood operations liations 8) Group EURm Biorefining Energy Raflatac Asia ENA Plywood operations liations 8) Group External sales 1,299 222 1,210 914 5,451 402 496 60 10,054 External sales 1,110 253 1,202 967 6,171 371 536 –118 10,492 Internal sales 689 244 3 194 109 27 –6 –1,260 – Internal sales 860 229 – 164 21 22 4 –1,300 – Total sales 1) 1,988 466 1,213 1,108 5,560 429 490 –1,200 10,054 Total sales 1) 1,970 482 1,202 1,131 6,192 393 540 –1,418 10,492 Share of results of associates and joint ventures 1 –1 – – 1 – 1 – 2 Share of results of associates and joint ventures 2 – – – 1 – –1 – 2 Operating profit 306 186 60 80 –59 21 –42 –4 548 Operating profit 205 217 78 101 –1,905 2 13 –29 –1,318 Finance costs, net –73 Finance costs, net 47 Income taxes –140 Income taxes 149 Profit (loss) for the period 335 Profit (loss) for the period –1,122 Special items in operating profit 2) 6 – –15 – –59 – –67 – –135 Special items in operating profit 2) –43 – –3 – –1,824 – –4 – –1,874 Operating profit excluding special items 300 186 75 80 – 21 25 –4 683 Operating profit excluding special items 248 217 81 101 –81 2 17 –29 556 Assets 3) 2,946 2,984 616 937 3,013 299 1,677 –247 12,225 Assets 3) 2,944 2,917 654 969 3,307 315 1,727 –219 12,614 Unallocated assets 2,374 Unallocated assets 2,329 Total assets 14,599 Total assets 14,943 Liabilities 4) 156 22 108 67 451 25 214 –196 847 Liabilities 4) 172 27 129 83 510 22 200 –173 970 Unallocated liabilities 6,297 Unallocated liabilities 6,512 Total liabilities 7,144 Total liabilities 7,482 Other items Other items Depreciation and amortisation 152 11 33 81 229 22 13 –3 538 Depreciation and amortisation 160 11 34 84 472 22 13 –2 794 Impairment charge – – 3 – 4 – – – 7 Impairment charge 31 – – – 1,788 – 1 – 1,820 Capital expenditure 5) 159 39 13 22 97 10 23 –1 362 Capital expenditure 5) 95 6 36 28 152 15 25 – 357 Capital expenditure, Capital expenditure, excluding acquisitions and shares 158 7 13 22 92 9 29 –1 329 excluding acquisitions and shares 95 6 26 28 148 15 29 – 347 Capital employed, 31 December 6) 2,790 2,962 508 870 2,562 274 1,463 154 11,583 Capital employed, 31 December 6) 2,772 2,890 525 886 2,798 293 1,527 –88 11,603 Capital employed, average 2,825 2,882 532 882 2,672 286 1,533 –19 11,593 Capital employed, average 2,806 3,266 524 915 4,732 300 1,561 –299 13,805 Return on capital employed, Return on capital employed, excluding special items % 7) 10.6 6.5 14.1 9.1 – 7.3 1.6 21.1 6.0 excluding special items % 7) 8.8 6.6 15.5 11.0 –1.7 0.7 1.1 9.7 4.2 Personnel at year end 2,376 92 2,869 1,457 11,081 2,455 735 –115 20,950 Personnel at year end 2,674 101 2,873 1,504 11,861 2,531 747 –111 22,180 Personnel, average 2,539 95 2,905 1,510 11,695 2,507 760 –113 21,898 Personnel, average 2,862 100 2,770 1,543 12,549 2,583 854 –110 23,151 1) The Group's sales comprise mainly of product sales. 1) The Group's sales comprise mainly of product sales. 2) In 2013, special charges of EUR 2 million in the UPM Biorefining segment relate to restructuring measures and special income of EUR 8 million to a capital gain from a sale of 2) In 2012, special items of EUR 43 million in the UPM Biorefining segment relate to the restructuring of sawn timber and further processing operations including impairment property, plant and equipment. In the UPM Raflatac segment special items of EUR 15 million relate to restructuring charges, including impairments of EUR 2 million. In the UPM charge of EUR 31 million. In UPM Raflatac segment special items of EUR 3 million relate to restructuring charges. In the UPM Paper ENA segment special items include impairPaper ENA segment special items include charges of EUR 25 million related to the restructuring of the UPM Docelles mill in France and net charges of EUR 34 million mainly ment charges of EUR 1,771 million, including EUR 783 million related to goodwill and EUR 988 million related to fixed assets in European graphic paper operations, restrucrelated to the ongoing restructurings. In the Other operations special items of EUR 40 million relate to write-down of receivable due to the Finnish Customs’ decision to dismiss turing charges of EUR 60 million and impairment charges of EUR 8 million related to the Stracel mill closure, and other restructuring charges of EUR 20 million. In addition, UPM’s application for the statutory refund of energy taxes for the year 2012. In addition, special items include charges of EUR 27 million mainly related to the streamlining of special items include a net gain of EUR 35 million including a capital gain of EUR 51 million from the sale the packaging paper operations of the Pietarsaari and Tervasaari global functions. mills and a charge of EUR 16 million from goodwill allocated to the operations sold. In the Other operations special items include restructuring charges of EUR 22 million, reimbursement of fine of EUR 6 million, and a capital gain of EUR 12 million from the sale of RFID business. 3) Segment assets include goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment property, biological assets and investments in associated companies and joint ventures, available-for-sale investments, inventories and trade receivables. 3) Segment assets include goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment property, biological assets and investments in associated companies and joint ventures, available-for-sale investments, inventories and trade receivables. 4) Segment liabilities include trade payables and advances received. 4) Segment liabilities include trade payables and advances received. 5) Capital expenditure includes goodwill arising from business combinations, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment property, and investments in associated companies and joint ventures and other shares. 5) Capital expenditure includes goodwill arising from business combinations, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment property, and investments in associated companies and joint ventures and other shares. 6) Capital employed is segment assets less segment liabilities. Eliminations and reconciliations include unallocated assets and unallocated non-interest-bearing liabilities. 6) Capital employed is segment assets less segment liabilities. Eliminations and reconciliations include unallocated assets and unallocated non-interest-bearing liabilities. 7) Formulae for calculation of the return on capital employed; for segments: Operating profit excluding special items/Capital employed (average) x 100, for the Group: (Profit before tax + interest expenses and other financial expenses–special items)/(Total equity+interest bearing liabilities (average)) x 100. 7) Formulae for calculation of the return on capital employed; for segments: Operating profit excluding special items/Capital employed (average) x 100, for the Group: (Profit before tax + interest expenses and other financial expenses–special items)/(Total equity+interest bearing liabilities (average)) x 100. 8) Eliminations and reconciliations include the elimination of internal sales and internal inventory margin and the consolidation of MPI as a joint operation. In addition the changes in fair value of unrealised commodity hedges that are not allocated to segments are included in reconciliations. 8) Eliminations and reconciliations include the elimination of internal sales and internal inventory margin and the consolidation of MPI as a joint operation. In addition the changes in fair value of unrealised commodity hedges that are not allocated to segments are included in reconciliations. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 95 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 96 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Geographical information The following table summarises the consideration paid for business Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement Year ended 31 December and the amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed recogEURm 2013 2012 External sales by destination nised at the acquisition date: Adjustments Personnel expenses Year ended 31 December Salaries and fees 1,047 1,068 Year ended 31 December EURm 2013 2012 EURm At 31 August 2012 EURm 2013 2012 Share-based payments (Note 37) 8 8 Germany 1,788 1,885 Total consideration transferred, cash 10 Change in fair value of biological assets and Finland 1,011 952 wood harvested –68 –45 Indirect employee costs United Kingdom 915 1,035 Intangible assets (Note 17) 1 Share of results of associated companies and Pension costs-defined benefit plans (Note 29) 27 31 France 454 534 Property, plant and equipment (Note 18) 5 joint ventures –2 –2 Pension costs-defined contribution plans 119 120 Other EU countries 1,900 2,023 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 545 2,614 Inventory 5 Other post-employment benefits (Note 29) 2 1 Other European countries 563 558 Capital gains on sale of non-current assets, net –19 –87 Non-current liabilities –1 Other indirect employee costs 2) 123 140 United States 1,077 1,121 Finance costs, net 74 –9 Deferred taxes, net (Note 28) 0 271 292 Canada 50 48 Taxes 140 –149 China 715 677 Total identifiable net assets 10 Change in restructuring provisions –13 –77 Other operating costs and expenses Uruguay 43 48 Goodwill 0 Other adjustments (in 2013 includes reversal of Rents and lease expenses 59 62 Rest of world 1,538 1,611 energy tax receivable) 93 33 Emission expenses (Note 6) 9 7 Total 10,054 10,492 Disposals Total 750 2,278 Losses on sale of non-current assets 2 6 In 2013, there were no disposals. Other operating expenses 3) 951 1,040 In March 2012, UPM completed the sale of its RFID business to 1,021 1,115 Total assets by country SMARTRAC N.V. UPM became an indirect shareholder of SMARTChange in working capital As at 31 December RAC with a 10.6% economic interest through the company OEP TechYear ended 31 December Costs and expenses, total 9,091 9,353 EURm 2013 2012 nologie B.V., a holding company controlled by One Equity Partners and EURm 2013 2012 one of the major shareholders of SMARTRAC. The capital gain on 1) External services mainly comprise distribution costs of products sold. Germany 1,252 1,369 Inventories 33 51 United Kingdom 294 317 disposal of EUR 12 million was recognised on the sale. The assets and Current receivables 12 –54 2) Other indirect employee expenses primarily include other statutory social Finland 9,344 9,247 liabilities related to UPM’s RFID companies, UPM RFID Oy, UPM Current non-interest-bearing liabilities –173 37 ­expenses, excluding pension expenses. France 152 151 RFID Inc. and UPM Raflatac RFID Co. Ltd., were part of the Other Total –128 34 3) Other operating expenses include, among others, energy and maintenance Other EU countries 347 350 operations and were classified as assets held for sale and related liabili­expenses as well as expenses relating to services and the Group’s ­administration. Other European countries 96 111 ties as at 31 December 2011. The total amount of taxes paid in 2013 amounted to EUR 161 million United States 421 463 In August 2012, UPM sold the closed Papierfabrik Albbruck GmbH (87 million), of which taxes of EUR 157 million (73 million) in operatThe research and development costs included in costs and expenses were Canada 20 164 to the German Karl Group. UPM permanently ceased graphic paper ing activities and EUR 4 million (14 million) in investing activities. EUR 38 million (45 million). China 767 753 production at the mill in January 2012. Albbruck was part of the Paper Uruguay 1,626 1,725 segment. Government grants Rest of world 280 293 The following table summarises the aggregate amount of assets and Total 14,599 14,943 liabilities related to the businesses sold during 2012: 6 Other operating income In 2013, the Group recognised government grants of EUR 1 million (1 million) as reduction of non-current assets, relating to environmental Year ended 31 December investments in Germany and materials recovery facility in UK. GovernEURm 2012 EURm 2013 2012 ment grants recognised as deduction of costs and expenses, related Capital expenditure by country Gains on sale of non-current assets 19 59 mainly to compensations for research and development costs, totalled to Other intangible assets (Note 17) 3 Year ended 31 December Rental income, investment property 5 4 EUR 11 million (11 million) in 2013. In addition, the Group received Property, plant and equipment (Note 18) 19 EURm 2013 2012 Rental income, other 10 11 emission rights from governments, Note 17. Deferred tax assets (Note 28) 7 Germany 52 55 Emission rights received (Note 7) 16 22 Other non-current assets 1 Remuneration paid to members of the Board of DirecUnited Kingdom 9 11 Derivatives held for trading 32 5 Trade and other receivables 21 Exchange rate gains and losses –36 –10 tors and the Group Executive Team Finland 242 197 Cash and cash equivalents 7 Other 14 19 In accordance with the decision made by the 2013 Annual General France 5 7 Poland 1 7 Assets classified as held for sale 24 Total 60 110 Meeting, the fees of Board members who do not form part of operative Other European countries 6 17 Retirement benefit obligations (Note 29) –20 management were as follows: the Chairman of the Board of Directors North America 7 19 Provisions (Note 30) –32 received a fee of EUR 175,000 (175,000) for the year, the Deputy ChairChina 21 16 Trade and other payables –4 7 Costs and expenses man of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Audit CommitUruguay 17 26 –4 tee a fee of EUR 120,000 (120,000) each, and the other members of the Liabilities related to assets classified as held for sale Year ended 31 December Rest of world 2 2 Board of Directors a fee of EUR 95,000 (95,000). Of this fee in 2013 Net assets 22 EURm 2013 2012 Total 362 357 and 2012 60% was paid in cash and 40% in the form of the company Gain on disposals 11 Change in inventories of finished goods and shares purchased on the members’ behalf. In 2013, 8,925 (7,216) compaTotal consideration 33 work in progress 37 1 ny shares were paid to the Chairman, 6,120 (4,948) shares to the Deputy Settled with shares –32 Production for own use –9 –17 Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Audit 5 Acquisitions and disposals and notes Committee respectively and 4,845 (3,917) shares to each of the other to the cash flow statement Settled in cash and cash equivalents 1 Materials and services members of the Board of Directors, except for Jussi Pesonen. Raw materials, consumables and goods 5,801 5,991 Cash in subsidiaries disposed –8 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 13 42 Acquisitions Net cash arising from disposals –7 External services 1) 902 853 In 2013, no acquisitions were made. 6,716 6,886 On 31 August 2012 UPM acquired the labelstock business operations of Gascogne Laminates Switzerland of the Gascogne Group. The acquisition supports UPM’s growth in special labelstock products in Europe. If the business had been included in the Group from 1 January 2012, it would have increased Group’s sales by EUR 20 million. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 97 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 98 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Shareholdings (no. of shares) and fees of the Board of Directors In accordance with the service contract of the President and CEO 10 Depreciation, amortisation and 11 Gains on available-for-sale investments, net the retirement age of the President and CEO, Jussi Pesonen, is 60 years. Shareholdings Fees (EUR 1,000) For the President and CEO, the target pension is 60% of average indexed impairment charges Year ended 31 December 31 Dec. 2013 1) 2013 2012 earnings calculated according to the Finnish statutory pension scheme EURm 2013 2012 Year ended 31 December Board members from the last ten years of employment. The costs of lowering the retireEURm 2013 2012 Fair value gains and losses – 4 Björn Wahlroos, Chairman 244,654 175 175 ment age to 60 years is covered by supplementing statutory pension with Net gains and losses on disposals 1) 1 34 Berndt Brunow, Deputy Chairman 296,867 120 120 Amortisation of intangible assets a voluntary defined benefit pension plan. Should the President and CEO Total 1 38 Matti Alahuhta 55,954 95 95 Intangible rights 17 30 leave the company prior to the age of 60, immediate vesting right correKarl Grotenfelt 54,121 120 120 Other tangible assets 28 46 1) In 2012, includes a tax exempt capital gain of EUR 34 million on the sales of sponding to 100% of earned pension (pro rata) will be applied. The Piia-Noora Kauppi 5,145 95 – 45 76 Metsä Fibre Oy shares. retirement age of the other members of the Group Executive Team is 63 Wendy E. Lane 27,612 95 95 Depreciation of property, plant and e ­ quipment years. The expenses of the President and CEO's defined benefit pension Ursula Ranin 27,534 95 95 Buildings 81 110 plan in 2013 were EUR 0.5 million (0.3 million), and the plan assets Veli-Matti Reinikkala 30,784 95 95 Machinery and equipment 390 579 Kim Wahl 8,762 95 95 amounted to EUR 4.6 million and obligation to EUR 3.8 million. Other Other tangible assets 19 27 12 Finance costs Jussi Pesonen, President and CEO 195,294 – – Group Executive Team members are under defined contribution plans. 490 716 Year ended 31 December Total 946,727 985 890 In case the notice of termination is given to the President and CEO, Depreciation of investment property EURm 2013 2012 a severance pay of 24 months' fixed salary will be paid in addition to the The above shareholdings include shares held by closely related persons and/or Buildings 3 2 1) salary for six months' notice period. Should the President and CEO give Exchange rate and fair value gains and losses organisations in which the persons exercise control. Derivatives held for trading –190 –14 a notice of termination to the company, no severance pay will be paid in Impairment charges of intangible assets Fair value gains/losses on derivatives designated addition to the salary for the notice period. For other members of the Goodwill – 783 as fair value hedges –124 –12 Salaries, fees and other benefits of the Group Executive Team Group Executive Team, the period for additional severance compensaIntangible rights – 49 Fair value adjustment of borrowings attributable Year ended 31 December tion is 12 months, in addition to the six months’ salary for the notice Other intangible assets – 26 to interest rate risk 126 8 EUR 1,000 2013 2012 period, unless notice is given for reasons that are solely attributable to Emission allowances 4 8 Foreign exchange gains/losses on financial liabilities the employee. President and CEO Jussi Pesonen 4 866 measured at amortised cost 105 39 If there is a change in the control over the company, as defined in Salaries and benefits Impairment charges of property, Foreign exchange gains/losses on loans and the employment or service contracts, the President and CEO may termiSalaries 1,059 1,059 plant and equipment receivables 93 –10 Incentives 553 508 nate his service contract within three months and each member of the Land areas – 34 10 11 Benefits 26 36 Group Executive Team may terminate his/her service contract within Buildings – 301 Interest and other finance costs, net Total 1,638 1,603 one month, from the date of the event that triggered the change of conMachinery and equipment 3 603 Interest expense on financial liabilities measured trol and shall receive compensation equivalent to 24 months' base salary. Pension costs Other tangible assets – 16 at amortised cost –146 –170 Finnish statutory pension scheme 282 276 3 954 Interest income on derivative financial instruments 85 85 Voluntary pension plan 677 672 Auditor's fees Interest income on loans and receivables 5 7 Total 959 948 Total 545 2,614 Gains on other non-current financial assets, net – –9 Year ended 31 December Dividend income from available-for-sale investments – 117 In addition, a single premium of EUR 1.1 million has been paid in 2013, EURm 2013 2012 In July 2013, UPM Raflatac announced that it will reduce labelstock Other financial expenses –28 –32 into to the President and CEO's voluntary pension plan to cover past service pension liabilities. Audit 2.6 2.9 production capacity in Europe, South-Africa and Australia. Impairment –84 –2 Audit-related 0.1 – charges of EUR 3 million were recognised in UPM Raflatac segment´s Total –74 9 Group Executive Team (excluding the President and CEO) 1) Tax consulting 0.9 1.0 property, plant and equipment. Other services 0.1 0.5 In the fourth quarter 2012, UPM conducted goodwill impairment Net gains and losses on derivative financial Salaries and benefits Total 3.7 4.4 test in the former Paper segment. The continuing challenges in European instruments included in the operating profit Salaries 3,396 2,975 Incentives 1,067 496 economy have significantly impacted the consumption of paper, exacerBenefits 137 121 Year ended 31 December bating the effect of structural changes in paper end-uses and resulting in EURm 2013 2012 Total 4,600 3,592 8 Change in fair value of biological assets further decline in the demand of graphic papers in Europe. High costs and significant overcapacity continue to challenge the industry operaDerivatives designated as cash flow hedges 75 –45 Pension costs and wood harvested tors. In these circumstances, UPM has not been able to improve the profDerivatives held for trading 32 5 Statutory pension scheme 740 522 Year ended 31 December itability of its European graphic paper business as much as targeted. Total 107 –40 Voluntary pension plan 531 456 EURm 2013 2012 UPM management did not expect significant enough improvement in the Total 1,271 978 Wood harvested –88 –98 segment’s profitability in the foreseeable future. As a result of the test 1) 11 members in 2013, 8 members in 2012. The aggregate foreign exchange gains and losses Change in fair value 156 143 calculation, UPM recognised impairment charges of EUR 783 million included in the consolidated income statement Total 68 45 related to goodwill and EUR 988 million related to property, plant and The total remuneration of the President and CEO and the members of equipment, intangible rights and other intangible assets in European Year ended 31 December the Group Executive Team consists of base salary and benefits, shortgraphic paper operations in the UPM Paper ENA segment. Fair value EURm 2013 2012 term incentives and long-term incentives under the share reward plans less costs to sell method was used in the calculation with an inflation rate Sales 56 –75 and stock option programme. 9 Share of results of associated companies of 2%, a negative sales growth rate of 2.9% in real terms, and a post-tax Other operating income –36 –10 The short-term incentive plan for the President and CEO and the Net financial items 4 – members of the Group Executive Team has been linked with achieveand joint ventures discount rate of 7.81%. Total 24 –85 In addition, other impairment charges of EUR 8 million were recogment of the predetermined financial targets of the Group or Business Year ended 31 December nised in the UPM Paper ENA segment's property, plant and equipment. Group and individual targets of the executive amounting to a maximum EURm 2013 2012 In June 2012, UPM announced that it will restructure its sawn timannual incentive of 100% of annual base salary to the members of the Associated companies 3 1 ber operations, and further processing operations in Finland. ImpairGroup Executive Board and 70% of annual base salary to the members Joint ventures –1 1 ment charges of EUR 31 million were recognised on the UPM Biorefinof the Group Executive Team. For the President and CEO the maximum Total 2 2 ing segment’s property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets. annual incentive amounts to 150% of the annual base salary. The expenses recognised in income statement in respect of sharebased payments for the Group Executive Team were EUR 1.4 million (2.2 million). CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 99 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 100 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 13 Income taxes 14 Earnings per share Impairment tests As at 31 December The Group prepares impairment test calculations at operating segment EURm 2013 2012 Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December or at lower business unit level annually. The key assumptions for calculaAccumulated amortisation and impairment at 1 Jan. –294 –214 EURm 2013 2012 2013 2012 tions are those regarding business growth outlook, product prices, cost Amortisation –17 –30 Major components of tax expenses Profit (loss) attributable to owners of development, and the discount rate. Impairment charges – –49 Current tax expense 123 125 the parent company, EURm 335 –1,122 The business growth outlook is based on general forecasts for the Disposals 2 6 Change in deferred taxes (Note 28) 17 –274 business in question. Ten-year forecasts are used in these calculations as Reclassifications 8 –8 Income taxes, total 140 –149 Weighted average number of shares (1,000) 527,818 525,434 Basic earnings per share, EUR 0.63 –2.14 the nature of the Group’s business is long-term, due to its capital intenTranslation differences 1 1 sity, and is exposed to cyclical changes. In estimates of product prices Accumulated amortisation and impairment at 31 Dec. –300 –294 Income tax reconciliation statement For the diluted earnings per share the number of shares is adjusted by the and cost development, forecasts prepared by management for the next Profit (loss) before tax 475 –1,271 Carrying value at 1 Jan. 242 316 effect of the share options. three years and estimates made for the following seven years are taken Computed tax at Finnish statutory rate of 24.5% 116 –311 Carrying value at 31 Dec. 236 242 into consideration. The Group’s recent profitability trend is taken into Difference between Finnish and foreign rates –6 –58 account in the forecasts. In addition, when preparing estimates, considerNon-deductible expenses and tax-exempt income –42 78 Profit (loss) attributable to owners of ation is given to the investment decisions made by the Group as well as Other intangible assets 1) Tax loss with no tax benefit 32 97 the parent company, EURm 335 –1,122 profitability programmes that the Group has implemented and the views Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 669 661 Results of associated companies – 1 Profit (loss) used to determine diluted earnings of knowledgeable industry experts on the long-term development of Additions 13 34 Change in tax legislation –80 –6 per share, EURm 335 –1,122 Change in recoverability of deferred tax assets 129 53 demand and prices. Companies acquired – 1 Other –9 –3 Weighted average number of shares (1,000) 527,818 525,434 In 2012, in Paper (the former operating segment), UPM recognised Disposals –15 –30 Income taxes, total 140 –149 Effect of options 1) – 1,042 impairment charges of EUR 783 million related to goodwill and EUR Companies sold – –5 988 million related to property, plant and equipment, intangible rights Reclassifications 8 8 Weighted average number of shares for Effective tax rate 29.5% 11.7% diluted earnings per share (1,000) 527,818 526,476 and other intangible assets in European graphic paper operations. After Translation differences –2 – Diluted earnings per share, EUR 0.63 –2.13 the charge, there is no goodwill in paper operations. The valuation Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 673 669 Profit before taxes for 2013 and 2012 include income not subject to tax method Fair value less costs to sell was based on discounted cash flows. 1) The dilution effect is calculated to determine the number of shares that could have Key assumptions used in the calculation were: inflation rate of 2%, negaAccumulated amortisation and impairment at 1 Jan. –582 –547 from subsidiary operating in tax free zone. been acquired at fair value (the average price for shares traded) based on the tive sales growth rate of 2.9% over the forecast period in real terms, and Amortisation –28 –45 In 2013, change in tax legislation includes a tax income of EUR 76 monetary subscription rights of the outstanding options. The number of shares million from tax rate change in Finland and a tax income of EUR 5 milpost-tax discount rate of 7.81%. Impairment charges – –26 calculated as above is compared with the number of shares that would have been lion from tax rate change in UK. Change in recoverability of deferred In annual impairment tests, the recoverable amount of groups of Disposals 15 28 issued assuming exercise of the options. 5.0 million (9.0 million) shares exercistax assets relates to reassessment of estimated recoverability of EUR 120 able with options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share cash generating units is determined based on value in use calculations. Companies sold – 5 million related to deferred tax assets in Canada. as they were not dilutive. The discount rate is estimated using the weighted average cost of Reclassifications 2 3 In 2012, profit before tax includes a tax-exempt capital gain of EUR capital on the calculation date adjusted for risks specific to the business Translation differences 2 – 34 million from the sale of Metsä Fibre Oy shares and a tax-exempt diviin question. The pre-tax discount rate used in 2013 for pulp operations Accumulated amortisation and impairment at 31 Dec. –591 –582 dend income of EUR 11 million from Metsä Fibre and EUR 105 million 15 Dividend per share Finland was 10.06% (10.83%), and for pulp operations Uruguay 8.48% from Pohjolan Voima Oy. In addition, profit before tax includes impair(8.63%). The recoverable amount is most sensitive to pulp sales prices Carrying value at 1 Jan. 87 114 ment charges of EUR 591 million from UPM Paper ENA segment's and the cost of wood raw material. As at 31 December 2013, for pulp Carrying value at 31 Dec. 82 87 goodwill with no related deferred tax. Change in tax legislation includes The dividends paid in 2013 were EUR 317 million (EUR 0.60 per share) operations Finland, a decrease of more than 11.4% in pulp prices would a tax income of EUR 6 million from tax rate changes in UK. Tax loss and in 2012 EUR 315 million (EUR 0.60 per share). The Board of result in recognition of impairment loss against goodwill. The Group Advance payments and construction in progress with no tax benefit and change in recoverability of deferred tax assets Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of believes that no reasonable change in wood cost would cause the aggreAcquisition cost at 1 Jan. 12 15 relate mainly to reassessment of deferred tax assets in connection with EUR 317 million, EUR 0.60 per share, will be paid in respect of 2013. gate carrying amount to exceed the recoverable amount. For pulp operaAdditions 7 10 the UPM Paper ENA segment's asset impairments. tions Uruguay, a decrease of more than 4.5% in pulp prices or an Reclassifications –6 –13 increase of more than 13% in wood cost would result in recognition of Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 13 12 Tax effects of components of other comprehensive income 16 Goodwill impairment loss against goodwill. A decrease of more than 6% in pulp prices or an increase of more than 18% in wood cost would result in a Carrying value at 1 Jan. 12 15 Year ended 31 December As at 31 December write-down of the entire goodwill. Carrying value at 31 Dec. 13 12 EURm 2013 2012 EURm 2013 2012 Before After Before After Carrying value at 1 Jan. 222 1,022 Emission rights tax Tax tax tax Tax tax Translation differences –3 –1 Actuarial gains and losses on Disposals – –16 17 Other intangible assets Acquisition cost 1 Jan. 40 30 Additions 2) 2 36 defined benefit obligations 103 –34 69 –136 38 –98 Impairment charges – –783 As at 31 December Disposals and settlements –24 –23 Translation differences –219 – –219 –14 – –14 Carrying value at 31 Dec. 219 222 EURm 2013 2012 Companies sold – –3 Net investment hedge 102 –25 77 5 –1 4 Intangible rights Acquisition cost 31 Dec. 18 40 Cash flow hedges –36 8 –28 58 –12 46 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 536 530 Available-for-sale investments 43 15 58 –682 10 –672 Goodwill by reporting segment Additions 3 3 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at 1 Jan. –15 –8 Other comprehensive income –7 –36 –43 –769 35 –734 Disposals –1 –5 Impairment charges –4 –8 As at 31 December EURm 2013 2012 Companies sold – –1 Disposals 12 – Reclassifications 2 10 Companies sold – 1 UPM Biorefining 198 201 Translation differences –4 –1 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at 31 Dec. –7 –15 UPM Raflatac 7 7 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 536 536 UPM Plywood 13 13 Carrying value at 1 Jan. 25 22 Other operations 1 1 Carrying value at 31 Dec. 11 25 Total 219 222 Other intangible assets, total 342 366 1) Other intangible assets consist primarily of capitalised software assets. 2) Additions include emission rights received free of charge. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 101 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 102 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Water rights As at 31 December Finance lease arrangements There were no contractual obligations for future repair and maintenance Intangible rights include EUR 189 million (189 million) in respect of the EURm 2013 2012 Property, plant and equipment includes property that is acquired under or purchase of investment property. water rights of hydropower plants belonging to the UPM Energy segMachinery and equipment finance lease contracts: All assets under investment property are leased to third parties ment that are deemed to have an indefinite useful life as the company has Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 15,184 16,580 under operating leasing contracts. a contractual right to exploit water resources in the energy production of Additions 84 136 As at 31 December these power plants. The values of these water rights are tested annually Companies acquired – 1 EURm 2013 2012 for impairment based on expected future cash flows of each separate Disposals –691 –636 20 Biological assets hydropower plant. Companies sold – –505 Buildings Acquisition cost 3 3 As at 31 December Reclassifications 32 –390 Accumulated depreciation –2 – EURm 2013 2012 Translation differences –105 –2 Carrying value at 31 Dec. 1 3 At 1 Jan. 1,476 1,513 18 Property, plant and equipment Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 14,504 15,184 Additions 8 10 As at 31 December Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 1 Jan. –12,291 –12,699 Machinery and equipment Disposals –38 –44 EURm 2013 2012 Depreciation –390 –579 Acquisition cost 330 335 Wood harvested –88 –98 Impairment charges –6 –603 Accumulated depreciation –126 –112 Change in fair value 108 101 Land and water areas Disposals 684 613 Carrying value at 31 Dec. 204 223 Reclassifications 2 – Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 683 694 Additions 11 19 Companies sold – 492 Translation differences –10 –6 Disposals –5 –8 Reclassifications 32 487 Leased assets, total 205 226 At 31 Dec. 1,458 1,476 Companies sold – –9 Translation differences 71 –2 Reclassifications –3 –7 Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 31 Dec. –11,900 –12,291 Capitalised borrowing costs The Group owns approximately 820,000 and 75,000 hectares forests in Translation differences –16 –6 In 2013, the borrowing costs capitalised as part of non-current assets Finland and in the United States, respectively, and 234,000 hectares Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 670 683 Carrying value at 1 Jan. 2,893 3,881 amounted to EUR 2 million (1 million). In 2013, amortisation of capiplantations in Uruguay. Biological assets (living trees) are measured at Carrying value at 31 Dec. 2,604 2,893 talised borrowing costs was EUR 4 million (6 million). In 2013 and 2012 fair value less costs to sell. The fair value is determined using discounted Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 1 Jan. –34 –12 there were no capitalised borrowing costs associated with sold assets. cash flow models. Main factors used in the valuation are estimates for Impairment charges – –34 Other tangible assets The average interest rate used was 2.33% (3.95%), which represents growth and wood harvested, stumpage prices and discount rates. StumpDisposals – 1 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 910 971 the costs of the loan used to finance the projects. age price forecasts are based on the current prices adjusted by the manCompanies sold – 4 Additions 5 4 agement’s estimates for the full remaining productive lives of the trees, Reclassifications – 7 Disposals –44 –62 up to 100 years for forests in Finland and in the US and up to 10 years Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 31 Dec. –34 –34 for plantations in Uruguay. The cash flows are adjusted by selling costs Companies sold – –3 19 Investment property and risks related to the future growth. Young seedling stands are valued Reclassifications 5 – Carrying value at 1 Jan. 649 682 Translation differences –3 – As at 31 December at cost. Carrying value at 31 Dec. 636 649 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 873 910 EURm 2013 2012 The pre-tax discount rates used in to determine fair value in 2013 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 67 75 were 7.50% (7.50%) for Finnish forests and 10.00% (10.00%) for UruBuildings Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 1 Jan. –770 –791 Additions 5 7 guayan plantations. A decrease (increase) of one percentage point in Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 3,598 3,739 Depreciation –19 –27 Disposals – –7 discount rate would increase (decrease) the fair value of biological assets Additions 17 15 Impairment charges – –16 Reclassifications –1 –8 by approximately EUR 210 million. Companies acquired – 4 Disposals 43 63 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 71 67 Disposals –105 –112 Companies sold – 2 Companies sold – –27 Reclassifications –7 –1 Accumulated depreciation and 21 Investments in associated companies Reclassifications 9 –22 Translation differences 1 – impairment at 1 Jan. –28 –36 Translation differences –30 1 Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 31 Dec. –752 –770 and joint ventures Depreciation –3 –2 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 3,489 3,598 Disposals – 3 As at 31 December Carrying value at 1 Jan. 140 180 Reclassifications – 7 EURm 2013 2012 Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 1 Jan. –2,352 –2,121 Carrying value at 31 Dec. 121 140 Accumulated depreciation and At 1 Jan. 20 28 Depreciation –81 –110 impairment at 31 Dec. –31 –28 Additions 1 – Impairment charges – –301 Advance payments and construction in progress Disposals – –3 Disposals 101 107 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 161 144 Carrying value at 1 Jan. 39 39 Share of results after tax (Note 9) 2 2 Companies sold – 27 Additions 216 138 Carrying value at 31 Dec. 40 39 Dividends received –1 –7 Reclassifications –14 46 Disposals –66 –1 At 31 Dec. 22 20 Translation differences 13 – Reclassifications –70 –120 The fair value of investment property is determined annually on 31 Accumulated depreciation and impairment at 31 Dec. –2,333 –2,352 Translation differences –1 – December by the Group. Fair value is based on active market prices, Investments in associated companies at 31 December 2013 include goodAcquisition cost at 31 Dec. 240 161 adjusted, if necessary, for any difference in the nature of the specific will of EUR 1 million (1 million). Carrying value at 1 Jan. 1,246 1,618 asset. Carrying value at 31 Dec. 1,156 1,246 Carrying value at 1 Jan. 161 144 The fair value of investment property in Finland at 31 December Associated companies and joint ventures Carrying value at 31 Dec. 240 161 2013 was EUR 31 million (29 million) and the fair value of investment property in other countries at 31 December 2013 was EUR 11 million As at 31 December (11 million). EURm 2013 2012 Property, plant and equipment, total 4,757 5,089 Associated companies 16 13 The amounts recognised in the income statement Joint ventures 6 7 Year ended 31 December At 31 Dec. 22 20 EURm 2013 2012 Rental income 5 4 UPM has no individually material associated companies or joint ventures. Direct operating expenses arising from investment properties that generate rental income –3 –2 CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 103 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 104 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Transactions and balances account in the valuation. Changes in regulatory environment or taxation 26 Trade and other receivables Treasury shares with associated companies and joint ventures could also have an impact on the value of the energy generating assets. The Annual General Meeting held on 4 April 2013 authorised the Board Fair value of the sale and leaseback contract included in availableAs at 31 December Year ended 31 December of Directors to acquire no more than 51,000,000 of the company's own for-sale investments was EUR 14 million. EURm 2013 2012 EURm 2013 2012 shares. The authorisation is valid for 18 months from the date of the Fair value of the OEP Technologie B.V. shares is based on the disTrade receivables 1,398 1,426 decision. Sales 2 4 counted value of sales option related to the shareholding. Loan receivables 10 6 Purchases 80 80 As at 31 December 2013, the company held 230,737 (230,737) of its Prepayments and accrued income 154 131 own shares, 0.04% (0.04%) of the total number of shares. 211,481 of the Non-current receivables 8 7 Pohjolan Voima Oy B and B2 series relate to shareholdings in TeolliDerivative financial instruments 226 196 Trade and other receivables 1 4 shares were returned upon their issue in 2011 to UPM without considersuuden Voima Oyj, which operates and constructs nuclear power plants Other receivables 160 223 ation as part of the contractual arrangements relating to the Myllykoski Trade and other payables 2 4 in Olkiluoto, Finland. The operation of a nuclear power plant involves At 31 Dec. 1,948 1,982 transaction and 19,256 shares in accordance with the Group’s share potential costs and liabilities related to decommissioning and dismanreward scheme due to the termination of employment contracts in 2012. Loan receivables from associated companies tling of the nuclear power plant and storage and disposal of spent fuel and joint ventures 1) and, furthermore, is governed by international, European Union and Ageing analysis of trade receivables At 1 Jan. 7 4 Authorisations to increase the number of shares local nuclear regulatory regimes. Pursuant to the Finnish Nuclear LiabilLoans granted 1 3 As at 31 December The Annual General Meeting, held on 4 April 2013, authorised the ity Act, the operator of a nuclear facility is strictly liable for damage EURm 2013 2012 At 31 Dec. 8 7 Board of Directors to decide on the issuance of shares and/or the transresulting from a nuclear incident at the operator’s installation or occurUndue 1,191 1,200 fer of the company’s own shares held by the company and/or the issue of 1) Loans to associated companies and joint ventures include current and non-current ring in the course of transporting nuclear fuels. Shareholders of power Past due up to 30 days 137 164 special rights entitling holders to shares in the company as follows: (i) loan receivables. companies that own and operate nuclear power plants are not subject to Past due 31–90 days 37 35 The maximum number of new shares that may be issued and the compaliability under the Nuclear Liability Act. In Finland, the future costs of Past due over 90 days 33 27 ny’s own shares held by the company that may be transferred is, in total, conditioning, storage and final disposal of spent fuel, management of At 31 Dec. 1,398 1,426 25,000,000 shares. This figure also includes the number of shares that 22 Available-for-sale investments low and intermediate level radioactive waste and nuclear power plant can be received on the basis of the special rights. (ii) The new shares and decommissioning are the responsibility of the operator. Reimbursement As at 31 December In determining the recoverability of trade receivables the Group con­ special rights entitling holders to shares in the company may be issued of the operators’ costs related to decommissioning and dismantling of EURm 2013 2012 siders any change to the credit quality of trade receivables. There are no and the company’s own shares held by the company may be transferred the power plant and storage and disposal of spent fuel are provided for indications that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations with to the company’s shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdAt 1 Jan. 2,587 3,345 by state-established funds funded by annual contributions from nuclear regard to trade receivables that are not overdue or impaired at 31 Deings in the company, or in a directed share issue, deviating from the Additions 31 33 power plant operators. The contributions to such funds are intended to cember 2013. In 2013, impairment of trade receivables amounted to shareholder’s pre-emptive subscription right. This authorisation is valid Disposals –1 –147 be sufficient to cover estimated future costs which have been taken into EUR 17 million (14 million) and is recorded under other costs and until 4 April 2016. Reclassification 1 – consideration in the fair value of the related available-for-sale investexpenses. Impairment is recognised when there is objective evidence that Based on decisions of the Annual General Meeting of 27 March Changes in fair values 43 –644 ments. the Group is not able to collect the amounts due. 2007, at 31 December 2013, the company has one option series 2007C At 31 Dec. 2,661 2,587 Maximum exposure to credit risk, without taking into account any that would entitle the holders to subscribe for a total 5,000,000 shares. credit enhancements, is the carrying amount of trade and other receivAside from the above, the Board of Directors has no current authorisaAt 31 December 2013, the available-for-sale investments include only 23 Other non-current financial assets ables. tion to issue shares, convertible bonds or share options. investments in unlisted shares. In 2013, 3,175,987 (1,151,572) shares were subscribed for through As at 31 December EURm 2013 2012 Main items included in prepayments and accrued income exercising 2007B share options and 1,500 shares through exercising Principal available-for-sale investments 2007C options. Carrying value, Loan receivables from associated companies 8 7 As at 31 December The share subscription period for share options 2007B ended on 31 Number Group EURm Other loan receivables 35 42 EURm 2013 2012 October 2013. During the entire share subscription period 4,330,009 of shares holding % 2013 2012 Derivative financial instruments 239 392 Personnel expenses 11 8 shares were subscribed, for through exercising 2007B share options. At 31 Dec. 282 441 Interest income 2 1 Pohjolan Voima Oy, A serie 8,176,191 61.24 407 387 If all remaining 4,998,500 share options issued in 2007 are fully Pohjolan Voima Oy, B serie 4,140,132 58.11 1,313 1,264 Other items 141 122 exercised, the number of the company’s shares will increase by a total of Pohjolan Voima Oy, B2 serie 1,303,570 50.69 306 311 The maximum exposure to credit risk in regard to other loan receivables At 31 Dec. 154 131 4,998,500, i.e. by 0.94%. Kemijoki Oy 100,797 4.13 443 446 is their carrying amount. The shares available for subscription under the Board’s share issue Länsi-Suomen Voima Oy 10,220 51.10 109 93 authorisation and through the exercise of share options may increase the OEP Technologie B.V. 243,670 10.86 35 34 27 Equity and reserves total number of the company’s shares by 5.67%, i.e. by 29,998,500 Other 1) – – 48 52 24 Other non-current assets shares, to 559,300,397 shares. At 31 Dec. 2,661 2,587 Share capital As at 31 December 1) Includes C, H, M and V series of Pohjolan Voima Oy. EURm 2013 2012 Number of shares Share Redemption clause EURm (1,000) capital Under § 12 of UPM-Kymmene Corporation’s Articles of Association, a Fair valuation of available-for-sale investments in the UPM Energy Defined benefit plans (Note 29) 88 30 shareholder who, alone or jointly with another shareholder owns 33 1/3 Other non-current assets 54 57 At 1 Jan. 2012 524,973 890 segment (Pohjolan Voima Oy’s A, B, B2, C, C2, H, M and V-shares, percent or 50 percent or more of all the company’s shares or their associAt 31 Dec. 142 87 Exercise of share options 1,151 – Kemijoki Oy shares, and Länsi-Suomen Voima Oy shares) is based on ated voting rights shall, at the request of other shareholders, be liable to At 31 Dec. 2012 526,124 890 discounted cash flows model. The Group's electricity price estimate is redeem their shares and any securities that, under the Companies Act, Exercise of share options 3,177 – based on fundamental simulation of Finnish area price. A change of carry the right to such shares, in the manner prescribed in § 12. At 31 Dec. 2013 529,302 890 +/-5% in the electricity price used in the model would change the total 25 Inventories A resolution of a general meeting of shareholders to amend or value of the assets by +/EUR 356 million. The discount rate of 5.79% delete this redemption clause must be carried by shareholders representused in the valuation model is determined using the weighted average As at 31 December Shares ing not less than three-quarters of the votes cast and shares represented EURm 2013 2012 cost of capital method. A change of +/0.5% in the discount rate would At 31 December 2013, the number of the company’s shares was at the meeting. change the total value of the assets by approximately -/+ EUR 340 Raw materials and consumables 565 568 529,301,897. Each share carries one vote. The shares do not have any million. Other uncertainties and risk factors in the value of the assets Work in progress 39 44 nominal counter value. The shares are included within the book entry relate to start-up schedule of the fixed price turn-key Olkiluoto 3 nuclear Finished products and goods 684 737 system for securities. power plant project and the on-going arbitration proceedings between Advance payments 39 39 the plant supplier AREVA-Siemens Consortium and the plant owner At 31 Dec. 1,327 1,388 Reserve for invested non-restricted equity Teollisuuden Voima Oyj (TVO). UPM’s indirect share of the capacity of Reserve for invested non-restricted equity includes, under the CompaOlkiluoto 3 is approximately 31%, through its PVO B2 shares. The nies’ Act, the exercise value of shareholders’ investments in the company possible outcome of the arbitration proceedings has not been taken into unless otherwise decided by the company. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 105 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 106 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Fair value and other reserves Components of other comprehensive income Reconciliation of the movements of deferred tax asset and liability balances during the year 2012 As at 31 December Year ended 31 December EURm 2013 2012 As at Charged to Acquisitions As at EURm 2013 2012 1 Jan. the income Charged to Translation and 31 Dec. Fair value reserve of available-for-sale investments 2,152 2,094 Actuarial gains and losses on defined EURm 2012 statement OCI differences disposals 2012 Hedging reserve –21 7 benefit obligations 69 –98 Deferred tax assets Legal reserve 53 53 Translation differences –219 –14 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 77 146 – – –2 221 Share premium reserve 50 50 Net investment hedge 77 4 Inventories 23 17 – – – 40 Share-based compensation 22 28 Cash flow hedges Retirement benefit obligations and provisions 135 –2 36 –1 –4 164 At 31 Dec. 2,256 2,232 gains/losses arising during the year 24 10 Other temporary differences 42 27 – – –1 68 reclassification adjustments –52 36 Tax losses and tax credits carried forward 407 –38 – –1 – 368 –28 46 Deferred tax assets, total 684 150 36 –2 –7 861 Changes in hedging reserve Available-for-sale investments gains/losses arising during the year 58 1 Deferred tax liabilities Year ended 31 December reclassification adjustments – –673 EURm 2013 2012 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 471 –105 – – – 366 58 –672 Biological assets 232 –8 – – – 224 Hedging reserve at 1 Jan. 7 –39 Other comprehensive income –43 –734 Retirement benefit obligations and provisions 7 – –2 – – 5 Gains and losses on cash flow hedges 33 25 Other temporary differences 147 –11 3 – – 139 Transfers to sales –85 9 Deferred tax liabilities, total 857 –124 1 – – 734 Transfers to costs and expenses 14 25 Transfers to financial costs 2 2 The amounts recognised in the balance sheet Tax on gains and losses on cash flow hedges –9 –15 Deferred tax assets 529 183 36 –2 –7 739 Tax on transfers to income statement 17 – Deferred tax liabilities 702 –91 1 – – 612 Hedging reserve at 31 Dec. –21 7 Deferred tax liabilities, less deferred tax assets 173 –274 –35 2 7 –127 At 31 December 2013, net operating loss carry-forwards for which the 29 Retirement benefit obligations Group has recognised a deferred tax asset amounted to EUR 831 million (1,250 million), of which EUR 678 million (569 million) was attributable The Group operates a number of defined benefit and contribution plans to German subsidiaries and EUR 74 million (569 million) to a Canadian in accordance with local conditions and practices in the countries in 28 Deferred income taxes subsidiary. In Germany the net operating loss carry-forwards do not which it operates. About 90 % of the defined benefit arrangements exist expire. In other countries net operating loss carry-forwards expire at in Finland, in the UK and in Germany. The Group has defined benefit Reconciliation of the movements of deferred tax asset and liability balances during the year 2013 various dates and in varying amounts. The net operating loss carry-forobligations also in Austria, Holland, France, Canada and in US. Globalwards for which no deferred tax asset is recognised due to uncertainty of ly about one quarter of employees belong to defined benefit arrangeAs at Charged to Acquisitions As at their utilisation amounted to EUR 903 million (373 million) in 2013. 1 Jan. the income Charged to Translation and 31 Dec. ments. These net operating loss carry-forwards are mainly attributable to a In Finland employers have to insure their employees for statutory EURm 2013 statement OCI differences disposals 2013 Canadian subsidiary and certain German subsidiaries. benefits, as determined in Employee’s Pension Act (TyEL). Under TyEL, Deferred tax assets No deferred tax liability has been recognised for the undistributed the benefits that are funded during employment are old age benefit and Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 221 –8 – – – 213 profits of Finnish subsidiaries and associated companies as such earndisability benefit. The benefits can be insured in an insurance company Inventories 40 –13 – – – 27 ings can be distributed without any tax consequences. or employer can establish a fund or a foundation to manage the statuRetirement benefit obligations and provisions 164 –12 –18 1 – 135 In addition the Group does not recognise a deferred tax liability in Other temporary differences 68 –39 – 1 – 30 tory benefits. Approximately 92% of UPM’s Finnish employees are respect of undistributed earnings of non-Finnish subsidiaries to the insured with an insurance company and these arrangements are regarded Tax losses and tax credits carried forward 368 –103 – –13 – 252 extent that such earnings are intended to be permanently reinvested in as defined contribution plans. In addition, Group operates a TyEL founDeferred tax assets, total 861 –175 –18 –11 – 657 those operations or such earnings can be distributed without any tax dation to fulfil the requirement for approximately 8% of employees. The consequences. TyEL foundation, Kymin Eläkesäätiö, is regarded as defined benefit plan Deferred tax liabilities Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 366 –127 – – – 239 for the benefits that are based on employee's average salary scheme. The Biological assets 224 –26 – – – 198 TyEL Foundation is administered by the representatives of both the Retirement benefit obligations and provisions 5 –3 16 – – 18 employer and the employees. The foundation has named an authorised Other temporary differences 139 –2 2 – – 139 representative to take care of its regular operations. The Plan is superDeferred tax liabilities, total 734 –158 18 – – 594 vised by Financial Supervisory Authority. In the UK, the Group operates a defined benefit scheme, which is The amounts recognised in the balance sheet closed both to new members and future accrual. A defined contribution Deferred tax assets 739 –146 –18 –11 – 564 section is also in operation and is open to all current employees. The UK Deferred tax liabilities 612 –129 18 – – 501 Pension Scheme operates under a single Trust which is independent from Deferred tax liabilities, less deferred tax assets –127 17 36 11 – –63 the Group. In Germany employees within defined benefit arrangements are Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income entitled to annual pensions on retirement based on their service and final taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. salary. The members also receive benefits on disability and on death. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 107 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 108 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Post-employment and other long-term benefits as at 31 December 2013 Present value of obligation and fair value of plan assets 2013 Other postOther long-term Present value of obligation Fair value of plan assets employment employee Other postOther postEURm Pension benefits benefits benefits Total Pension employment Pension employment Present value of funded obligations 736 – – 736 EURm benefits benefits Total benefits benefits Total Net Present value of unfunded obligations 503 29 – 532 At 1 Jan. 2013 1,296 31 1,327 –659 – –659 668 Fair value of plan assets –717 – – –717 Net defined benefit liability 522 29 – 551 Current service cost 12 1 13 – – – 13 Curtailments –3 – –3 – – – –3 Other long-term employee benefits – – 41 41 Past service cost and gains and losses from settlements 1 – 1 – – – 1 Defined benefit asset reported in the assets (Note 24) 88 – – 88 Interest expense (+) income (–) 39 1 40 –22 – –22 18 Total liability in the balance sheet 610 29 41 680 Total included in personnel expenses (Note 7) 49 2 51 –22 – –22 29 Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit obligation Post-employment and other long-term benefits as at 31 December 2012 arising from changes in demographic assumptions – –1 –1 – – – –1 Other postOther long-term Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit obligation employment employee arising from changes in financial assumptions –51 – –51 – – – –51 EURm Pension benefits benefits benefits Total Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit obligation arising from experience adjustments 4 1 5 – – – 5 Present value of funded obligations 727 – – 727 Actuarial gains and losses on plan assets – – – –56 – –56 –56 Present value of unfunded obligations 569 31 – 600 Fair value of plan assets –659 – – –659 Total remeasurement gains (–) and losses (+) included Net defined benefit liability 637 31 – 668 in other comprehensive income –47 – –47 –56 – –56 –103 Other long-term employee benefits – – 47 47 Benefits paid –50 –3 –53 46 3 49 –4 Defined benefit asset reported in the assets (Note 24) 30 – – 30 Settlements – – – 3 – 3 3 Total liability in the balance sheet 667 31 47 745 Contributions by the employer – – – –35 –3 –38 –38 Translation differences –9 –1 –10 6 – 6 –4 At 31 Dec. 2013 1,239 29 1,268 –717 – –717 551 The net liability of pension and other post-employment benefits by country as at 31 December 2013 Present value of obligation and fair value of plan assets 2012 Other EURm Finland Germany UK countries Total Present value of obligation Fair value of plan assets Present value of funded obligations 294 29 381 32 736 Other postOther postPresent value of unfunded obligations – 447 – 85 532 Pension employment Pension employment Fair value of plan assets –380 –2 –305 –30 –717 EURm benefits benefits Total benefits benefits Total Net Net liability –86 474 76 87 551 At 1 Jan. 2012 1,119 31 1,150 –595 – –595 555 Current service cost 11 – 11 – – – 11 The net liability of pension and other post-employment benefits by country as at 31 December 2012 Curtailments –3 – –3 – – – –3 Past service cost and gains and losses from settlements 1 – 1 – – – 1 Other Interest expense (+) income (–) 49 1 50 –27 – –27 23 EURm Finland Germany UK countries Total Total included in personnel expenses (Note 7) 58 1 59 –27 – –27 32 Present value of funded obligations 314 – 366 47 727 Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit obligation Present value of unfunded obligations – 515 – 85 600 arising from changes in demographic assumptions 1 –1 – – – – – Fair value of plan assets –342 – –289 –28 –659 Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit obligation Net liability –28 515 77 104 668 arising from changes in financial assumptions 186 5 191 – – – 191 Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit obligation arising from experience adjustments –8 – –8 – – – –8 Actuarial gains and losses on plan assets – – – –47 – –47 –47 Total remeasurement gains (–) and losses (+) included in other comprehensive income 179 4 183 –47 – –47 136 Benefits paid –46 –5 –51 46 5 51 – Settlements –1 – –1 2 – 2 1 Contributions by the employer – – – –33 –3 –36 –36 Contributions by the plan participants – – – – –2 –2 –2 Companies sold (Note 5) –20 – –20 – – – –20 Translation differences 7 – 7 –5 – –5 2 At 31 Dec. 2012 1,296 31 1,327 –659 – –659 668 CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 109 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 110 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 The significant weighted actuarial assumptions used as at 31 December 30 Provisions Finland Germany UK Other countries Restructuring Termination Environmental Emission rights Other 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 EURm provisions provisions provisions provision provisions Total Discount rate % 2.95 2.50 2.95 2.50 4.50 4.65 3.62 3.02 At 1 Jan. 2013 73 84 25 10 15 207 Inflation rate % 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.25 2.35 2.05 2.05 Additional provisions and increases Rate of salary increase % 2.50 3.00 2.50 2.50 N/A N/A 2.63 2.64 to existing provisions 19 81 – 8 7 115 Rate of pension increase % 2.26 2.26 2.00 2.00 3.25 3.20 1.10 1.09 Reclassification –3 3 – – – – Expected average remaining working years of participants 10.3 11.2 12.6 12.5 12.0 13.0 9.1 8.7 Utilised during year –25 –62 –3 –9 –3 –102 Unused amounts reversed –14 –13 –2 – –2 –31 At 31 Dec. 2013 50 93 20 9 17 189 The sensitivity analysis of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the significant weighted assumptions At 1 Jan. 2012 147 118 23 15 23 326 Impact on defined benefit obligation Additional provisions and increases Change in assumption Increase in assumption Decrease in assumption to existing provisions 36 55 7 8 6 112 Discount rate % 0.5% Decrease by 7.3% Increase by 8.5% Companies sold –31 – –1 – – –32 Rate of salary increase % 0.5% Increase by 1.1% Decrease by 0.9% Reclassification –2 2 – – – – Rate of pension increase % 0.5% Increase by 4.5% Decrease by 4.0% Utilised during year –72 –88 –4 –12 –11 –187 Life expectancy Increase by 1 year Increase by 3.3% – Unused amounts reversed –5 –3 – –1 –3 –12 The weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation is 16.7 years. At 31 Dec. 2012 73 84 25 10 15 207 The above analyses assume that assumption changes occur in isolation, holding all other assumptions constant. The same method (projected unit method) has been applied when calculating the pension liability as well as these sensitivities. Provisions Allocation between non-current and current provisions The main categories of pension and other post-employment benefit plan assets Restructuring provisions include charges related primarily to mill cloAs at 31 December 2013 2012 sures. Termination provisions are concerned with operational restructurEURm 2013 2012 Quoted % Unquoted % Total % Quoted % Unquoted % Total % ing primarily in Germany, Finland and France. In Finland provisions Non-current provisions 83 100 include also unemployment arrangements and disability pensions. Money market Current provisions 106 107 Unemployment pension provisions are recognised 2–3 years before Europe 2 – 2 – – – Total 189 207 the granting and settlement of the pension. Debt instruments Europe 29 – 29 31 – 31 In 2013, additions in provisions are mainly related to restructuring US 2 – 2 – – – of UPM Docelles mill and closures of paper machines Rauma PM3 and Other 3 – 3 4 – 4 Ettringen PM4 in UPM Paper ENA segment and the restructuring in the 31 Interest-bearing liabilities Equity instruments UPM Raflatac segment. In addition, provisions were recognised due to As at 31 December Europe 14 – 14 19 – 19 the streamlining of global functions and other actions under UPM’s EURm 2013 2012 US 12 – 12 9 – 9 profit improvement programme. Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Other 31 – 31 29 – 29 In 2012, additions in provisions relate mainly to the closure of the Bonds 955 1,492 Property Stracel paper mill in France and restructuring of UPM Paper ENA segLoans from financial institutions 1,655 1,178 Europe – 7 7 – 8 8 ment, and to the restructuring of sawmill and further processing operaPension loans 323 414 Total 93 7 100 92 8 100 tions in Finland. Finance lease liabilities 270 310 Environmental provisions include expenses relating to closed mills Derivative financial instruments 100 106 In Finland, plan assets include the company's ordinary shares with a fair value of EUR 0.7 million (0.5 million). In 2014 contributions to the Group's and the remediation of industrial landfills. Other loans 171 214 defined pension plans are expected to be EUR 31 million and to other post-employment plans EUR 3 million. The company takes part in government programmes aimed at reducOther liabilities 11 10 ing greenhouse gas emissions. In 2013, the Group has recognised provi3,485 3,724 sions amounting to EUR 9 million (10 million) to cover the obligation to Main risk areas related to defined benefit plans ments to the pooling system. Index increments do not increase directly return emission rights. The company possesses emission rights worth Current interest-bearing liabilities The main risks related to the Group’s defined benefit plans are changes the plan’s liabilities as they are covered through the pooling system. EUR 11 million (25 million) as intangible assets and has recognised curCurrent portion of non-current liabilities 512 269 in discount rate, asset volatility, inflation, changes in salaries and longevIn the UK the pensions in payment are tied to Retail Price Index rent receivables of EUR 14 million due to the delayed distribution of Derivative financial instruments 82 33 ities of the beneficiaries. whilst being tied to Consumer Price Index during deferment. An 2013 emission rights. Other liabilities 1) 49 115 increase of 0.5% in indexes will increase the liabilities by some EUR 26 643 417 Discount rates million. Total interest-bearing liabilities 4,128 4,141 In Germany the pensions have to be adjusted in accordance with the The discount rates are based on corporate bond yields as at reporting Consumer Price Index. 1) In 2012, includes issued commercial papers of EUR 75 million. date. A decrease in yields increases the defined benefit obligation. The decrease of 0.5% in discount rate would increase Group’s defined benefit Salary risk obligation by EUR 108 million. In Finland the salary risk is only related to 8% of employees that are insured through TyEL foundation. Asset volatility As all UK defined benefit arrangements are closed to future accrual, The Group is exposed to changes of assets’ values especially in the changes in salary levels have no impact on the funding position. investments of the foundations and schemes in Finland and in the UK. In Germany the salaries affect directly to benefit cost in part of the The asset values of these arrangements constitute 90% of total asset plans and to part of the plans salary changes have no impact. values in defined benefit plans within Group. Life expectancy Inflation risk Adjustments in mortality assumption have an impact on Group’s defined In Finland, the plan’s benefits in payment are tied to TyEL index which benefit obligation. An increase in life expectancy by one year will independs 80% on inflation and 20% on common salary index. Higher crease liabilities in Finland of EUR 11 million, in the UK of EUR 10 inflation increases the TyEL index which increases the employer’s paymillion and in Germany of EUR 17 million. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 111 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 112 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 As of 31 December 2013 the contractual maturity of interest-bearing liabilities Bonds in interest-bearing liabilities Finance lease liabilities – minimum lease payments EURm 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019+ Total Interest Nominal As at 31 Dec. As at 31 December Bonds rate value issued 2013 2012 EURm 2013 2012 Repayments 363 – – 300 181 341 1,185 Fixed rate % m EURm EURm No later than 1 year 45 24 Interests 73 53 53 53 28 212 472 1997–2027 7.450 USD 375 342 408 1–5 years 218 259 436 53 53 353 209 553 1,657 Loans from financial institutions 2000–2030 3.550 JPY 10,000 80 103 Later than 5 years 63 69 Repayments 29 333 233 317 300 496 1,708 2002–2014 5.625 USD 500 374 404 326 352 Committed facilities – – – – – – – 2002–2017 6.625 GBP 250 329 354 Future finance charges –17 –24 Interests 28 30 30 32 27 6 153 2003–2018 5.500 USD 250 203 224 Finance lease liabilities – the present value 57 363 263 349 327 502 1,861 Total at 31 Dec. 1,328 1,493 of minimum lease payments 309 328 Pension loans Repayments 74 74 74 74 74 – 370 Current portion 373 1 Interests 17 13 10 6 3 – 49 Non-current portion 955 1,492 91 87 84 80 77 – 419 Finance lease liabilities – the present value of minimum Finance lease liabilities lease payments Repayments 39 171 30 4 4 61 309 Fair value hedge of non-current interest-bearing Interests 6 6 1 1 1 2 17 As at 31 December 45 177 31 5 5 63 326 liabilities EURm 2013 2012 Other loans Fair value hedge accounting results in a cumulative fair value adjustment No later than 1 year 39 18 Repayments 1 2 2 2 1 150 158 totalling EUR 211 million (337 million), which has increased (increased) 1–5 years 209 245 Interests 6 6 6 6 3 63 90 the carrying amount of the liabilities. 7 8 8 8 4 213 248 Later than 5 years 61 65 Accordingly, the positive fair value of the hedging instruments, Total 309 328 Interest rate swaps (liabilities) Repayments 19 – – 67 4 18 108 excluding accrued interests, amounts EUR 229 million (352 million) in Interests –1 –1 –1 – 2 37 36 assets, and negative fair value of EUR 1 million (0 million) in liabilities. 18 –1 –1 67 6 55 144 The effect of the fair value hedge ineffectiveness on the income stateCurrent loans ment was profit EUR 2 million (loss EUR 4 million). 32 Other liabilities Repayments 49 49 As at 31 December Interests – – Net interest-bearing liabilities EURm 2013 2012 49 49 As at 31 December Derivative financial instruments 66 53 Guarantees, repayments 5 5 EURm 2013 2012 Other 1) 98 89 Non-current loans repayments excl. committed facilities 506 580 339 697 560 1,048 3,730 Total interest-bearing liabilities 4,128 4,141 Total 164 142 1) Consists mainly of non-current advances received and a put liability that is not As of 31 December 2012 the contractual maturity of interest-bearing liabilities Interest-bearing financial assets estimated to mature within 12 months. EURm 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018+ Total Non-current Bonds Loan receivables 11 19 Repayments – 379 – – 306 562 1,247 Derivative financial instruments 212 347 33 Trade and other payables Interests 76 76 55 55 55 258 575 Other receivables 31 31 76 455 55 55 361 820 1,822 254 397 As at 31 December Loans from financial institutions EURm 2013 2012 Current Repayments 110 30 323 223 307 327 1,320 Advances received 16 13 Loan receivables 9 4 Committed facilities – – – – – – – Trade payables 831 956 Interests 18 17 18 14 13 9 89 Other receivables 11 11 Derivative financial instruments 24 33 Accrued expenses and deferred income 414 440 128 47 341 237 320 336 1,409 Derivative financial instruments 85 48 Pension loans Cash and cash equivalents 790 486 Other current liabilities 73 109 Repayments 141 74 74 74 74 74 511 834 534 Total 1,419 1,566 Interests 22 17 13 10 6 3 71 Interest-bearing financial assets 1,088 931 163 91 87 84 80 77 582 Finance lease liabilities Trade and other payables mature within 12 months. Repayments 18 39 172 30 4 65 328 Net interest-bearing liabilities 3,040 3,210 Interests 6 6 6 1 1 4 24 24 45 178 31 5 69 352 Other loans Main items included in accrued expenses Repayments 2 2 2 2 2 188 198 Finance lease liabilities and deferred income Interests 9 6 6 6 6 69 102 As at 31 December 2013 the Group has one sale and leaseback agree11 8 8 8 8 257 300 ment and six finance lease agreements regarding power plant machinery. As at 31 December Interest rate swaps (liabilities) EURm 2013 2012 The Group uses the energy generated by these plants for its own producRepayments 74 – 12 – – 62 148 tion. The Group also has a finance lease arrangement over the usage of a Personnel expenses 188 181 Interests 27 1 – 1 1 24 54 waste water treatment plant. In addition, the Group leases certain proInterest expenses 35 39 101 1 12 1 1 86 202 Current loans duction assets and buildings under long term arrangements. Indirect taxes 8 8 Repayments 115 115 Other items 1) 183 212 Interests – – Total 414 440 115 115 1) Consists mainly of customer rebates. Guarantees, repayments 5 – – – – – 5 Non-current loans repayments excl. committed facilities 271 524 571 329 693 1,216 3,604 Amounts are based on the exchange rates and interest rates on the reporting date. The difference between the above listed cash-based repayment amounts and the respective balance sheet values mainly arise from fair value adjustments to balance sheet items. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 113 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 114 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 34 Financial instruments by category Financial Financial assets/ Available liabilities Carrying Financial 2012 liabilities at fair for sale Derivatives measured at amounts Financial assets/ Available liabilities Carrying EURm value through Loans and financial used for amortised by balance 2013 liabilities at fair for sale Derivatives measured at amounts Balance sheet item profit or loss receivables assets hedging cost sheet item Fair values Note EURm value through Loans and financial used for amortised by balance Balance sheet item profit or loss receivables assets hedging cost sheet item Fair values Note Non-current financial assets Non-current financial assets Available-for-sale investments – – 2,587 – – 2,587 2,587 22 Available-for-sale investments – – 2,661 – – 2,661 2,661 22 Non-current financial assets Non-current financial assets Loan receivables – 49 – – – 49 49 23 Loan receivables – 43 – – – 43 43 23 Derivative financial instruments 4 – – 388 – 392 392 23 Derivative financial instruments 3 – – 236 – 239 239 23 3,028 3,028 23 282 282 23 Current financial assets Current financial assets Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables – 1,655 – – – 1,655 1,655 26 Trade and other receivables – 1,568 – – – 1,568 1,568 26 Prepayments and accrued income – 131 – – – 131 131 26 Prepayments and accrued income – 154 – – – 154 154 26 Derivative financial instruments 89 – – 107 – 196 196 26 Derivative financial instruments 54 – – 172 – 226 226 26 1,982 1,982 1,948 1,948 Carrying amount by category 93 1,835 2,587 495 – 5,010 5,010 Carrying amount by category 57 1,765 2,661 408 – 4,891 4,891 Non-current financial liabilities Non-current financial liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Non-current interest-bearing Non-current interest-bearing liabilities – – – – 3,618 3,618 3,345 31 liabilities – – – – 3,385 3,385 3,489 31 Derivative financial instruments 82 – – 24 – 106 106 31 Derivative financial instruments 75 – – 25 – 100 100 31 3,724 3,451 31 3,485 3,589 31 Other liabilities Other liabilities Other liabilities – – – – 89 89 89 32 Other liabilities – – – – 98 98 98 32 Derivative financial instruments 6 – – 47 – 53 53 32 Derivative financial instruments 7 – – 59 – 66 66 32 142 142 32 164 164 32 Current financial liabilities Current financial liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities – – – – 384 384 384 31 Interest-bearing liabilities – – – – 561 561 561 31 Derivative financial instruments 33 – – – – 33 33 31 Derivative financial instruments 82 – – – – 82 82 31 417 417 31 643 643 31 Trade and other payables Trade and other payables Trade and other payables – – – – 1,078 1,078 1,078 33 Trade and other payables – – – – 920 920 920 33 Accrued expenses and deferred Accrued expenses and deferred income – – – – 440 440 440 33 income – – – – 414 414 414 33 Derivative financial instruments 15 – – 33 – 48 48 33 Derivative financial instruments 22 – – 63 – 85 85 33 1,566 1,566 1,419 1,419 Carrying amount by category 136 – – 104 5,609 5,849 5,576 Carrying amount by category 186 – – 147 5,378 5,711 5,815 Fair values of long-term loans, have been estimated as follows: The fair value of quoted bonds is based on the quoted market value as of 31 December. The fair value of fixed rate and market-based floating rate loans is estimated using the expected future payments discounted at market interest rates. The carrying amounts of current financial assets and liabilities approximate their fair value. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 115 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 116 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 35 Derivative financial instruments Group 37 Share-based payments The Performance Share Plan consists of annually commencing Subsidiaries, country of incorporation holding % three-year plans. The Plan is targeted to the Group Executive Team and Net fair values of derivative financial instruments nortrans Speditionsgesellschaft mbH, DE 100.00 other selected members of the management. Under the plan, UPM Share options OOO UPM-Kymmene, RU 100.00 shares are awarded based on the Group level performance for a three2013 2012 The Annual General Meeting held on 27 March 2007 approved the Positive NegaPositive NegaNet OOO UPM-Kymmene Chudovo, RU 100.00 year earning period. The shares earned are delivered after the earning Board of Directors’ proposal to issue share options to the Group’s key fair tive fair Net fair fair tive fair fair PT UPM Raflatac Indonesia, ID 100.00 period has closed. The earning criteria for 2011–2013, 2012–2014 and personnel. The number of options was no more than 15,000,000, entiEURm values values values values values values Rhein Papier GmbH, DE 100.00 2013–2015 are the operating cash flow and earnings per share (EPS). At tling subscription for a total of no more than 15,000,000 UPMSteyrermühl Sägewerksgesellschaft m.b.H. Nfg KG, AT 100.00 grant, the maximum number of shares payable under the plan for earnInterest rate swaps Kymmene Corporation shares. Of the share options, 5,000,000 were Tilhill Forestry Ltd, GB 100.00 ing period 2011–2013 is 813,000 shares, for earning period 2012–2014 Fair value hedges 183 –1 182 308 – 308 marked with the symbol 2007A, 5,000,000 are marked with the symbol UPM (China) Co., Ltd, CN 100.00 1,324,000 and for earning period 2013–2015 1,359,000. Held for trading 32 – 32 34 – 34 2007B and 5,000,000 are marked with the symbol 2007C. The subscripUPM AG, CH 100.00 The Deferred Bonus Plan is targeted to other key employees of the Forward foreign tion periods were 1 October 2010 to 31 October 2012 for share options UPM AS, EE 100.00 Group. Each plan consists of a one year earning period and a two-year exchange contracts 2007A, 1 October 2011 to 31 October 2013 for share options 2007B, and UPM Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd, SG 100.00 restriction period. During the restriction period, prior to the share delivCash flow hedges 60 –18 42 42 –14 28 1 October 2012 to 31 October 2014 for share options 2007C. UPM France S.A.S., FR 100.00 ery, the share rewards earned are adjusted with dividends and other capiNet equity hedges 18 – 18 23 – 23 The share subscription price is the trade volume weighted average UPM GmbH, DE 100.00 tal distribution, if any, paid to all shareholders. For the earning periods Held for trading 23 –31 –8 35 –42 –7 quotation of the share on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd, from 1 UPM Manufatura e Comércio de Produtos Florestais Ltda, BR 100.00 2011, 2012 and 2013 the share incentives are based on the participants' Currency options April to 31 May 2008 for share option 2007A i.e. EUR 12.40 per share, UPM Raflatac (Changshu) Co., Ltd, CN 100.00 short-term incentive targets. The number of shares, to which the bonuses Held for trading, bought – – – – – – from 1 April to 31 May 2009 for share option 2007B i.e. EUR 6.24 per UPM Raflatac (S) Pte Ltd, SG 100.00 give an entitlement to, will be based on the trade volume weighted averHeld for trading, written – – – – – – share and from 1 April to 31 May 2010 for share option 2007C i.e. EUR UPM Raflatac Canada Holdings Inc., CA 100.00 age share price during the five trading days immediately following the Cross currency swaps 10.49 per share. UPM Raflatac Co., Ltd, TH 100.00 publication of UPM’s financial result for the year. Assuming the 2013 Cash flow hedges – –24 –24 – –24 –24 The share subscription period for share options 2007A ended on 31 UPM Raflatac Iberica S.A., ES 100.00 year-end share price of EUR 12.28 the estimated number of the shares Fair value hedges 46 – 46 44 – 44 October 2012. During the entire share subscription period 300 shares UPM Raflatac Inc., US 100.00 under the plan for earning period 2013 is approximately 254,000 shares. Held for trading – –135 –135 23 –82 –59 were subscribed with share options 2007A. Commodity Contracts UPM Raflatac Mexico S.A. de C.V., MX 100.00 The number of the shares to be delivered under the plan for earning The share subscription period for share options 2007B ended on 31 Cash flow hedges 101 –104 –3 78 –66 12 UPM Raflatac NZ Limited, NZ 100.00 period 2012 is approximately 640,000 shares and for 2011 approximately October 2013. During the entire share subscription period 4,330,009 Held for trading 2 –20 –18 1 –12 –11 UPM Raflatac Oy, FI 100.00 335,000 shares, excluding eventual dividend adjustment. shares were subscribed with share options 2007B. UPM Raflatac Pty Ltd, AU 100.00 The above indicated estimates of the maximum share rewards repreInterest rate forward UPM Raflatac s.r.l., AR 100.00 sent the gross value of the rewards of which the applicable taxes will be contracts Share-based rewards deducted before the shares are delivered to the participants. The amount Held for trading – – – – – – UPM Raflatac Sdn. Bhd., MY 100.00 The Group's long-term incentives as of 2011 consist of the Performance of estimated payroll tax accruals recognised as liabilities were EUR 6.9 Total 465 –333 132 588 –240 348 UPM Raflatac South Africa (Pty) Ltd, ZA 100.00 Share Plan and the Deferred Bonus Plan. million (1.8 million). UPM Raflatac Sp.z.o.o., PL 100.00 No derivative financial instruments are subject to offsetting in the UPM S.A., UY 91.00 Group's financial statements. All derivative financial instruments are UPM Sales GmbH, DE 100.00 under ISDA or similar master netting agreement. UPM Sales Oy, FI 100.00 Net fair values calculated by counterparty UPM Silvesta Oy, FI 100.00 UPM Sähkönsiirto Oy, FI 100.00 As at 31 December UPM-Kymmene (UK) Ltd, GB 100.00 Positive Negative Net fair UPM-Kymmene A/S, DK 100.00 Changes in the numbers of share options granted EURm fair values fair values values UPM-Kymmene AB, SE 100.00 2013 2012 Derivative financial instruments 248 –116 132 UPM-Kymmene Austria GmbH, AT 100.00 Weighted average Number of Weighted average Number of UPM-Kymmene B.V., NL 100.00 exercise price, EUR share options exercise price, EUR share options Notional amounts of derivative financial instruments UPM-Kymmene Inc., US 100.00 Outstanding 1 Jan. 8.71 7,734,478 9.71 13,437,750 As at 31 December UPM-Kymmene India Private Limited, IN 100.00 Share options granted – – – – EURm 2013 2012 UPM-Kymmene Japan K.K., JP 100.00 Share options forfeited – – 10.49 –299,000 Interest rate swaps 1,609 1,629 UPM-Kymmene Kagit Urunleri Sanayi ve Ticaret Ltd. Sti, TR 99.99 Share options exercised 6.24 –3,177,487 6.24 –1,151,572 Forward foreign exchange contracts 4,973 4,994 UPM-Kymmene Otepää AS, EE 100.00 Share options expired 6.24 –55,491 12.40 –4,252,700 Currency options 33 23 UPM-Kymmene S.A., ES 100.00 Outstanding 31 Dec. 10.49 4,501,500 8.71 7,734,478 Cross currency swaps 804 882 UPM-Kymmene Seven Seas Oy, FI 100.00 Exercisable share options 31 Dec. 4,501,500 7,734,478 Commodity contracts 490 400 UPM-Kymmene S.r.l., IT 100.00 Weighted average remaining contractual life was 10 and 17 months as at 31 December 2013 and 2012, respectively. Interest rate forward contracts 2,332 3,755 UPM-Kymmene Wood Oy, FI 100.00 Cash collaterals pledged for derivative contracts totalled EUR 10 million Werla Insurance Company Ltd, MT 100.00 Outstanding share option plans as at 31 December 2013 of which EUR 8 million relate to commodity contracts and EUR 2 Wisapower Oy, FI 89.98 million to interest rate forward contracts. Exercise price The table includes subsidiaries with sales exceeding EUR 2 million. Plan/Distribution Total number of Number of share Vesting of share options Class at 1 Jan. at 31 Dec. share options options granted Exercise period schedule Group 2007/2010 C 10.49 10.49 5,000,000 4,850,000 1.10.2012–31.10.2014 Vested 36 Principal subsidiaries and joint operations Joint operations, country of incorporation holding % as at 31 December 2013 Oy Alholmens Kraft Ab (Pohjolan Voima Oy, G serie), FI 27.88 Group EEVG Entsorgungsund EnergieverwertungsSubsidiaries, country of incorporation holding % gesellschaft m.b.H., AT 50.00 Blandin Paper Company, US 100.00 Järvi-Suomen Voima Oy (Pohjolan Voima Oy, G3 serie), FI 50.00 Forestal Oriental S.A., UY 100.00 Kainuun Voima Oy, FI 50.00 Gebrüder Lang GmbH Papierfabrik, DE 100.00 Kaukaan Voima Oy (Pohjolan Voima Oy, G9 serie), FI 54.00 LLC UPM Ukraine, UA 100.00 Kymin Voima Oy (Pohjolan Voima Oy, G2 serie), FI 76.00 MD Papier GmbH, DE 100.00 Madison Paper Industries, US 50.00 Rauman Biovoima Oy (Pohjolan Voima Oy, G4 serie), FI 71.95 Nordland Papier GmbH, DE 100.00 NorService GmbH, DE 100.00 CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 117 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 118 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 38 Related party transactions 39 Commitments and contingencies 700 million of penalty interest and approximately EUR 120 million of Operating lease commitments, alleged loss of profit. The Supplier’s previous monetary claim was where a Group company is the lessee approximately EUR 1.9 billion. TVO has considered and found the earThe Board of Directors and the Group Executive Team The Group leases office, manufacturing and warehouse space through Contingent liabilities lier claim by the Supplier to be unfounded and without merit. TVO will various non-cancellable operating leases. Certain contracts contain There have not been any material transactions between UPM and its The Group is a defendant or plaintiff in a number of legal proceedings scrutinise the new material and respond to it in due course. TVO has renewal options for various periods of time. members of the Board of Directors or the Group Executive Team (key incidental to its operations. These lawsuits primarily involve claims submitted a claim and defence in the arbitration proceedings concerning management personnel) or persons closely associated with these memarising from commercial law issues. the delay and the ensuing costs incurred in the Olkiluoto 3 project. The The future aggregate minimum lease payments under bers or organisations in which these individuals have control or signifiOn 31 March 2011, Metsähallitus (a Finnish state enterprise which quantification estimate of TVO’s costs and losses in the claim that TVO non-cancellable operating lease contracts cant influence. There are no loans granted to any members of the Board administers state-owned land) filed a claim for damages against UPM submitted in the arbitration in September 2012 was approximately EUR of Directors or the Group Executive Team at 31 December 2013 and and two other Finnish forest companies. The claim relates to the Finnish 1.8 billion, which included TVO’s actual claim and estimated part. The As at 31 December 2012. Shares and share options held by members of the Board of DirecMarket Court decision of 3 December 2009 whereby the defendants EURm 2013 2012 arbitration proceedings may continue for several years, and the claimed tors and members of the Group Executive Team are disclosed in pages were deemed to have breached competition rules in the Finnish roundand counter-claimed amounts may change. No receivables or provisions No later than 1 year 57 57 56 and 59. Remuneration to members of the Board of Directors and the wood market. In addition to Metsähallitus, individuals and companies, have been recorded by TVO on the basis of claims presented in the arbi1–2 years 42 45 Group Executive Team are disclosed in Note 7. as well as municipalities and parishes, have filed claims relating to the tration proceedings. 2–3 years 35 37 Market Court decision. The capital amount of all of the claims total 3–4 years 31 32 Associated companies and joint ventures EUR 208 million in the aggregate jointly and severally against UPM and Commitments 4–5 years 29 29 The Group’s recovered paper purchases in 2013 from associated compatwo other companies; alternatively and individually against UPM, this In the normal course of business, UPM enters into various agreements Later than 5 years 202 222 nies and joint ventures were close to 610,000 tonnes (590,000 tonnes). In represents EUR 38 million in the aggregate. In addition to the claims on providing financial or performance assurance to third parties. The maxiTotal 396 422 Finland, the Group organises its producer’s responsibility of recovered capital amounts, the claimants are also requesting compensation relating mum amounts of future payments for which UPM is liable is disclosed paper collection through Paperinkeräys Oy, in which the Group has to value added tax and interests. UPM considers all the claims in the table below under “Other commitments”. Capital commitments at the balance sheet date but not recognised 33.1% interest. Austria Papier Recycling G.m.b.H purchases recovered unfounded in their entirety. No provision has been made in UPM’s The Group has also entered into various agreements to provide in the financial statements; major commitments under construction paper in Austria, in which the Group has a 33.3% equity interest. LCI accounts for any of these claims. financial or performance assurance to third parties on behalf of certain listed below s.r.l. is an Italian recovered paper purchasing company in which the In November 2012, UPM commenced arbitration proceedings companies in which the Group has a non-controlling interest. These Commitment Group has a 50.0% interest. The purchases from those three companies against Metsäliitto Cooperative and Metsä Board Corporation due to agreements are entered into primarily to support or enhance the creditTotal as at 31 December represented approximately 64% (75%) of total recovered papers purchase their breaches of UPM’s tag-along rights under the shareholders’ agreeworthiness of these companies. The Group has no collateral or other EURm cost 2013 2012 amount from associated companies and joint ventures. Recovered paper ment concerning Metsä Fibre Oy in connection with the sale of the recourse provisions related to these guarantees. The maximum amounts Changshu PM3 390 381 388 purchases are based on market prices. shares in Metsä Fibre to Itochu Corporation. UPM claims jointly from of future payments by UPM on behalf of its associated companies Biorefinery/Kaukas 150 27 123 The balances with the Group's associated companies and joint venMetsäliitto and Metsä Board a capital amount of EUR 58.5 million in under these guarantees are disclosed in the table below under “GuaranPower plant/Schongau 85 40 74 tures are presented in Note 21. damages. Metsäliitto and Metsä Board sold a 24.9% holding in Metsä tees on behalf of associated companies”. It is the Group’s policy not to Modernisation of fibreline/Pietarsaari 13 11 – Fibre to Itochu Corporation for EUR 472 million. In connection with give guarantees on behalf of third parties. Pension Funds the transaction with Itochu, Metsäliitto exercised a call option to purIn Finland, UPM has a pension foundation, Kymin Eläkesäätiö, which chase UPM’s remaining 11% ownership in Metsä Fibre for EUR 150 Commitments is a separate legal entity. Pensions for about 8% of the Group’s Finnish million. The arbitral tribunal is expected to render its final decision dur40 Events after the balance sheet date As at 31 December employees are arranged through the foundation. In 2013 the contribuing Q1 2014. No receivables have been recorded by UPM on the basis of EURm 2013 2012 tions paid by UPM to the foundation amounted to EUR 11 million claims presented in the arbitration proceedings. On 22 January 2014, UPM announced that it will permanently close Neste Oil Oyj, a Finnish company producing traffic fuels (Neste), On own behalf (11 million). The foundation manages and invests the contributions paid down the UPM Docelles paper mill in France. The production ceased by has filed an action for declaratory judgment against UPM in June 2013 Mortgages and pledges 357 570 to the plan. The fair value of the foundation’s assets at 31 December the end of January. Employee information and consultation negotiations 2013 was EUR 337 million (300 million), of which 51% was in the form in the Helsinki District Court. Neste seeks a declaration from the court were completed on 13 December 2013 and the Social Plan was approved that Neste enjoys protection on the basis of its patent against the techOn behalf of others of equity instruments, 37% in the form of debt instruments and 12% by the French authorities on 13 January 2014. nology that Neste alleges UPM intends to use at the biorefinery which is Guarantees 5 5 invested in property and money market. Docelles mill employed 161 people and produced 160,000 tonnes of In the UK, all UPM Pension Schemes now operate under a single being constructed at UPM’s Kaukas mill site. The said action relates to uncoated woodfree papers annually. Charges of EUR 25 million have the same Neste patent concerning which UPM has filed an invalidation Other commitments, own Trust which is independent from the Company. The Trust consists of been recognised related to the restructuring of the mill in Q4 2013. claim in December 2012. The invalidation claim was filed as a proceOperating leases, due within 12 months 57 57 various Defined Benefit sections, all of which are closed to future accrual dural precautionary measure to avoid unfounded legal processes. UPM Operating leases, due after 12 months 339 365 and one common Defined Contribution section which is open to all considers Neste’s action to be without merit. Other commitments 141 123 UPM employees in the UK. The Group made contributions of EUR 5 In Finland, UPM is participating in a project to construct a new Total 899 1,120 million (5 million) to the Defined Benefit sections of the Scheme in 2013 and following completion of the triennial Actuarial Valuation in April nuclear power plant unit (Olkiluoto 3) through its shareholdings in Poh2013 has agreed to an increase in annual contributions from EUR 5 miljolan Voima Oy. Pohjolan Voima Oy is a majority shareholder of TeolMortgages and pledges 357 570 lion to EUR 6 million per annum with effect from March 2014. The next lisuuden Voima Oyj (TVO), holding 58.47% of its shares. UPM’s indirect Guarantees 5 5 UK actuarial valuation will be in April 2016. The fair value of the UK share of Olkiluoto 3 is approximately 31%. Originally the commercial Operating leases 396 422 Defined Benefit fund assets at 31 December 2013 was EUR 305 million electricity production of the Olkiluoto 3 plant was scheduled to start at Other commitments 141 123 (288 million), of which 66% was invested in equity instruments, 28% in the end of April 2009. The completion of the project, however, has been Total 899 1,120 debt instruments and 6% in property and money market. delayed. Based on the progress reports received from the AREVA-Siemens Consortium (Supplier), which is constructing Olkiluoto 3 under a Property under mortgages given as collateral for own commitments Subsidiaries and joint operations fixed-price turnkey contract, TVO has announced that it will prepare for include property, plant and equipment, industrial estates and forest land. the possibility that the start of regular electricity production may be In addition, UPM has committed to participate in the share issue The Group’s principal subsidiaries and joint operations are disclosed in postponed until the year 2016. The Supplier is responsible for the schedfrom Pohjolan Voima Oy to finance the Olkiluoto 3 nuclear power plant Note 36. ule. In December 2008, the Supplier initiated arbitration proceedings project. UPM’s total commitment of the share issue is EUR 119 million, before an International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) arbitration tribuof which EUR 31 million was paid in Q2 2013. The remaining part of nal in relation to the delay of Olkiluoto 3 and related costs. At the end the share issue will be implemented during the coming years based on of 2013, the Supplier submitted its updated claim to the ICC arbitration the financing needs of the project. proceedings concerning the delay of the project and the ensuing costs. The updated quantification until the end of June 2011, together with the earlier claim, is in total approximately EUR 2.7 billion. Among other things, the sum includes approximately EUR 70 million of payments delayed by TVO under the plant contract as well as approximately EUR CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 119 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 120 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Parent company accounts (Finnish Accounting Standards, FAS) Income statement Cash flow statement Balance sheet As at 31 December EURm Note 2013 2012 Year ended 31 Dec. Year ended 31 Dec. As at 31 December EURm Note 2013 2012 EURm Note 2013 2012 EURm Note 2013 2012 Turnover 1 3,715 4,132 Operating activities Equity and liabilities Change in inventories of finished goods and work Profit before extraordinary items 267 12 Assets Shareholders’ equity 11 in progress –4 –189 Financial income and expenses –59 –57 Non-current assets Share capital 890 890 Production for own use 7 14 Adjustments to operating profit 1 305 625 Intangible assets 7 Revaluation reserve 493 512 Other operating income 2 113 273 Change in working capital 2 227 223 Intangible rights 5 6 Reserve for invested non-restricted equity 1,226 1,207 Materials and services Interest paid –78 –102 Other capitalised expenditure 219 239 Retained earnings 1,446 1,886 Materials and consumables Dividends received 2 124 Advance payments 6 6 Profit/loss for the financial period 251 –124 Purchases during the financial period –2,377 –2,411 Interest received 19 33 Total intangible assets 230 251 Total equity 4,306 4,371 Change in inventories 17 –11 Other financial items 1 –26 External services –107 –154 Income taxes paid 3 –140 –48 Tangible assets 8 Appropriations –2,467 –2,576 Net cash generated from operating activities 544 784 Land and water areas 974 999 Accumulated depreciation difference 682 778 Personnel expenses 3 Buildings 460 471 Wages and salaries –372 –382 Investing activities Machinery and equipment 841 951 Provisions 12 Social security expenses Investments in tangible and intangible assets –199 –188 Other tangible assets 41 47 Provisions for pensions 17 21 Pension expenses –68 –69 Advance payments and construction Other provisions 46 47 Proceeds from sale of tangible and intangible Other social security expenses –20 –24 assets 79 182 in progress 142 65 Total provisions 63 68 –460 –475 Investments in shares and holdings –36 –972 Total tangible assets 2,458 2,533 Depreciation and value adjustments 4 Proceeds from sale of shares and holdings 4 156 Non-current liabilities 13 Depreciation according to plan –239 –265 Increase in other investments –11 –32 Investments 9 Bonds 822 1,247 Decrease in other investments 265 18 Holdings in Group companies 4,922 5,094 Loans from financial institutions 1,523 1,057 Value adjustments to goods held as non-current assets –25 –4 Net cash used in investing activities 102 –836 Receivables from Group companies 693 950 Pension loans 270 338 –264 –269 Holdings in participating interest Advances received – 1 Other operating costs and expenses 3 –432 –955 Financing activities companies 99 435 Other liabilities 145 185 Operating profit 208 –45 Increase in non-current liabilities 527 66 Receivables from participating Total non-current liabilities 2,760 2,828 Decrease in non-current liabilities –244 –868 interest companies 5 21 Financial income and expenses Increase or decrease in current liabilities –337 1,120 Other shares and holdings 562 172 Current liabilities 14 Income from investments held as non-current assets Share issue 20 8 Other receivables 31 14 Bonds 363 – Dividends from Group companies 2 9 Dividends paid –317 –315 Total investments 6,312 6,686 Loans from financial institutions 8 37 Dividends from participating Group contributions received and paid –70 –22 Pension loans 68 134 interest companies – 104 Net cash used in financing activities –421 –11 Total non-current assets 9,000 9,470 Advances received 6 1 Dividends from other shares and holdings – 11 Trade payables 303 270 Interest income from Group companies 10 23 Cash and cash equivalents Current assets Payables to Group companies 2,383 2,780 Other interest and financial income Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 351 414 Inventories Payables to participating interest Other interest income from Group companies 4 7 Change in cash and cash equivalents 225 –63 Raw materials and consumables 236 219 companies 7 26 Other interest income from other companies – 3 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 576 351 Finished products and goods 110 114 Other liabilities 30 136 Other financial income from Group Advance payments 35 33 Accruals and deferred income 296 265 companies 94 1 Total inventories 381 366 Total current liabilities 3,464 3,649 Other financial income from other companies 30 9 Notes to the cash flow statement Interest and other financial expenses Current receivables 10 Total liabilities 6,224 6,477 Interest expenses to Group companies –39 –38 1 Adjustments to operating profit Trade receivables 155 151 Interest expenses to other companies –39 –56 Depreciation 239 265 Receivables from Group companies 969 1,177 Other financial expenses to Group Gains and losses on sale of non-current assets 46 362 Receivables from participating companies – –13 Value adjustments on non-current assets 25 3 interest companies 13 12 Other financial expenses to other companies –3 –3 Change in provisions –5 –5 Loan receivables 2 1 Total financial income and expenses 59 57 Total 305 625 Other receivables 70 44 Profit before extraordinary items 267 12 Prepayments and accrued income 109 122 2 Change in working capital Total current receivables 1,318 1,507 Extraordinary items 5 Inventories –15 201 Extraordinary income 35 48 Current receivables 236 41 Cash and cash equivalents 576 351 Extraordinary expenses –31 –117 Current non-interest-bearing liabilities 6 –19 Total current assets 2,275 2,224 Total extraordinary items 4 –69 Total 227 223 Profit before appropriations and taxes 271 –57 Total assets 11,275 11,694 Total equity and liabilities 11,275 11,694 Appropriations 3 Taxes from sales of non-current assets are reported here on a net basis. Increase or decrease in accumulated depreciation difference 96 18 Income taxes 6 –116 –85 Profit/loss for the financial period 251 –124 CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 121 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 122 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Notes to the parent company financial statements 7 Intangible assets As at 31 Dec. EURm 2013 2012 As at 31 Dec. Machinery and equipment EURm 2013 2012 (All amounts in millions of euros unless otherwise stated.) Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 5,040 5,175 Intangible rights Increases 44 60 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 19 18 Decreases –93 –225 Increases 3 11 Transfers between balance sheet items 22 30 Accounting policies 4 Depreciation and value adjustments Decreases –3 –10 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 5,013 5,040 The parent company financial statements are prepared in accordance Year ended 31 Dec. Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 19 19 Accumulated depreciation at 1 Jan. –4,089 –4,107 with Finnish Accounting Standards. The main differences in accounting EURm 2013 2012 Accumulated depreciation at 1 Jan. –13 –12 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and transfers 92 207 policies between the Group and the parent company relate to the meaAccumulated depreciation on decreases and transfers 2 2 Depreciation according to plan Depreciation for the period –160 –186 surement of derivative financial instruments and biological assets and Depreciation for the period –3 –3 Intangible rights 3 3 Value adjustments –15 –3 the recognition of defined benefit obligations, revaluations and deferred Accumulated depreciation at 31 Dec. –14 –13 Other capitalised expenditure 36 35 Accumulated depreciation at 31 Dec. –4,172 –4,089 income taxes. See Notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note 1. Buildings 33 34 Book value at 31 Dec. 5 6 Book value at 31 Dec. 841 951 Machinery and equipment 160 186 Other tangible assets 7 7 Other capitalised expenditure Other tangible assets 1 Turnover Total 239 265 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 522 483 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 199 199 Increases 12 32 Increases 1 1 Value adjustments Decreases –4 –5 Owing to the corporate structure of the Group, the turnover of the Decreases –1 –1 Non-current assets 25 4 Transfers between balance sheet items 5 12 parent company has not been divided by segment and destination. See Transfers between balance sheet items 1 – Total 264 269 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 535 522 Notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note 4. Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 200 199 Accumulated depreciation at 1 Jan. –283 –253 Accumulated depreciation at 1 Jan. –152 –146 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and transfers 3 5 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and transfers 1 1 5 Extraordinary items Depreciation for the period –36 –35 Depreciation for the period –7 –7 2 Other operating income Accumulated depreciation at 31 Dec. –316 –283 Value adjustments –1 – Year ended 31 Dec. Year ended 31 Dec. Book value at 31 Dec. 219 239 Accumulated depreciation at 31 Dec. –159 –152 EURm 2013 2012 EURm 2013 2012 Book value at 31 Dec. 41 47 Gains on sale of non-current assets 94 251 Extraordinary income Advance payments Rental income 15 15 Group contributions received 35 48 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 6 14 Advance payments and construction in progress Gains on sale of emission rights 1) 1 3 Total 35 48 Increases 5 5 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 65 37 Other 3 4 Decreases – –1 Increases 112 65 Total 113 273 Extraordinary expenses Transfers between balance sheet items –5 –12 Transfers between balance sheet items –35 –37 Group contributions paid –31 –117 Book value at 31 Dec. 6 6 Book value at 31 Dec. 142 65 1) Emissions trading rights are accounted for on a net basis. Total –31 –117 Total extraordinary items 4 –69 3 Personnel expenses and other operating 8 Tangible assets 9 Investments costs and expenses 6 Income taxes As at 31 Dec. As at 31 Dec. EURm 2013 2012 EURm 2013 2012 Year ended 31 Dec. Year ended 31 Dec. Land and water areas Holdings in Group companies EURm 2013 2012 EURm 2013 2012 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 492 499 Wages and salaries Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 6,163 5,236 Income taxes for the financial period 116 82 Increases 4 4 Increases 5 973 President and CEO, and members of Income taxes from the previous period – 3 Decreases –9 –11 Decreases –37 –46 the Board of Directors 2) 3 2 Total 116 85 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 487 492 Transfers between balance sheet items –22 – Other wages and salaries 369 380 Total 372 382 Revaluations at 1 Jan. 507 527 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 6,109 6,163 Deferred income taxes Reversal of revaluation –20 –20 Accumulated depreciation at 1 Jan. –1,069 –474 2) See Notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note 7. Revaluations at 31 Dec. 487 507 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities of the parent company are not Transfers between balance sheet items –1 – Book value at 31 Dec. 974 999 Value adjustments –117 –595 recorded on the balance sheet. Deferred tax liability mainly comprises Year ended 31 Dec. Accumulated depreciation at 31 Dec. –1,187 –1,069 depreciation differences, for which the deferred tax liability at 31 Decem2013 2012 Buildings Book value at 31 Dec. 4,922 5,094 ber 2013 was EUR 136 million at 20% tax rate (191 million at 24.5% tax Average number of personnel 6,410 6,945 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 1,177 1,173 rate). Deferred tax liability is not stated separately for revaluations. The Increases 19 11 potential tax liability arising from the sale of revalued asset is EUR 131 Value adjustments relate to holdings in Group companies in Finland and Decreases –2 –13 Owing to the corporate structure of the Group, the average number of personnel has million at 20% tax rate (164 million 24.5% tax rate). Deferred tax asset in foreign countries. Value adjustments are included in other operating Transfers between balance sheet items 12 6 not been divided by segment. See Notes to the consolidated financial statements, mainly comprises provisions, for which the deferred tax asset at 31 Decosts and expenses. The principal subsidiaries are disclosed in the conAcquisition cost at 31 Dec. 1,206 1,177 Note 4. cember 2013 was EUR 13 million at 20% tax rate (17 million at 24.5% solidated financial statements, Note 36. Accumulated depreciation at 1 Jan. –706 –681 tax rate). Year ended 31 Dec. Transfers between balance sheet items 2 10 EURm 2013 2012 Depreciation for the period –33 –34 As at 31 Dec. Value adjustments –9 –1 EURm 2013 2012 Auditor's fees 1.0 1.3 Accumulated depreciation at 31 Dec. –746 –706 Receivables from Group companies Book value at 31 Dec. 460 471 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 950 942 Increases 7 18 Decreases –264 –10 Book value at 31 Dec. 693 950 CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 123 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 124 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 As at 31 Dec. There were no loans granted to the company’s President and CEO, and 12 Provisions As at 31 Dec. EURm 2013 2012 members of the Board of Directors at 31 December 2013 or 2012. EURm 2013 2012 As at 31 Dec. Holdings in participating interest companies Main items included in accruals and deferred income EURm 2013 2012 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 332 332 10 Current receivables Personnel expenses 95 92 Transfers between balance sheet items –233 – Provisions for pensions 17 21 Interest expenses 38 42 As at 31 Dec. Restructuring provisions 13 16 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 99 332 Income taxes – 21 EURm 2013 2012 Environmental provisions 12 15 Revaluations at 1 Jan. 103 103 Derivative financial instruments 207 197 Transfers between balance sheet items –103 – Trade receivables 227 279 Other provisions 21 16 Customer rebates 1 2 Revaluations at 31 Dec. – 103 Loan receivables 872 1,055 Total at 31 Dec. 63 68 Other items 4 4 Book value at 31 Dec. 99 435 Other receivables 70 44 Changes of provisions are included in personnel and other operating At 31 Dec. 345 358 Prepayments and accrued income 149 129 expenses. Information of provisions is disclosed in the consolidated Receivables from participating interest companies Total at 31 Dec. 1,318 1,507 financial statements, Note 30. Payables to Group companies Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 21 3 Trade payables 43 46 Increases – 24 Main items included in prepayments and 13 Non-current liabilities Other liabilities 2,291 2,641 Decreases – –6 accrued income Accruals and deferred income 49 93 Personnel expenses 7 4 As at 31 Dec. Transfers between balance sheet items –16 – At 31 Dec. 2,383 2,780 Interest income 41 50 EURm 2013 2012 Book value at 31 Dec. 5 21 Derivative financial instruments 60 32 Bonds 822 1,247 Payables to participating interest companies Other shares and holdings Income taxes 2 – Loans from financial institutions 1,523 1,057 Trade payables 7 25 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 111 170 Other items 39 43 Pension loans 270 338 Other liabilities – 1 Increases 30 – At 31 Dec. 149 129 Advances received – 1 At 31 Dec. 7 26 Decreases – –59 Other liabilities 145 185 Transfers between balance sheet items 257 – Receivables from Group companies Total at 31 Dec. 2,760 2,828 Trade receivables 59 116 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec. 398 111 Loan receivables 870 1,054 Maturity of non-current liabilities 15 Contingent liabilities Revaluations at 1 Jan. 61 61 Transfers between balance sheet items 103 – Prepayments and accrued income 40 7 In 2–5 years As at 31 Dec. Revaluations at 31 Dec. 164 61 At 31 Dec. 969 1,177 Bonds 481 875 EURm 2013 2012 Book value at 31 Dec. 562 172 Loans from financial institutions 1,075 1,050 Mortgages 1) Receivables from participating interest companies Pension loans 270 338 As security against own debts 357 570 Other receivables Trade receivables 13 12 Advances received – 1 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan. 14 15 At 31 Dec. 13 12 1,826 2,264 Guarantees Increases 3 1 Later than 5 years Guarantees for loans Decreases –1 –2 Bonds 341 372 On behalf of Group companies 907 965 Transfers between balance sheet items 15 – Loans from financial institutions 448 7 On behalf of participating interest companies – 3 Book value at 31 Dec. 31 14 Other liabilities 145 185 Other guarantees 934 564 On behalf of Group companies 67 90 11 Shareholders’ equity Total at 31 Dec. 2,760 2,828 Other commitments2) Reserve for Leasing commitments for next year 22 21 invested Total Bonds Leasing commitments for subsequent years 146 160 Share Revaluation non-restricted Retained shareholders’ Interest Nominal As at 31 Dec. Other commitments 52 28 EURm capital reserve equity earnings equity rate value issued 2013 2012 Fixed-rate % m EURm EURm 1) The mortgages given relate mainly to giving mandatory security for borrowing Balance at 1 January 2012 890 532 1,199 2,202 4,823 from Finnish pension insurance companies. 1997–2027 7.450 USD 375 272 284 Share issue – – 8 8 2) Other commitments relate to production machinery, electricity purchases and 2000–2030 3.550 JPY 10,000 69 88 Dividend paid – – – –315 –315 trading. Revaluations – –20 – – –20 2002–2014 5.625 USD 500 363 379 Other items – – – –1 –1 2002–2017 6.625 GBP 250 300 306 Pension commitments of the President and CEO and the members of Loss for the financial period – – – –124 –124 2003–2018 5.500 USD 250 181 190 the Group Executive Team Balance at 31 December 2012 890 512 1,207 1,762 4,371 Total at 31 Dec. 1,185 1,247 See Notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note 7. Current portion 363 – Balance at 1 January 2013 890 512 1,207 1,762 4,371 Non-current portion 822 1,247 Other commitments Share issue – – 19 – 19 The commitment to participate in the share issue from Pohjolan Voima Dividend paid – – – –317 –317 Oy would total EUR 86 million. Revaluations – –19 – – –19 14 Current liabilities Other items – – – 1 1 Derivative contracts As at 31 Dec. Profit for the financial period – – – 251 251 Fair values and notional values are disclosed in the consolidated finanEURm 2013 2012 Balance at 31 December 2013 890 493 1,226 1,697 4,306 cial statements, Notes 35. All derivatives disclosed have been contracted Bonds 363 – by the parent Company. Loans from financial institutions 8 37 As at 31 Dec. Pension loans 68 134 Related party transactions EURm 2013 2012 Advances received 6 1 Trade payables 353 341 See Notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note 38. Distributable funds at 31 Dec. Reserve for invested non-restricted equity 1,226.4 1,206.5 Other liabilities 2,321 2,778 Retained earnings from previous years 1,446.0 1,886.2 Accruals and deferred income 345 358 Profit/loss for the financial period 251.3 –123.6 Total at 31 Dec. 3,464 3,649 Distributable funds at 31 Dec. 2,923.7 2,969.1 CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 125 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 126 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Information on shares Changes in number of shares 1 January 2009 – 31 December 2013 Biggest registered shareholders at 31 December 2013 Shares at Number of shares 31 December 2013 % of shares % of votes 2008 Number of shares at 31 Dec. 2008 519,970,088 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 11,574,488 2.19 2.19 2009 Options exercised – Number of shares at 31 Dec. 2009 519,970,088 IImarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 10,369,552 1.96 1.96 2010 Options exercised – Number of shares at 31 Dec. 2010 519,970,088 Mandatum Life Insurance Company 9,531,219 1.80 1.80 2011 Share issue 5,000,000 The State Pension Fund 4,730,000 0.89 0.89 Options exercised 2,750 Number of shares at 31 Dec. 2011 524,972,838 The Local Government Pensions Institution 4,521,794 0.85 0.85 2012 Options exercised 1,151,572 Svenska litteratursällskapet i Finland 3,868,600 0.73 0.73 Number of shares at 31 Dec. 2012 526,124,410 2013 Options exercised 3,177,487 Pension Fennia 3,450,600 0.65 0.65 Number of shares at 31 Dec. 2013 529,301,897 Swiss National Bank 3,318,495 0.63 0.63 Etera Mutual Pension Insurance Company 2,658,612 0.50 0.50 Skagen Global Verdipapirfond 1,796,493 0.34 0.34 Stock exchange trading Shares and options held by the Board of Directors and Nominees & registered foreign owners 320,089,242 60.47 60.47 UPM’s shares are listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd. The compathe Group Executive Team ny’s ADSs are traded on the U.S. over-the-counter (OTC) market under At the end of the year, the members of the Board of Directors ­including Others 153,392,902 28.99 28.99 a Level 1 sponsored American Depositary Receipt programme. President and CEO owned a total of 946,727 (896,192 ) UPM-Kymmene A total of 563.4 million UPM-Kymmene Corporation shares were Corporation shares, including shares held by persons closely associated traded on the Helsinki stock exchange in 2013 (601.0 million). This repwith him or her or by organisations of which the person has control. Total 529,301,897 100.00 100.00 resented 106.7% (114.4%) of the total number of shares. The highest These represent 0.18% (0.17%) of the shares and 0.18% (0.17%) of the quotation was EUR 13.02 in November and the lowest EUR 7.30 in voting rights . At the end of the year, President and CEO Jussi Pesonen June. The total value of shares traded in 2013 was EUR 5,308 million owned 195,294 shares and 200,000 share ­options. Exercise of these (5,534 million). options would increase the number of the company’s shares by 200,000, During 2013, the company received the following notifications of changlending transaction where Norges Bank is the lender. UPM has received During the year, 2.9 million 2007B share options were traded for which at 31 December 2013 would have represented 0.04% of the comes in holdings pursuant to Chapter 9, Section 10 of the Securities Maran announcement according to which BlackRock Inc.’s indirect holding EUR 8.2 million (3.3 million, EUR 9.5 million) and 5.4 million 2007C pany’s shares and voting rights. ket Act: UPM has received an announcement according to which Blackin UPM has gone above the threshold of 5% on 9 April 2013. UPM has share options were traded for EUR 6.1 million (0.2 million, EUR 0.1 At the end of the year, the other members of the Group Executive Rock Inc.’s indirect holding in UPM has fallen below the threshold of received an announcement according to which Norges Bank’s holding in million). Team owned a total of 249,278 shares and 245,875 share options. Exer5% of UPM's shares and voting rights on 15 February 2013. UPM has UPM has exceeded the threshold of 5% on 12 April 2013 after a share cise of these options would increase the number of the company’s shares received an announcement according to which BlackRock Inc.’s indirect lending transaction where Norges Bank is the lender. UPM has received Treasury shares by 245,875 which at 31 December 2013 would have represented 0.05% of holding in UPM has gone above the threshold of 5% on 21 February an announcement according to which BlackRock, Inc.’s indirect holding As at 31 December 2013, the company held 230,737 (230,737) of its own the company’s shares and voting rights. 2013. UPM has received an announcement according to which Blackin UPM has gone below the threshold of 5% on 16 April 2013. UPM has shares, 0.04% (0.04%) of the total number of shares. Of these shares Rock Inc.’s indirect holding in UPM has fallen below the threshold of received an announcement according to which BlackRock, Inc.’s indirect 211,481 were returned upon their issue to UPM without consideration as 5% on 25 February 2013. UPM has received an announcement accordholding in UPM has gone above the threshold of 5% on 17 April 2013. part of Myllykoski transaction and 19,256 shares in accordance with the ing to which BlackRock Inc.’s indirect holding in UPM has gone above UPM has received an announcement according to which BlackRock, Group's share reward scheme due to the termination of employment the threshold of 5% on 27 February 2013. UPM has received an anInc.’s indirect holding in UPM has gone below the threshold of 5% on contracts. nouncement according to which BlackRock Inc.’s indirect holding in 10 May 2013. UPM has received an announcement according to which UPM has fallen below the threshold of 5% on 28 February 2013. UPM BlackRock, Inc.’s indirect holding in UPM has gone above the threshold has received an announcement according to which BlackRock Inc.’s of 5% on 18 June 2013. UPM has received an announcement according indirect holding in UPM has gone above the threshold of 5% on 5 to which BlackRock, Inc.’s indirect holding in UPM has gone below the March 2013. UPM has received an announcement according to which threshold of 5% on 19 July 2013. UPM has received an announcement BlackRock Inc.’s indirect holding in UPM has fallen below the threshold according to which JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s indirect holding in UPM of 5% on 19 March 2013. UPM has received an announcement accordhas exceeded the threshold of 5% on 5 November 2013. ing to which Norges Bank’s (The Central Bank of Norway) holding in UPM has fallen below the threshold of 5% on 4 April 2013 after a share CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 127 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 128 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Share price in 2013 Equity per share Monthly average share price and Distribution of shareholders at 31 December 2013 shares traded 1–12/2013 EUR Number of % of shareNumber of % of EUR EUR % of all shares Size of shareholding shareholders holders shares, million shares 14 15 15 15 12 1 – 100 20,697 21.89 1.3 0.2 12 12 12 101 – 1,000 53,247 56.30 22.7 4.3 10 9 9 9 1,001 – 10,000 18,928 20.02 52.4 9.9 10,001 – 100,000 1,531 1.62 36.5 6.9 8 6 6 100,001 – 165 0.17 106.8 20.2 6 Total 94,568 100.00 219.7 41.5 6 3 3 3 4 Nominee-registered 309.4 58.5 0 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 09 10 11 12 13 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Not registered as book entry units 0.2 0.0 Total 529.3 100.0 ■ Monthly average share price, EUR Shares traded, % UPM share price 2009–2013 Earning and dividend per share Market capitalisation compared with indices Shareholder breakdown by sector at 31 December, % EUR EUR EURm 20 1.5 7,500 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 16 1.2 6,000 Companies 3.2 4.3 4.2 4.1 3.8 Financial institutions and insurance companies 4.1 5.4 6.5 5.1 4.6 12 0.9 4,500 Public bodies 7.8 7.9 11.3 9.8 8.5 Non-profit organisations 5.7 6.2 6.3 6.4 6.3 8 0.6 3,000 Households 18.7 19.9 19.9 18.4 17.5 0.3 Non-Finnish nationals 60.5 56.3 51.8 56.2 59.3 4 1,500 Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 0 0.0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 UPM share price DJ STOXX 600 (rebased) -2.39 NASDAQ OMX Helsinki (rebased) ■ Earnings per share ■ Dividend per share (2013: proposal) UPM’s share option programmes Exercise price per share Shares traded on Helsinki stock exchange 2009–2013 Dividend per share (EUR) and Number of Number of at date of issue at 31 Dec. 2013 Options exercised dividend to earnings ratio (%) Options options shares EUR EUR Subscription period 2013 EURm % EURm % 2007C 5,000,000 5,000,000 10.49 10.49 1.10.2012–31.10.2014 1,500 2,000 25 1.25 200 1,600 20 1.00 160 1,200 15 0.75 120 800 10 0.50 80 400 5 0.25 40 0 0 0.00 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 09 10 11 12 13 ■ Monthly trading in UPM shares on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki, EURm ■ Dividend per share (2013: proposal) Trading in UPM shares as % of total number of shares Dividend to earnings ratio, % (2012 : neg.) Charts in this page are unaudited. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 129 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 130 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Key figures 2004–2013 Adjusted share-related indicators 2004–2013 Financial indicators 2004–2013 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 EURm 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Earnings per share, EUR (diluted 2013: 0.63) 0.63 –2.14 0.88 1.08 0.33 –0.35 0.16 0.65 0.50 1.76 Equity per share, EUR 14.08 14.18 14.22 13.64 12.67 11.74 13.21 13.90 14.01 14.46 Sales 10,054 10,492 10,068 8,924 7,719 9,461 10,035 10,022 9,348 9,820 Dividend per share, EUR 1) 0.60 0.60 0.60 0.55 0.45 0.40 0.75 0.75 0.75 0.75 EBITDA 1,155 1,312 1,383 1,343 1,062 1,206 1,546 1,678 1,428 1,435 Dividend to earnings ratio, % 95.2 neg. 68.2 50.9 136.4 neg. 468.8 115.4 150.0 42.6 % of sales 11.5 12.5 13.7 15.0 13.8 12.7 15.4 16.7 15.3 14.6 Effective dividend yield, % 4.9 6.8 7.1 4.2 5.4 4.4 5.4 3.9 4.5 4.6 Operating profit, excluding special items 683 556 682 731 270 513 835 725 558 470 P/E ratio 19.5 neg. 9.7 12.2 25.2 neg. 86.4 29.4 33.1 8.9 % of sales 6.8 5.3 6.8 8.2 3.5 5.4 8.3 7.2 6.0 4.8 Operating cash flow per share, EUR 1.39 1.98 1.99 1.89 2.42 1.21 1.66 2.32 1.63 1.90 Operating profit 548 –1,318 459 755 135 24 483 536 318 685 Dividend distribution, EURm 1) 317 317 315 286 234 208 384 392 392 393 % of sales 5.5 –12.6 4.6 8.5 1.7 0.3 4.8 5.3 3.4 7.0 Share price at 31 Dec., EUR 12.28 8.81 8.51 13.22 8.32 9.00 13.82 19.12 16.56 16.36 Profit (loss) before tax 475 –1,271 417 635 187 –201 292 367 257 556 Market capitalisation, EURm 6,497 4,633 4,466 6,874 4,326 4,680 7,084 10,005 8,665 8,578 % of sales 4.7 –12.1 4.1 7.1 2.4 –2.1 2.9 3.7 2.7 5.7 Shares traded, EURm 2) 5,308 5,534 8,835 8,243 5,691 10,549 16,472 16,021 11,358 9,731 Profit (loss) for the period 335 –1,122 457 561 169 –180 81 338 261 920 Shares traded (1,000s) 563,382 600,968 790,967 790,490 805,904 932,136 952,300 876,023 697,227 625,950 % of sales 3.3 –10.69 4.5 6.3 2.2 –1.9 0.8 3.4 2.8 9.4 Shares traded, % of all shares 106.7 114.4 151.5 152.0 155.0 180.1 182.1 167.4 133.6 119.5 Exports from Finland and foreign operations 9,089 9,565 9,252 8,139 7,054 8,515 9,170 9,102 8,397 8,791 Lowest quotation, EUR 7.30 7.82 7.34 7.37 4.33 8.15 13.01 15.36 15.05 14.44 Exports from Finland 4,118 4,248 4,313 3,882 3,442 4,371 4,546 4,644 4,006 4,301 Highest quotation, EUR 13.02 10.98 15.73 13.57 9.78 13.87 20.59 20.91 18.15 17.13 Average quotation for the period, EUR 9.42 9.21 11.17 10.43 7.06 11.32 17.30 18.29 16.29 15.55 Non-current assets 10,487 11,066 11,412 10,557 10,581 10,375 10,639 11,355 12,321 12,802 Number of shares, average (1,000s) 527,818 525,434 521,965 519,970 519,955 517,545 522,867 523,220 522,029 523,641 Inventories 1,327 1,388 1,429 1,299 1,112 1,354 1,342 1,255 1,256 1,138 Number of shares at end of period (1,000s) 529,302 526,124 524,973 519,970 519,970 519,970 512,569 523,259 523,093 524,450 Other current assets 2,785 2,489 2,548 1,956 1,912 2,052 1,972 1,859 1,964 1,887 Assets, total 14,599 14,943 15,389 13,812 13,605 13,781 13,953 14,469 15,541 15,827 Formulae for calculating indicators are given on page 134. Total equity 7,455 7,461 7,477 7,109 6,602 6,120 6,783 7,289 7,348 7,612 1) Proposal. Non-current liabilities 5,019 5,430 5,320 4,922 5,432 5,816 4,753 4,770 5,845 5,966 Current liabilities 2,125 2,052 2,588 1,781 1,571 1,828 2,417 2,410 2,348 2,249 2) Trading on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki stock exchange. Treasury shares bought by the company are included in shares traded. Total equity and liabilities 14,599 14,943 15,389 13,812 13,605 13,781 13,953 14,469 15,541 15,827 Capital employed at year end 11,583 11,603 12,110 11,087 11,066 11,193 11,098 11,634 12,650 12,953 Return on equity, % 4.5 neg. 6.3 8.2 2.8 neg. 1.2 4.6 3.5 12.6 Return on capital employed, % 4.8 neg. 4.4 6.6 3.2 0.2 4.3 4.7 3.4 6.0 Cash flow from operating activities 735 1,040 1,041 982 1,259 628 867 1,215 853 997 Equity to assets ratio, % 51.1 50.0 48.6 51.5 48.6 44.5 48.8 50.4 47.3 48.2 Gearing ratio, % 41 43 48 46 56 71 59 56 66 61 Net interest-bearing liabilities 3,040 3,210 3,592 3,286 3,730 4,321 3,973 4,048 4,836 4,617 Capital expenditure 362 357 1,179 257 913 551 708 699 749 686 % of sales 3.6 3.4 11.7 2.9 11.8 5.8 7.1 7.0 8.0 7.0 Capital expenditure excluding acquisitions 329 347 340 252 229 532 683 631 705 645 % of sales 3.3 3.3 3.4 2.8 3.0 5.6 6.8 6.3 7.5 6.6 Personnel at year end 20,950 22,180 23,909 21,869 23,213 24,983 26,352 28,704 31,522 33,433 Formulae for calculating indicators are given on page 134. Deliveries and production Deliveries Production 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Pulp (1,000 t) 3,163 3,128 2,992 2,919 1,759 1,982 1,927 Electricity (GWh) 8,925 9,486 8,911 9,426 8,865 10,167 10,349 Papers, total (1,000 t) 10,288 10,871 10,615 9,914 9,021 10,641 11,389 10,988 10,172 10,886 Plywood (1,000 m3) 737 679 656 638 567 806 945 931 827 969 Sawn timber (1,000 m3) 1,661 1,696 1,683 1,729 1,497 2,132 2,325 2,457 2,016 2,409 CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 131 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 132 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Quarterly figures 2012–2013 Calculation of key indicators EURm Q4/13 Q3/13 Q2/13 Q1/13 Q4/12 Q3/12 Q2/12 Q1/12 Q1–Q4/13 Q1–Q4/12 Sales 2,588 2,472 2,520 2,474 2,657 2,595 2,632 2,608 10,054 10,492 Formulae for calculation of finanFormulae for calculation of adjustOther operating income 5 28 –10 37 37 14 41 18 60 110 cial indicators ed share-related i­ndicators Costs and expenses –2,365 –2,190 –2,245 –2,291 –2,401 –2,350 –2,337 –2,265 –9,091 –9,353 Change in fair value of biological assets and Return on equity, %: Earnings per share: wood harvested 37 11 14 6 32 13 1 –1 68 45 Profit before tax – income taxes Profit for the period attributable to owners x 100 Share of results of associated companies and Total equity (average) of the parent company joint ventures – 1 1 – –1 1 1 1 2 2 Adjusted average number of shares during the Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges –131 –135 –134 –145 –1,983 –200 –230 –201 –545 –2,614 Return on capital employed, %: period excluding treasury shares Operating profit (loss) 134 187 146 81 –1,659 73 108 160 548 –1,318 Profit before tax + interest expenses and Gains on available-for-sale investments, net – 1 – – 2 –2 34 4 1 38 other financial expenses Equity per share: Exchange rate and fair value gains and losses – – 5 5 –2 8 –3 8 10 11 x 100 Total equity + interest-bearing Equity attributable to owners of Interest and other finance costs, net –19 –22 –23 –20 –31 –27 82 –26 –84 –2 liabilities (average) the parent company Profit (loss) before tax 115 166 128 66 –1,690 52 221 146 475 –1,271 Adjusted number of shares at end of period Income taxes –79 –28 –14 –19 204 –16 –13 –26 –140 149 Equity to assets ratio, %: Profit (loss) for the period 36 138 114 47 –1,486 36 208 120 335 –1,122 Dividend per share: Total equity Attributable to: x 100 Balance sheet total – advances received Dividend distribution Owners of the parent company 36 138 114 47 –1,486 36 208 120 335 –1,122 Adjusted number of shares at end of period Non-controlling interest – – – – – – – – – – 36 138 114 47 –1,486 36 208 120 335 –1,122 Net interest-bearing liabilities: Dividend to earnings ratio, %: Basic earnings per share, EUR 0.06 0.26 0.22 0.09 –2.83 0.07 0.39 0.23 0.63 –2.14 Interest-bearing liabilities – interest-bearing assets Dividend per share Diluted earnings per share, EUR 0.06 0.26 0.22 0.09 –2.82 0.07 0.39 0.23 0.63 –2.13 x 100 Earnings per share, excluding special items, EUR 0.27 0.26 0.20 0.18 0.20 0.16 0.16 0.22 0.91 0.74 Earnings per share Average number of shares basic (1,000) 528,887 528,211 527,922 526,252 525,649 525,592 525,592 524,903 527,818 525,434 Gearing ratio, %: Average number of shares diluted (1,000) 528,329 528,155 528,158 526,631 526,264 526,703 526,408 526,528 527,818 526,476 Net interest-bearing liabilities Effective dividend yield, %: x 100 Special items in operating profit (loss) –73 –7 8 –63 –1,805 –53 –20 4 –135 –1,874 Total equity Adjusted dividend per share x 100 Operating profit (loss), excl. special items 207 194 138 144 146 126 128 156 683 556 Adjusted share price at 31.12. % of sales 8.0 7.8 5.5 5.8 5.5 4.9 4.9 6.0 6.8 5.3 EBITDA: Special items in financial items – – – – –8 – 140 – – 132 P/E ratio: Operating profit + depreciation + amortisation Special items before tax –73 –7 8 –63 –1,813 –53 120 4 –135 –1,742 of goodwill + impairment +/– change in value of Adjusted share price at 31.12. Profit (loss) before tax, excl. special items 188 173 120 129 123 105 101 142 610 471 biological assets +/– share of results of associated Earnings per share % of sales 7.3 7.0 4.8 5.2 4.6 4.0 3.8 5.4 6.1 4.5 companies +/– special items Impact on taxes from special items –31 6 – 15 222 5 3 – –10 230 Market capitalisation: Return on equity, excl. special items, % 7.5 7.5 5.7 5.1 4.6 3.5 3.6 4.9 6.4 4.2 Return on capital employed (ROCE) for the Total number of shares x share price at end of Return on capital employed, excl. special items, % 7.2 6.8 4.9 5.1 4.3 3.7 3.7 5.0 6.0 4.2 segments (operating capital), %: period EBITDA 302 311 258 284 317 313 325 357 1,155 1,312 Operating profit – special items x 100 % of sales 11.7 12.6 10.2 11.5 11.9 12.1 12.3 13.7 11.5 12.5 Non-current assets + stocks + trade Adjusted share price at end of period: receivables – trade payables (average) Share price at end of period Sales by segment Share issue coefficient UPM Biorefining 497 484 512 495 468 477 512 513 1,988 1,970 UPM Energy 115 109 110 132 134 118 101 129 466 482 UPM Raflatac 298 307 309 299 301 305 298 298 1,213 1,202 Adjusted average share price: UPM Paper Asia 268 274 289 277 280 290 285 276 1,108 1,131 Total value of shares traded UPM Paper ENA 1,445 1,392 1,358 1,365 1,563 1,533 1,558 1,538 5,560 6,192 Adjusted number of shares traded during period UPM Plywood 112 98 111 108 99 94 103 97 429 393 Other operations 120 117 128 125 134 123 141 142 490 540 Operating cash flow per share: Internal sales –259 –283 –292 –297 –297 –329 –350 –382 –1,131 –1,358 Cash from operating activities Eliminations and reconciliations –8 –26 –5 –30 –25 –16 –16 –3 –69 –60 Adjusted average number of shares during the Sales, total 2,588 2,472 2,520 2,474 2,657 2,595 2,632 2,608 10,054 10,492 period excluding treasury shares Operating profit (loss) excl.special items by segment UPM Biorefining 66 67 97 70 48 56 83 61 300 248 UPM Energy 45 40 46 55 63 51 43 60 186 217 Key exchange rates for the euro at end of period UPM Raflatac 16 22 19 18 14 22 22 23 75 81 31.12.2013 30.9.2013 30.6.2013 31.3.2013 31.12.2012 30.9.2012 30.6.2012 31.3.2012 UPM Paper Asia 16 20 22 22 22 22 25 32 80 101 UPM Paper ENA 31 29 –23 –37 –35 –28 –21 3 – –81 USD 1.3791 1.3505 1.3080 1.2805 1.3194 1.2930 1.2590 1.3356 UPM Plywood 9 1 7 4 2 –3 4 –1 21 2 CAD 1.4671 1.3912 1.3714 1.3021 1.3137 1.2684 1.2871 1.3311 Other operations 27 5 3 –10 17 9 –3 –6 25 17 JPY 144.72 131.78 129.39 120.87 113.61 100.37 100.13 109.56 Eliminations and reconciliations –3 10 –33 22 15 –3 –25 –16 –4 –29 GBP 0.8337 0.8361 0.8572 0.8456 0.8161 0.7981 0.8068 0.8339 Operating profit (loss) excl. special items, total 207 194 138 144 146 126 128 156 683 556 SEK 8.8591 8.6575 8.7773 8.3553 8.5820 8.4498 8.7728 8.8455 % of sales 8.0 7.8 5.5 5.8 5.5 4.9 4.9 6.0 6.8 5.3 CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 133 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 ACCOUNTS 65–135 134 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Corporate Governance Statement 2013 Auditor’s report UPM complies with all recommendations of the Finnish Corporate Governance This is UPM-Kymmene Corporation’s Corporate Governance Statement for the financial year (Translation from the Finnish Original) Code issued by the Securities Market Association, which entered into force on 1 October 2010 and which is publicly available on the Securities Market 2013. The statement has been reviewed by UPM’s Audit Committee and PricewaterhouseAssociation’s website www.cgfinland.fi. Coopers Oy, UPM’s auditor, has checked that the statement has been issued and that the description To the Annual General Meeting of UPM-Kymmene Corporation An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence of the main features of the internal control and risk about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the management systems relating to the financial We have audited the accounting records, the financial statements, the report report of the Board of Directors. The procedures selected depend on the reporting process is consistent with the Financial of the Board of Directors and the administration of UPM-Kymmene Corpoauditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material UPM-Kymmene Corporation’s Corporate Governance Statement for the financial year 2013 has Statements. A more comprehensive description of ration for the year ended 31 December, 2013. The financial statements commisstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessbeen prepared in accordance with Recommendation 54 of the Finnish Corporate Governance the company’s corporate governance is presented prise the consolidated statement of financial position, income statement, ments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s Code. UPM presents the statement as a separate report, distinct from the Report of the Board of on pages 54–64 of UPM’s Annual Report 2013. statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and preparation of financial statements and report of the Board of Directors Directors. The statement is available on the corporate website www.upm.com in the Investors statement of cash flows, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, as that give a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are section under Governance. The Report of the Board of Directors is presented on pages 67–77 well as the parent company’s balance sheet, income statement, cash flow stateappropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing of UPM’s Annual Report 2013, which is also available on the corporate website. ment and notes to the financial statements. an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies Composition of the Board of Directors Responsibility of the Board of Directors and used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by manageThe company’s Board of Directors is composed of at least five but no more than twelve Directors Board responsibilities the Managing Director ment, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial stateelected by the Annual General Meeting. On 31 December 2013, the company’s Board of DirecThe duties and responsibilities of the Board The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the ments and the report of the Board of Directors. tors comprised the following ten members, elected by the Annual General Meeting held on 4 of Directors and its committees are defined preparation of consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and April 2013: in the Board and Committee Charters. The in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Board of Directors reviewed the Charters adopted by the EU, as well as for the preparation of financial statements and during 2013. This review resulted in the the report of the Board of Directors that give a true and fair view in accorOpinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements clarification of committee duties and dance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the finanDirector Director since Born Education Nationality Independence*) Main occupation In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view responsibilities and the division of these cial statements and the report of the Board of Directors in Finland. The of the financial position, financial performance, and cash flows of the group Björn Wahlroos, 2008, 1952 Ph.D. (Econ.) Finnish Independent of Chairman of the duties and responsibilities between the Board of Directors is responsible for the appropriate arrangement of the Chairman Chairman since the company Board of Directors committees. The amended Charters are in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as control of the company’s accounts and finances, and the Managing Director 2008 and significant of Sampo Plc adopted by the EU. shareholders available on the corporate website www. shall see to it that the accounts of the company are in compliance with the upm.com in the Investors section under law and that its financial affairs have been arranged in a reliable manner. Opinion on the Company’s Financial Statements and Berndt Brunow, 2002, 1950 B.Sc. (Econ.) Finnish Independent of Chairman of the Governance. Deputy Chairman Deputy Chairman the company Board of Directors the Report of the Board of Directors since 2005 and significant of Oy Karl Fazer Ab Pursuant to its Charter, the Board of Auditor’s Responsibility shareholders Directors handles all matters pertaining to In our opinion, the financial statements and the report of the Board of Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements, on the its area of responsibility under Finnish law. Directors give a true and fair view of both the consolidated and the parent consolidated financial statements and on the report of the Board of Directors Matti Alahuhta 2008 1952 D.Sc. (Eng.) Finnish Independent of President and company’s financial performance and financial position in accordance with the company CEO of KONE Under the Finnish Companies Act, the based on our audit. The Auditing Act requires that we comply with the the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements and significant Corporation Board of Directors is responsible for the requirements of professional ethics. We conducted our audit in accordance shareholders and the report of the Board of Directors in Finland. The information in the appropriate arrangement of control of the with good auditing practice in Finland. Good auditing practice requires that report of the Board of Directors is consistent with the information in the Karl Grotenfelt 2004 1944 LL.M. Finnish Independent of Chairman of the company’s accounts and finances. Further we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether financial statements. the company Board of Directors responsibilities of the Board of Directors the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors are free and significant of Famigro Oy from material misstatement, and whether the members of the Board of shareholders include: Directors of the parent company or the Managing Director are guilty of an Other Opinions We support that the financial statements and the consolidated financial Piia-Noora 2013 1975 LL.M. Finnish Independent of Managing Director • Evaluating and approving the act or negligence which may result in liability in damages towards the compastatements should be adopted. The proposal by the Board of Directors Kauppi the company of the Federation of ny or whether they have violated the Limited Liability Companies Act or the and significant Finnish Financial company’s strategic direction regarding the use of the profit shown in the balance sheet is in compliance • Approving the strategic plans of the articles of association of the company. shareholders Services with the Limited Liability Companies Act. We support that the Members of company and its business areas and the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of the parent company Wendy E. Lane 2005 1951 MBA (Harvard US Independent of Chairman of the evaluating the implementation of such should be discharged from liability for the financial period audited by us. Graduate School the company Board of Directors of Business and significant of Lane Holdings, plans Administration) shareholders Inc. • Reviewing and approving financial objectives and major corporate plans Jussi Pesonen 2007 1960 M.Sc. (Eng.) Finnish Non-independent President and CEO of the company, of UPM-Kymmene and transactions independent Corporation • Establishing acceptance limits for capital of significant expenditures, investments, divestitures shareholders Helsinki 14 February 2014 and financial commitments Ursula Ranin 2006 1953 LL.M., B.Sc. Finnish Independent of Counsel • Overseeing strategic and operational PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy (Econ.) the company risk management and internal control Authorised Public Accountants and significant shareholders • Appointing the President and CEO and members of the Group Executive Team, Veli-Matti 2007 1957 eMBA Finnish Independent of President of ABB and approving their compensation Reinikkala the company Process Automation and significant Division • Determining the dividend policy and Juha Wahlroos shareholders presenting a proposal for payment of Authorised Public Accountant the dividend to the Annual General Kim Wahl 2012 1960 MBA, B.A., Norwegian Independent of Chairman of the (Business the company Board of Directors Meeting Economics) and significant of Stromstangen AS shareholders The Board held nine meetings in 2013. On *) The independence of Directors has been determined based on the independence average, the Directors attended 97.8% of criteria of the Finnish Corporate Governance Code. the meetings. CONTENTS ACCOUNTS 135 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 136 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Internal control and risk management BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ COMMITTEES 2013 pertaining to financial reporting Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination and Governance Committee UPM’s Board of Directors has approved the MAIN FEATURES OF THE INTERNAL CONTROL Members Karl Grotenfelt (Ch.) Berndt Brunow (Ch.) Björn Wahlroos (Ch.) Risk Management Policy, which sets out the AND RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS IN UPM principles, roles and responsibilities regarding CONTROL ENVIRONMENT Piia-Noora Kauppi (as of 4 April) Ursula Ranin Matti Alahuhta risk management within the Group’s organisaCorporate Governance Wendy E. Lane Veli-Matti Reinikkala Karl Grotenfelt BOARD LEVEL tion, and defines the risk management process. Group-level controls Kim Wahl UPM’s internal control framework is based Strategic on the internal control framework issued by the Frame Number of meetings 5 6 4 Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the GROUP President and CEO Attendance-% 95 100 100 Treadway Commission in 1992 (COSO). MANAGEMENT Group Executive Team LEVEL Functional Management Management During 2014, UPM plans to evaluate the effects of the updated COSO 2013 framework. System The process-level internal control structure has been created using a top-down, riskBUSINESS Business Organisations Business Processes LEVEL Support Functions and Tools with based approach. Key Controls Controls pertaining to financial reporting are part of the Internal Control framework. UPM Effectiveness of internal control is ensured Values Composition and responsibilities of Nomination and Governance Committee also in the context of using outsourced service Code of Conduct the committees of the Board of Directors Pursuant to its amended charter, the primary purposes of the Nominaproviders. The Board of Directors has established three committees composed tion and Governance Committee are to identify individuals qualified The maturity level of internal controls at of its members: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee to serve as directors and to prepare a proposal to the Annual General UPM is assessed every other year and the (previously the Human Resources Committee) and the Nomination and Meeting regarding the election or re-election of the members of the results of the assessment are reported to the of each unit or function organises the internal basis, including possible changes to internal Governance Committee (previously the Nomination and Corporate Board of Directors and their remuneration. The committee is also Audit Committee. control of his or her unit or organisation. The controls. Regular communication from internal Governance Committee). responsible for identifying individuals qualified to serve as the PresiThe five (COSO) components in the interFinance and Control function is responsible for control process owners ensures detailed defiThe table above contains information on the composition, number dent and CEO, and to develop and recommend a set of corporate nal control framework are: monitoring business, function and unit-level nitions of the controls and the minimum of meetings and attendance for each of the committees in 2013. governance principles (i.e. Board Charter) to the Board of Directors, control processes. The aim of establishing conrequirements for the relevant internal control and review the general corporate governance of the company. Control environment trol measures and setting up uniform testing are provided. The Committee also assists the Board in monitoring compliance The company’s values and Code of Conduct and monitoring processes is to ensure that Audit Committee potential errors or deviations are prevented or Monitoring with the independence requirements applicable to directors of publay the foundations and set the tone for the The Board has defined the duties of the Audit Committee in accorddetected and corrected accordingly. The Board of Directors, the Audit Committee, licly listed companies in Finland, and in the assessment of the direcinternal control framework at UPM. ance with Recommendation 27 of the Finnish Corporate Governance Controls in joint operations managed by the President and CEO, Group Management, tors’ ability to devote the necessary time and attention to the Code. UPM are performed and tested in the same the Finance and Control function, and the company. In addition, the committee annually reviews the independThe framework consists of: According to the Audit Committee Charter, desirable qualifications way as in other UPM companies. Joint operabusiness areas and Group companies are ence and qualifications of committee members. • A group-level structure for committee members include an appropriate understanding of tions not managed by UPM are not under responsible for monitoring, thus ensuring the • Group-level processes accounting practices and financial reporting, which may have been UPM internal control processes. Annual maneffectiveness of internal controls relating to gained through education or experience in performing or overseeing President and CEO • Group-level controls • Business and support function controls agement certification is requested from all financial reporting. The effectiveness of the related functions. The expertise and qualifications of Audit Committee UPM’s Board of Directors appoints the President and CEO and joint operations to ensure compliant accountprocess for assessing risks and of the execumembers are assessed annually by the Nomination and Governance decides on the terms and conditions of his/her service contract. Jussi The Board’s Audit Committee monitors the ing practices and proper control processes tion of control activities is reviewed on an Committee prior to making its recommendation to the Board for the Pesonen, M.Sc. (Eng.), born in 1960, has served as UPM-Kymmene internal control of the Group. pertaining to financial reporting. ongoing basis at various levels. Monitoring appointment of committee members. Corporation’s President and CEO since January 2004. He has also An essential part of the internal control and reviewing includes following up monthly Pursuant to its amended charter, the primary purposes of the Audit been a member of UPM’s Board of Directors since March 2007. The President and CEO is responsible for developing the compaRisk assessment environment is the control over UPM’s IT appliand quarterly financial reports compared with Committee are: to oversee the accounting and financial reporting cations and IT infrastructure. A special set of budgets and targets, key performance indicany’s strategic and business plans for submission to the Board and for UPM’s risk assessment with regard to financial processes; monitor the statutory audits of the financial statements; internal controls aims to ensure the reliability tors and other analytical procedures. the day-to-day management of the company’s affairs in accordance reporting is aimed at identifying and evaluatand assist the Board of Directors in overseeing matters pertaining to of UPM’s IT systems and the segregation of The internal audit monitors and utilises the with the instructions and orders given by the Board of Directors. ing the most significant risks that affect interfinancial reporting, internal control and risk management. duties in the IT environment. risk assessment and the test results from manThe President and CEO is responsible for the company’s accounts nal control over financial reporting in the Group companies, business areas and proWith regard to financial reporting, the agement’s control work. The internal control Further responsibilities include: complying with the law and the company’s financial administration cesses. The risk assessment is used to create Group Accounting Manual sets out the instrucplanning procedures and results are docu• Monitoring the effectiveness of internal control, internal audit and and management being organised in a reliable manner. The President control targets to ensure that the fundamental tions and guidelines for the preparation of mented and made available for the internal risk management systems and CEO provides the Board of Directors with the information demands placed on financial reporting are consolidated financial statements. The Finance and external auditors, and for management, • Evaluating the qualifications and independence of the statutory required to perform its duties. fulfilled and provide the basis for how risks and Control function specifies the design of during the annual process. The results are auditor The President and CEO may take measures that are considered are managed within the various control structhe control points in the business processes, reported to the Audit Committee, business • Preparing the proposal for the election of the statutory auditor unusual or extensive in view of the scope and nature of the company’s tures. The risk assessment is updated annually and the internal controls are implemented in management and the control owners. • Evaluating the performance of the internal audit business only with authorisation from the Board of Directors, unless together with the planned control actions and the financial reporting process. Periodic The internal controls are also assessed in • Reviewing compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and the time required to obtain such authorisation would cause substantial control targets based on the assessment. The control procedures are an essential part of the the performance review. The corporate and with the company’s Code of Conduct harm to the company, in which case the President and CEO must first development of the risk assessment and the monthly and interim reporting process and business-level controller teams are accountable consult with the Chairman of the Board of Directors. planned and executed actions are reported to include the reconciliations and analytical for assessing the effectiveness of the internal Remuneration Committee the Audit Committee on a regular basis. reviews required to ensure that the reported controls for which they are responsible. SelfPursuant to its amended charter, the primary purposes of the Remunerdata is correct. assessment is a common practice at UPM. Key ation Committee are: to assist the Board of Directors in the assessment Control activities The results of the control risk assessment and controls are also tested regularly by independand remuneration of the President and CEO and other members of The company has developed and implemented testing of the process-level controls are anaent parties. The internal audit compares its the senior management reporting directly to the President and CEO; a comprehensive internal control system that lysed, and reported to the Audit Committee. audit work against control test results. External to oversee the company’s remuneration policies, compensation plans covers business and financial reporting proauditors evaluate and test UPM’s internal conand programmes; and to review procedures for appropriate succescesses. Internal control activities are led cenInformation and communication trols as part of their audit work, and recomsion planning for senior management. trally by the Finance and Control function with Internal controls are documented and filed in mendations and observations that they make an annual schedule and defined roles and the internal control database. The internal are taken into consideration when maintaining responsibilities in the control process. The head control process is reviewed on an ongoing and developing the internal control. CONTENTS 137 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 138 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Key financial information 2004–2013 Sales and personnel EBITDA Operating profit Cash flow from operations Capital expenditure Cash flow after investing activities excluding acquisitions EURm Employees EURm % EURm % EURm EUR EURm EURm 10,000 40,000 2,500 25 1,250 12.5 2,000 4 1,000 1,000 8,000 32,000 2,000 20 1,000 10.0 800 800 1,500 3 6,000 24,000 1,500 15 750 7.50 600 600 1,000 2 4,000 16,000 1,000 10 500 5.00 400 400 500 1 2,000 8,000 500 5 250 2.50 200 200 0 0 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 ■ Sales ■ EBITDA ■ Cash flow from operations Personnel % sales Per share, EUR ■ Operating profit excl. special items % sales excl. special items ■ Special items Profit before tax Earnings per share Dividend per share Equity and ROE Capital employed and ROCE Net interest-bearing liabilities and gearing EURm % EUR EUR % EURm % EURm % EURm % 1,000 10 2.0 1.0 250 10,000 20 15,000 15 7,000 100 800 8 1.6 0.8 200 8,000 16 12,000 12 5,600 80 600 6 1.2 0.6 150 6,000 12 9,000 9 4,200 60 400 4 0.8 0.4 100 4,000 8 6,000 6 2,800 40 200 2 0.4 0.2 50 2,000 4 3,000 3 1,400 20 0 0 0 0.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 ■ Equity ■ Capital employed ■ Net interest-bearing liabilities ■ Dividend per share EUR ROE excl. special items, % ROCE excl. special items, % Gearing % ■ Profit before tax excl. special items ■ Earnings per share excl. special items Dividend/earnings, % % sales ■ Special items ■ Special items CONTENTS 139 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 140 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Production plants and sales network FINLAND Plywood mills Biocomposites mill Paper mills UPM Joensuu UPM Lahti UPM Jämsänkoski (Jämsä) UPM Jyväskylä UPM Kaipola (Jämsä) UPM Pellos (Ristiina) Hydropower plants UPM has production plants in 14 countries and a global sales network. UPM Kaukas (Lappeenranta) UPM Savonlinna Harjavalta UPM Kymi (Kouvola) Kallioinen (Sotkamo) Logistics form the foundation for the company’s on-time deliveries UPM Rauma Veneer mill Kaltimo (Joensuu) of products and raw materials. UPM Tervasaari (Valkeakoski) UPM Kalso (Vuohijärvi) Katerma (Kuhmo) Keltti (Kouvola) Pulp mills Sawmills Kuusankoski (Kouvola) UPM Kaukas (Lappeenranta) UPM Alholma (Pietarsaari) Tyrvää (Sastamala) UPM Kymi (Kouvola) UPM Kaukas (Lappeenranta) Voikkaa (Kouvola) UPM Pietarsaari UPM Korkeakoski (Juupajoki) Äetsä UPM Seikku (Pori) Labelstock factory Biorefinery UPM Raflatac, Tampere UPM Lappeenranta biorefinery (to be completed in summer 2014) USA Paper mills UPM Blandin, Grand Rapids, MN UPM Madison, Madison, ME (50%) CHINA Labelstock factories Paper mill UPM Raflatac, Mills River, NC UPM Changshu UPM Raflatac, Fletcher, NC UPM Raflatac, Dixon, IL Labelstock factory UPM Raflatac, Changshu MALAYSIA RUSSIA Labelstock factory GERMANY Plywood and UPM Raflatac, Johor veneer mill Paper mills UPM Augsburg UPM Chudovo UPM Ettringen BRAZIL UPM Hürth ESTONIA Labelstock factory UPM Nordland Papier, Dörpen Plywood mill UPM Raflatac, Rio de Janeiro UK UPM Plattling UPM Otepää Paper mills UPM Schongau URUGUAY UPM Caledonian Paper, Irvine UPM Schwedt Pulp mill UPM Shotton Paper UPM Fray Bentos Biocomposites Labelstock factory mill Network of sales companies and agents UPM Raflatac, Scarborough UPM Bruchsal POLAND (Karlsruhe) Labelstock factory North America Asia UPM Raflatac, Kobierzyce (Wroclaw) Canada China FRANCE Mexico Hong Kong Paper mill Converting Center Panama India UPM Raflatac, Nowa Wies´ UPM Chapelle Darblay, United States Indonesia (Wroclaw) Grand-Couronne Israel UPM’s sales by market 2013 EUR 10,054 million South America Japan Jordan Labelstock factory AUSTRIA UPM Raflatac, Nancy m ca rld Argentina Kuwait Paper mill ing pe wo Brazil Lebanon UPM Steyrermühl do eri an Eu ro Am the Chile Pakistan dK Fra rm y Fin Ot nc e he rth of Colombia Republic of Korea Sawmill ite lan he r ia Re Peru Saudi Arabia UPM Steyrermühl Ge Un d rE U Ot No As st Uruguay Singapore Venezuela Sri Lanka Syria 18% 0 9% 20 10% 5% 19% 40 60 6% 11% 16% 80 6% 100 Thailand SPAIN Europe Labelstock factory United Arab Emirates Vietnam UPM Raflatac, Polinyà Austria Malta (Barcelona) Belgium Netherlands Bulgaria Africa Poland UPM’s personnel by area 31.12.2013 20,950 Cyprus Portugal Un d Czech Republic Romania Algeria ited Fra King n do orl Denmark Russia Egypt Ot ce m ew South Africa y he rE U Estonia Slovakia Ot f th Finland d an he r Slovenia lan rm No Euro rth Am ep st o France Spain Oceania Fin Ge As eri ia ca 1 ) Re Germany Sweden Greece Switzerland Australia Hungary Turkey New Zealand 0 39% 20 22% 40 60 5% 4% 8% 4% 6% 8% 80 4% 100 Iceland Ukraine • Production plant 1) USA, Canada and Mexico Ireland Italy United Kingdom • Group Head Office CONTENTS 141 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 142 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Addresses Contact us Group Head Office UPM Environment and responsibility Alvar Aallon katu 1 Tel. +358 2041 5111 PO Box 380 responsibility@upm.com FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland Tel. +358 2041 5111 Media desk Fax +358 2041 5110 Tel. +358 40 588 3284 info@upm.com media@upm.com Investor relations Tel. +358 2041 50033 ir@upm.com Businesses UPM Biorefining UPM Raflatac Alvar Aallon katu 1 Tesomankatu 31 PO Box 380 PO Box 53 FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland FI-33101 Tampere, Finland Tel. +358 2041 5111 Tel. +358 2041 6143 info@upm.com Fax +358 2041 6142 info@upmraflatac.com UPM Wood Sourcing and Forestry UPM Paper Asia Lempääläntie 20 23F, Grand Gateway Tower 2 PO Box 32 3 Hongqiao Road FI-37601 Valkeakoski, Finland Shanghai 200030 Tel. +358 2041 6121 People’s Republic of China Fax +358 2041 6120 Tel. +86 21 6288 1919 metsaviestinta@upm.com Fax +86 21 5292 8912 paperasia@upm.com UPM Timber Åkerlundinkatu 11 C, 5th Floor UPM Paper ENA (Europe and PO Box 203 North America) FI-33101 Tampere, Finland Georg-Haindl-Strasse 4+5 Tel. +358 2041 5113 D-86153 Augsburg, Germany Fax +358 2041 5112 Tel. +49 821 31090 timber@upm.com Fax +49 821 3109 156 paperinfo@upm.com UPM Energy Alvar Aallon katu 1 UPM Plywood PO Box 380 Niemenkatu 16 FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland PO Box 203 Tel. +358 2041 5111 FI-15141 Lahti, Finland info@upm.com Tel. +358 2041 5113 Fax +358 2041 5112 plywood@upm.com Follow us online at www.upm.com Subscribe to our press releases: www.upm.com/media Twitter: @UPM_News, www.twitter.com/UPM_News Facebook: www.facebook.com/UPMGlobal LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/UPM-Kymmene Youtube: www.youtube.com/upmdotcom CONTENTS 143 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 144 UPM Annual Report 2013 UPM Annual Report 2013 Contents Annual General Meeting UPM Group UPM-Kymmene Corporation will hold its Annual General Meeting on Tuesday 8 April 2014 at 14:00, at the Exhibition and Convention Centre, UPM in brief 1 Messuaukio 1, 00520 Helsinki, Finland. Instructions for those wishing to Review by the President and CEO 3 attend are given in the notice to the meeting, which is available on the Strategy 5 company’s website at www.upm.com. UPM as an investment 9 Financial targets and earnings sensitivities 11 Dividend Risk management 12 The Board of Directors has decided to propose to the Annual General Meeting that Businesses a dividend of EUR 0.60 per share be paid for the 2013 financial year. The dividend will be paid to the shareholders who are registered in the company’s shareholder UPM Biorefining 13 register held by Euroclear Finland Ltd. on 11 April 2014, which is the record date for UPM Energy 15 the dividend payment. The Board of Directors proposes that the dividend will be UPM Raflatac 17 paid on 24 April 2014. UPM Paper Asia 19 UPM Paper ENA 21 Financial information in 2014 UPM Plywood 23 Innovations and new business development 25 UPM will publish the interim reports in 2014 as follows: Stakeholders The Interim Report for January–March 2014 on 29 April 2014 The Interim Report for January–June 2014 on 5 August 2014 Finding the right fit with stakeholder dialogue 27 The Interim Report for January–September 2014 on 28 October 2014 Continuous collaboration with customers 31 Suppliers are an integral part of UPM value creation 33 People enable company transformation 35 Focus on safety and wellbeing 38 Responsibility UPM’s Biofore strategy represents a commitment to sustainable development 39 Taking care of the entire lifecycle 43 Waste is today’s new material 44 Climate actions recognised and energy efficiency improved 45 UPM ensures that all wood is sustainably sourced 47 More results with responsible water management 48 UPM’s material balance 2013 49 GRI content index 51 Independent assurance report 53 Corporate governance Corporate governance 54 Management remuneration 58 Board of Directors 61 Group Executive Team 63 Corporate Governance Statement 136 Accounts for 2013 Contents 66 Key financial information 2004–2013 139 Production plants and sales network 141 Addresses 144 Annual General Meeting 146 UPM Annual Report 2013 has been awarded the EU Ecolabel for printed products. UPM does not publish a separate environmental and corporate responsibility report but has integrated the contents into this annual report. Various highlights from the year 2013 can be The printing process has to meet strict criteria in relation to chemicals, energy FI/28/002 found under the sections for each business area. The GRI content index is on pages 51–52. consumption, emissions to air and water and waste management. Also the paper To find out more about UPM’s responsibility agenda, please visit www.upm.com/responsibility. Please collect used paper for recycling. used shall be EU Ecolabeled. UPM promotes sustainability of print media. CONTENTS 145 UPM as a company 1–12 Businesses 13–26 Stakeholders 27–38 Responsibility 39–53 Governance 54–64 Accounts 65–135 146 www.upm.com CONTENTS Cover: UPM Finesse premium silk, 250 g/m2. Accounts: UPM Fine, 90 g/m2. Other pages: UPM Finesse premium silk, 135 g/m2. Printed on papers granted the EU Ecolabel , EN/14/2. Printer: Lönnberg Print&Promo.
