UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 8 October 2014 City Mart Holding Co., Ltd. City Mart Holding Co., Ltd. Head Office No.1-11, Padonmar Stadium (East Wing), Bargayar Street, Sanchaung Township, Yangon, Myanmar. Tel: +95 (01) 508460, +95 (01) 508461 Fax: +95 (01) 512019 Email: enquiry@city.com.mm http://www.cmhl.com.mm CMHL Communication on Progress 2014 Page 1 Statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact Dear stakeholders UN Global Compact The Global Compact is a United Nations initiative that encourages companies to embrace universal principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. CMHL is proud to have participated in the Global Compact since 2012. I am pleased to confirm that CMHL reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. This information will be shared with our stakeholders on the Global Compact website (www.unglobalcompact.org) as well as CMHL’s own website (www.cmhl.com.mm). Win Win Tint Managing Director, CMHL winwintint@city.com.mm 8 October 2014 CMHL Communication on Progress 2014 Page 2 Human rights Assessment, policy and goals We are committed to respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and ensuring that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. As a retailer, we have identified three key areas in which we must be aware of the potential for human rights abuses: 1. We employ over 5,200 employees and must work to ensure that we protect their human rights 2. As part of the global supply chain, we recognise that we have a responsibility to encourage human rights among our suppliers and the farmers, fisherman and manufacturing workers upon whom our suppliers depend 3. We undertake construction projects for our shopping centres, supermarkets and hypermarkets and people’s land rights may be affected by our developments Regarding our employees, our measures to protect their rights are set out in the next section, “Labour”. In our terms and conditions with suppliers, we require that all our suppliers confirm that they comply with our Code of Conduct which includes our commitments to human rights. We undertake due diligence to test potential suppliers’ commitments to protecting human rights. We will choose not to deal with business partners who we believe are not doing enough to uphold human rights. We are committed to recognising and protecting people’s land and resource rights, particularly the rights of those located near to, or who may be affected by, our operations. Our goals are to (1) protect the human rights of all our employees and people who may be affected by our operations and (2) deal only with business partners who also work to uphold human rights. CMHL Communication on Progress 2014 Page 3 Implementation During the last year we have taken the following steps to protect human rights: • Continued our involvement with the working committee for the Central Body against Human Trafficking in Myanmar • Revised our supplier terms and conditions to strengthen our position on human rights • Refreshed our Code of Conduct to provide further commitments in the field of human rights • Begun work on a process to formalise our due diligence regarding land rights Our corporate social responsibility body, the City Love & Hope Foundation, implements our work on human trafficking as well as undertaking many other activities to improve the lives of people in Myanmar. Measurement of outcomes We measure our human rights compliance by monitoring: • Employee grievances which have been communicated through the channels we have established • Continuing due diligence on suppliers and other business partners regarding their human rights record • Feedback from communities that may be affected by our developments The City Love & Hope Foundation meets every month to review the outcomes of its initiatives to improve the lives of people in Myanmar. CMHL Communication on Progress 2014 Page 4 Labour Assessment, policy and goals CMHL employs over 5,200 members of staff. Our employees are entitled to all applicable rights under Myanmar law and international standards. In particular, we commit to safeguard the following rights: • We recognise the dignity of all persons and respect their freedom and privacy • All employees shall be entitled to just and favourable remuneration • Employees shall be entitled to fair working hours and holiday entitlement • We allow our employees freedom of association and the right to engage in collective bargaining • We will not discriminate on the grounds of gender, marital status, age, religion, physical ability, sexual orientation, political beliefs or social class in the workplace or when considering promotions • All employees should be allowed to perform their role without being bullied, harassed or threatened • We will not force anyone to work for CMHL and will refuse to deal with business partners that engage in forced or compulsory labour practices We consider these rights to be the minimum standards that we offer our employees. In order to foster a culture where people are proud to work for us, we offer various benefits to all employees, including provision for health care, favourable terms to buy expensive household essentials using hire purchase, a special provident fund and staff discounts. Implementation We continue to implement our various employee benefits to improve the standard of life of our employees. We are reviewing our employee complaints procedure to ensure that employees can raise any grievances they may have in a confidential manner. CMHL Communication on Progress 2014 Page 5 As part of our refreshed Code of Conduct, we will set out more clearly the rights that we afford to our employees. Measurement of outcomes We measure our human rights compliance by monitoring: • Employee grievances which have been communicated through the channels we have established • Employee satisfaction and staff turnover We review our staff benefits on a regular basis to ensure that we continue to offer a fair deal to our employees. CMHL Communication on Progress 2014 Page 6 Environment Assessment, policy and goals goals Our shopping centres, branches, distribution centres and offices use resources such as electricity, water, diesel and paper. It is our policy to reduce use of these resources as much as possible. We also commit to support environmental causes through the City Love & Hope Foundation. Implementation During the last year we have taken the following steps to protect the environment: • Creating awareness and raising funds for Forest Reserve and Development Association (FREDA) • Supporting an annual tree planting activity planting up to 1,800 trees per year • Offering reusable bags at a reduced price all year round and donating the profits from the sales of such bags to profits donated to FREDA • Initiating a “No Plastic Bag Day” in certain of our branches We have also further developed our green construction techniques to reduce our air conditioning, water and electricity requirements in our shopping centres. Measurement of outcomes The City Love & Hope Foundation meets every month to review the outcomes of its environmental initiatives. We measure our electricity, water, diesel and other resource usage to identify where we can make environmental savings. CMHL Communication on Progress 2014 Page 7 Anti-corruption AntiAssessment, policy and goals CMHL takes a zero tolerance approach to corruption or bribery committed by our directors or employees, regardless of their position in our organisation, or business partners. We do not give, promise or offer to give or discuss giving an undue advantage to any person, whether a public official or a private employee, in order to influence that person to act in an improper manner. We have a comprehensive gifts, hospitality and expenses policy to ensure that our employees are not receiving undue advantages. Implementation During the last year we have taken the following steps regarding anti-corruption: • We have considered Myanmar’s Anti-Corruption Law 2013 and the effect that it could have on our business practices • As part of our updated Code of Conduct we are restating our position on anti-corruption and gifts, hospitality and expenses and are designing new employee training on the issues involved • We are reviewing the due diligence that we perform on our suppliers and business partners to ensure that they also commit to work against corruption Measurement of outcomes Our audit committee regularly reviews company transactions for signs of any irregular payments. Our audit committee also monitors gifts and expenses received by our employees to ensure that they are proper.
