D O WA K i d s M u s e u m This page shows winning entries of pictures drawn by the children of the employees of DOWA Group for the cover picture contest of the DOWA group’s CSR report. This year celebrates the tenth anniversary of this Corporate Social virtual children’s museum and the theme is the “Dream Factory.” Responsibility Report 2013 The futures drawn by the kids are full of imagination and possibilities with their boundless energy and abilities. The DOWA group would like to help these children to realize the dreams of their future. We have placed the drawings on the special web pages called the DOWA KID’s MUSUEM (http://www.dowa-csr.jp/en/kids-museum.html) .Please go to the website and see other drawings. Rina Araki Yuki Okamoto Yamato Yoshida (9 years old) (6 years old) (8 years old) I would like to have a factory I will be baking pastries and Garbage is put into this where garbage would change bread in the underground machine to be plants, etc. This Sakurako Inomata into food or useful things factory. factory would keep producing (9 years old) when it passed through a many things. tunnel. Then I could deliver It would be nice if there were a them to those in needs. factory where insects grow flowers and birds carry the flowers they grew.. Covered Organizations DOWA ECO-SYSTEM DOWA METALS & MINING DOWA THERMOTECH Eco-System Akita Co., Ltd. Kosaka Smelting & Refining Co., Ltd. Dowa Thermoengineering Co., Ltd. Eco-System Chiba Co., Ltd. Akita Zinc Co., Ltd. Ohta plant Eco-System Sanyo Co., Ltd. Nippon PGM Co., Ltd. Dowa Thermoengineering Co., Ltd. Mooka plant Meltec Co., Ltd. Akita Rare Metals Co., Ltd. Dowa Thermoengineering Co., Ltd. Green Fill Kosaka Co., Ltd. Akita Zinc Solutions Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu plant Eco-System Japan Co., Ltd. Akita Zinc Recycling Co., Ltd. Dowa Thermoengineering Co., Ltd. Eco-System Hanaoka Co., Ltd. Toyota plant E & E Solutions Inc. NIPPON PGM AMERICA, INC. Dowa Thermoengineering Co., Ltd. Geotechnos Co., Ltd. Handa plant Eco-System Kosaka Co., Ltd. Dowa Thermoengineering Co., Ltd. DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS Shiga plant Eco-System Okayama Co., Ltd. Eco-System Recycling Co., Ltd. CEMM Co., Ltd. Dowa Electronics Materials Okayama Co., Ltd. Eco-Recycle Co., Ltd. Dowa IP Creation Co., Ltd. Act-B recycling Co., Ltd. Dowa THT America, Inc. Dowa F-Tec Co., Ltd. Auto Recycle Akita Co., Ltd. Dowa Thermotech (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Dowa Semiconductor Akita Co., Ltd. Dowa-Tsuun Co., Ltd. DOWA METALTECH DOWA HOLDINGS Dowa Environmental Engineering (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Tianjin Dowa Green Angel Summit Recycling Co., Ltd. Dowa Metal Co., Ltd. Dowa group head office BPEC(Bangpoo Environmental Complex Ltd.) Dowa Metanix Co. Ltd. Dowa Techno Engineering Co., Ltd. ESBEC(Eastern Seaboard Environmental Complex Co.,Ltd.) New Nippon Brass Co., Ltd. Unekura Mining Co., Ltd. TEC(Technochem Environmental Complex Pte. Ltd.) Hoei Shoji Co., Ltd. PPLi(P.T. Prasadha Pamunah Limbah Industri) Dowa Hightech Co., Ltd. Dowa Power Device Co., Ltd. Dowa Advanced Materials (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Dowa Metaltech (Thailand) Co., Ltd. http://www.dowa.co.jp Utilizing 100% post-consumer recycled paper pulp The DOWA Group CSR Feature 1 About DOWA group The DOWA group CSR The DOWA Group started as a mining, smelting and reﬁning company and has endeavored to improve technologies for more we further improve the functions of metal materials and, in the Environmental Management & Recycling business we detoxify Efforts to Resolve Social Issues through Business Activities than a century. DOWA has established a unique business model waste, separate and collect metals from waste. The DOWA group strives to resolve various social issues as part Recycling is one solution to the depletion of resources, but it covering investigation of resources, mining and recycling. In Our present lines of business are connected with each other of its regular business activities. The DOWA group regards eﬀective also requires technologies to effectively recover metals and to Social Performance the Nonferrous Metals business we extract useful metals from and operate focusing on metals and based on technologies that utilization of resources as an important social issue, as utilization of safely process hazardous and worthless substances produced in the natural resources. In the Metal Processing business we add value we have accumulated and cherished in this growing economy limited metal resources is the basis of DOWA’s business. course of recovery as well as the infrastructure to support them. to the extracted metals. In the Electronic Materials business and changing social environment. For example, precious and rare metals are indispensable to There are some technical and economical issues to be resolved automobiles, electronic and electrical appliances that are the in recycling, including building a social system to collect recycled backbone of the Japanese industry. However, they are only materials eﬀectively as well as the time and costs to process various Corporate History produced in a limited number of countries. We may not be supplied kinds of materials. The DOWA group will continue to work at ﬁnding with suﬃcient amount of those metals in connection with increasing sustainable metal resources through its business activities. Denzaburo Fujita, founder of DOWA group obtained Kosaka and reﬁning method called ﬂash smelting after many failures and Environmental Performance demands of emerging countries. This issue of depletion of resources Mine from the Government in 1884. This mine is the foundation ﬁnally succeeded in extracting and smelting gold, silver and copper is not only related to rare metals but also to familiar metals such as * Extracted from JOGMEC Metal Mining Data Book 2011. of the DOWA group. The black ores excavated there, included from those ores. By overcoming these ore challenges, the DOWA gold, silver and zinc. Mines are forecasted to last for about twenty valuable metals such as gold and silver but also many impure group has the world leading technologies for collecting, smelting years for gold, twenty-four for silver and twenty-one for zinc*. substances. Various elements were also intermingled in them and reﬁning metal elements. Those diversiﬁed business activities in a complex manner, making smelting and refining difficult. In of DOWA at present is based on these smelting technologies. 1902 the company succeeded in developing a unique smelting DOWA's Approach to Social Issues Economic & Management Performance Reduction of environmental Promotion of recycling burden caused by mines ● Recycling of home electric appliances Our Environmental Management & Recycling business Our Nonferrous Metals business ● Eco-friendly development of mines ● Recycling of automobiles ● Recycling of precious metals Oﬀers customers with reliable total Has built a unique smelting and ● Consideration for biodiversity ● Recycling of used small home electric appliances services in waste treatment, soil reﬁning complex of resource-recycling, remediation and recycling. leveraged by our long cultivated in exploring mines and mining ● Recycling of used cooking oil mining and smelting technologies. Social issues on effective resource utilization Technical improvement Depletion of resources Securing of recycling materials ● DOWA has recovered twenty-two elements Ubiquity of resources ● Recovery of wasted catalysts ● DOWA handles high mix, low volume from automobiles T h e D OWA g ro u p h a s Environmental burden in connection with the Our Heat Treatment business recycling materials development of mines, smelting and refining established a unique recycling Our Electronic Materials business business model based on ● DOWA eﬀectively recovers trace elements ・Globalization of the marketplace and Is engaged in heat treatment to Supplies unique products on a surge of demand prolong the lifetime of metals and it metals, by utilizing technological global basis in the areas of manufactures industrial furnaces assets cultivated in the mining, semiconductors, electronic ・Price surge of ores u ti l i z i n g k n o w h o w t h e y h a v e smelting and refining business materials and functional materials. (increased demand, market conditions and ﬂuctuation in exchange rates) accumulated. since foundation and flexibly responding to social needs. Securing rare metals and earths ・Reduction of waste Controlling environmental risks ● Platinum metals are recovered from wasted ● Proper treatment of heavy metals catalysts from automobiles and CFC gases contained in ● Cerium is recovered from glass grinding agent recycling materials ● Reduction of wastes through ● Rare earths are recovered from HDD magnets resource-recycling Our Metal Processing business Supplies rolled copper for on-board and information communication Overseas deployment Global resource-recycling Eﬀorts to resolve future issues devices and is also engaged in their plating. It also supplies circuit ● Recycling of home electric appliances ● Recycling at DOWA’ s plants in other countries ● Study of a solar panel recycling system board for power devices. and precious metals in China ● Proper recycling in DOWA plants is conducted ● Study of metal recycling with moss ● Recycling of rare metals in Singapore in Japan if its plants in other parts of the world cannot handle recycling due to technical and facility problems CONTENTS ■ The DOWA Group CSR ■ Social Performance ■ Environmental Performance ■ Economic and Environmental Performance Feature 1 Feature 2 21 Environmental Report 25 Economic Report & Environmental Accounting 1 About DOWA group 17 Our Safety Measures Feature 3 26 Basic Requirements 3 Message from the Management 19 Relations with Society 22 DOWA s Eco-products 26 Editorial Line 5 Our Operating Companies 19 Relations with Customers 23 Material Balance 15 CSR Management 19 Relations with Employees 1 2 Message from the Management Safety Is the Top Priority as The DOWA group CSR our Social Responsibility DOWA group’s Network Deploying the CSR management on a Strengthening of our business base is indispensable for our continued growth. Among other concerns, global basis to help resolve problems safety is at the center of our business. “Safety is the DOWA HOLDINGS CO.,LTD. of our increasingly international top priority” has been our long lasting policy. We strive to make all employees and relevant parties thoroughly Social Performance society. aware of this “Safety is the top priority” policy, assuming the proliferation of plants and the increase DOWA ECO-SYSTEM CO., LTD. of employees of DOWA group in Japan and other Environmental Management & countries. We started the Safety Activity Project across Recycling Business the Group (More) last year to minimize accidents, Environmental Performance prepare for disasters and handle problems in our group. This project focuses on improving the level of safety across the group, with a slogan of “No one is hurt—No DOWA METALS & MINING CO., LTD. one hurts others.” We believe that building the safe Nonferrous Metals Business workplace and conducting safe operations are our social responsibility for our employees, client companies and Economic & Management Performance local communities. DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS CO., LTD. CSR Management that Works Closely Electronic Materials Business We are deploying our resource-recycling across the Supply Chain business covering five business fields, focusing on countries in Asia. The importance of the CSR management in the We are committed to resolving social business management is increasing along with the issues in the world, including environmental globalization of business management. We not only DOWA METALTECH CO., LTD. and energy problems through our main comply with universal rules of the UN Global Compact Metal Processing Business business activities such as offering ecoGuidelines in which we participated in 2009, but friendly products, waste disposal and also endeavor to promote SCR across the whole recycling. supply chain, further considering cooperation with procurement sources and suppliers. Last year we DOWA THERMOTECH CO., LTD. obtained EICC certiﬁcate* for its conﬂict-free minerals Heat Treatment Business (more) for gold. We make every eﬀort to promote CSR President and representative director, activities in each business of the DOWA group that is Masao Yamada deployed in a wide range of ﬁelds from the upstream to downstream resource chain. * EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition) is a group that promotes Code of Conduct in the electronic industry of the U.S.A. and world. circumstances, the DOWA group is committed to expanding Responding Agilely our business, focusing on Asian and emerging markets, to the Borderless Marketplace based on our basic policy of “Continued Growth” in our This CSR report is to inform all stakeholders both Two years have passed since the Great East Japan mid-term plan V initiated last year. We started our recycling in Japan and other countries of our various efforts as Earthquake. Japan’s electricity and energy problems still plant of precious metals in Singapore. We also constructed well as to provide an opportunity for our employees remain, affecting the manufacturing industry as a whole a zinc processing plant in Thailand and a heat treatment to review their CSR activities. We welcome your and the market structure is rapidly and significantly plant in Indonesia. Capitalizing on those plants, we will suggestions and comments. We will make best use of changing. National and local governmental and economic swiftly respond to the trends and needs of marketplaces them to direct our eﬀorts of creating our new corporate trends are increasingly influencing business conditions and client companies in those countries in cooperation with standards towards resolution of social problems on on a global basis, making us aware that the borderless our existing plants in Japan and other countries. a global basis and creation of new principles in our marketplace is expanding. Even under such unstable international society. 3 4 DOWA ECO-SYSTEM Feature 1 About DOWA group The DOWA group CSR D O W A E C O S Y S T E M Reliable Waste Disposal Coexistence with Local Communities Clients of PPLi are mainly Japanese and European resourcePPLi has personnel who are dedicated to day-to-day related companies that demand the global standard of quality communication with local people. PPLi gathers information on control in their waste disposal. The most important role of local needs through face-to-face communication and is engaged the company is to provide our customers with reliable waste in a wide range of social developments, including support for disposal through safe operation and to build an environmentally education, health, sports culture and social infrastructure. Among Social Performance controlled system. other activities, PPLi is actively fostering the next generation It is important in waste disposal to transport waste from of Indonesians by focusing on raising the educational level of customers to treatment facilities in a safe and proper manner, local children, including a scholarship system, receiving students select proper treatment methods and then dispose of the on internship and dispatching teachers to elementary schools. waste absolutely correctly in controlled facilities. For this, It believes that accumulation of such educational support will PPLi has procured its own vehicles and containers, controls lead to self-help in the local communities. It started support operation plans by constantly checking their routes via GPS for local small-scale businesses that are engaged in agriculture Environmental Performance systems equipped onboard and they give proper feedback to its or cultivation by providing the micro-credit to help the selfcustomers. It also has a laboratory (for analysis) that is certiﬁed sustainability of local communities and to create jobs. PPLi aims Introduction of Main Plant as an official institution by in government inside its premises. at developing self-sustainable programs for all local people in the PPLi Analysis per incoming lot of waste coming from customers future in partnership with local communities. allows it to select the most （PT. Prasadha Pamunah Limbah Industri） suitable disposal method. The laboratory also conducts Address: JI. Raya-Narogong Desa Nambo PO Box 18-Cileungsi, Economic & Management Performance Bogor 16820 Indonesia environmental measurement Number of Employees: 600 (as of March 31, 2013) and analysis of water quality inside the plant to ensure The Only Treatment Facility of Hazardous proper treatment is done. Substances in Indonesia PPLi is a waste disposal company that was founded in 1994 financed jointly with Indonesian Government. It joined DOWA ECO-SYSTEM as President and Representative Director a member of MAEH (Modern Asia Environmental Holdings) group. The Kenichi Sasaki Technical & Laboratory Manager Community Relations Manager company, located in Cileungsi, Bogor, about 50 km south of the capital city of Jakarta has the permit to treat hazardous substances. PPLi can handle VOICE in charge of analysis VOICE in charge of local community DOWA ECO-SYSTEM is deploying the core business of waste disposal, metal recycling and the entire integrated process from transportation to treatment and final Mr. Elpido Mr. Ahmad Miftah Farid soil remediation not only in Japan but also in disposal of those substances. It also cares for natural environment and Asian countries, by further improving its unique actively promoting coexistence with local communities. The laboratory is one of the most It is very important to communicate environmental technologies and accumulating PPLi places top priority on environment in the business management k n o wh o w to b a l a n c e e nv i ro n m e nta l a n d important functions in PPLi. We analyze with local people when conducting the because it is Indonesia’s only integrated hazardous substance treatment economic rationales. physical properties and behaviors business of industrial waste disposal It facility. It is committed to complying with environmental laws and fostering We sta r te d i n c i n e rat i o n o f t h e d i s a ste r of waste, decide a proper and safe is a tough job that requires patience. wreckage as part of the Earthquake human resources in the fields of waste disposal and environment. Its way of disposal and secure safety by We offer support to local businesses reconstruction in Southern Sanriku and training center offers educational programs for its employees and also complying with laws. The issue at hand from a wide perspective including Kesennuma last year. We also started wet lectures and seminars on proper treatment for local governments and type metal recycling in Singapore. We will is how to promote 3R’s when selecting management, safety and environment waste disposal companies. PPLi is engaged in a wide range of activities further promote overseas deployment of our the disposal method. Fortunately PPLi in addition to just financial needs. Of to improve the technology level of waste disposal in Indonesia and raise core business (Waste disposal, metal recycling has enough employees who are familiar course, our plan does not always work and soil remediation), low temperature PCB awareness of proper waste disposal there. with chemistry and the processes of as planned, but I believe it is important treatment and utilization of green energy, manufacturing plants and I believe we to continue patiently. aimed at expanding our role in environmental are progressing toward implementation. improvement. In those environmental and recycling businesses, the driving concepts of “Safety,” “Secure and Proper Treatment,” and “Coexistence with Local Communities” are indispensable. We are promoting the same type of activities as People in Indonesia are enthusiastic about sports. PPLi has many those with PPLi that is introduced on this page Topics 2012 teams consisting of employees, such as badminton, soccer and both in Japan and abroad. bicycling. In-house tournaments are held. In 2012 a marathon race We will continue to foster human resources to Employees’ Sports was held using its broad premises covering 53 ha and 50 or more resolve environmental issues from a diversity of employees participated in it. It is used as an opportunity to promote viewpoints while capitalizing on our advanced Activities health of employees through sports and to get to know each other technologies and know-how to contribute to environmental improvement in Asia as the top through fun events. environmental company in the region. 5 6 DOWA METALS & MINING Feature 1 About DOWA group The DOWA group CSR D O W A M E T A L S & M I N I N G Aimed at Being No. 1 Zinc Recycled from Steel Dust in Quality in the World in Partnership with Steel Makers Akita Zinc is the largest zinc smelting and refining plant in Zinc is mainly used in the steel industry and iron is Japan, aiming to produce the world’s top quality zinc. Lead is a recovered from the scrap. Steel dust is produced in that scrap trace component contained in zinc ore and the purest unwrought process and the dust contains a large quantity of zinc. The zinc product according to JIS (Japan Industrial Standard) contains steel dust used to be waste but steel makers succeeded in Social Performance 30 ppm of lead. Our company succeeded in the technical developing treatment technologies to separate zinc (recover development to reduce lead to one tenth in zinc ore compared iron) from steel dust. This means that nowadays we can to traditional methods, and we have produced high quality recover high quality zinc dust and recycled iron. unwrought zinc products containing 1 ppm or less of lead. We Akita Zinc Recycling Co., Ltd started operation in 2010 with developed the world ﬁrst technology to produce the purest zinc the aim at recovering zinc from high quality zinc dust in the only through the smelting and reﬁning process. We have already premises of Akita Zinc. The company produces approximately established a stable production system of 200 tons per month. 20,000 tons of zinc annually using the ﬁrst technology in Japan Environmental Performance Zinc is used for many applications. This safer manufacturing on an industrial basis that lets zinc seep and then extracts it. method of zinc will widen the scope of its application, including It has put the system in place for more stable operation by Introduction of Main Plant medical and food fields. Zinc is also used for metal plating; constructing an automated high-rise warehouse to store 1,000 therefore disposed metal products contain trace lead component. tons of steel dust (corresponding to 600 freight conveyors). Akita Zinc Co., Ltd. In the future, from the viewpoint of preventing environmental Japan lacks in natural resources; therefore, effective pollution and hazard to health, zinc with low lead content will be utilization of waste is very important to secure stable supply the standard in addition to proper of materials. Akita Zinc and Akita Address: 217-9 Shimokawabata, Furumichi, Iijima, treatment of wastes. Akita Zinc not Zinc Recycling are always aware of Economic & Management Performance Akita Prefecture, Japan 011-0911 only responds to the market needs their important roles in resource Number of Employees: 216 (as of March 31, 2013) but also would like to continue to recycling and strive to return more be a smelting and refining plant resources to society. Zinc Smelting and Refining Plant Playing the Central that could offer new value to Role of Environmental and Recycling Complex society by focusing on quality. Zinc is an important material to support industries and lives of people. That Director and Plant Superintendent President and Representative Director is, zinc is used for corrosion resistant plating for automobiles, construction VOICE Electroanalysis Dept, Akita Zinc Co., Ltd. VOICE Akita Zinc Recycling Co., Ltd. Akira Sekiguchi materials and home electric appliances as well as corrosion resistant parts for ships and bridges. Akita Zinc is the largest smelting and reﬁning plant of zinc Hirobumi Nakamura Tadashi Sasaki DOWA Metals & Mining takes a central role in in Japan, producing approximately 20 million tons. The company achieved the When the project to realize “lead of 1 ppm or less” We started operation in December 2010 and the Great East mining and smelting which is the core of the DOWA group. Metals & Mining has established a unique world’s top metal recovery ratio of useful metals from raw materials. started four years ago, the quality of zinc was very Japan Earthquake hit us in March the following year. Despite environmental and recycling complex and a world Concentrates and recycling materials from which zinc is recovered contain unstable, and most people felt it impossible to achieve the hardship, we achieved the planned output of production unprecedented business model, based on a long various other metal components. Akita Zinc manufactures cadmium and such a high goal. We made many discoveries in the lab. for 2012. We endeavor to achieve the goal to implement our cultivated cutting-edge technologies for smelting sulfuric acid as byproduct. Akita Zinc has established a resource network with and reﬁning. Then we proceeded to a scaled-up corporate philosophy of “To contribute other business establishments of the DOWA group in Akita to extract more test and managed to start the onto building sustainable society through Our major plants of Kosaka Smelting & Refining as well as Akita Zinc are positioned as the core of resources without much waste and supply them to society. It is possible to site test two years after this. These resource-recycling and realize the world the group. Each company in the group processes recover various kinds of rare metals including gold, silver, indium and gallium ambitious goals caused some hardship top recycling” day and night together various materials from their core business of more efficiently if companies in the group cooperate with one another to the workers in the field as it was with all employees. We are a young mining to recycling materials safely and eﬃciently. and combine technologies and processes of each company. Akita Zinc is completely a new project; however, company and the employees are also These major plants can recover twenty different committed to realizing the resource-recycling society as the core company of substances in partnership with one another, utilizing we finally established a system to young. We are trying hard to be close to this environmental and recycling complex. stably manufacture zinc with 1 ppm or the ideal for a company, leveraging on each unique technology. In the zinc business, we started full operation of less of lead last year. our youthfulness. the zinc recycling business from steel waste dust last year and it is working successfully. In Kosaka Smelting & Reﬁning we have developed a low cost, Akita Zinc held an observation tour for the employees’ family members in March 2013. The purposes of the lead-free electric plating technology and placed it into mass production seeking the world’s top quality. Topics 2012 tour are: to oﬀer an opportunity for them to get to know the workplace and the production processes and ask We will continue to promote recovery of diverse them to check the safety conditions and measures within the premises with their own eyes. A wide range of kinds of substances, by securing resources through Observation-tour family members from small children to parents totaling 170 people participated in the event on two buses, investment in and ﬁnancing to mines outside Japan. for Employees’ divided into eight groups. They were lectured on the business, visited Kosaka Smelting & Reﬁning also has enhancing the Family Members the plant and attended the luncheon meeting. function of its smelting and reﬁning complex. They strive for technical development in partnership Lecturers, receptionists, car park attendants and bus drivers were with governmental agencies and universities to all our employees. A kids’ space was opened in the gymnasium. Quiz establish eﬃcient recycling processes; safely supply sessions were provided in the lecture sessions. We did our best for them high quality materials; and contribute to building a to enjoy the day. We will continue this event aimed at being a company resource-recycling society. that is understood and supported by the family members of employees. 7 8 DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS Feature 1 About DOWA group The DOWA group CSR D O W A E L E C T R O N I C S M A T E R I A L S The Next Generation NitrideEnhancing Energy Saving Measures based HEMT Epitaxial Substrates by Introducing Air Cooling Chillers A promising next generation material for power semiconductor While our products contribute to energy saving of electronic devices, devices (that control or supply power) is nitride-based HEMT their production requires a large amount of electricity. We are committed epitaxial substances. To help the global warming countermeasures to actively introduce highly efficient equipment and to promote energy and rising awareness on environment, these next-generation saving at our facilities. Social Performance substances provide for further energy savings. For example, power consumption of the turbo refrigerator that supplies Nitride-based HEMT epitaxial substrates withstand higher voltages cool water to the temperature control equipment accounts for slightly over and their electric resistance is lower than silicon-based substrates 10% of the power used in the LED plant. In the nitride plant air conditioning that are presently used.and can reduce power loss to one third. They equipment accounts for approximately 50% of the power consumption. In can contribute to improve the energy saving eﬀect dramatically. Our November last year, the LED plant introduced an air cooling chiller to keep HEMT epitaxial substrates have the world’s top level performance the temperature to the speciﬁed degrees through circulation of water for that can withstand 1,000 volts. As they produce little heat during energy saving. The nitride plant introduced the facilities equipped with Environmental Performance operation, the heat dissipation required for silicon-base substrates cooling functions to mist water to improve efficiency of the existing air Introduction of Main Plant of can be simpliﬁed, thereby contributing to reducing device size. cooling chiller. Introduction of the chiller reduced power consumption of They can be used for a wide range of applications from power the equipment in the LED plant by approximately 25%. Introduction of Dowa Semiconductor Akita semiconductors for PCs, air conditioning, household electrical the facilities dramatically reduced power consumption in summer in the appliances equipped with inverters such as refrigerators, hybrid cars nitride plant, reducing approximately 20,000 kwh/month at the peak time. and electric cars. They can also be used for applications employing The nitride plant used to use a thermo-electric ammonium removal device Address: 1 Aza Sunada, Iijima, Akita City, Akita Prefecture, high frequency waves such as to clean exhaust gases generated Economic & Management Performance Japan 011-0911 antennas for base stations of in the process of manufacturing Number of Employees: 266 (as of March 31, 2013) mobile phones. We would like semiconductor compounds. It was to contribute to our energyreplaced with the latest, more saving society by providing efficient LPG gas-based device, Resource-recycling Plant materials for semiconductors. succeeding in reduction of power for Semiconductor Production consumption of approximately DOWA Semiconductor Akita was founded in 1993 to manufacture 26,000 kwh/month. President and Representative Director semiconductor products. It produces highly pure gallium, gallium arsenide Akira Otsuka Production Division, the Nitride Epitaxial Production Division Head, the Nitride wafers, LEDs and nitride-based HEMT epitaxial substrates. Highly pure gallium is produced from the byproduct of zinc smelting and VOICE Production Department VOICE Epitaxial Production Department DOWA Electronics Materials responds to the market needs by developing materials refining by Akita Zinc or recycled and refined within our company. Gallium arsenide wafers are produced using highly pure gallium that is refined in Kohei Yoshizawa Yoshikazu Ohga for semiconductors, conductive and magnetic m a t e r i a l s a n d b a t t e r y m a t e r i a l s . D O WA the gallium plant. LEDs are produced by making chips from the wafers we I believe that the nitride-based HEMT epitaxial substrate is The semiconductor plant uses the air conditioning equipment ca p i ta l i ze s o n i t s l o n g c u l t i vate d , h i te c h manufacture in our substrate plant. In this respect, our company is resourcepromising to meet the needs of our age for energy savings and dedicated to the clean room and has a rule that it cannot stop its technologies for producing thin film, crystal recycling facility where products are manufactured and processed all in-house. more and more compact electronic devices. I have to learn many operation. Our plant is appointed as an energy controlled plant. g ro w t h , m a n u fa c t u r i n g f i n e p a r t i c l e s a n d Our LED products are applied to the promising growth ﬁelds in the future, new things every day as I am in charge of introducing, managing Reduction of power consumption of air conditioning equipment particle shape control. and setting up manufacturing equipment. and production facilities will help the One of our products with the world’s top including blood sensors, cutting-edge medical instruments for cancer share is LEDs (light-emitting diode). Having treatment and sensors for the latest ink jet printers. Our nitride plant that With the help of people around me, I feel I presently dire electricity situation in Japan a long life, less power consumption and high started operation in 2007 manufactures nitride-based HEMT epitaxial am steadily progressing. As a member of the as well as a reduction of production energy response speed, these LEDs , are used for various substrates that are promising as a new semiconductor material. Nitride Epitaxial Production Department, requirements and safer operation. The applications such as displays, transmission I will do my best to improve productivity whole plant will continue to implement total and sensors. As a proximity sensor for smart and quality to speedily expand the use of energy management and work at continued phones, the demand for LEDs is increasing. We this promising product. reduction of environmental burdens. are enhancing our production to respond to this increasing demand. The market for solar cells also remain strong. We are planning to increase the production capacity of spherical silver powders that are DOWA Semiconductor Akita receives local students on internship every year as part of our activities to used for the electrodes of solar cells. We are Topics 2012 foster human resources and to contribute to local communities in partnership with universities. also considering increasing the capacity of A total of four students from Tohoku University, Akita University and facilities by closely watching the demand trends. Akita College of Technology participated in the program and addressed We aim at being the top company in a wide Receiving Students the challenges in the LED plant, the substrate plant and the nitride plant va r i et y of f i e l d s , b ui l d i n g o n o u r p ro d u c t on Internship families that are backed up by our cutting-edge for approximately two weeks. We hope the actual experience on the technologies. We also strive to develop new manufacturing site will help them to decide their career paths and select businesses for those newly developed products their jobs. We will continue to promote the program as part of our social through active investment in order to contribute contribution activities through education. to building an eco-friendly society through energy saving and reduction of CO2. 9 10 DOWA METALTECH Feature 1 About DOWA group The DOWA group CSR D O W A M E T A L T E C H Enhanced Development of Highly Fostering Human Resources Functional Alloys, Considering Environment through the TPM Activities DOWA METANIX manufactures highly functional alloys for lead DOWA METANITEX has been engaged in the TPM (Total frame connectors used for main information communication Productive Maintenance & Management) activities for many years, devices. The size of the parts and components of smart phones aimed at increasing earning power and strengthening the corporate and PCs is getting smaller and smaller. Metal materials need infrastructure. All employees participate in these activities. TPM is Social Performance higher performance to achieve ultra-compact size. the generic term for the management activities across the company Connectors in this ﬁeld use copper alloys containing beryllium; to improve human, facility-related and corporate factors, aimed however, beryllium oxide is a hazardous substance. We have at preventing losses that could impair eﬃciency of the production succeeded in developing the ultra strong copper alloy of YCuTsystem throughout the life cycle of the system. FX to replace beryllium. Using our proprietary technology Fostering human resources is one of the main activities of of “Texture Control” and “Precipitates Control” for copperthe diversified TPM activities. We are promoting education that titanium alloys we have succeeded in dramatically improving is systemized per job functions and ranks in this activity. We Environmental Performance performance. The product is safe as only added element is encourage employees to obtain qualiﬁcations so that they can have Introduction of Main Plant of titanium. It also has sufficient springiness and processability higher goals and improve their technical abilities. One out of three to be formed to complicated shapes, ideal for ultra-compact of our operators has taken a national skill examination and has DOWA METANIX connectors and ultra-small received a certificate. Relevant sw i tc h e s . T h e m a n u fa c t u r i n g parties in each department and technology of copper-titanium division share the activity policy, Address: 2630 Shingai, Iwata-shi, Shizuoka Prefecture 438-0025 Japan alloys is very difficult and has not plan and progress statuses via Economic & Management Performance Number of Employees: 205 (as of March 31, 2013) yet achieved cost-effectiveness. “the sign board.” We hold a sign We are committed to eco-friendly board contest to raise awareness manufacturing, taking environment of employees by visualization Metal Material Supporting the IT Industry and health in consideration of the and sharing of issues and details requirements for safety. of TPM activities. DOWA METANIX was founded in 1961 as an alloy manufacturing company TRM Promotion Oﬃce Head VOICE VOICE Hiromi Fujimura (left) and joined the DOWA group in 2007, supporting the cutting-edge technologies Deputy Division Head, President and Representative Director of the IT industry through manufacturing of metal materials. Iwata Technical Center Chief in charge Haruo Nishizawa Motohiko Suzuki The market of information devices such as smart phones and PCs are expanding on a global basis and devices with a more compact size and less Hiromasa Omura (right) DOWA METALTECH provides the following variety weight are being required. We manufacture copper-based and nickel-based Our YCuT series are copper-titanium alloys that are very TPM has become the indispensable tool to revamp of technical services. Our copper elongation sheet difficult to produce. Research, manufacturing and sales management. The role of the TPM Promotion Office is to highly functional alloys that are indispensable for making those rapidly products use highly functional copper alloys and they advancing information devices. We strive to further enhance already high departments all strive to improve quality, cost and delivery in challenge the spirit of our employees in their activities. The are oﬀered on a global basis. They include NB109 (the standard material for on-board connectors), C7025 performance, improve safety and reduce environmental burden through cooperation. There are various major and minor issues on this driving force to promote the activities in the busy workplace for high-end lead frames and ultra-strong YCuT-FX not only offering materials but also designing and processing of parts and production technology. To resolve the problems we must take every day is sharing the sense of crisis that nothing can be (enables ultra-compact size of parts and components). components. We put much emphasis on improvement of technologies and quality control and productivity actions, and at the same time achieved only maintaining the status quo. The activities have Our bar products have been highly adopted and fostering of human resources. Through these activities we will aim at being a we must seek the ideal situation for the future. Every day I think expanded to involve sales, planning and general administration applied in gas and water supply fields. Our metal company that can contribute to further enriching the lives of people. about the ways to obtain the better results. departments that are not directly connected to the activities, in plating contributes to maintaining strict surface quality of automobile electric equipment and cell We will develop the best conditions to addition to the manufacturing phone parts and components. Our highly professional produce better product by introducing new and technical departments. products include metal ceramic substrates that are equipment and facilities, remove quality Now every employee of our indispensable for inverter circuits including industrial variation factors, and establish the system company participates in our machinery, hybrid vehicles, wind power generation to maintain quality so that the market place TPM activities. We endeavor to and railways. will recognize us as “METANIX of quality.” promote TPM so everyone can We established a reflow tin plating plant in Shanghai, China and Thailand. The Thai plant handles take pleasure in of the activities. silver and nickel plating. We support for local procurement of the products by Japanese companies To promote the health of employees, DOWA METANIX encourages them to deploying business in other countries with the same participate in a walking event called as “Shall We Walk!” Participants can choose quality as those manufactured in Japan. Topics 2012 their goals from 6,000, 8,000 or 10,000 steps/day; they then keep a record of the We have granted the license of on-board NB109 and NB105 to U.S. and German manufacturers and number of steps they took during three months. Although almost all the employees are proceeding to establish the global supply system participated in the event, METANIX comes up with unique encouragements for to North America, Europe and Asia. We opened sales Shall We Walk! participation every time the walking event is held. For example, bonus points will be added to those who do not oﬃces in Shenzhen in China and Singapore to widen smoke during the event period. Even though you know you must exercise, it is diﬃcult to do so by yourself. This event our service areas. encourages employees to tackle their health issues as if they were playing games. The event also helps to promote We will provide our customers with a wide variety of solutions through our network of products and communication among employees. In 2012, the event added team participation. Having teams encourages employees technical services. to participate more often, thereby contributing to their health more. We will continue these eﬀorts in the event. 11 12 DOWA THERMOTECH Feature 1 About DOWA group The DOWA group CSR D O W A T H E R M O T E C H Maximizing Energy Efficiency Highly Accurate Quality Control System Processing by heat treatment requires a great amount of energy as it is a Heat treatment is a business in which the most suitable treatment is applied technology that requires high temperatures for a long time. We always regard to the products according to the request from the clients. It requires very strict energy saving as our main challenge. quality control at every stage from production and inspection to shipment. Mainly used for automobile parts, carbonized treatment is the core of Heat-treated products are inspected with various inspection instruments DOWA THERMOTEC’s heat treatment business,. We use two types of furnaces. in the Ohta Plant and the inspection results are input into computers by Social Performance The ﬁrst is a batch feed furnace suitable for products of a small quantity with authorized persons before shipment. This is how the quality control work diﬀerent treatment conditions or products that require a long treatment time. is standardized in the plant, which maintains the quality level. The plant The second is a continuous feed mini-furnace that processes mass production implemented the centrally administered storage in a high-rise warehouse. products eﬃciently. The Ohta Plant reduces fuel consumption by devising means Highly accurate quality control system is put in place using a layout where of improving heat insulating eﬀect of those furnaces and reducing heat emission incoming and outgoing points of products are clearly separated. This to the surrounding environment. In 2012, the plant succeeded in improving prevents mixture of untreated products and treated ones. For education, productivity by equalizing treatment conditions of products to be processed in the plant holds some study sessions conducted by external lecturers. Environmental Performance the continuous mini-furnace. The mini-furnace can reduce energy consumption Other times the employees themselves act as lecturers to one another to when it processes a large amount material under the same conditions. The teach about heat treatment techniques. The plant endeavors to enhance Introduction of Main Plant of characteristics of products are influenced by heating speed, temperature and technological capabilities and improve quality, focusing on educating DOWA THERMO ENGINEERING CO.,LTD. time. Therefore, it used to be diﬃcult to equalize the treatment conditions for employees. These eﬀorts include study sessions and providing support for OHTA Plant diversified products with different them to obtain qualiﬁcations. The plant maintains the top level yield rate characteristics. The Ohta Plant (the ratio to produce and ship Address: 997-720 Wakiya-cho, Ohta-shi, Gunma Prefecture 373-0031 Japan succeeded in setting up proper products without defects in the Economic & Management Performance Number of Employees: 105 (as of March 31, 2013) treatment conditions satisfying the production process) among heat need of customers through trial treatment plants of the DOWA and error from various angles for group through the diversified Main Plant of Heat Treatment in Kanto Area products with different materials efforts including improved and standards, capitalizing on its systems, facilities and employee The Ohta Plant of DOWA THERMO ENGINEERING (“Ohta Plant”) is located in experience and know-how. education. Ohta-shi, Gunma Prefecture and started operation in 2008. It is a major base of the heat treatment business in the DOWA group (total seven plants) in the Kanto President and Representative Director Production Technology group, Toshiro Sumida Area. Heat treatment is applied to metal surfaces to make metals stronger, lighter VOICE the Production Division VOICE Quality Control Division DOWA THERMOTECH’s business activities focus on and last longer. The technology is necessary for automobiles and construction Keita Yoshitomi Takanori Inayoshi two main activities: heat treatment and industrial machinery that require resistance to wear and corrosion. We inspect multi-mix products one by one to equalize their The Ohta Plant is designed to meet the ideal image of a heat furnaces. In the heat treatment business we apply The Ohta Plant has three menus of heat treatment: carbonized treatment, heat treatment to automobile engine parts and gears heat treatment conditions. It is a very strenuous work. In the Ohta treatment plant from the construction stage of the plant. Cuttingsalt bathing (TD) treatment, shot-peening. It is the latest heat treatment plant to improve surface strength, while in the industrial Plant, from the planning stage all organizations cooperated to edge heat treatment equipment and facilities were introduced. In that adopted the FA system with computer controlled equipment and facilities furnace business we manufacture, sell and maintain share the issues of equalization of conditions. This enabled us to this plant heat treatment conditions can be monitored all the time heat treatment equipment and facilities. including the heat treat furnace with monthly 1,000 ton treatment capacity, high proceed to mass production at an early stage in partnership with to detect abnormalities at an early stage. Using the ideal layout In the heat treatment business, as the raised automatic warehouse and automatic conveyer equipment. The Ohta Plant our customers. Before equalization, we often stopped furnace and latest heat treatment equipment, these facilities minimizes temperature of the furnace must be kept very is actively promoting energy savings and reduction of environmental burdens by high for heat treatment of products, which uses a operation every time modiﬁcations were made to the product, the problems and oﬀer stable operation to produce quality products. developing and introducing energy saving heat treatment equipment and facilities large amount of energy. This makes energy saving furnace temperature and atmosphere also Visualization of problems is put in place in as well as installing 100 kW class solar panels. important for conservation of the environment and it must be changed. However, at present the the plant via the Morning Market board. All is also one of the major challenges for management. furnace operates all the time from Monday employees gather every morning in front Each plant sets its goals of improvement including to Saturday. We can conduct preventative of the board for a morning meeting to reconsideration of its heat treatment conditions and maintenance of the furnace on Sundays, share day-to-day issues. We are committed for increased productivity. Our plants have been steadily achieving these goals. Recently we have resulting in visual improvements in the to resolving problems at an early stage in started to reuse industrial waste such as used oil, and heat treated products. partnership with each division and section. set forth stricter in-house standards than compliance to current relevant laws . The automobile industry is our important customer who is increasing the shift from domestic The Ohta Plant places the top priority on Safety Control and promotes various activities, from the monthly safety market to markets outside of Japan. We set up patrol and potential accidents prevention activities to small group activities. We regard “5S” activity as the basis of our business bases in U.S.A, Thailand, China, India Topics 2012 promoting health and safety: 5S means five S’s indicating the capital letter of five words and Indonesia to support for local manufacturing in Japanese referring to Seiri (Organized), Seiton (Put in order), Seiso (Cleaning), Seiketsu of our client companies. We have just started No Accident Record (Clean) and Shitsuke (Training). Each section of the plant starts cleaning its responsible area environmental conservation and safety activities abroad. We endeavor to promote these activities for Consecutive at 13:00 every day. Hidden problems on site will be discovered through these daily activities. in other countries in close partnership with their Three Years Employees can work more comfortably if their workplace are organized and clean. We Japanese counterparts. achieved the record of no accidents for three consecutive years. We will continue our eﬀorts. 13 14 Main Activities in 2012 The DOWA group sets up the goals of our CSR activities, based on will continue to reduce the emission. As for Society, we set forth and our CSR Policy and Priority List of CSR. published our new policy on conflict minerals in SCR procurement. CSR Management Our focus in 2012 was Safety activities of our business establishments. As for Environment, our total emission of CO2 in 2012 increased by 9% as compared to the previous year, probably due to We also made efforts to educate our employees by opening the portal site in-house for their further understanding of CSR. We will continuously improve our CSR activities, referring to the results and The DOWA group CSR the increased CO2 emission factor of the electric power company. We progress statuses of our activities during the ﬁscal year. Corporate Governance The DOWA group set forth the Dowa Group's Values and Standards We also strive to ensure sound business management, focusing Focus Goal Main Results Evaluation Page Issues for FY 2013 of Conduct and the DOWA Group’s CSR Guidelines so that each on enhancement of corporate governance through internal controls. employee to be aware that a company is a public institution, comply This is done to improve quality and efficiency of management to Improvement of ● Starting up of the Group Safety Activity Project Implementation of Social Performance risk management ● Implementation of risk assessment and preparation of BCP (Business P.17-18 the project across the whole holdings group with laws and regulations and take a sensible course of action. implement open, highly transparent management. Safety Continuity Plan) in all business establishments in Japan and abroad companies. Enhancement of safety Implementation of safety patrols (4 times/year) Strengthening the P.17-18 programs outside Japan education program CSR Policy throughout the group Support for educational courses to experience risks (235 persons took the course.) Continuation of the P.17-18 courses Emission of greenhouse gas: 1.49 million CO2 ton. × Reduction of total The DOWA group set forth its CSR Policy to promote CSR through our CSR activities with management based on this policy. Emission of greenhouse gas for domestic companies: ー amount of emission 9% increase compared to .last year activities from a long-term point of view, based on the Dowa We endeavor to share the policy with all employees, utilizing the Global warming measures ● Modal shift Promotion of Group's Corporate Philosophy and Standards of Conduct, group’s in-house newsletters and the Intranet to implement our ー information sharing on Environmental Performance ● Reduction of fuel through process improvement efforts within the group referring to the rules of United Nations Global Compact CSR eﬀorts in a practical manner. Promoting ● Expansion of precious metal recycling businesses in Asia Guidelines. We will carry out our responsibilities for society (Full operation of Singapore plant) P.5 Enhanced development resource-recycling P.22 of recycling technologies Environment ● Implementation of recycling and reuse of cerium, a glass grinding material Promoting environmentally× ● LCA of main products ① We will provide customers with products friendly products and ー Selection of LCA items ● Diagnostics of energy saving ● All employees will take part spontaneously and services that contribute to building a new energy fields. in safety activities to improve the level of resource-recycling society. Formulation of heath and safety in the workplace, based ② We will reduce environmental burdens Survey on biodiversity and formulation of conservation guideline × ー Biodiversity Conservation Policy on our basic philosophy of, Safety is the Conservation of Economic & Management Performance top priority. and risks in our business activities. biodiversity Promotion of Forest management Continuous afforestation (Planted 5,000 trees in Kosaka-machi, Akita Prefecture and ー and forest managemen ● We are committed to preventing accidents ③ T h e mana gem ent an d emp l oye es promotion of forest management) at work and supporting health of our together take part in environmental conservation activities. Strengthening of employees. Enhancement of internal Safety Environment ④ We will promote business activities internal control and governance Support for internal control activities of newly added companies to our consolidated accounting (Six companies) ー control of overseas business establishmen considering biodiversity. Governance Promoting CSR ● Preparation of the basic policy on procuring conflict minerals Formulation of CSR procurement ● Obtained Certificate for the Gold Conflict-Free Smelter program from EICC-GeSI P.23 Procurement Policy Promoting ● Promoting the framework for employees regardless of nationality to work globally Promoting employment Society Governance ● We will aim at open and transparent society. diversitymanagement ● Revision of the re-employment system to hire experienced retired employees P.24 of disabled people ● We will endeavor in anti-corruption eﬀorts Promoting work-life ● Support for obtaining leave of absence/return to work Preparation of action balance ● Implementing the questionnaire to the newly employed P.24 plans to support fostering ● We will promote social contributions, including anti-bribery measures taking into the next generati consideration international agreements. Society reﬂecting unique characteristics of each Promoting social contribution, Contribution to local Holding and operating events with local communities local community. ● We will take CSR into consideration in our communities (Marathon, ski competiion, cherry blossom festival) P.24 reflecting unique characteristics of each local community procurements. Promoting in-house Improvement of CSR education In-house portal site established P.24 the portal site Compliance Priority List of CSR The DOWA group places “Compliance” as the basis of our corporate management and is promoting such measures as strengthening We evaluated ourselves based on the key focus of ISO 26000 when we set forth our CSR Policy. We then set forth a priority list of CSR that the of internal control and education, based on the standard of conduct of our group. DOWA group should address in implementing the policy. We are committed to promoting sound business management through implementation of the policy as a responsible company. ○ Standards of Conduct of the DOWA group http://www.dowa.co.jp/jp/about_dowa/cvision.html The DOWA group set forth Standards of Conduct so that each employee is aware that a company is a public institution, Safety Governance comply with laws and regulations and take a sensible course of action and continues to act spontaneously towards creating a good life and building a resource-recycling society. ● We will improve our risk management. ● We will strengthen internal control ● We will enhance our safety education and governance. program throughout the group. ● We will prepare the CSR procurement guidelines. Our Efforts for Human Rights and Corruption Prevention The DOWA Group is committed to prohibiting discrimination in Japan and other countries. Environment Society due to nationality, race, ethnic group, religion, sex, age and In 2012 we did not receive any report on discrimination ● We will aggressively promote environmentally● We will promote diversity and disability; child labor; forced labor; and tackling corruption under relating human rights, child labor, forced labor and actual cases friendly products and new energy ﬁelds. work-life balance. the ten principles of the UN Global Compact (UN GC). of corruption. The DOWA group will continue to respect human ● We will conduct a survey on biodiversity ● We will promote CSR education. We strive to understand the circumstances relating to human rights and promote anti-corruption measures. and prepare guidelines. ● We will contribute to local community. rights by conducting surveys in our operational subsidiaries both 15 16 Social Performance Feature 2 Our Safety Measures The DOWA group CSR No One Is Hurt. No One Hurts Others. The Safe ty Activity Proje ct across the Group The Safety Activity Project across To determine standard efforts for safety activities and their details Social Performance Policy (mechanism) based on excellent (advanced) cases of safety the Group Started. activities in the group and promote the efforts across the group. ・Integration of “Top-down (instantaneous)” and “Bottom-up(continuity)” Keyword ・Improved effectiveness of safety activities “Safety is the Top Priority.” “No Shortcut to Safety.” These are the slogans long shouted in every industry, but ・Participation of all employees in safety activities and clarification of unfortunately there seems no end to serious accident incidents. The accident frequency rate and severity rate* of the each role in the activities DOWA group's bases of production were lower than that of another company of a similar scale listed in the occupational Environmental Performance accident statistics by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, and yet we are only half way to completely creating a The ideal image of safety activities determined by project members = Preparation of the safety standard of the DOWA group culture of the safety. The DOWA group started the Safety Activity Project across the Group to further carry out our social Scene of an actual activity on the Safety Activity Project (Local hearing in Okayama area) responsibilities of: “Safety is the Top Priority. To confirm the gap between To improve the safety level To plan and implement *Frequency rate: The number of casualties by accident incident per 1 million hours of labor (frequency of accident incidents) the ideal image and the improvement plans towards present status in each realizing the ideal image. *Severity rate: The number of days lost from work per 10 million hours of labor (severity of an accident incident) business establishment. Economic & Management Performance by spiraling upwards. To plan and implement To mutually check the further improved plans. improvement results in each area and discuss. To promote excellent (advanced) case of safety activities across Joint safety patrol in Thailand the group to further raising the level of safety activities. Promotion of Safety Activities Overseas – Learning Each Other Beyond the Sea Firstly the Safety Activity Project will be deployed in Japan. in a similar way to the Safety Activity Project in Japan. Under However, we have already started our efforts to raise the level the cultural, business and labor environments different from of safety activities in overseas business bases. In Asian countries those in Japan, each overseas business base is promoting its where our business bases are increasing rapidly, we are focusing activities through trial and error, trying to raise awareness of Aimed at Raising the Safety Activity Level on communication on safety activities between business bases in local employees for safety, maintain the activities as routines Thailand and China. and further activate them. We aim at building the “DOWA Global The DOWA group put in place a health and safety committee in connection with our recent, rapid expansion of business. The Joint safety patrols and study sessions are held in each Safety Standard” by not only deploying the Japanese cases or in every business establishment in Japan and other countries needs are increasing to support for putting safety organizations establishment in turn for mutual learning, aimed at raising the know how overseas but also introducing excellent cases in each to promote various safety activities according to the annual in place and safety education in newly opened business bases. level of safety activities in each country and region basically country back to Japan actively beyond the sea. health and safety plan, under the health and safety policy Under such circumstances, the DOWA group started the Safety of “All employees will take part in safety activities with their Activity Project across the Group by appointing the director of own initiatives to improve the level of health and safety in the board in charge of safety as chief responsible person in August workplace, based on our basic philosophy of Safety is the top 2012. With the slogan of “No One Is Hurt. No One Hurts Others.”, priority. We also implemented safety checking mechanisms this project is intended to raise the level of safety activities No Shortcut to Safety – Social Responsibility for “Safety is the Top Priority.” by third parties and also mutual safety checking mechanisms across the group. A person in charge of safety activities in major Safety culture cannot be built in a day. It requires day-to-day, Employees are important stakeholders in terms of CSR of the such as: support for risk experience educational courses, safety business establishments in Japan is appointed as member of steady eﬀorts. Business entities must continue to secure safety as DOWA group. Therefore, securing safety of labor is an important patrols jointly with local community people, safety audits and the project. They are called for the meeting, where they discuss long as they continue business. Therefore, a company must make issue of the group. Securing safety is the major premise of safe instructions within each operating company in addition to the ideal image of safety activities including potential accident efforts together with all employees to realize effective safety operation and also the basis of trust from local communities and independent activities in each business establishment. Despite prevention measures, risk assessment and safety patrol. They activities. More speciﬁcally, as described in the keyword of the society. The DOWA group is committed to carrying out social these efforts, each of our business establishments has its own are working hard towards full deployment of the project across Safety Activity Project, the “Top-down” by a strong leadership responsibilities of “Safety is the top priority.” through the eﬀorts questions as follows: Are these activities really contributing the group at the middle of 2013. We adopt excellent (advanced) of the management and the “Bottom-up” by employees on site focusing on the Safety Activity Project. to preventing accidents from happening or raising awareness cases of safety activities in each business establishment actively must be integrated. of employees? Have these activities become routine and and strive to share them across the entire group. uninspiring? Business bases are increasing especially overseas 17 18 Relations with Society Relation with Employees The DOWA group would like to make various contributions by tackling with social issues through our business activities. We also would like to The DOWA group CSR create values sought by all of our stakeholders by continuing growth through our business activities in harmony with society. Employment The DOWA group tries to maintain an appropriate number of which 88% (4,404) are male and 12% (593) are female. The number Relations with Stakeholders employees, considering the present status of employees and our of temporary workers including contract employees, non-regular staﬀ The Dowa group communicates with our stakeholders, including our customers, shareholders, investors, partners, local communities and growth plan. As of March 31, 2013 we have total 5,315 employees, of and dispatched workers is 1,455. employees in many ways at our oﬃces and business units. Employment status in Japan Number of employees per region Social Performance Main stakeholders Our Responsibility Opportunities ● Ensuring quality and safety of our products and services ● Various seminars and exhibits Fiscal year 2010 2011 2012 Fiscal year 2010 2011 2012 All customers who use the ● Pursuit of Customer Satisfaction (CS) ● Plant visits Region products and services oﬀered ● Protection of customer information ● Various PR activities on environment Customer by the DOWA group Classiﬁcation Japan 5,260 5,323 5,315 ● Disclosure of information on our website Male Female Male Female Male Female Maximization of corporate values General shareholders' meeting Director Other Asian countries 1,115 1,325 2,510 127 1 123 1 124 0 ● ● Shareholders Individual or institutional ● Dividends ● Results brieﬁng and periodic presentations to investors and investors including investors our shareholders ● Disclosure of information and dialogue ● Preparation of annual reports and business reports Regular ● Disclosure of information on our website employees Manager 670 8 681 8 707 8 Europe 1 4 16 ● Selection of procurement sources based on fair and ● Various seminars and exhibits in Japan All partners who collaborate Ordinary employees with us for provision of the unbiased basis ● Plant visits 2,698 291 2,699 288 2,727 294 North America 67 78 92 Environmental Performance ● Support for green procurement and environmental ● Presentations to partners including green procurement Partners products and services oﬀered management ● Quality and environment audit by the DOWA group ● Corporate ethics contacts Non-regular Dispatched employees 454 432 318 Central & South America 3 3 1 ● Environment conservation activities ● Plant visits by local people employees People in local communities Part-time workers, temporary Local who we interact with through ● Contribution to regional development through support for ● Participation in local groups in Japan 741 270 826 265 846 291 Total 6,446 6,733 7,934 communities our oﬃces and main business culture and sports activities ● Hosting, participation in and support for local events workers and seasonal workers ● Educational activities ● Risk communication activities ● Disclosure of information and dialogue Total 5,260 5,323 5,315 Employees ● Proper evaluation and treatment ● Management meeting (including their Employees who work in the ● Ensuring diversiﬁed human resources ● Management-labor interviews ● Promotion of work/life balance ● Human resource education and environmental education family members) DOWA group and their family ● Ensuring health and safety of workplace ● In-house newsletters & portal site members ● Human development ● Respect for human rights ● Events for family members of employees Promotion of Diversity Management Economic & Management Performance Relations with Customers Employees with diversiﬁed talents exercising their full potential DOWA group after compulsory retirement age for the purpose will lead to the growth of a company. The DOWA group is now of actively utilizing experienced workers. We revised the rebuilding a system to recruit employees who can work on a global employment system by newly adopting a job rank system, aimed basis regardless of nationality as part of promoting diversity at putting in place the working environment where experienced Sending Out Information eﬀorts. We also re-employed those who intended to work in the employees can fully exercise their long cultivated talents. The DOWA group strives to send out information related to seminars and making presentations at symposiums. the environment and social contribution, through our website, Exhibitions offer us an opportunity to communicate with our Work/Life Balance exhibitions and seminars. customers and gather opinions directly from them. In connection The DOWA group is committed to improving the workplace members. As a result of these efforts, users of these systems We are committed to strengthening communication with our with our global business deployment, we have more opportunities for employees. Our work/life balance program aims at helping are increasing every year. In 2012, 16 employees took childcustomers by engaging in various activities to send out information, to send out information by actively participating in international each employee to exercise his/her abilities to the fullest extent raising leaves of absence. The survey results for newly recruited including exhibitions and events in and outside Japan, holding exhibitions. according to his/her life style both at work and at home. We employees show approximately 44% wanted to take leaves of The main international exhibitions The main lectures we participates in 2012 strive to improve the working environment by implementing a absence for raising children and approximately 20% for caretaking that we participated in 2012. more ﬂexible working system like ﬂexible working hours and leave of family members. We will continue our work life balance eﬀorts ・OPIE 12 Special Seminar on infrared and ultraviolet light radiation of absence system for raising children and caretaking of family further, based on the action plan to nurture the next generation. ・PCIM Asia 2012 April 25, Yokohama, Japan June 19 ‒ 21, Shanghai, China ・Tohoku Branch of the Iron and Steel Institute of Japan Lecture Commemorating ・WasteMET Asia 2012 July 1 ‒ 4, Singapore Yukawa/President Yamazaki of MM Health and Safety ・Printed Electronics USA 2012 December 11, Morioka, Japan The DOWA group continues to offer educational programs on December 5 ‒ 6, Santa Clara, U.S.A. ・Japan and Brazil Recycling Seminar on Waste from Electric and Electronic ・Photonics West 2013 Products/ES Recycling Business Unit health and safety of the workplace to employees and those of partner 2012 accident incidents February 5 ‒ 7, San Francisco, U.S.A. March 12 ‒ 13, Brasilia, Brazil companies to raise awareness and prevent accidents. We also oﬀer study sessions on risk assessment and accident cases in addition to various at the DOWA group's production bases Response to Conflict Metals training and educational programs, especially in production-related The 2012 frequency of accidents at DOWA group's departments where environmental and safety education is prerequisite. production sites was compared to that of another company The Dodd-Frank Act was enacted in July 2010 in U.S.A. This is a law to reform ﬁnancial regulations. In 2012 we started the Safety Activity Project across the Group (More) of similar scale listed in the occupational accident statistics The act requires listed companies to report to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on the use to improve the safety levels of all offices and business establishments by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. DOWA's of conﬂict minerals produced in the Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in their products. The both in Japan and other countries, in addition to the usual safety patrols frequency rate was 1.21 compared to that of the other conﬂict metals refers to tantalum, tin, gold, tungsten and other minerals designated by the Secretary of and risk assessment campaigns. company of 2.43 and the severity rate was 0.05 compared State in the Act, aimed at cutting oﬀ the ﬁnancial sources to the armed groups in the Republic of Congo. The DOWA group set forth the basic policy as follows and is actively informing all employees of the to that of the other company of 0.12. The ﬁgures are lower policy in order to carry out our social responsibilities in purchasing so that our customers can utilize our Health than those of the other company in the accident statistics. metal materials without any concern. The DOWA group considers it important for all employees to *These rates are compared to those confirmed values of DOWA METALS & MINING accepted the audit of Gold Conﬂict-Free Smelter enjoy an active life both in terms of body and mind and health the accident statistics in 2011 for a company with 50 to 99 ● We do not use or purchase minerals designated as conﬂict metals program by EICC-GeSI and obtained the certiﬁcate in October 2012. as the fountain of developing human resources. DOWA strives to produced in the conﬂict areas and their recycled materials. employees (average number of employees in each one of EICC: Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition protect the health of each employee, including support for various DOWA group's production bases). ● We do not trade conﬂict metals in the conﬂict areas. GeSI: Global e-Sustainability Initiative systems of physical examinations and gynecological examinations and putting the mental health counseling system in place. ○ Procurement policy of conﬂict minerals http://www.dowa-csr.jp/en/csr/procurement_policies.html 19 20 Environmental Performance Environmental Report Feature 3 DOWA’s Eco-products The DOWA group promotes production of eco-products of resources and environment at each stage of production, The DOWA group CSR that considers environment throughout their life cycles usage and disposal. We try to reduce environmental Policy on Environmental Consideration from the production process to the disposal process. burden when we produce our products. We endeavor to The DOWA group set forth its Basic Environmental Policy, focusing on environmental conservation as a key issue in our business In four ﬁelds of 1) Materials, 2) Parts and Components, oﬀer parts and components contributing to energy saving management. We are promoting environmentally-friendly business management across the entire group based on this policy. 3) Products and 4) Services, we strive to develop and of end products and reduction of environmental burden. In our environmental activities we should respond to environmental and social issues through our main business and at the same time produce eco-products. Eco-products mean those products We try to recycle metals after they are used as well as Social Performance we should reduce the environmental burden produced by our business. We will strive for environmental conservation and at the same time and services that are eco-friendly considering conservation disposing of waste. create economic value. 1 Recycling of heavy and rare metals with bryophytes 7 Deep ultraviolet LED Environmental Management System Services Development of metal recycling technology with Parts LED that can output deep ultraviolet of 350 nm or less funariales (Joint study with German Institute of Physical and Chemical Research) Applications Resin hardening, adhesion, drying, medical treatment, The CSR Department of DOWA Holdings is promoting the DOWA group's environment management activity in partnership with the analysis, photocatalyst or water puriﬁcation Targets Heavy and rare metals (lead and gold, etc.) planning oﬃce of each operating company that is in charge of environmental conservation. DOWA Holdings is responsible for environment Environmental High eﬃciency, long life cycle and energy saving/in use Environmental Conservation of resources and water environment/ management and compliance of the DOWA group in addition to coordination and improvements among our operating companies. performance Reduction of hazardous substances (lead-free)/at disposal Environmental Performance performance at recycling Feature Recycling technology to use completely new Feature Wavelength (300nm or less) to realize disinfection and function of plants sterilization of water or material surface eﬃciently D O WA HOL DING S 2 Study of the solar panel recycling system 8 Nitride-based HEMT structure epitaxial substrates Services Research and Development of the solar panel Materials Materials for power semiconductor devices President Business strategy board recycling system and Parts Targets Used solar panels Applications Power supply of household electric appliances, high output products including servers and antennas for base stations of Economic & Management Performance cell phones, hybrid cars and electric cards Officer in charge Corporate executive board Environmental Reduction of waste and prevention of improper performance disposal and illegal dumping/at disposal Environmental performance Energy saving/in use CSR department Feature Future recycling system of used solar panels to be generated in a large quantity due to expansion of Feature Resistant to high voltage and with low electric resistance to reduce power loss to one thirds compared to conventional new energy technologies silicon-based substrates Operating companies Meeting of personnel in charge of safety and environment 3 Recycling of cerium from glass grinding materials 9 MR* (laminate) LED Services and Recycling of grinding materials for glass and lenses Parts High output infra-red LED chips with a bonding technology Materials that bonds a highly functionalized epitaxial thin ﬁlm substrate consisting of several tens of crystalline layers in a nanometer Operating Company Operating Subsidiary Targets Rare earth (cerium) order to the substrate with a metal reﬂection part. Applications Proximity sensors for smart phones Environmental Reduction of waste/at disposal performance Conservation of rare earth resources/at recycling DOWA ECO-SYSTEM Person in charge of safety and environment Person in charge of safety and environment Environmental performance Energy saving/in use Planning Office (Personnel in charge of safety and environment) Person in chargemeeting Safety and environmental of safety and environment Feature Approximately 90% of high recycling rate Safety and environmental Person in chargemeeting of safety and environment Safety and environmental meeting Feature Less power consumption by high output Safety and environmental meeting Safety and environmental meeting *MR: Metal Reﬂection DOWA METALS & MINING Person in charge of safety and environment Person in charge of safety and environment 4 Technology to remove radioactive cesium from incinerator ﬂy ash 10 Energy-saving heat treatment furnace Planning Office (Personnel in charge of safety and environment) Person in chargemeeting Safety and environmental of safety and environment Safety and environmental Person in chargemeeting of safety and environment Services Eﬀective removal of water soluble cesium from incinerator ﬂy ash. Products Carburizing furnace for heat treatment of automobile parts Safety and environmental meeting Development of materials and the separation process through joint study Safety and environmental meeting Safety and environmental meeting with the Jikei University Targets Automobile parts including engines and transmissions Targets Incinerator ﬂy ash generated by burning waste aﬀected by a nuclear power DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS Person in charge of safety and environment Person in charge of safety and environment plant accident Environmental Energy saving and reduction of CO2 emission/in use performance Planning Office (Personnel in charge of safety and environment) Person in chargemeeting Safety and environmental of safety and environment Environmental Safe waste disposal/at disposal performance Safety and environmental Person in chargemeeting of safety and environment Feature Approximately 50% reduction of CO2 emission Safety and environmental meeting Safety and environmental meeting Reduction of concentration of radioactive cesium from 3,800Bq*/kg from existing facilities Safety and environmental meeting Feature to 1,500Bq/kg in the demonstration experiment *Bq: Becquerel (Unit to indicate the amount of radioactivity) DOWA METALTECH Person in charge of safety and environment Planning Office (Personnel in charge of safety and environment) Person in charge of safety and environment Safety and environmental of safety and environment Person in chargemeeting Person in chargemeeting Safety and environmental of safety and environment 5 Biodiesel fuel 11 Silver powders for solar panels Safety and environmental meeting Safety and environmental meeting Recycling of diesel engine fuel (alternative fuel Safety and environmental meeting Services Materials Silver powders to cater for various particle shapes (spherical and for light oil) from used cooking oil jointly with ﬂakes) and distribution of granularity Okayama City Applications Sliver paste used for electrodes of photovoltaic cells DOWA THERMOTECH Person in charge of safety and environment Person in charge of safety and environment Targets Used cooking oil from households, restaurants and (crystal, silicon-based photovoltaic cell) Planning Office (Personnel in charge of safety and environment) food manufacturing factories Person in chargemeeting Safety and environmental of safety and environment Safety and environmental Person in chargemeeting of safety and environment Environmental Reduction of CO2 emission/in use Environmental performance Improvement of functions of photovoltaic cells/in use Safety and environmental meeting Safety and environmental meeting Safety and environmental meeting performance Reduction of waste/at disposal Feature World top share of silver powder production for Feature Okayama City uses the fuel for garbage trucks and photovoltaic cells buses. 6 Low lead zinc 12 Surface treatment, Cr-Dope-N Implementation Status of Environment Management System Materials High quality zinc ingot of 1ppm or less that is one tenth of conventional lead component Services Surface treatment of metal materials (physical vapor deposition) Applications High safety for new applications for medical and Targets Mold to form powder, plastic and rubber The main production facilities in Japan and the overseas business We conduct internal audits and external audits on a regular food ﬁelds Environmental Energy saving, reduction of CO2 emission and reduction of establishments of the DOWA group are ISO 14001 certiﬁed. Dowa basis to ensure proper environmental management. We also oﬀer Environmental Improvement of safety/in use performance Reduction of hazardous substances/at disposal performance hazardous substances/at production Longer life of products/in use Tsu-un attained the Green Management Certiﬁcation to promote training courses for internal auditors to foster internal auditors and Feature Prevention of environmental contamination and Feature Safe without hazardous substances such as hexavalent environmental conservation in the truck industry. increase the number of internal auditors. risk to health by lead chromium, cadmium and lead At disposal / recycling At production In use 21 22 Material Balance of the DOWA Group The DOWA group CSR Water resource Overview of Our Business Activities Exhaust gas The DOWA group is engaged in environmental & recycling, Purchased power nonferrous metals, electronic materials, metal processing and heat Social Performance treatment businesses along with related transportation businesses. Electricity We strive to save resources, energy and reduction of environmental burdens as follows. We promote recycling of water, heat, materials and reactants in our production and transportation processes and implement various measures relating to energy including hydroelectric and solar power generation. Recycling use within the DOWA group (amount) INPUT OUTPUT Material Balance of 2012 Environmental Performance Total energy input 0.6% 11% No change Material balance shows the entire picture of environmental (amount) 15.7 PJ decrease compared to Heat recovered and Sold power 2 GWh compared to the previous year 666 TJ decrease compared to burden within the DOWA group, identifying the input of resources the previous year used besides power the previous year generation and energy into the business activities of the DOWA group ( INPUT ) Purchased power 1,163 GWh Total emission of GHG 1,49,000 t 8.0% and the output of products produced and the discharged amount 6.0% (amount) (as converted to CO2) increase compared to 62 GWh the previous year of substances imposing environmental burden ( OUTPUT ). Thermal power Waste power generation decrease compared to 2 GWh the previous year Eﬀorts of each ﬁeld of the DOWA group in 2012 are described generation Derived from electricity 634,000 t Economic & Management Performance (Emission of GHG) (as converted to CO2) as below: Hydroelectric power generation 59.9 GWh Derived from waste ● Environment & recycling business (Emission of GHG) 557,000 t (as converted to CO2) Is engaged in strengthening the network of collecting waste for Solar power generation 302 MWh Derived from fuel treatment and disposal and increasing the amount of treatment. Transportation (Emission of GHG) 299,000 t ● Nonferrous metals business (as converted to CO2) Purchased steam 528 GJ Endeavors to increase collection of new metals and reduce the Product ・Emission of GHG by transportation 16,000 t (as converted to CO2) basic unit of power. Fossil fuel 107,000 kL ● Electronic materials business consumption Developed products that satisfy the market needs of IT related 4.0% ・Energy consumption 231 TJ Products (amount) 514,000 t decrease compared to product such as PCs and multi-functional cell phones. We by transportation the previous year expanded the sales of new products including nitride-base Production Discharged chemical 8.0% semiconductors (HEMT) and Responded to the demand for 1.0% substances (amount)* 2,300 t decrease compared to multi-functional cell phones and photovoltaic cells. Total material input the previous year (amount) 2,240,000 t increase compared to 11% the previous year ● Metal processing business Total waste recycling Responded to the demand for copper elongation products that occurred 1,245,000 t decrease compared to 944,000 t the previous year Material used for consumer multi-functional cell phones. We promoted Thermal recycling improvement of yield and productivity of operation. within the DOWA group 394,000 t ・Materials for heat treatment on consignment 58,000 t ● Heat treatment business Material recycling Endeavored to improve productivity to respond to rising energy ・Virgin packaging within the DOWA group 124,000 t costs. materials 763 t Discharged waste and In 2012 production and treatment items are diversified in our recycled products 727,000 t Accepted waste 1,296,000 t material balance. Total energy input decreased by 0.6% compared Waste disposal ・Landfill disposal 549,000 t to the previous year due to slight increase of purchased power ・Accepted contaminated compared to the previous year and due to the decrease of soil 106,000 t Recycling ・Amount of recycling outside the group 179,000 t fossil fuel consumption in 2012. Total material input increased Valuable substances (outside of the group) 76,000 t by 1% compared to the previous year as the amount of ・Destructed CFC 61 t (167,000 t as converted to CO2) accepted waste decreased, while use of virgin materials increased. Total emission of green house effect gases Thermal Power 2.0% both in Japan and other countries increased by 8% Water resource input 5.0% 104,000,000 m Water usage increase compared to (amount) Discharged water (amount) 96,000,000 m 3 the previous year 3 compared to the previous year due to the increase decrease compared to the previous year of power emission factor in Japan. The amount of waste and recycled products decreased by *P: Peta（=1015) *Chemical substances: Substances based on the PRTR law. T: Tera（=1012) 11% compared to the previous year due to the decrease of waste overseas. For individual items and speciﬁc ﬁgures, see our CSR report on our website. CSR Report Web version http://www.dowa-csr.jp/en/report/index.html 23 24 Economic & Management Performance Economic Report & Environmental Accounting Basic Requirements The DOWA group CSR Social Aspects of Environmentally-friendly Management ■ Publication Date June 2013 For our eﬀorts for responding to important social issues, see Social Performance. ■ Due Publication Date of the Next Report June 2014 ■ Responsible department CSR Department, DOWA Holdings Economic Aspects of Environmentally-friendly Management ■ URL http://www.dowa.co.jp/index_e.html (in English) Social Performance Financial Highlights http://www.dowa.co.jp (in Japanese) The DOWA group has been responding to the changing business capabilities to respond to the increasing demand other countries. ■ Contact CSR Department, DOWA Holdings environment by actively deploying its business in expanding waste, As a result, our consolidated sales for the current term increased 22nd Floor, Akihabara UDX Bldg, 4-14-1 Sotokanda, Chiyoda-ku, recycling and automobile markets in Asia. We are increasing recovery by 7% compared to the previous year, amounting to 419.3 billion yen, Tokyo 101-0021 JAPAN of new metals due to the expanding sales for multi-functional cell while our consolidated recurring proﬁts increased by 30% compared Phone: (+81) 3-6847-1104 / Fax: (+81) 3-6847-1227 phones. Metal prices have repeatedly fluctuated due to financial to the previous year, amounting 27.2 billion yen. E-mail address: info_dowa@dowa.co.jp Environmental Performance situation, but as a whole it has remained weak. Basically, the yen Consolidated sales Consolidated recurring proﬁts ● The following materials are available from our website. http://www.dowa.co.jp/jp/ir/library_note.html remained strong in the exchange market until the end of the year, (0.1 billion) (0.1 billion) 6,000 600 when the trend was reversed. 4,193 Results Briefing Financial Report Investor’s Guide Annual Report In our Environmental & Recycling business, disposal of low level PCB 3,798 3,924 3,469 4,000 400 waste and waste disposal in South East Japan proceeded smoothly. In 3,075 our Nonferrous Materials business, each plant that ceased operation 2,000 233 209 272 200 CSR Report Web Version http://www.dowa-csr.jp due to the Great East Japan Earthquake has restarted operation 138 Economic & Management Performance successfully and recovery of new metals such as tin and antimony was strengthened. In our Electronic Materials business, we strived 0 0 Editorial Line to expand sale of new products and to obtain new customers. In -133 DOWA CSR Report 2013 reports the major business activities of ■ Target Period our Metal Processing business, we successfully responded to the -200 the DOWA group of the year in an easy-to-understand way to all The report mainly covers from April 1, 2012 until March 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 increasing demand for multi-functional cell phones. In our Heat stakeholders. 31, 2013 (Fiscal year of 2012), partially including the past Treatment business, we endeavored to gain competitiveness by Consolidated sales (0.1 billion) This report focuses on DOWA's major efforts of delivering background and previous activities to provide more accurate Consolidated recurring proﬁts (0.1 billion) consolidating the production systems in Japan and enhancing our value through its business activities, resource recycling and information. countermeasures for global warming. Priority of our efforts is ■ Future Forecast, Plan and Goals Economic Aspects of Our Business Establishments based on in-house discussion, survey results from our CSR report This report contains not only the facts at present and in the Each of our business establishments took measures to save electricity the sales income from recycled resources increased from the previous readers and opinions from other organizations. past, but also future forecasts, estimates or projections of the and energy as well as to reduce the amount of waste produced, year. In our Environmental & Recycling business, we are expanding Other information not found in this report is posted on DOWA group. These forecasts, estimates or projections are responding to the increase of energy costs due to the nuclear power the menu items of disposal and treatment of refractory waste even DOWA’s website: This allows for more timely announcements of assumptions or judgment that are based on the information plants that ceased operations after the Great East Japan Earthquake. though industrial waste produced in Japan remained low. Each business information and reduction of paper needed for printing. available at the time of printing and therefore contains some In 2012, the costs of our environmental management efforts establishment strives to convert waste produced to valuable resources (1) Areas covered in this report uncertainty. Actual results or events may differ from those (environmental costs) decreased compared to the previous year, while and to increase added-value of recovered valuable resources. ■ Target Organizations projected in this report. DOWA Holdings and subsidiaries (both in Japan and other ■ Reference Guidelines Expenses and Amount posted to countries) that are included in our consolidated accounting ● UN Global Compact Guidelines on Communication on depreciation and Title Subtitle Main expenses item Main investments ﬁxed assets in 2012 are selected in these reports. Data on our environmental Progress Reference Guidelines amortization in 2012 (million yen) (million yen) performance and some of our eﬀorts are only associated to ● ISO 26000 Purchasing neutralization materials, Purchasing vehicles mounted with Cost related DOWA Holdings and other major companies of the group. ● Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3) of Global maintenance of dust collecting urea SCR equipment and cloth to pollution 2,439 344 equipment and analysis of exhaust ﬁlter bags, and construction work Our overseas subsidiaries of Tianjin DOWA Green Angel Reporting Initiative prevention gases, etc. of eﬄuent treatment facilities Summit Recycling Co., Ltd. and DOWA Metaltech (Thailand) ● Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 by Ministry of Cost related to Cost for outsourcing CFC disposal, Introduction of highly efficient In-house cost Co., Ltd. have been added to the data collected for this report the Environment the environmental implementation of LED lighting 159 compressors and high performance 260 conservation systems, etc. insulating materials, etc. since 2013. (2) Publishing of a web version Cost related ■ Target Areas to Report This report highlights and reports environmental conservation Outsourcing of recycling of ash and to resource1,797 Modiﬁcation of conveyors 102 disposal of used oil, etc recycling The report covers current implementation status, result activities of the DOWA group, focusing on some important points, Transportation cost of returning and future policy of the activities by the above-mentioned to provide an overview of those activities in an easy-to-understand Cost related to the upper and pallets, cost related to recycling of 19 3 lower streams of supply chain packaging materials, etc organizations from three viewpoints: Society, the Environment way. For more details, visit our website. Check our website for the Cost related to management ISO related or work environment 375 Upgrading of automatic 12 and the Economy. information about the following. activities measurement, etc. measurement instruments ■ Target Audience Development and streamlining of CSR Report Web version http://www.dowa-csr.jp/en/index.html Cost related to R & D 315 This report is intended for our customers, stockholders, processes, etc. investors, clients, local communities, researchers, students, Corrections to any errors which might be found after publication Cost related to social activities Membership fees, etc. 64 employees, rating & evaluation agencies, governmental will be posted on our website. agencies, NGO's, NPO's and all stakeholders of the DOWA Cost related to repairing Reserve for covering dumps with 27 group's business activities. environmental damage soil and planting Total 5,194 722 Please visit our website for the GRI 25 26
