2014 Communication on Progress UN Global Compact Report Click here 0 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014 Table of Contents Statement of support..................................................................................................................... 2 People ............................................................................................................................................ 5 Our systems 6 What we do 8 Community .................................................................................................................................. 11 Our systems 12 What we do 12 Environment ................................................................................................................................ 16 Our systems 17 What we do 18 Ethical Business Practices ............................................................................................................ 23 Our systems 24 What we do 24 Privacy and Data Protection ......................................................................................................... 25 Our systems 26 What we do 26 1 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014 Statement of support One needn’t travel far and wide to realize that any of our lives can be can be turned upside down suddenly by unpredictable events beyond our control. In the last year, millions of people around the world have been devastated by natural disasters, political unrest, war and terrorism. We view these events not merely as potential liabilities against which we must protect our business and customers, but as human tragedies that call for us to face together as individuals, communities and industries. Such large-scale events remind us that we all share a common human experience and all must be part of the solutions to protect and preserve the environment, our society and ultimately our place in this world. The corporate social responsibility (CSR) concept sprang out of a modest goal of creating awareness about challenges facing the environment and communities in which we operate. Its scope has now grown. CSR now touches every aspect of organizations, and the responsibility for carrying it out falls not to a single group or department, but to entire companies— affecting all operations and people. It provides a vehicle that people can use to contribute as global citizens ethically, financially and socially. BCD Travel strongly believes that responsible businesses are empowered to alleviate social ills and create human prosperity. Our desire to give back prompted us to officially launch our corporate social responsibility initiative almost a decade ago. We have remained constant in our commitment to the environment and to society. We have always encouraged our employees to contribute to worthy social causes in their communities and wherever we do business. Branded as onboard, our social impact strategy guides our company’s CSR efforts. A committee leads our activities, creating awareness and guiding responsible action. onboard’s objective is simple: to do good with everything we do. This plain but powerful notion links our company’s initiatives to our CSR goals. onboard rests upon five principles: People; Community; Environment; Ethical business practices; Privacy & data protection. These represent the fundamental “rules of engagement” for the way we interact with our employees, colleagues, customers and business partners. As part of our commitment to these rules of engagement, we appointed executive sponsors to carry the torch for each of our CSR principles. 2 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014 . Under the onboard umbrella, we committed in 2012 to the Haiti Project, whose first phase saw construction of the BCD School of Hope. The initiative provides underprivileged children in Haiti the gift of an education. We also saw an opportunity to make our social impact match the size and scope of our business. We’re partnering with social innovation specialist RAISE to tap the energy and influence of our relationships with clients, travelers and suppliers. Together, we’ll work toward a common good—giving a boost to the communities in which we operate. At the same time, we continue to focus on our responsibilities within our own walls. We recently launched our new competency model to help our employees gain confidence in their roles by building the skills and capabilities they need to become more successful. The model is built around the “confident self,” which supports each individual’s talents and motivations and reinforces their unique and important role in the company. 3 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014 As we proudly submit our fifth Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact, we’re reminded of the “triple bottom line” benefits that sustainability brings to a corporation: On the economic front, our efforts improve the working environment for our employees, increasing satisfaction and productivity. And they solidify our brand and reputation, making us the preferred choice for existing and potential clients. Socially, our efforts help empower communities. Our passion for helping others is put to the service of improving presentday circumstances and brightening the future for people around the world. And environmentally, we understand and address the impact that the nature of our business has on our physical world. We give our employees and customers insight and solutions that will help them be environmentally responsible travelers. But these benefits start from within: how we understand our obligation, our responsibility and our ethical values, how we apply them to our actions in favor of our environment, communities, colleagues, clients and families—and ultimately ourselves. We’ll never forget that corporate social responsibility begins with individual social responsibility. Kathy Jackson Executive Vice President Global Client John Snyder Management & Advito /onboard President & CEO Executive Sponsor BCD Travel 4 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. People Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. We work to help our people strike a healthy balance between their professional and personal lives, creating a flexible workplace that serves the requirements of both the company and the individual. Our services and facilities are operated with an ultimate objective in mind, which is to protect the wellbeing of our employees, customers, the public, and the Our PEOPLE principle environment. We defend our employees from unreasonable health and safety risks supports the United on the job, forbidding any acts or threats of physical violence—including Nations Global Compact intimidation, harassment or coercion—that occur in the workplace or during the principles of Human Rights conduct of company business off company property. We specifically prohibit (1 and 2) and the principle harassment based on race, color, national origin, ancestry, religion, creed, sexual for Labor Standards (3, 4, 5 orientation, disability, marital status, medical condition, veteran status and age. and 6). Our CSR executive Honest communication is a vital part of a positive work environment. We encourage sponsor for this principle employees to bring forth their ideas, suggestions, questions and concerns. We listen heads talent management carefully and act upon what we hear. We protect the confidentiality of all personal and human resources information in our employees’ records and will never release personal information to activities for the company outside sources without an employee’s written approval, unless we’re legally at global level, overseeing required to do so. the requirements stated in the UN principles. In addition, we offer pay and benefits competitive and appropriate for the markets in Christian Dahl which we operate. Senior Vice President Strategic Talent Management & Global Every day, our people bring our creative and personal brand to life. They do this Human Resources because they know their actions count and their views matter. We want to give them the tools, skills and outlets to build their “confident self,” because our success hinges on theirs. 5 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014 Labor standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Our systems Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. The following systems and procedures ensure that our commitment to human rights and labor standard issues is addressed:  Our CSR principles outline our position on human rights issues. Available in nine languages (English, Dutch, French, German, Spanish, Portuguese, Japanese, Chinese Traditional and Chinese Simplified), this document is given to all employees at orientation and is also available on our Web site, on local intranet sites and in local employee and HR manuals. If local laws are more restrictive than BCD Travel’s standards, employees must comply with the more stringent, applicable local laws.  A dedicated global CSR committee helps raise awareness throughout the organization on issues dealing with human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. This committee is made up of staff members from various functions and levels across the globe.  Our locations around the world have a dedicated contact to which employees can turn for advice on human rights abuse issues.  Bi-annual employee satisfaction surveys are carried out by a third party on a global scale. These surveys allow employees to confidentially voice their opinions and raise any important issues.  We work with suppliers and sub-contractors who are encouraged to sign up to our Code of Conduct, which stipulates our policy on human rights issues.  We value the relationship with our clients, taking great care and responsibility to manage and protect client data. We recognize that unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information can result in failing to comply with industry best practices, industry compliance, or applicable legislative requirements and regulations. In addition, unscheduled downtime of the services and applications that we use to process client information or that we provide to our clients negatively affects our performance, reputation and client retention. 6 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014 Labor standards Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.  We protect our clients' travelers with Travel Risk Management & Traveler Security technology that enables them to monitor their travelers' security anywhere in the world. Our DecisionSource platform provides crisis management reporting, pre-trip and on-trip compliance reporting, risk assessment and destination intelligence, offering instant access to accurate travel and security information. In the event of a crisis, a plan can be immediately executed to get travelers out of a high-risk area quickly. It monitors risk across the globe, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, generating e-mail alerts to keep travelers informed and aware.  We also work with a highly specialized third-party firm that brings home travelers who become sick or are injured while on a business trip, with the maximum of care and minimum fuss.  We respect the rights of employees to form works councils to allow a greater degree of employee input into the company. Several works councils are currently in place in European countries and conform to local country and European Union laws.  Through the development of activities employing our own workforce to attract new employees, our Talent Management team is working towards refreshing our employer brand with company-wide recognition and Recruiting Management System (RMS) programs. LinkedIn has become our primary source for recruitment at all levels.  By developing a customized on-boarding plan for new employees and expanding the use of technology and social media practices in recruiting, BCD Travel’s Talent Management team looks to enhance the employee on-boarding experience via new technologies and create a more comprehensive talent pipeline program.  With our Talent Management initiative, we aim to achieve recognition as the “employer of choice” among competitors, increase employee engagement and satisfaction. 7 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014 What we do  We continue to maintain our global CSR awareness of > 80%  In 2013, an executive sponsor team was named to lead the company’s efforts in support of each of our principles. The role of each executive stems from the function they front within the organization, allowing each to focus on one area to provide better guidance and direction.  All regions report quarterly on their activities and progress within our CSR Principles.  A number of our locations carry out audits of all work spaces through an external company specializing in safety and ergonomic standards in the workplace, to certify that our employees are working in a safe and comfortable environment.  A formal, mandatory screening process is used along with confidentiality agreements and ongoing training and awareness programs. Background checks are performed on potential employees and contractors.  We have a dashboard for clients experiencing travel disruptions on our website homepage. Customized for each region, these pages feature widgets for information about airport delays, weather links, local forecast and government alerts.  In 2011 we established a Global Crisis Management process on the premise that travelers, travel management, support entities and technology form a continuous stream of communication and preventive action to provide traveler well-being.  We uphold our Duty of Care objective by consulting with clients on destination and security, while publishing intelligence pieces and White Papers on topics such as Building a Travel Risk Management Plan and Responsible Travel Management.  The Global Crisis Management team coordinates all internal responsibilities and resources to monitor the world through multiple media sources: 24/7/365 for incidents that happen globally, and incidents that have a direct or indirect impact on travel. During crisis mode and after incidents, the team identifies potentially impacted travelers by pulling reports on global data through our risk management and intelligence & analytics tool, DecisionSource. 8 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014  Our global employee satisfaction survey was conducted in 2012, with 72.6% of the employee base participating up from 71.7% in 2011. With the increase in participation we also saw an improvement in all of the 19 categories evaluated. The company's Overall Satisfaction score jumped from 74.9 to 77.3, a significant improvement year over year, meeting our enhanced strategic focus on PEOPLE. A further statement to that is the Engagement Index, which went up from 77.8 to 80.2. These results are the voice and sentiment of our employees, a proclamation we take very seriously and to heart; therefore, we will now conduct employee surveys every second year, allowing more time between evaluations to further assess the results and work on action plans and initiatives stemming from the responses.  Work placements allow students to gain real experience in an industry or a particular function that he or she is interested in. We have accepted various placements around the globe, working in close partnership with the students' educational institutions, providing practical experience and mentoring to help students complete necessary course work while on placement.  We launched our Competency Model, the set of knowledge, skills and abilities that most profoundly affects our employees’ success. Our employees’ ability to confidently and successfully perform in their role has a direct impact on the success of our company.  Performance Solutions developed the BCD Travel Intern Program to hire and train entry level travel consultants for BCD Travel. The program consists of: o Classroom training and controlled environments o Mentor Program for operational support during classroom training; controlled environment for one month after completion.  BCD Travel is dedicated to employees’ professional development to hone their skill levels and advance with the company. Training content is developed internally for BCD Travel-specific training needs and purchased externally for universal content. 9 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014 2013 Americas training Training courses Class: 104 Online: 273 Attendence: 27,429 2013 EMEA training Training courses Average duration Number training Staff training days Class: 296 Online: 72 13,402 1-2 days 623 Attendence: 13,402  Global Talent Management introduced our CHALLENGE program that identifies and develops candidates that will potentially fulfill future leadership positions at different levels within the organization by strengthening skills and capabilities in four areas of management: self, people, business and results.  Another new program is called MAP (Management Associate Program), developed to teach basics of the industry, business and culture to recruits through on-the-job experience via functional rotations, formal training sessions, and mentoring.  An online training course to help increase internal CSR awareness among employees was developed in 2012 and rolled out globally in 2013. 10 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014 Community Our commitment to community is embodied in our corporate vision of promoting global business growth and positive social impact by improving our clients’ performance, their travelers’ lives and communities worldwide. While our COMMUNITY We carry out that commitment to community in a number of ways. Investment in community begins with the individual. So we principle is not directly encourage our employees’ efforts to improve their local communities linked to a particular through social investment, business relationships and charitable principle from the United activities. Nations Global Compact, We also leverage our business relationships in support of community. we meet our obligations as Our partnership with licensees in emerging markets helps these a global citizen with our businesses and their employees secure their future role in a global communities and support marketplace by providing access to training, technology and efforts for its wellbeing. opportunities for business growth. And we combine the energy of our Our CSR executive sponsor business with the power of our business partner relationships to do for this principle heads more for global and local communities than we could do on our own. talent management and human resources activities Finally, we proudly support our shareholder’s Making a Difference for the company at a foundation, focused on championing children’s causes around the global level. globe, and our Haiti Project, bringing the promise of a brighter future to the children of Mirebalais by building and supporting the BCD School of Hope. From company initiatives to individual good works by Christian Dahl Senior Vice President Strategic employees around the world, we give back to our local and global Talent Management & Global communities. These actions go far beyond collecting money. Simply Human Resources put, they express our passion for helping others. 11 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014 Our systems In support of the Human Rights principle within the UN Global Compact, we believe in being an agent of positive change through:  Local empowerment: investment in our community begins with the individual and we encourage our employees to initiate and support efforts to improve our local communities.  Making a Difference foundation: we proudly support our shareholder’s organization-wide effort, focused on supporting children’s causes around the globe.  The Haiti Project: in partnership with the Great Commission Alliance, BCD Travel created a fundraising program to support the future of the children in Haiti by building the BCD School of Hope.  Emerging markets: our partnership with licensees in emerging markets helps these businesses and their employees secure their future role in a global marketplace by providing access to training, technology and opportunities for business growth.  Working with suppliers: we work with suppliers and other business partners to encourage joint in-kind contributions to community initiatives. What we do The Haiti Project: BCD Travel and the John and Marine van Vlissingen Foundation partnered with the non-profit Great Commission Alliance to launch the Haiti Project in 2012. Our mission is to fund the construction and operation of the BCD School of Hope in the town of Mirebalais, Haiti, offering 500 underprivileged children the opportunity of receiving an education and the promise of a bright future. BCD Travel employees took this project to heart by holding fundraising events, selling baked goods and other efforts to raise cash. Over $250,000 was collected by the end of 2013. 12 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014 Making a Difference: a grass-roots level programs that make a direct impact in the lives of children and reinforces the charitable instincts of BCD Group’s employees across the globe. Says John Fenterner van Vlissingen, Chairman and founder of BCD Group: “Making a difference that can be felt by children living on all continents requires vision on both a global and local level. We are delighted to invite our company’s staff from all corners of the globe to help improve the world for children. As an organization, we are dedicated to being an agent of positive change and truly benefiting children.” Our global offices support a wide variety of charitable efforts (not including the Haiti Project): Contributions reported in 2013 Region (cash and in-kind) U.S. & Canada US$ 155,600 LatAm US$ 28,327 EMEA/UK US$ 64,863 APAC US$ 2 , 6 8 4 Total US$251,474 13 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014 Where we are Making a Difference One Tip of the Toes The Education Partnership Canada Pittsburgh, PA Treasures for Children Pittsburgh, PA Treeswing Horizons for Children Seattle, WA Boston, MA Stadtisches Kinderheim Aschaffenburg Kids to Life Germany Orchards Children Services Germany Southwest, MI FRUZ Germany The Link Madchen Café Foundation Germany Thumbuddy Special UK Chicago, IL Jamiyah Children’s Children’s Home Villages SOS Singapore Niles Home for Children Kansas City, MO Mexico Mifalot Fundación Illustrated Books Hope House Daycare Israel Arco Iris for Little Blind Memphis, TN Bolivia Children Russia Dreaming for you and me Colombia Fundación Filovitae Argentina 14 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014 Growth and Emerging Markets: our partner network currently numbers over 75 independent travel agencies around the world, each with an exclusive contract to use the BCD Travel brand in their markets. Partners integrate as closely as possible and ensure that our clients receive a seamless service throughout the world, whether they are in Eastern and Central Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific, Latin America or the Caribbean. Activities in 2013: To ensure that standards  African Hub Meeting in Nairobi (March) and are maintained and Senegal (October); Middle East Hub Meeting constantly improved in the in May partner markets, the focus is on training, introducing  Strategic plan to double presence in Sub new technologies and Saharan Africa from 11 partners to 20 products and streamlining  New partners: Ethiopia, Burundi, Rwanda, processes so that the Zambia, Malawi, Ivory Coast, Congo DRC, agencies can generate Republic of Congo efficiencies and cost  Global IT strategy rolled out to 75% of savings, which can then be Partners covering Europe, Africa, Middle passed on to all their East, and Central Asia clients, local as well as multinational.  Operational reviews undertaken for Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia by Partner Network Team with training  Uganda CSR initiative  Brazil joined BCD Travel from partner to wholly owned country  We continue to look at opportunities in the Caribbean, but progress is slow.  Staffing smaller Latin American markets with account management, sales and operations to meet the increasingly complex needs of our multinational customers in these markets. 15 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014 Environment Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary Environment approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We’re committed to a healthy and sustainable environment, by establishing policies and programs that specifically outline how we conduct business in a safe, environmentally sound manner in accordance with relevant legislation and regulations. Our operations reflect our focus on recycling, conserving resources and preventing pollution. And our facilities planning and processes take into account environmental considerations like energy consumption, commuting emissions and efficient use of office space. We’re dedicated to providing products and services that promote environmentally sound travel practices, minimize waste and reduce harmful emissions to the air, water and land. Our Supplier Code of Conduct encourages our business partners to adopt practices aligned with our environmental principles, ethical business practices, human rights and labor practices. In addition, we regularly conduct formal reviews to make sure our activities comply with environmental regulations and internal practices. We’ve always been a company that builds for the next generations. And for those generations, we have a duty to appreciate, Rose Stratford Executive Vice President Global manage and protect the resources we’re fortunate enough to have. Supplier Relations & ‘Green’ isn’t shorthand for saving trees. It’s a way of life. Strategic Sourcing 16 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014 Our systems The following systems and procedures ensure that our commitment to environmental issues is addressed:  Our comprehensive CSR solutions focus on sustainability to evaluate and reduce the environmental impact of travel activities and accountability to improve traveler well-being and security and promote ethical business standards throughout their travel supply chain and stakeholder network.  Our carbon emission tracker calculates emissions produced by air travel and reports on this information at company, departmental and individual traveler levels. The tool is incorporated into our information management solution, Our ENVIRONMENT DecisionSource, which provides intelligence to targeted audiences throughout the travel and reimbursement lifecycle. principle supports the DecisionSource calculates emissions in accordance with the methodologies of both the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol United Nations Global Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and DEFRA (the United Kingdom's Department for Environment, Food and Compact principles of Rural Affairs). We offer two credible, transparent and consistent structures to provide our customers with maximum Environment (7, 8 and 9). flexibility in integrating business travel emission reporting with their broader internal CSR initiatives. Our CSR executive sponsor  Carbon off-setting can help compensate for the environmental impact of travel programs by allocating funds for this principle heads our commensurate with the emissions produced through business travel. That money is then invested in climate protection relationship with suppliers projects that generate emission-free energy, reduce demand for energy or absorb emissions that have already occurred. at global level, overseeing BCD Travel's global carbon off-setting partner, Atmosfair, conforms to the Gold Standard for emissions calculation, project the requirements stated in selection and funds allocation. the UN principles.  Our consulting arm, Advito, provides a range of consultative services to diagnose and improve travel program environmental and social impacts, including:  Responsible travel program diagnostic: to help travel and procurement managers determine the contribution their program makes to the company’s overall CSR program and help to achieve the right balance of traditional travel management and CSR objectives.  CSR travel strategy workshop: to help clarify corporate requirements and stakeholder expectations and constraints for sustainable and accountable travel management through single or multiple stakeholder workshops.  Travel avoidance program: to help customers to successfully implement trip avoidance programs through an integrated approach that considers all key stakeholder requirements. 17 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014  Sustainable and accountable travel procurement: to design and manage supplier Request for Proposals (RFPs) that are aligned with the organization’s sustainable and accountable procurement principles.  Meeting location optimization: to address the environmental impact of meetings through sustainable sourcing, ‘environmental housekeeping’ and a total trip perspective.  Off-setting advisory: to provide the customized advice needed to address the key questions on carbon off-set partner selection and implementation.  Travel risk management consulting: to help to assess exposure to travel-related safety and security risks and recommend changes to operational programs, travel security initiatives and risk management providers. What we do  Paperless (or almost) processes: North America offices maintain a listing of processes that have become paperless. In years past, most of our business was very paper intensive and we continually work to reduce paper and automate or go online with our processes: online new hire portal, annual open enrollment for benefits and online pay stubs for direct deposit.  Travel Operations continues to remove paper from all processes and is implementing a tracking process for each office to calculate the number of trees saved per year by eliminating ticket stock, ticket jackets, invoice/itineraries, bills /invoices and record keeping of commissions.  BCD Travel offices continue to increase the number of employees working from home: 52% in the U.S. and 50% in Canada. This saves gasoline and CO2 emissions as well as time and provides a better work-life balance. Additionally, this adds flexibility to supporting the needs of the business or disaster recovery and also reduces office space (sq. ft) costs/CO2 emissions. 18 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014  BCD Travel supports a number of key initiatives that align with our company’s values, such as employee publications and newsletters distributed via email/intranet.  Our processes, systems and activities detailed above enable a greater understanding of environmental liabilities linked to business travel among our employees and clients. The steps we have taken count towards reducing the carbon footprint of our travelers and educating our community at large on being more environmentally responsible.  All of our offices in Germany and the Netherlands are certified to the environmental management standard ISO 14001:2009. Re-certification of both these countries took place in Q1 2013 with certification valid until 2014. BCD Travel UK’s office also achieved ISO 14001 re-certification in October 2013.  BCD Travel Germany increased their share of environmentally friendly Eco-Easy products to >40% in 2013. In Belgium, 62% of office supplies and 67% in the Netherlands are green products.  All paper purchased in the Netherlands and Germany in 2013 continues to be more than 95% environmentally friendly.  10 office facilities in the US are Energy Star certified which means that they meet the strict energy performance standards defined by the EPA (Environmental Protection Agency). Energy Star rated buildings use less energy, are less expensive to operate and cause fewer greenhouse gas emissions.  Square footage of office space was reduced by 6.8% in the U.S. and Canada in 2013, resulting in a reduction of 43% since 2009. 19 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014  Server virtualization in our IT department in the U.S. has had a significant environmental impact by reducing energy costs and reducing annual CO2 emissions required to power physical services. To date this effort has reduced the CO2 submission by 6,279,188lbs or 2,848,192kgs which also equates to eliminating 532 cars off the highway and the planting of 9,414 trees. In addition, a positive impact on capital and operating expenses was achieved. Virtualization technology is currently being used to meet the growing remote workforce. 9% of all desktops have been converted to date with more expected in the future.  Travel itineraries for employees contain CO2 emission statements for air, car, rail and hotel travel segments.  BCD Travel UK reduced their CO2 emissions for courier deliveries for the third year running with Q1 2013 lower by 0.072T for the same period in 2012.  BCD Travel Germany reduced electricity consumption by 10.3% in 2013.  Environmental award die Grüne Flötte 2013 (Green Fleet) from VW Leasing GmbH and NABU (Naturschutz Bund) for ecologically responsible car fleet management.  The CSR Committee in Mexico created the 'green brigade', a team of volunteers to further environmental awareness and training on environmental issues throughout the country. 20 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014  In 2013 BCD Travel in Mexico received the Socially Responsible Company (ESR) recognition, given by the Mexican Center for Philanthropy (Cemefi). This title recognizes a company’s voluntary and public commitment with CSR as part of its culture and business strategy.  2014 marks the year for the launch of “Green Computing” efforts within the IT department. Commonly referred to as “Green IT”, this global effort is being implemented to address the environmental impact of rising CO2 emissions as a result of increasing computing demands for business operations. The Green IT concept is based around the premise of addressing CO2 emissions through the deployment of 10 “Green Action Plans”. Each Green Action Plan is designed to address CO2 reduction through process and technology: o Energy efficient desktops with ENERGY STAR ratings o Energy efficient monitors with ENERGY STAR ratings o Power management – desktop, monitors and printers o Efficient cooling systems within the data centers o Physical infrastructure management systems within data centers o Air-flow dynamics management within data centers o Virtualization expansion beyond server and desktop to include storage, network, and application virtualization o Expansion of e-waste & IT asset recycling efforts o Print management activities – Go Paperless o Expansion of telecommuting efforts Deployment of these Green Action plans will reduce IT’s CO2 emissions, reduce waste, improve employee productivity, and lower IT’s operational costs.  Earth Day / World Environment Day: BCD Travel carried out a number of activities in support of Earth Day on April 22nd and World Environment Day on June 5th. These activities included planting trees and vegetables, collecting batteries, mobiles and electronics for recycling, grow cards, recycling plastic, shut down of all unnecessary electricity, implementation of trash separation and collection. 21 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014  Paperless documentation: BCD Travel produces screen friendly documents that are easy to read and navigate avoiding the need to print them out. This not only helps us reduce our paper consumption but also that of our customers and suppliers.  “Green” activities: labeled cans are placed in each break room of the multiservice center in Costa Rica for “Glass, Cans, Tetra Pack, Paper & Organic Disposables.” A weekly newsletter called Environment Capsule provides updates on progress and offers advice for promoting recycling.  Staples Office Supplies converted the “green” office supplies for the U.S. offices from Jan through Sep 2013 using the Environmental Defense Paper Calculator to provide these results: Environmental Report: January 1 – September 30, 2013 Total Volume 4,045.52 lbs. Total Post-Consumer Recycled Content 1,317.46 lbs. Average Post-Consumer Recycled Content 32.57% Greenhouse gas emissions reduced (CO2) equivalents 1,463.04 lbs. Equivalent number of average US cars not driven per year 0.14 cars Water saved 6,715.77 gallons Trees saved 11.2 trees Wood resources saved 4,571.6 lbs. Total energy (BTUs) saved 11,198,434.48 BTUs Energy equivalent to oil saved 79.99 gallons Equivalent number of average US homes heated per year 0.29 homes Energy equivalent to electricity saved 3,188.62 Kwh Equivalent number of average US homes powered per year 0.28 homes  Energy saving: more offices are adopting tighter policies on energy efficiency. The goals include opening windows to allow sunlight, switching off lights during lunch hours, optimizing energy settings in computers, using power strips, using compact fluorescent light bulbs. 22 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014 Anti-corruption Ethical Business Principle 10: businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Practices Today, how we do what we do—more than what we do—determines whether or not we survive and thrive. BCD Travel employees follow a comprehensive model of conduct that ensures transparency and dependability in our business transactions. No employee can hold any interest (financial or otherwise) or be actively involved in any activity, business or organization that might constitute a conflict of interest with our company. And employees may not select a vendor for any reason other than its ability to fulfill our company needs. Information learned during employment with us cannot be used for personal gain and employees know they cannot share confidential information with anyone (family or otherwise) who is not employed by us. We deliver what we promise, and only promise what we can deliver. We maintain accounts and records and prepare financial reports in a way that conforms with our own policies and to applicable laws. Only the highest legal and moral standards are observed in our business relationships, confirming our sound reputation as a solid and unwavering partner. Stephan Baars Global Chief Financial Officer 23 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014 Our systems The following systems and procedures ensure that our commitment to anti-corruption issues is addressed:  Our stance on anti-corruption is clearly stated within our CSR Principles, which has been distributed to all employees across the globe and available for download on our Web site.  BCD Travel suppliers and sub-contractors are encouraged to sign up to the Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Subcontractors, which stipulates that: “Corruption and bribery are recognized as some of the barriers for sustainable development. BCD Travel does not accept these practices and does not, therefore, offer or accept any kind of undue payment. BCD Travel expects suppliers to act the same way.” Our ETHICAL BUSINESS What we do PRACTICES principle We understand that anti-corruption issues may be larger in some markets than others, so encourage local initiatives to help supports the United employees understand the broader issues and ensure all forms of corruption and bribery are prevented. Nations Global Compact  We aim to standardize the use of the Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Sub-contractors across all operating countries and principle of Anticorruption (10). Our CSR ensure they sign up all suppliers to this code. executive sponsor for this  The internal Global Group Policies document includes, among others, BCD Travel’s policies on corruption, bribery and principle is our global CFO conflict of interest. This document is updated twice yearly and communicated to all employees globally. who oversees the  The Ethical Business Practices section from our Global Group Policies document is being updated and translated into requirements stated in the multiple languages. It will be communicated to all stakeholders internally and externally in 2014. UN principles.  The CSR committee in Mexico campaigned the communication of the newly introduced Code of Ethics which is available to all employees via intranet. All Mexican employees received ethics training in 2013.  Our global internal audit team reinforces our ethical business policy by carrying out regular audits throughout the year based on an annual audit plan. It thereby supports management in its ongoing efforts to ensure that these policies are adhered to across all of our operating entities.  The global internal audit team also partners, upon request, with the compliance and ethics departments of our clients to promote ethical business practices beyond companies’ and industries’ boundaries. 24 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Privacy and protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not Data Protection complicit in human rights abuses. We place a high value on information security—not just because it’s a competitive differentiator—but also because it demonstrates corporate stewardship of the data entrusted to us by our customers and employees. The information that travels over our computer networks is treated as our own corporate asset. We prohibit unauthorized Our PRIVACY AND DATA access, disclosure, duplication, modification, diversion, destruction, loss, misuse or PROTECTION principle theft of this information. Third-party information that’s been entrusted to us is supports the United protected in a manner consistent with its sensitivity as well as in accordance with all Nations Global Compact applicable agreements. principles of Human Rights 1 and 2. Our CSR executive Our computers, mobile devices and other information storage devices are protected sponsor for this principle with appropriate information security policies, procedures and technologies. Our heads global technology information security measures apply regardless of the media on which information is and oversees the stored: paper, electronic, local, cloud; regardless of the systems that process it: requirements stated in the personal computers, voicemail systems; and regardless of the methods by which it’s UN principles. moved: email, telephone, face-to-face conversation. We also protect information in a way that’s consistent with its classification, such as whether it’s need-to-know or internal only. Russ Howell Compliance requirements are set in accordance with industry, international standard, Executive Vice President legislative and client expectations. In addition, we regularly perform audits (including Global Technology ISO 9001, Payment Card Industry Data Protection Standard (PCI) and Safe Harbor) to make sure we comply with best practices, industry regulations and legal obligations. 25 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014 Our systems The following systems and procedures ensure that our commitment to human rights is addressed:  The Corporate Security Governance Committee includes management from human resources, legal, operations, finance, information technology, internal audit, industry relations and security management, to review the security program periodically and ensure that it continues to meet the security needs of the business and our customers.  We have taken extensive measures to protect corporate and customer data and information from loss, manipulation unauthorized access and falsification, by complying with legal provisions and by adopting international security standards such as ISO 27000 series and PCI –DSS into its Global Security standards.  Certified Security Professionals with cutting-edge technical expertise and professional designations such as Certified Information Security Manager (CISM), Certified Information System Security Professional (CISSP), Holistic Information Security Practitioner (HISP), Certified in Risk and Information Control (CRISC) and Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA), are dedicated to protecting assets in our care.  Information protection is part of our operations and business alignment, led by steering and advisory committees and applying risk assessments. What we do  Our data centers ensure that customer data remains secure while stored on BCD Travel production information systems. We maintain certification to the internationally recognized standard Information Security Management ISO 27001:2005 which provides a framework for best practices in the management of information security. Encryption is used when possible to secure data during collection, transit and storage.  We have successfully completed PCI Compliant Merchant status re-certification efforts in Germany and the United States.  Our Corporate Security department added staff in 2013 for compliance, fraud management, ISO certification management and client management. 26 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014  We successfully completed the ISAE audit and received the SSAE audit report for 2013.  The 2013 Global Security Summit was hosted by Corporate Security with global attendance of 25+ resources from EMEA, APAC, LatAm and North America. Breakout sessions covered discussions in multiple security disciplines and presented strategic direction for the program in 2014. Plenary sessions included presentations from leading security technology providers and security thought leaders.  Along with security awareness training, BCD Travel employees receive security updates via bulletin alerts, intranet communications and security-related articles in our quarterly internal magazine focus.  Participation in the annual Global Security Awareness Training in 2013 reached 100% across all regions. 27 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014 Sharon Dirks | Global CSR Coordinator Otto-Lilienthal-Str. 1 28199 Bremen Germany T +49 (0)421 3500 491 email: sharons.dirks@bcdtravel.de About BCD Travel BCD Travel helps companies make the most of what they spend on travel. For travelers, this means keeping them safe and productive, and equipping them to make good choices on the road. For travel and procurement managers, it means advising them on how to grow the value of their travel program. For executives, we ensure that the travel program supports company objectives. In short, we help our clients travel smart and achieve more. We make this happen in nearly 100 countries with 11,000 creative, committed and experienced people. And it’s how we maintain an industry-leading client-retention rate of more than 97%, with 2013 sales of US$22.4 billion. For more information, visit www.bcdtravel.com About BCD Group BCD Group is a market leader in the travel industry. The privately owned company was founded in 1975 by John Fentener van Vlissingen and consists of BCD Travel (global corporate travel management), Travix (online travel: CheapTickets, Vliegwinkel, BudgetAir, Flugladen and Vayama), Park 'N Fly (off-airport parking), Parkmobile International (mobile parking and traffic applications) and joint venture Airtrade (consolidating and fulfillment). BCD Group employs over 12,000 people and operates in almost 100 countries with total sales, including US$9.2 billion partner sales, of US$24 billion. For more information, visit www.bcdgroup.com. 28 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2014
