2 3 Contents || Spotlight 2012 || Spotlight || 3 Message from the CEO ILS 1,289 million ILS 63.5 million > 15 About Baran Group Revenue Operating profit Country operations Baran Group Profile Baran Group Structure Our Vision and Values 1,252 779 > 460 Creating Value Employees Employees in Israel Engineers Awards and Recognition 309 A World of Engineering Solutions || 14 7 9 Women employees in Russia: Essential Infrastructure Israel: Greening the Nation Company Directors Senior Executives Israel Germany: 40 Years of Telecoms and More Thailand: Enabling Communications South Africa: Building Connectivity 4.2 over 250 0 Azerbaijan: Power to the Nation Injury rate Customers Fatalities Romania: Innovations in Green Building Latin America: Supporting National Engineering Programs 6,218 8,679 The Baran Way || 29 Tons of carbon emissions 17 Water consumption Meeting Customer Needs (CO2) Tons of paper recycled (m3) Engaging Employees Protecting the Environment 23% Caring for Our Community Governance and Ethics 17% 7% Increase in water Reduction in electricity Reduction in carbon consumption versus About This Report || 49 consumption versus 2011 emissions versus 2011 2011 The Way We Report GRI Index UNGC Index 5,685 ILS 705,000 130 Feedback and Contact Employee training hours Community contribution Employee volunteers Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 4 5 Message from the CEO || About Baran Group || Baran Group has grown from small beginnings Dear Stakeholders, into a global Welcome to our third Sustainability Report, covering our performance in 2011 and 2012. As an engineering company, we play an important role in the development of many aspects of life that are often taken for granted. This includes the establishment of modern infrastructures for energy, water, transportation, communications and engineering firm. industrial development. We also support advanced technologies such as renewable energy and green building. However, creating energy, roads, buildings, cable networks for telecommunications and more is not our ultimate goal. Our first priority is, through the work that we do on behalf of our customers, to improve the quality of life for As we grow, we people, not simply by delivering an engineering project, but by the possibilities and opportunities this provides. In this context, we, at Baran, are not only an engineering company. People our customers, our employees and the communities affected by our work are our top priority and we understand our responsibilities toward each must remain true individual and group. Baran’s corporate culture is one of friendship, family and trust. The Baran Spirit, which encompasses this culture, is rooted in the values established by our founders over 30 years ago, and ensures that we respect people, society, and the planet we live on. to our values and During the past two years, Baran has continued to grow and we have increased our global activities alongside our net revenues and profitability. We now maintain a permanent presence in nine countries and operate in principles. many more. Some of our local operations, such as our companies in Germany and in Thailand, have become significant players in local economic development. In other countries, such as Azerbaijan and South Africa, we are involved in important infrastructure initiatives. Our flagship project, the development of the Tikhvin Railway Wagon Construction Plant (TVSZ), a US$1 billion investment in rail freight capacity expansion in Russia, was Meir Dor, Chairman, completed with the first wagons rolling off the production line in early 2012, after a seven year engagement in which we managed this cutting-edge project from start to finish. This is one of our biggest achievements and we Baran Group continue to work in the area to develop a natural gas power plant to support the ongoing energy requirements in the Tikhvin area. In Israel, our home base, we lead the development of infrastructures and continue to offer state-of-the-art sustainable engineering solutions for existing and new opportunities, such as the expansion of natural gas infrastructure, solar energy and the entry of new telecom service providers who need new networks and communication stations. Our diverse areas of expertise provide vast opportunities for growth. The breadth of our activities and capabilities helps protect us from major financial risks, especially important in the challenging economic conditions of today. We maintain our commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen as demonstrated by our continued participation in the United Nations Global Compact, and our ongoing transparent reporting, with the objective of remaining a positive element in the communities in which we operate and helping improve the sustainability of our society and planet. We hope you will find this report of interest and we welcome your feedback. Sincerely, Nahman Tsabar CEO Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 6 Baran Group Profile || 7 Baran Group Ltd is a global provider of engineering, technology, telecommunication and construction solutions, operating in 15 countries around the globe. We offer a world of creative, innovative and proven integrated sustainable engineering solutions to complex planning and construction challenges, customized to meet Baran Group net revenues by the unique requirements of our customers. Our sustainable engineering solutions include feasibility studies, engineering and detailed design solutions, preparation for obtaining regulatory permits, construction and division/geography 2012 site management, project management and control including Engineering, Procurement and Construction Management (EPCM) services and turnkey projects. We have expertise in a broad range of engineering processes, such as manufacturing, industrial chemicals manufacture, power generation and distribution, petroleum production, water supply, sewage and hazardous waste treatment. In addition, we have become leaders in the telecommunications, general building and transportation sectors, and have proven expertise in several more areas. Baran Group, headquartered in Israel, was founded in 1979 and became a publicly traded company on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange in 1992. We now employ over 1,250 people and maintain offices in nine countries, serving over Baran Israel 250 customers with over 1,000 different projects at any given time. We continue to grow our business, expanding 28% our operations around the world, and reported an increase in net revenues of 26% in 2012, and an increase in Baran gross profit of 36%. Holdings 40% Europe Asia Rest of World Germany Romania Thailand Israel Russia South Africa Uzbekistan Vietnam U.S.A Baran International 32% Baran Group net revenues 2010-2012 in ILS 000s 1,400,000 1,200,000 1,289,080 1,000,000 1,023,493 800,000 864,826 600,000 400,000 200,000 0 2010 2011 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 8 Baran Group Structure || 9 Our Vision and Values || In 2011-2012, we restructured our organization in order to provide the best platform to serve our customers and At Baran, we continue to work in the spirit of our founders, who created an engineering group which would help understand the specific needs in different markets, as well as to ensure we have the right resources in place to address the challenges of human development through world-class engineering solutions. During 2012, we consupport our current and anticipated growth in different geographies. Our new structure is simpler and enables ducted an inclusive and participatory process, involving managers from all parts of the Baran Group, in order to greater responsiveness to customers, through faster and more effective decision-making. Our new structure, update and refresh our vision. The process included multiple meetings and dialogue sessions, and resulted in a which was finalized in 2012, officially started to operate in January 2013. new framework of vision and values that reflect the essence of Baran as we are today, while retaining the legacy that has helped us get here. Baran Group Our Vision || Baran is an international group, the leader in our field in Israel, and recognized throughout the world. We strive to Board of Directors be expert in the provision of diverse, complete, integrated solutions in the fields of engineering, project management and construction. Baran Group takes initiative, continuously improves, grows and generates profit, remaining at the forefront of technology and knowledge. We create significant value for our customers through uncompromising professionalism in all that we do. CEO At Baran, we consider our human capital as a strategic asset which must be nurtured and developed. Baran is a source of pride to our employees and our shareholders and we place high value on our contribution to the community and to environmental protection. Baran Baran Baran Baran Our Values || Holdings International Russia Israel Integrity and trust Baran Israel || specializes in various projects in the process industries, and in the field of construction of civil infrastructures including renewable energy, roads and Professionalism railways, line and cellular communications infrastructures and others. Baran International || Partnership and team spirit specializes in engineering projects in a range of countries around the world and in the planning, management and establishment of infrastructures for linear and cellular communication in North America, Europe, Asia and Africa. Baran International maintains a large customer-base of private-sector clients Social, personal and in the telecommunication industry including equipment suppliers and cellular communication operators. Our solutions include the provision of wireless business responsibility networks infrastructure, fiber-optic and copper networks, satellite networks development and homeland security solutions. Achievement and excellence Baran Russia || specializes in the provision of engineering services to the process industries and for construction and civil infrastructures, operating primarily in Russia. Embedding our values || During 2013, we are rolling out a program to ensure that all employees in Baran Group understand and align Baran Holdings || with the revised Baran vision and values. Alongside this process, we have created a new face for Baran, a is comprised of non-engineering operations, including Baran Technologies new logo, for the first time since our establishment, which reflects our modern and forward looking approach. through which the Group is engaged in development and marketing of In addition to work with current employees, we have made our values an integral part of our recruitment and engineering products, importation and marketing of food products for animals orientation processes for new hires, and we have improved our internal communications systems to ensure that all and related activities, which was divested at the end of 2012, and certain real employees are kept informed and have the opportunity to engage at all times. estate operations in Canada and Europe. Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 10 11 Creating Value || We create economic and social value to society through the sustainable engineering solutions we deliver to our Our direct economic impacts, the economic value we create and distribute to our stakeholders, are shown in the customers. In many cases, these solutions including green building and other advanced engineering technologies table below. that create new opportunities for sustainable development. We work with our customers to help them plan engineering and construction initiatives in the most sustainable way, delivering overall eco-efficient functionality. Year 2011 2012 All figures in ILS 000s Baran Group Value Chain Economic Value Generated Revenues 1,023,493 1,289,080 We maintain a workforce of We provide a full range We manage engineering Economic Value Distributed skilled engineers and invest in of planning services to projects in line with developing the most advanced engineering technologies for help customers define engineering and quality customer requirements Payments to suppliers 858,090 1,086,458 the development of sustainable specifications and including full supervision engineering solutions to meet understand the requirements of project teams and contractors, including full Employee wages and complex challenges for human and impacts of every development around the world. engineering project. turnkey projects. benefits 120,842 135,228 Payments to providers of capital 19,401 7,079 ENGINEERING PROJECT DELIVER SKILLS CONSULTING PLANNING LICENSING MANAGEMENT VALUE Payments to governments 7,752 39,865 Community investment 678 705 We deliver value through the Total economic value We provide consulting services to current and potential We manage all registration and licensing requirements projects we manage on behalf of our clients which enable distributed 1,006,763 1,269,335 customers, supplying advice on behalf of our clients, the creation of sustainable on the optimum sustainable approaches to engineering ensuring that all relevant information is provided to infrastructures for utilities, energy, communications and many more Economic Value Retained solutions and construction local authorities for obtaining projects, taking into account all forms of building and aspect of human social and economic development which Economic value retained 16,730 19,745 stakeholder expectations. engineering permits. improve the quality of life. Our value chain is supported by over 1,250 employees, working within the Baran Way, our framework of values and ethical practices, and a global network of contractors and business partners with whom we engage in different stages of our value chain. We also create value through our voluntary investment in the community through pro-bono engineering projects. Our stakeholders || In order to create value, we maintain a network of collaborative relationships with our stakeholders. As a projectoriented company, we understand that listening to and engaging with stakeholders at each stage of every project is a critical success factor in our work. We aspire to understand stakeholder needs and respond to Sharing Value || them in a responsible and accountable manner. We maintain extensive stakeholder dialogue in the early stages Our economic impacts go well beyond the revenues we generate and the taxes we pay. In addition to our direct of engineering projects, continuing through the life of each project. These formal dialogue processes form the employment of over 1,250 employees, our work involves hiring and supporting thousands of employees engaged backbone of our work with our customers and their stakeholders, which may include regulatory bodies, local by contractors who provide services for the projects we manage, helping them to earn a livelihood and contribute communities and a network of contracted service providers and vendors. Our commitment to open dialogue to their local economy. In addition, the value of our infrastructures for economic development transform living and our responsiveness has been a contributing factor to our successful project execution and business growth conditions, providing, for example, telecommunications services or necessary utilities, and help create the throughout over 30 years of activity. conditions in which business can develop and thrive. We define our primary stakeholder groups as: customers, employees, contractors, shareholders, and local communities. We summarize below their expectations of Baran Group. Customers: Our customers expect us to understand their needs and deliver sustainable engineering solutions on time, on budget and in line with their project specifications. Customers look to us for specialist advice and guidance on many aspects of construction and engineering projects, including sustainable solutions for green building. We maintain close dialogue with our customers at frequent intervals throughout the life of each engineering project. Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Awards and Recognition || 12 13 Employees: Employees look to Baran to provide a caring, supportive and safe workplace in which they can grow Memberships and affiliations || and thrive. We interact with our employees via different channels, including annual performance reviews, monthly We support the advancement of responsible and or quarterly employee meetings and round table meetings with senior management held as needed throughout sustainable business through our membership of the year. As a small company, we maintain informal communications and encourage employee suggestions and associations in Israel and globally. involvement at all times. The UN Global Compact (UNGC): This is a strategic Shareholders: Our shareholders are represented on Baran Group’s Board of Directors. They expect us to execute policy initiative for businesses that are committed In 2011 Baran Group was ranked 128th among The a sustainable business strategy, deliver strong financial returns, comply with all laws and regulations in every to aligning their operations and strategies with ten Top 200 International Design Firms, and 210th among location in which we operate, and behave as a responsible citizen. We report regularly to shareholders via the universally accepted principles in the areas of human Top 225 International Contractors, by The Engineering Board of Directors and our annual report and investor relations communications. The key channel for engaging rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Baran News-Record, published in the U.S. with shareholders is our annual general meeting. Group has been a participant in the Global Compact since 2010 and is committed to upholding the ten Contractors: Contractors are the many and diverse companies and individuals engaged in projects which Baran principles of responsible business and reporting manages or supervises. They expect professionalism and clear instruction from Baran and look to us to establish transparently every year on our progress. high standards of safety, security and professional project management. We discuss all aspects of relevant www.unglobalcompact.org projects with contractors to understand their requirements and expectations with regards to each project they are engaged in. This is usually maintained during the life of each project at weekly or monthly intervals. Maala Business for Social Responsibility: This is a non-profit organization which aims to advance Local Communities: Engineering projects we are engaged in can have an impact on the lives of people who live sustainable business practices in Israel and publishes in the areas affected by our construction and infrastructure projects, and also on the local environment. Local an annual corporate social responsibly ranking of Israeli community representatives, municipal authorities and regulators, environmental NGOs and activists, as well companies traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. as financing bodies, all expect us to perform our work with respect for their needs and while ensuring that we Around 90 publicly traded companies participate. In 2012, Baran Group was ranked in top place in the avoid any negative impact on the quality of their lives or the environment in which they live. We maintain formal Baran Group has participated in this annual ranking Largest Project Management and Engineering dialogue channels with all these groups throughout the life of each project we execute, and ensure their needs since its inception, and in 2012 was again ranked at Design Firms in Israel list published by D&B Israel. are considered through formal impact assessments, decision-making and project planning and delivery. In some the Platinum Level, which is the highest ranking in this cases, this contact may be almost daily, in others, less frequent as determined by specific issues that need to be index. www.maala.org.il addressed. In addition, stakeholders look to Baran to be a good corporate citizen and contribute its expertise to assist in developing the quality of life in local communities. The Israeli Forum for Diversity Hiring: This is a non-profit organization advancing the integration of Stakeholder Interests || disadvantaged populations into the workplace in Israel, The most important sustainability issues for Baran arising from consultations with our stakeholders are: established by the Joint Distribution Committee of Israel. In line with its diversity and inclusion strategy, • Providing sustainable engineering solutions which Baran supports this organization and is an active support improved quality of life and protect the environment member of the Forum. • Providing reliable service and responding to customer needs • Ensuring safety, quality and environmental stewardship in all our construction practices • Continuing to deliver cutting edge sustainable engineering capabilities • Hiring and retaining high quality engineers • Complying with environmental regulation • Investing in the development of our employees • Supporting local communities This list of issues was determined by Baran management, based on a strategic review of our business and the input of our stakeholders throughout the year. Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 14 15 A World of Engineering Solutions || Russia: Essential Infrastructure || For the past seven years, we have been involved in one construction and commissioning of this facility, which “Through our of the most significant projects undertaken recently in opened for business with the first freight wagons Russia, and the largest and most complex project ever rolling off the production line in a celebratory event in undertaken by Baran. January 2013, when Russian Prime Minister Vladimir diverse global Putin officially launched the production facility and The economic contribution of rail freight || ceremoniously signed one of the first wagons to be Russia has the third largest railway network in the manufactured. engineering world with more than 85,000 km of track, carrying over 940 million passengers and 1.2 billion tons of freight per year across 11 time zones. Rail transportation, the projects, we most cost-effective means of freight transportation, accounts for more than 42% of Russia’s total freight traffic and is the largest commercial employer in Russia with around 1.2 million direct employees and improve the thousands more are indirectly employed in peripheral services. Revenue generation for the Russian economy from rail transportation is one of the single quality of life.” largest contributors to Russian GDP with about 1.7% of GDP in 2012. However, many parts of the Russian freight transportation system are outdated and remain a legacy from the former post-war era. There has been a severe shortage of rail freight wagons to meet the Nahman Tsabar, growing demand, as the Russian population grows, the economy emerges from recession and international CEO, Baran Group trade expands. In 2008, the government approved the Strategy for Railway Transport Development in the Russian Federation for the period until 2030, setting high standards for the industry and an increase in railway infrastructure capacity, which will help to provide essential services across all regions of Russia, reduce regional inequalities and create the conditions to promote the growth of the Russian economy. In addition to expansion, the Russian railway network places emphasis on environmentally beneficial facilities, and 85% of freight transportation is based on electric propulsion, contributing to a greener and cleaner economy. Commissioning the Tikhvin plant || Cutting-edge technology and In this context, the increase in capacity of rail environmental stewardship || freight wagon production by 13,000 wagons per The TVSZ plant manufactures hopper, open and year is a significant contribution to Russian freight container wagons designed by Starfire Engineering transportation capacity and economic development. & Technologies (U.S.) and Engineering Centre of This increase is delivered through the Tikhvin Railway Railcar Builders (Russia). At full capacity, the plant Wagon Construction Plant (TVSZ), which is a US$1 will reach an annual capacity of 13,000 wagons, billion investment in rail freight capacity expansion. 65,000 wheelsets and 90,000 tonnes of castings. In 2005, Baran Group was commissioned to lead TVSZ is the first Russian factory for half a century to the development of this EPCM project, unique in the combine foundry production and vehicle assembly on Russian construction landscape and designed to be a single site. This is expected to offer flexibility and the leading railway wagon construction plant in the productivity rates in excess of established domestic world in terms of cutting-edge technology, innovation wagon plants, with TVSZ able to produce a wheelset and environmental efficiency. Since 2005, the Baran every 4½ minutes and complete a wagon every 24 team has led the planning, design, regulatory, minutes. The most modern and advanced automated Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 16 17 Israel: Greening the Nation || technologies have been employed in the design of Rebuilding local economic and Baran Group is the largest engineering and planning this project. the plant, and great emphasis has been placed on construction firm in Israel and our contribution to environmental efficiency. The factory complies with community life || the development of local infrastructure, utilities Restoring a natural balance: Following an The TVSZ plant is located in the city of Tikhvin in the and manufacturing capabilities over the years is environmental survey, detailing all environmental the strictest local regulations, which often exceed St. Petersburg region, on the site of a former industrial indisputable. We continue to bring the most innovative risks, challenges and opportunities involved, Baran international requirements, and is certified to the plant which manufactured ferrous castings, machinery technologies, advanced engineering capabilities engaged in continuous dialogue with representatives environmental standard ISO 14000. The wagon design and rail transportation parts. Following the collapse of and professional project management to our from various groups including the Israel Nature provides increased life expectancy of wagons, reducing the Soviet Union, this plant experienced a decline and Israeli customers, supporting continued economic and Parks Authority, the Jewish National Fund, the replacement times and use of resources over the life many of the 15,000 jobs it created were lost, causing development and raising the quality of life for our 7 Israel Antiquities Authority, local municipality and of the wagon. Innovative vacuum molding technology significant economic depression. The rebirth of the million population in Israel. community representatives, and army officials. This uses reduced levels of sand in the foundry facility, rail transportation construction industry in Tikhvin, dialogue continues as the project is now in its initial thereby reducing the burden on natural resources. A through the TVSZ plant, has already created close to execution stages. In an effort to minimize the impact state-of-the-art air filtration system was installed at an 2,000 jobs, most of these offered to Tikhvin region Building a new road for nature: on nature, and even restore the natural balance that investment of over US$9 million to prevent emissions of pollutant gases, and all metal waste is recycled back locals. The plant is expected to reach up to 3,500 jobs Route 65-85 || was interrupted when the highway was first built over at full capacity, as well as the many peripheral jobs Long overdue highways: In 2006, the Israeli National 30 years ago, we developed a plan that included the into production, ensuring minimal waste levels from the required to support an increase in services ranging Roads Company commissioned Baran to plan and construction of highways that is not only safer and entire factory operation. All water cycles in the plant are from telecommunications, supply of consumer goods manage the work of rebuilding a 27.5 km long section more convenient, but also in harmony with the nature, closed loop ensuring minimum water consumption and and other services and products to respond to demand of Highways 65 and 85. As mentioned in our previous the environment and local communities. waste. created by new levels of disposable income. The report, Highways 65 and 85 are two key traffic arteries economic and community development of the Tikhvin connecting the north of Israel to the center of the region is a major benefit of our contribution to the country, and were in need of significant upgrade in development of this sustainable solution to Russia's order to improve the safety conditions of these roads infrastructure needs. We continue to support the and allow easier connection between peripheral areas rollout of this project as it increases production to meet and key central cities. No substantial work had been targeted capacity. done on these roads for over 20 years and an upgrade was long overdue. The environmental challenges in planning these upgrades were significant. Both highways pass through unique scenic landscape, which constitutes one of Israel's most remarkable natural habitats. Major considerations relating to preservation of wildlife, nature and local community living and recreation conditions were essential in Flowers and trees: In preparation for the construction work, 1.5 million natural flower bulbs (geofits) were removed from the area, and are being preserved in specialist nurseries for replanting at the scenic reconstruction stage of the project. The process of removal and replanting is handled by an authorized Generating power || contractor, who guarantees an 80% success rate in In addition to the TVSZ plant, Baran Group is now replanting, to avoid loss of valuable natural assets. working on the construction of a new power plant In addition, an extensive trees survey was performed to supply the new power demands of the Tikhvin to identify and classify each of the trees in the industrial area in which the TVSZ plant is located. construction site area. Following the conclusion This plant will power hot water requirements and of the survey, and under the supervision of expert will operate on natural gas, producing up to 220 agronomists, 350 trees were relocated, to be replanted megawatts of electricity, equivalent to powering almost at a later phase in the project when the highways are 200,000 homes for one year. This plant is expected to reconstructed. be operational by 2015. Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 18 19 Protecting wildlife and habitats: Wildlife, and Preparing the way for electric vehicles || Switching solutions: Wherever possible, we Since 2003, Baran has worked with Israel Natural Gas especially the deer population in this area, gained Baran has been an essential partner of Better Place implemented energy-saving approaches in planning Lines (INGL), the national natural gas distributor in significant advantage from this reconstruction project. Israel, in pursuit of a vision to develop a network and constructing the switching stations. For example, Israel, and Noble Energy, the off-shore gas supplier to Baran worked in cooperation with Israel Nature and of electric battery switching stations and transform the process of battery switching requires cooling build the infrastructure for natural gas. Together they Parks Authority and local ecologists to plan wildlife road transportation into a low-carbon activity. Better down the battery to five degrees. In order to avoid have planned over 50% of the national grid network crossings along Highways 65 and 85 that will connect Place Israel aimed to create a new infrastructure and cooling the entire switching station, together with and laid hundreds of kilometers of pipeline and natural habitats and allow wildlife to safely move intelligent network to enable the widespread adoption the Better Place team, we devised a unique solution metering stations. As pioneers in this field, our work around the area on both sides of the highways. The of electric vehicles through popularizing access to that cools the battery from the inside, and allows has involved significant unprecedented regulatory and deer population in the area, which was separated by new technology. Although in the past two years, the the surrounding structure to remain at 25º. Another licensing challenges, as well as consultations with local the highway for over 30 years, will soon be able to uptake of this technology has not been as positive as solution to provide both fast and effective completion environment and conservation organizations, such reunite and rebuild their deer families. The same is true expected, and the Better Place vision has not been of the installations, while saving resources, was to as the Israel Nature and Parks Authority, the Jewish for significant populations of wild boar, tortoises, moles fully implemented, we remain proud of our ability use prefabricated structures. This had not been National Fund, and the Israel Antiquities Authority. and reptiles. to support the execution and preparation for this envisaged at the outset of the project, but as the work transformative approach. In 2010, Baran Group entered progressed, it appeared to us that there was a better Innovating with natural gas Local communities: Local communities are affected into a partnership with Better Place Israel to design and way. Prefabricated structures for the switching stations by the reconstruction of Highways 65 and 85, as, reduced installation time from months to weeks, saving to save a factory || build battery replacement stations which we completed Phoenicia Flat Glass Industries Ltd, established in in order to expand the highway, the Israel National during 2011 and 2012, constructing 33 battery significant resources, reducing the need to transport Roads Company expropriated land from private and prepare concrete materials in situ, and generating 1936, is the largest manufacturer in Israel of flat glass switching stations as part of a large-scale turnkey used for windows, mirrors and other applications, owners, providing them with financial compensation, project. The project involved 30 Baran employees around 80% less waste. but requiring them to accept change to their way of located in the northern city of Nazareth-Illit, employing at peak times, as well as hundreds of contractor over 270 people in this high-unemployment area. The life. Many of those affected are farmers with strong employees. historical ties to their land. In developing the project, plant currently supports its energy needs through and during construction phases, we paid special the use of fuel oils, which are the primary costs in Complex challenges: The planning of the sites for Phoenicia's operations. The shift to natural gas attention to these land owners, engaging them in a the switching stations was a complex undertaking, close and continuous dialogue, working together to represents a critical opportunity for Phoenicia, which requiring analysis of national traffic routes and flows, would enable the plant to continue to operate, as find solutions that meet the needs of all. as well as existing civil and electric infrastructures. increasing debt due to high fuel costs and the falling We worked in partnership with Better Place and price of glass in the market have caused concerns other partners to determine optimum locations on about the ongoing viability of the company and nearthe national electricity grid to deliver best service closure in 2012. Despite Israel's growing natural and utilization, while doing our best to minimize gas reserves and distribution, this option has not This highway belongs to the members of disruption to the natural environment and landscapes. yet reached the area in which Phoenicia operates. Another challenge, given the tight timeframe for the Government plans to extend the national natural gas this community. This is their home and it's construction work, was the need to complete several important to hear them and include them. grid to this area have been postponed. However, a installations simultaneously. Our experience of this temporary solution was devised in which compressed We are building this road for them. type of logistics complexity throughout our many years natural gas (CNG) could be cost-effectively transported Project Manager, Baran Group. of involvement in the telecommunications industry to the Phoenicia operation, an option which had not positioned us well for this type of plan. previously been developed in Israel. Expanding options for natural gas || Natural gas has become an increasingly important source of energy in the global economy. In Israel, this transition began in 2004, when natural gas deposits that had been found off the southern shores of Israel spurred the construction of a national natural gas grid for use in cleaner energy power plants. In 2009-2010, additional natural gas deposits were discovered and are expected to provide Israel with enough natural gas for decades and make a significant, clean, contribution to the national economy. Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 20 21 We were selected to implement this solution, and impacts, safety, security, sanitation, transportation construction. The building also raises awareness sought to bring leading technology available in the and fire safety. Our work included gaining approvals for green building potential which will hopefully lead Edmond and Lily Safra Center for Brain U.S. to provide the answer for Phoenicia. Following a for unique eco-friendly specifications such as the to additional projects of a similar nature in Israel. At Sciences (ELSC), Hebrew University, Jerusalem: period of planning and development, we will start the Combined Cycle technology used in the plant, and a Baran, we were delighted to support this project and The renowned British firm of architects, Foster and construction of a gas compression station and offwater conservation system using a specially designed demonstrate our leading green building capabilities and Partners, designed this 14,500 square meter building loading facility for CNG at Phoenicia to be completed in condenser process. world-class engineering solutions. which will include research laboratories, classrooms, mid-2013, and support the adaptation of Phoenicia's an imaging center and other educational facilities at a facilities to run on CNG. This solution will save close to Committed to green Yad Hanadiv, Jerusalem: During 2011-2012, we cost of over ILS 150 million. We collaborate with the ILS 5 million per month, which will mean the difference construction in Israel || managed, supervised and provided consulting services architects to provide project management and green between survival and closure for Phoenicia and its At Baran, we have made a long term commitment for the 2,500 square meter green building project to building support, guiding the Foster and Partners team employees, contractors, service providers and the to green building and have developed significant create the headquarters for Yad Hanadiv, a non-profit in applying the Israeli green building Standard 5281 of surrounding community which relies on the factory as a expertise in this field. We believe that green building organization acting in behalf of several Rothschild the Standards Institution of Israel, and providing the source of local economic development. makes a vast impact on peoples' lives, as well as on family trusts. This ILS 96 million project was designed context for comparison with the U.S. LEED standard. the environment, and we always seek opportunities and constructed according to LEED requirements, and Israeli green building requirements used in this project Clean energy in the desert || to offer green solutions to our customers. We have a recently received the LEED Silver certification. Its green include the use of local and recycled materials, OPC Rotem is Israel’s first large-scale independent dedicated department comprised of LEED (Leadership building elements include glazed windows and lighting landscape planning for water efficiency, integrated power producer, utilizing the latest technology and in Energy and Environmental Design) accredited design that work together to exploit natural light bicycle routes and more. Construction is scheduled to broad experience to increase the supply of affordable Professionals, certified for planning and managing indoors effectively and skylights in the roof to allow begin in late 2013 for completion by 2016. The building and clean energy to Israel’s power grid. OPC Rotem is projects in accordance with LEED standards. We work entry of natural light. Energy is produced using solar will be certified according to the Israeli green building developing the first privately owned power plant in the mainly with LEED standards and also the leading panels on the roof and in other areas. At Baran, we standard. Negev desert region of Israel. This is a Combined Cycle UK standard, BREEAM, as well as the Israeli Green played an important role in turning this project green. power plant, using a gas turbine to generate electricity, Building Standard 5281. During the past three years, Although initial planning for the building was already and the heat of its exhaust to produce steam, which in we have been involved in close to 25 green building approved, we presented new plans that integrated turn drives a turbine to generate additional electricity, projects in Israel. We are also a founding member of LEED features without disrupting the existing plan. providing an efficient overall energy source. The the Israeli Green Building Council (ILGBC) and we Today, the Yad Hanadiv green building provides over facility is designed to minimize the impact on air and participate in ILGBC meetings and sit on the ILGBC's 50% recycling levels, 19% energy saving for cooling, soil quality in the area, reduce noise levels through Regulation Committee. Experts from our Green and 50% energy saving for lighting, as well as over increased insulation, and secure storage of dangerous Building Division deliver lectures at various ILGBC 30% saving in water consumption versus regular chemicals. The plant was connected to the national events throughout the year. construction. electricity grid in March 2013 and is expected to start supplying in June 2013. The Porter EcoBuilding, Tel Aviv University: The Porter EcoBuilding at Tel Aviv University is the first We were selected to provide support to OPC of its kind in Israel, an ILS 48 million, 3,500 square Rotem, for the purpose of gaining the necessary meter project designed according to LEED Platinum regulatory licenses and approvals from the Ministry guidelines. Upon completion and certification during for the Protection of the Environment and other 2013, the EcoBuilding is expected to be one of only local authorities. We fully supervised and audited 50 LEED Platinum projects worldwide. The Porter the planning of the plant including architecture, EcoBuilding will be a space for experiments and construction, electricity and licencing aspects, as well demonstrations of environmental technologies, as well as compliance with local standards for environmental as lectures, research, exhibitions, conferences and administration offices. Our role at Baran has been to manage the LEED-compliant project development, including the planning phase with extensive environmental surveys, moving trees to other areas on campus, recycling asphalt removed from the area, and recycling equipment and furniture removed from the site. Additional green building features include photovoltaic power and solar collectors, water recycling systems, natural ventilation, bioclimatic design, and a 'green roof'. The Porter EcoBuilding is considered a masterpiece in green technology, delivering a 75% annual recycling level and over 38% energy saving and 20% water saving versus regular Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 22 23 Germany: 40 years of Telecoms A better solution for ammonia || support the development of the ammonia plant, which will be powered by natural gas, in order to improve and More || The manufacture of ammonia in Israel ceased about 30 years ago, and since then, ammonia has been manufacturing capabilities in Israel. Despite the fact imported and stored in a dedicated facility in the Haifa that the Israeli government is advancing very slowly, we continue to meet with governmental decision-makers Baran Telecom Networks (BTN) is our wholly-owned most advanced standards of aviation and technology, Bay in the north of Israel. The facility is located in a in different government ministries to actively promote subsidiary in Germany, operating mainly in the and reliant upon a strong telecommunications densely populated area and any malfunction or attack the development of a new ammonia plant, which we telecommunications and solar energy sectors. BTN infrastructure. The project began in 2007 and our on the facility presents a potential risk to millions of believe will offer significant benefits for the local market was established in 2001, but retains a legacy of over role has been to ensure the detailed design and lives. At Baran, we have been promoting a plan to and community. To date, there is no government fifty years of history with the Westmontage Kabel implementation of the airport communications transfer ammonia production to the desert region in the decision. In addition, we collaborated with Israel's und Netzwerk GmbH, founded in 1957 which merged infrastructure. south of the country, following a government request in Technion University to support a project for students with BTN in 2001. During this time, we have been 2012 for a safer and more cost-effective solution. involved in a range of projects which contribute to Baran’s solution proposes to switch from the import in the chemical engineering faculty, using the ammonia telecommunications access for local users as well as A solar power plant in the Czech situation in Israel as a case study. to the manufacturing of ammonia, in a facility located national infrastructure development. Republic || in the south of Israel. This would deliver lower BTN was hired to provide planning and design costs for ammonia supply while boosting economic A new hydrocracker in Haifa || services for a 4.2 megawatt solar power plant in the development in the south of the country and reducing During 2012, we completed work on the new A new airport communications Czech Republic for our customer, Colexon Energy the risk to human lives as the new facility would be far hydrocracker in the north of Israel, for our customer, Oil infrastructure || AG, a project developer and operator of large-scale from any major city center. Our solution uses unique Refineries Ltd. The hydrocracker enables production For example, BTN, through a consortium established photovoltaic systems. The new power plant will feed technology developed by the German company of high quality fuels such as diesel, in a process with ELPRO and Schneider Electric, has been involved clean energy into the national grid, substantially Linde in a compact facility that allows manufacturing which generates fewer contaminants, requires less in building the communications infrastructure of the lowering the carbon footprint for the nation's energy ammonia to meet the level of demand, producing energy and produces less waste than other oil Berlin Brandenburg Airport, due to become operational supply. The project took place in 2010 and 2011, and roughly 120,000 tons of ammonia per year. This small refining processes. The new hydrocracker was a in 2014. The Berlin Brandenburg Airport will be the BTN was responsible for the delivery and installation facility avoids the need to produce larger volumes three year project which took millions of engineering third largest airport in Germany, providing a gateway of the photovoltaic structure and photovoltaic modules (as required using existing and known technology), hours by Baran's most qualified professionals, who for Germany and Europe and is a major source of local supplied by the customer. and therefore reduces waste and consumption of were engaged right from the planning stage through economic development. It is designed in line with the resources. Using Baran and Linde expertise, our implementation. In order to complete this project proposal is to build a new factory, according to the within a highly ambitious schedule, just over half the highest safety and security standards, including time which is normally required for such a large-scale protection from earthquakes and missile attacks. project, we worked with engineers from all over the To date, we have independently invested over ILS world, selecting the most appropriate professionals in 2 million in the preparatory phase. Our vision is to the field and ensuring high quality output at all times. Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 24 25 Thailand: Enabling Communications || South Africa: Building Connectivity || Baran in Thailand || range of projects, and, in 2011, was hired to provide Baran in South Africa || largely replaced copper wire communications in core Baran has been operating in Thailand since 2001 as turnkey services including engineering, design, Baran has been operating in Africa since 2007 through networks in the developed world. Baran Raviv Telecom Thailand Ltd (BRT), and has procurement and supply of communications towers, Baran Engineering South Africa Ltd, and since 2012, established a reputation as a leading engineering construction and supervision. Working to a tight also through Baran Projects South Africa Ltd. Both The Fiber Optics network in South Africa was led until company specializing in telecommunication projects. schedule demanded by True Move due to the urgency are subsidiaries of Baran Group. The main activity recently by one telecommunication company, leading Baran is the only foreign company in this industry of being first to market with 3G, in 2012, we built we support in South Africa is the construction of to high communication tariffs and inhibiting the growth in Thailand. All our employees in Thailand, with the 800 communications towers. This is a high rate of telecom infrastructures including cellular and fiber of the local telecommunication industry. The lack of exception of BRT's CEO, are local Thai nationals, expansion – twice the normal pace in this industry, optics. We employ a small team, including several cost-effective infrastructure contributed to the gaps including several engineers, and others employed in which is around 350-400 towers per year. This engineers. In South Africa, we follow local laws in broadband access between urban and rural areas. construction and administrative work. $30 million project was mostly completed in 2012, and regulations that are unique to this country. For New regulation on telecommunications enabled other continuing into 2013, and has been an essential part of example, Baran is compliant with the Black Economic companies to enter the market, helping provide better Baran in Thailand engages in project planning and the ability of True Move to improve its service offering Empowerment (BEE) regulations, which is in place to networks and drive prices down. FibreCo's plan to execution, often hiring contract employees to execute in Thailand. ensure previously disadvantaged South African citizens build a national open-access optical network is in line physical construction work at local sites. We maintain a are provided with work opportunities. with this new regulatory opportunity, and contributes to good reputation among suppliers and contractors, with Improving the infrastructure and providing customers realizing the South African Government’s objective of good working relations, operating ethically and fairly with access to new technologies, enables them to delivering 100% broadband penetration by 2020. connect easily and share data faster and more reliably Enabling fiber optic communication at all times, while insisting on adherence to our high standards of quality, safety and employment terms and improving their everyday lives. This investment by True throughout the nation || Baran is one of three companies hired by ZTE, a conditions. In 2012, Baran Thailand provided work for Move creates an environment in which other providers In 2012, Baran was involved in a national, large-scale, global provider of telecom solutions, to execute this about 250 contract employees. must enhance and improve their infrastructure as well US$5 billion project to install 12.5 thousand km of transformative project. In the first phase, which was in order to stay competitive – this creates an impact on optical fibers throughout the country. This project, completed in 2012, we laid out 250 km of cable, 25% the entire population of mobile users in Thailand. initiated by FibreCo Telecommunications, aims to of the total required, which was our allocation of the The Thai telecoms market || provide affordable, reliable and fast internet access to total cable length. In doing so, we complied with strict The market has been held back in recent years due Ajikawa & SCI Metaltech Co. is a steel fabricator. Our South African citizens and enterprises in urban centers environmental regulations, and successfully passed to regulatory issues, lack of essential infrastructure products are mainly the galvanized steel structures as well as in remote villages. monthly external environmental audits performed. and the global financial crisis. In 2011-2012 the Thai for use in telecommunication towers, transmission telecoms market started to expand, experiencing lines towers and more. The main products which Fiber Optic communication is a method of transmitting The successful implementation of the FibreCo plan is substantial growth. We were pleased to be in the right are selected for use by Baran Raviv Thailand are our information by sending pulses of light through an crucial for the future development of South Africa by place at the right time to take part in this development, telecommunication tower components. We started optical fiber, which is a flexible, transparent fiber made providing a necessary infrastructure for technologies to improve the quality of communications for the Thai doing business with Baran Raviv Thailand around of glass or plastic, about the size of a human hair. The that will help drive business and economic growth, and population. 12 years ago and have collaborated to support the use of optical fibers permits transmission over longer improve the quality of life for South Africans. development of the telecommunication industry in distances and at higher bandwidths than other forms True Move || Thailand and also nearby markets such as Vietnam of communication. In recent years, optical fibers have True Move is the number three mobile operator in and Cambodia. Baran Raviv Thailand values our Thailand, with an ambition to lead technological partnership and is one of our main clients. We expect development through an early investment in 3G to maintain a positive relationship for years to come. infrastructure for its three million subscriber base. Mr Phanuphan Jesrichai, Sales & Section Manager, Baran has supported True Move since 2002 in a Ajikawa & SCI Metaltech Co. Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 26 27 Azerbaijan: Power to the Nation || Romania: Innovations in The petroleum industry in Azerbaijan produces about 800,000 barrels of oil per year and one billion cubic that fits SOCAR's needs – a facility for manufacturing polypropylene. Using a second hand facility rather Green Building|| meters of gas per year. In fact, Azerbaijan derives than building a new facility from the ground up will save more than 20% of its GDP from petroleum, oil and gas cost, allow for faster construction of the facility, and products, making this a crucial factor in the country's will reduce the burden on the environment of building a ability to compete in regional and global markets and plant with all new materials. help maintain a decent quality of life for Azerbaijan's population of almost 10 million. Through a consortium with the Italian engineering company TCM (a subsidiary of Tecnimont, an ItalianThe State Oil Company of the Azerbaijan Republic global engineering and construction group), in 2012, (SOCAR) is the state-owned oil and natural gas we began to plan the implementation of transferring corporation of Azerbaijan. It produces natural gas, the factory from Canada to the new location. The first operates the country's two oil refineries and the stage of planning has been completed, and engineering running of oil and gas H pipelines throughout the and planning books are now set for SOCAR's final country, as well as oversees the development of new approval. Once approved, the second phase of oil and gas projects in Azerbaijan. SOCAR operates transferring the facility from Canada to Baku will begin. several fuel filling stations in Georgia, Ukraine, Romania and Switzerland. Now, SOCAR is looking to add For Baran, this project demonstrates our ability to plastics manufacturing capabilities to a drilling and oil identify opportunities and build partnerships, while refinery complex it owns in Baku, Azerbaijan. putting to best use our sustainable engineering solutions expertise. For the community in Azerbaijan, Baran has been commissioned to plan this this development is expected to create around 1,000 petrochemical plant for SOCAR and has been able jobs during the construction phase and ongoing to identify an existing processing facility in Canada economic development thereafter. Green building for Baran is a core competency and site and more. The building also includes advanced we are always delighted to have the opportunity to systems promising efficiency in resource consumption, support customers in developing environmentally and waste management facilities such as a specially friendly structures, while contributing to global efforts designed insulation system enabling maximum to mitigate the impacts of climate change. efficiency in heating and cooling the building. In Romania, for example, we provided consultancy The various green building elements and their services for LEED certification for the Willbrook successful implementation have delivered 17.5% Platinum, Business and Convention Center in saving in annual energy consumption, 20% saving in Bucharest. This is an award-winning, premium 40,000 water consumption, and 50% waste recycling levels. square meter building in Bucharest with room for 2,400 convention guests, comprising two buildings The challenge for Baran in this project was working connected by a pedestrian bridge. The project was with a multi-discipline, local team, unfamiliar with the completed in 2011, and the building is due to receive a green building concept and LEED requirements. We LEED Silver certification in the near future. trained the project planning team in the LEED standard and ways of ensuring effective implementation, in order Baran accompanied the Willbrook Platinum from the to receive certification. first stages of the project, and implemented strict green building elements throughout its construction (as Baran has been a member of the Romanian Green required by the LEED program). For example, on-site Building Council (ROGBC) since 2009. Baran is a separation of waste for recycling, maintaining a clean regular participant in conferences, forums and other environment by washing wheels as trucks leave the events organized by the Council. Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 28 29 Latin America: Supporting National The Baran Way || Engineering Programs || “The Baran Way Our work at Baran takes us to many distant locations, as we deliver sustainable engineering solutions. This was the case in Barbados, and another location in the provide 360 degree radar coverage around Barbados. The towers had to be designed and built to withstand extreme conditions including hurricanes and high is based on integrity, ethics Latin American region, where we contributed to the salinity. The Baran team used its experience and development of solar energy for remote populations extensive knowledge in this field to find solutions to and helped develop a solution for homeland security. the climate challenges, for example, a mechanism that and our strong can retract the cameras and radar to protect them from Protecting the coast of Barbados || extreme weather conditions. Our Baran team continued Barbados is one a group of small islands located in the to work on the towers in 2012, performing maintenance work and modifications as required. We are pleased to corporate values. eastern Caribbean. It has become a hotspot for drug and human trafficking industries as a transit area for help the Barbados government address a most serious transporting drugs and humans from South America issue which threatens the safety of their citizens, and to the United States, Canada, and Europe. Drug has an impact far beyond the borders of this small traffickers use Barbados and other local islands as a staging area for smuggling by small vessels. Hundreds of kilograms of cocaine and other drugs are estimated island. Solar energy || We believe this is to pass through Barbados each year. These activities place Barbados and its citizens at greater risk of other local criminal activities such as organized crime, violent During 2012, Baran was involved in two projects in Latin America, endorsed by local government and the World Bank. The projects involved bringing electricity the right way to crime and corruption as well as increased drug use and prostitution. based on solar energy to populations in distant areas in a Caribbean island. Baran led procurement and delivery of solar energy systems kits for self-installation by the do business, and Coastal Radar System || it helps develop residents of the participating locations. We provided In order to combat drug and human trafficking, the instructions for customers as well as checks for correct Barbadian government has undertaken a program installation. Currently 108 homes are participating in our business” for protecting the island against smugglers using this program, and 54 kits have already been installed.. coastal radar systems, patrol boats and aerial The remaining 54 will be installed during 2013. coverage by airplanes and helicopters. The coastal radar system was designed by Elta Systems Ltd, a Enabling electricity for local healthcare || subsidiary of Israeli Aerospace Industries (IAI) with Installing solar panels for a hospital is regarded as a an investment of US$15.5 million. Baran was hired sustainable solution for an unreliable electricity power Ella Gotman, to execute this project, and utilize its expertise in the generator, thereby enabling the hospital to reduce telecommunications field to implement the system. costs while increasing the amount of healthcare CSR Manager, Baran Group The project involved the installation of four cellular sites services it provides for the local population. equipped with cameras and radars, and a secured control room. The towers are strategically located to Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Meeting Customer Needs || 30 31 Our aim is to provide our customers with world-class support and assist them in achieving sustainable Specialist resources to meet customer needs || engineering solutions that they can be proud of. We aim to offer outstanding service, the most advanced and As the leading engineering company in Israel, Baran attracts the best engineers in all engineering disciplines. efficient technologies available and a guarantee that projects are completed in line with customer needs and Often, the nature of engineering work, which is project based, causes great fluctuation in manpower requirements project specifications. at any given time. Our creative solution, in order to provide a comprehensive service to customers, while Each project at Baran is assigned a Project Manager who is responsible for ensuring a close relationship with the maintaining a stable workforce with the range of skills we require, is to offer outsourcing services for customer customer throughout the life of the project. In the initial stages of any project, the Project Manager is responsible projects, as needed. for ensuring that all the customer requirements are completely understood and that the project specifications are Our Engineering Outsourcing Unit maintains a highly qualified team of 160 engineers, project managers and other clearly agreed. The Project Manager meets regularly with the customer, involving other Baran staff as required, to specialists that are outsourced to our customers per project. Even when there is lower demand, we retain such ensure progress is made on time and in the right quality, to the customer's satisfaction. All issues arising are dealt skilled professionals in order to be ready to respond to customers whenever they have a new requirement. with without delay, resulting in satisfied customers across all Baran's projects and in all locations. Knowledge management || Expertise in different market sectors || In order to increase collaboration and efficiency, and to facilitate decision-making at Baran, we have successfully In certain sectors, we have developed specific expertise which we offer to help customers as they aim to expand implemented a knowledge management system in a pilot program using dedicated software. The system allows their own business. For example, we have been present in the telecommunications market development since its access to knowledge already available in the Baran Group databases, and enables project managers to use very beginnings in Israel, which has helped us offer support beyond the implementation of specific projects for the programs and procedures that have previously been developed, without reinventing everything from scratch. For ongoing development of this sector. example, the preparation of equipment specifications for a project can be completed much more quickly using templates and specifications that have already been developed. We estimate that close to 1,500 man-hours can For example, in recent years, the Israeli mobile communications market has undergone significant restructure, due be saved in each new project, based on our pilot program run in 2012. This not only enables us to become more to government intervention which reduced barriers to the entry of new operators, to encourage competition and cost-efficient, and more consistent in the way we prepare basic materials for each project, but it also reduces make services more accessible to a wider population. As a result, during 2011-2012, five new service providers lead-times for meeting customer requirements, enabling us to provide improved customer service. entered the market, two of whom required new physical infrastructures. Baran Group worked with these new operators to help them define their requirements and positioning for the government tenders, and following successful bids, to help them build their networks in Israel. We supported the construction of over 300 new telecommunications stations for these providers during a two year period, enabling their rapid growth within the local market and ensuring tangible benefits for Israeli consumers. Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Engaging Employees || 32 33 As an engineering business, we rely on our employees to deliver our success. Our employees maintain vast Turnover Rate by Gender in Israel (2012) Turnover Rate by Age in Israel (2012) knowledge and expertise that is the essence of our competitive advantage and ability to respond to the needs of our customers, providing a world of engineering solutions in many countries across many industry sectors. We aim to provide a nurturing and caring workplace, build on the family values of our founders, and ensure a Male Female below 30 30-50 over 50 human element in our relationships and interactions among all our people. We regularly recognize the positive contribution of our employees through annual events in which long-serving employees, top performing employees and those who contribute to the community are publicly recognized and receive a gift from the Baran Group. Number of employees 144 38 Number of employees 30 92 60 Baran employees || % of total turnover 79 21 % of total turnover 16 51 33 We employ 1,252 skilled professionals spread across seven geographical areas: Israel, USA, Russia, Asia, South Africa, Romania and Germany. 62% of our employees are based in Israel, although they are often required to Hiring local managers || travel to overseas sites for different project assignments. It is our policy to employ local managers wherever possible, and 64% of our current senior manager team is locally hired. In some locations, we assign a non-local manager to develop local skills and capabilities, and hire a Baran Group employees by local team. region in 2012 Supporting age diversity in our workforce || We rely on skilled engineers and respect the vast experience that is often required to support complex engineering projects around the world. 46% of our employees are over the age of 50. We also encourage young engineers to develop their professional career with Baran, and 11% of our workforce is below the age of 30. Rest of Women at Baran || Generally speaking, the engineering sector has been traditionally a male dominated industry, and we have found world it challenging to attract women from relevant engineering functions to our business. However, we constantly 19% attempt to reach out to women candidates in our recruitment processes and provide opportunities for professional growth and development while at Baran. Overall, women represent 40% of our total workforce, 28% of our middle management and 9% of our senior management. Compensation and benefits || We strive to provide attractive compensation packages for our employees and professional qualifications, Central personal skills, knowledge and experience, as well as market norms are considered in determining our and Israel compensation packages. Employees receive a monthly salary as well as a range of benefits which comply with and in many cases, exceed legal requirements in the countries in which we operate. All employees earn a Eastern 62% salary which is higher than national minimum wage levels and the average starting salary at Baran in Israel, for example, is 54% above the statutory minimum wage. Baran employees are also eligible for annual bonuses, Europe subject to performance, and senior managers are awarded stock options. All Baran employees receive additional 19% benefits such as pension fund payments, severance pay, loss of workability fund, health insurance, subsidized study fund, and subsidized meals. All insurance and severance benefit plans are covered by externally managed pension funds which are paid in monthly instalments for all employees, yielding coverage of almost 100% for all employees. Baran practices equal opportunity for men and women in Baran's business and compensation and benefits packages apply equally to both. In practice, due to the higher number of senior engineers who are male, the average salary levels by gender show higher salary levels for male employees. However, it is Baran's policy to pay equal rates for equal roles and the ratio of average salary for all male and female employees in the same roles is close to equal. We have not recorded this data specifically and will take measures to track such data in the future. Our employees are hired on full-time, permanent contracts. Only a small number work on a part time basis. Our workforce is generally stable and we have many long-serving employees, with over 15 employees having achieved 30 years of service in 2012. We do experience a certain level of annual employee turnover, and in 2012, our turnover rate in Israel was 23%. This turnover rate has reduced from 35% in 2010, indicating increased stability and continuity over the past year. Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 34 35 Diversity and equal opportunity dedicated website established to support the training program. Beyond the fortnightly meetings, participants are We do our best to support diversity and inclusion, and offer opportunities for employees from diverse divided into groups and each group has a Baran senior manager mentor who helps translate the theory learned backgrounds. We are members of the Israeli Forum for Diversity Hiring, dedicated to the inclusion and into practical ways of working on current projects and objectives. To date, participation in the program is 92% and empowerment of underprivileged populations, and we participate in activities to help educate Israeli companies participants confirm that the program is offering real value and benefits for their daily work. about the importance of diversity in the work place and encourage them to invest resources in advancing diversity practices. In 2012, 3% of employees in Baran in Israel were from under-represented populations in the workforce, Leadership development || including members of the Druze, Arab, Orthodox and Ethiopian communities in Israel. In Baran Raviv, one of Baran Group's leading subsidiaries, employing over 200 people in Israel, a need was identified to ensure world-class project management and leadership skills, especially as Baran Raviv projects Since 2010, Baran has collaborated with the Sami Shamoon College of Engineering to promote the inclusion often run simultaneously, in different sectors, requiring many different levels and types of expertise. The need was of women from the Bedouin community in Israel in the engineering profession. A group of 40 Bedouin women to equip managers to ensure integrative complex project management across a range of priorities, while ensuring students of engineering were identified by the Dean of the Sami Shamoon College of Engineering as eligible to customer needs are met. The one-year-long leadership development program, which began in 2012, targets receive specific support from Baran. Our engineers provide professional mentoring and guidance for these female 50 specific managers and high potential employees in Baran Raviv, following a detailed study of our needs and students on an individual and group basis. The plan is that we will offer entry-level engineering roles at Baran to managers' existing capabilities and aspirations, including personal interviews with all participants. The program these students once they graduate. includes group lectures and individual coaching by external experts, as well as by Baran managers. Training and development || Health and safety || Baran makes an effort to provide a dynamic and challenging environment for its employees, where they can Baran strives to maintain and improve the safety conditions in all parts of our operations. The health and safety of constantly learn and develop their professional skills and knowledge. our employees in the field and in our offices is of the utmost importance to us and we engage in safety training, updates and reviews as necessary, for each project in all locations. In Israel, Baran employees participate in a formal performance evaluation at least once every two years, in which they discuss performance and development plans with their managers. In 2012, 250 employees (32%) Most Baran employees work in safe urban environments in developed countries, where health and security issues participated in performance evaluation conversations in Israel. are not unusually problematic. We provide employees with safe work clothing and equipment, and all necessary support, tailored to the needs of each project. For certain projects, Baran employees may travel to distant areas In 2012, in Israel, we delivered a range of professional and leadership training programs for employees of all and to under-developed countries where they may encounter unique security and health threats. These employees roles and levels, adding up to over 5,600 hours throughout 2012, which is an average of over seven training hours are briefed extensively about the situation in the country of destination and are provided with all preventative per employee per year. Of this, 4,220 hours (74%) were dedicated to engineers only and included specific areas medical care and equipment, including information and preventive measures regarding serious diseases. of focus such as safe working in different conditions, regulatory affairs and compliance, project assurance and control, project documentation and more. We also maintain a dedicated website for safety, health and environmental responsibility within our internal online portal. The website provides freely accessible information for employees on all matters regarding personal and professional safety. Employee training hours by category (2012) Engineers Other Employees Total Safety performance in 2011-2012 Number of hours 4,220 1,465 5,685 Work Injuries Total in 2011-2012 Average per year Average hours training per year per employee 9 5 7 Number of work injuries 66 33 Lost workdays due to injury 602 301 We do not regularly track training hours in our overseas operations, but training is provided to all employees in Injury rate 4.2 4.2 different locations as needed. We plan to develop a new process for including this data in future reports. Lost workday rate 38.2 38.2 Professional skills development || Note: Injury and lost workday rates are calculated on the basis of full-time employees working 50 weeks at 40 In order to prepare Baran to succeed in a changing and evolving market, a unique and very extensive training hours per week, as per OSHA guidelines. program was created for managers in the Baran Group. The program was specifically developed to ensure Baran managers are capable of understanding and responding to customer needs, developing and maintaining partnerships and acquiring advanced management skills and capabilities. The new program was developed during 2011-2012, commenced in spring 2012 and runs for 15 months, with regular training sessions for the group of 100 participants every two weeks. The format of the training sessions is generally built around lectures on different aspects of management and includes lecturers both from Baran's senior and experienced leadership as well as from a wide range of external experts. The entire program is designed by a Baran steering committee to ensure the content is targeted to the needs of our management population. All lectures and other resources are available to all participants on a Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 36 37 Protecting the Environment || Baran Group aspires to lead change in corporate Environmental Management System || environmental responsibility in the construction sector. We employ an Environmental Management System At Baran, we believe that safeguarding the environment (EMS) to manage and control our environmental can bring business growth while contributing to a responsibility, performance and impacts. The EMS sustainable future. Managing our impacts on the governs our internal processes in all our activities environment rests on a strong platform of adherence to and also includes processes for construction projects quality standards in all our operations. Baran holds ISO that Baran supervises. In 2005, Baran formulated and Certifications for Quality (ISO 9001), EHS (ISO 18001) adopted a set of voluntary Environment Guidelines and for our Environmental Management System (ISO applicable in all the Company's global operations. 14001). The Guidelines serve to ensure that environmental considerations including biodiversity implications In addition, we strive to minimize the environmental are taken into account at every stage of new project impacts of our projects through the application of a development as well as in the management of Baran's precautionary approach. Although our management internal operations and infrastructure. Baran invests has reviewed and assessed that climate change and efforts in ensuring all Company employees are familiar other environmental risks do not present a direct and with the Guidelines and observe its provisions in their material risk for our business, we are aware of the daily work. Baran site supervisors receive training risks this issue poses to our customers and therefore to ensure familiarization with our Environmental work to develop and implement engineering solutions Guidelines and all training content is freely accessible that will offer environmentally preferable solutions and to all employees through our intranet portal. Our protect against potential risks for our customers such Environmental Guidelines are included in contracts with as adverse weather conditions and natural disasters sub-contractors working on Baran projects and their such as earthquakes. commitment to the Environment Code is a condition of their qualification to work with Baran. Environmental responsibility: a Board priority || Environmental Responsibility is a core platform of our business strategy and is clearly visible in the governance structure of the organization as well as in all aspects of management, operations and employee activity. Environmental issues are consistently tabled as discussion and review items in the Social and Environmental Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors, which convenes four times a year. At each meeting, Baran’s Corporate Responsibility Manager presents an update of social and environmental performance and issues and agrees on further objectives with Board involvement and approval. Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 38 39 Baran's Green Forum || Green procurement || Direct Energy: Fuel consumption varies with the travel Note: Electricity consumption is calculated for all Baran's 'Green Forum' is directed by Baran's In order to ensure environmental considerations are requirements according to our different projects and Baran's sites in Israel. Data from overseas locations is Corporate Responsibility Manager and includes effectively deployed in procurement decisions, Baran distance required to travel to customer sites. While our not available at this time. representatives of all Baran Divisions and key has developed a comprehensive Environmental control of kilometers travelled is limited, as our first On a per-employee basis, our indirect energy departments. The Forum is responsible for setting Procurement Guide for procurement staff to assist in priority is to be available to our customers as needed, consumption in Israel was 14.8 Gj per employee environmental objectives and advancing environmental selecting appropriate suppliers, materials and products we have made improvements in reducing the impacts in 2012, a further reduction from our 19 Gj per activities and their implementation within Baran. The in order to align with environmental objectives. of travel by applying more efficient driving approaches employee reported in 2010, demonstrating continued Forum convenes four times a year, reviews current Examples of areas covered by the Environmental and using more hybrid vehicles, thereby enabling us to improvement. activities and their effectiveness, discusses future Procurement Guide include minimization of waste maintain slightly lower levels of gasoline consumption plans, sets objectives and assigns responsibility for resulting from efficient use of materials, detailed during 2011-2012. Total energy: Overall, our total absolute energy action plans. The Green Forum provides an annual planning, efficient storage of materials, and prevention consumption reduced in 2012 by 17% versus 2010, review to the Company's Executive Management team. of damage to materials, using industrial multiple-use and by 7% over five years. During this period our total dies for concrete casting, preventing unnecessary use number of employees in Israel increased by more than Gasoline consumption – Baran in Israel 20%, demonstrating our positive approach to energy Environmental check-list of packaging, and recycling. management. for construction projects || Year Gigajoules Environmental All our Project Managers work with our environmental check-list which applies from the very early planning stages of each project through to completion. 2012 57,139 Total energy consumption Baran in Israel This comprehensive check-list was developed by performance Baran engineers and leverages the Company's 2011 57,094 Year Gigajoules extensive experience in anticipating and managing the environmental aspects of all construction and 2010 67,317 2012 68,693 engineering work. The check-list covers issues and impacts relating to potential environmental risks, obstacles or opportunities including landscape management, air 2009 45,978 2011 71,033 pollution risks, drainage processes, chemicals, use of hazardous materials and their safe disposal, solid 2008 52,798 2010 82,677 waste generation and land contamination risk. In the planning stages of each project, the check-list is used Energy consumption || Indirect Energy: In 2012, we were further able to to assist in developing a comprehensive environmental We strive to minimize energy consumption in all our reduce our absolute electricity consumption by 2009 61,082 approach to project implementation. operations. The key practices maintained by Baran to 17%, reflecting continued implementation of efficient control energy consumption include use of energypractices. In five years, in Baran in Israel, we have 2008 74,068 efficient light bulbs, central electricity control systems reduced absolute energy consumption by 46%. in all buildings and air conditioner temperature and usage monitoring, as well as data-server virtualization, reducing energy required to support multiple data servers. 100% of Baran’s indirect energy consumption Electricity consumption – Baran in Israel is based on purchased electricity sourced from the Israel National Grid, or the National Grids in other Year Gigajoules countries of operation. We also use low levels of indirect energy, in the form of gasoline or fuel for the 2012 11,554 vehicles used by our Project Managers in travel to different project sites. 2011 13,939 2010 15,360 2009 15,104 2008 21,270 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 40 41 Carbon emissions || 100% of our waste is recycled. Paper waste is sent solar energy market, causing many small-scale solar Over the years, we have managed to reduce our absolute carbon emissions, matching our reduction in energy for recycling to a paper manufacturer in Israel and all energy companies to be forced out. consumption. This resulted in a 7% reduction in 2012 versus 2011, and a total reduction of 23% over 5 years. electronic waste is collected by a social enterprise Ecommunity. Ecommunity recycles electronic waste The Renewable Energy Association of Israel using the services of people with special needs, thus (REAI), established in 2009 protects the interests Carbon emissions Baran in Israel creating employment opportunities and funding for of Israeli solar energy companies and promotes the rehabilitation of this population. Ecommunity the implementation of renewable energy electricity Carbon Emissions in Tons CO2 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 collects electronic equipment (such as old computers, production in Israel through lobbying with government Gasoline (direct) 3,572 3,110 4,554 3,862 3,865 printed circuit boards, controllers, switchboards ministries. Baran holds the presidency of REAI, and Electricity (indirect) 4,479 3,079 3,098 2,838 2,353 and communication equipment), transports them to following successful lobbying efforts, new quotas for associations that employ people with special needs, solar energy production were released in 2011 and Total CO2 Emissions 8,051 6,189 7,652 6,700 6,218 teaches them to dismantle the equipment, recycles 2012, to 460 megawatts for ground-mounted systems, each component respectively, and pays employees a and 110 megawatts for small-medium systems, Note: Indirect carbon emissions for 2008-2010 have been restated in line with updated carbon conversion factors fair wage. enabling new projects to be planned and implemented. from the Israel Electricity Company. Gasoline emissions are converted at 0.0023 ton CO2e per 1 liter of gasoline using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Initiatives to advance solar power || To date, Baran has completed tens of solar power Water consumption || Waste management || projects in Israel and around the world. This makes Overall, Baran's water consumption is relatively modest Waste that is generated by Baran operations mainly Baran a leading expert in this field in Israel, and a and is used mainly for office hygiene, cleaning and results from regular office activities and includes partner in promoting solar power projects in the garden irrigation purposes. We take measures to limit organic waste, paper and a low level of electronic country. In addition to the projects we undertake our water consumption as far as possible, including the waste from batteries, cell phones and other electronic for our clients, we work to advance this field both use of low-flow meters on faucets and low-flush toilets products. We do our best to minimize waste and as a business opportunity, and as a vision for a in bathrooms. All of Baran's water is supplied from the recycle wherever possible. We record waste levels in better and more efficient use of solar energy which national water grids in all countries of operation. Israel only, as our overseas operations are small and is in abundance in the sun-drenched state of Israel. generate insignificant amounts of waste. Organic waste However, the solar energy market in Israel has been In 2011-2012, our water consumption increased from employee meals is also insignificant and not struggling due to complex bureaucracy caused by as we expanded our office operations, gardening recorded. budget constraints and political challenges. Quotas set and landscape areas, and increased the number of by the government are not enough to sustain the entire employees in our sites in Israel. We are examining the current levels of water consumed in our operations and Waste generated by type (tons) where we can decrease our consumption in 2013 and Baran in Israel beyond. 2012 2011 2010 Paper 17 12 16 Water consumption – Baran in Israel Electronic 0.31 0.30 0.35 Total 17.31 12.30 16.35 Year Cubic meters 2012 8,679 2011 7,077 2010 4,412 2009 7,996 2008 8,158 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 42 43 Caring for Our Community || We encourage our employees to play an active role for over 10 years through teaching lessons in various through pro-bono engineering services. During 2012, Supporting the next generation in the community and contribute their expertise to subjects using their own experience and knowledge. Baran supported the Lev Chash project to build a motel support social causes. In Israel, where over 60% of In the past two years, about 45 Baran employees for the families of sick children who are in hospital in of engineers || our employees are based, we have a long tradition of have volunteered at the Different Lesson program in the city of Haifa, allowing families to stay close to their Baran Group supports education through two employee volunteering and community programs. All schools located near Baran offices in the north, center children while hospitalized at low, or no cost. The Haifa foundations, providing scholarships for students who volunteering in the community is performed during and south of Israel. Baran volunteers reach over 100 municipality allocated a building for this project, and demonstrate academic excellence. paid work hours and we provide positive recognition children in these schools each week, inspiring them to quite some renovation and rebuilding was required to The Menahem Gal Foundation: This foundation for employees who engage in such important activities. a better future. create a motel with 18 bedrooms, a dining room, and was established by Baran in memory of Menahem In other countries, where our teams are small, detailed play rooms. The project is in initial planning phases, Gal, one of Baran's founders. The foundation awards practices are not monitored and employees are Supporting children || and Baran is donating our services for planning the scholarships for exceptional students from Sami generally involved in their communities on a private Lev Chash is a humanitarian organization which offers electricity and civil engineering work and coordination Shamoon College of Engineering. Students are basis, rather than under the Baran umbrella. Where support for those in need, through the provision of with architects and other professionals. As this project selected based on their academic achievements and employees wish to seek Baran support for community food, shelter, clothing and other personal items. Baran develops, we will remain involved and provide the their community involvement. initiatives, we generally respond positively. This section has been a partner of Lev Chash since 2003, through support needed on a pro-bono basis. describes the extensive activities we maintain in Israel, volunteering efforts including collecting and donating The Yossi Leper Foundation: This foundation was our home base. food, clothing and books for those in need, as well as established in 2003 to commemorate Yossi Leper, a former employee. The foundation awards scholarships Our community involvement is focused in for exceptional Master's and PhD students who conduct research at the Faculty of Agriculture, Food two core areas || and Environment in Rehovot. 1. Engineering sustainable solutions for the community, leveraging Baran's core capabilities to assist in the development of community Supporting the Kfir infrastructures and social projects that improve the Warriors Association || quality of life in the communities in which Baran Since 2008, Baran has provided pro bono project operates. management services to the monument for fallen soldiers of the Kfir Regiment. This included obtaining 2. Supporting essential community needs, by permits, coordinating contractors, planning and contributing and volunteering. This includes managing the construction of the monument. Since adopting communities in need, supporting youth completion of construction in 2009, Baran employees and children from underprivileged populations, and have been continuously involved, supporting the advancing education, using the skills and capabilities association through planning and obtaining permits for of Baran employees to support schoolchildren and the further development of the site. The Kfir memorial students. site includes an educational center for soldiers and Supporting college for all || College for All is a non-profit association working visitors, and in the future will also include a guest house for lone soldiers from the Kfir Regiment, as Baran Group community investment to provide equal access to quality education for youth with potential from the social and geographic well as a Museum and an amphitheater. In January 2012 2011 2010 periphery, especially for those from disadvantaged 2012, the first swearing-in ceremony took place at the socio-economic backgrounds. The program supports memorial site, starting a new tradition for the regiment. Donations of money and proILS ILS ILS children from second grade through to high school bono services 705,000 677,997 836,000 graduation, providing them with extra-curricular materials and activities to enrich their educational Employee experience. The program also involves the parents volunteers 130 130 150 and the community in a mutual effort to support the children through their studies and provide them with Supporting education || the best opportunities to succeed both now and in A Different Lesson is a non-profit organization the future. Our employees volunteer in this program working to promote equal opportunity in education and by tutoring the children and helping them with their introduce children from underprivileged communities homework, and taking part in special educational and to accomplished adults, exposing them to different social activities including trips and holiday events. professional horizons and role models that can inspire and motivate them to do well in their academic studies. Baran volunteers have supported this organization Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 44 45 Governance and Ethics || Supporting the wellbeing of soldiers || The highest governing body of Baran Group is the Board of Directors, which includes 7 members, with vast The Association for the Wellbeing of Israel's Soldiers (AWIS) established the Adopt a Soldier program that experience in Israeli and global business arenas. The Chairman of the Board is Mr. Meir Dor, one of the Founding connects companies and army combat units. The adoption includes providing the soldiers with emotional and Members of Baran Group. Today, Mr. Dor does not play a role in the executive management of Baran Group. financial support throughout their army service. Baran maintains a 3 year commitment of an annual contribution The Board is responsible for the effective management of the company including outlining business strategy, of over $25,000 for providing support to young soldiers that serve in combat. Baran has been the adopting evaluating executive performance, setting compensation levels, and overseeing financial reporting. company for a combat unit for the past few years, supporting these soldiers not only through financial donations but also by though activities such as special events and trips, support for discharged soldiers in finding their way Directors and their responsibilities || as new citizens and supporting soldiers and their families as needed. Employees volunteer in this program through making donations, hosting lone soldiers from the unit, or bringing them food while away from home. Accounting and Independent / Board Financial External Member Gender Age Membership in Committees Expertise Directors Meir Dor M 66 Chairman of the Board Audit Committee (Chair) Remuneration Committee (Chair) Finance Committee Mordechay Financial Reports Review Committee Levin M 50 Future Projects Review Committee Yes External Financial Reports Review Committee Audit Committee Finance Committee Zvi Liber M 70 Remuneration Committee Yes External Finance Committee Ehud Social and Environmental Responsibility Reiger M 51 Committee Yes Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Esther Social and Environmental Responsibility Luzzato F 55 Committee External Financial Reports Review Committee Finance Committee Giora Remuneration Committee Shlomo Large Projects Review Committee Meyuhas M 71 Future Projects Review Committee Yes Independent Israel Gotman M 66 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 46 47 Board committees || Director selection, compensation and performance || Directors are selected based on their experience, qualifications and expertise. Potential members are also reviewed for their past performance as well as integrity and values. The Baran Code of Ethics applies to all Baran Directors and they commit to upholding its provisions with special emphasis on avoiding all forms of conflict of interest. Directors exempt themselves from specific Board discussions if a potential conflict of interest is Number of suspected, and all Directors submit an annual statement outlining business interests in addition to Baran Group Number of meetings in to ensure no potential conflict exists. Compensation for Directors and senior executives is determined based Committee Name Key purpose members 2011/2012 on qualifications and experience, as well as the responsibilities associated with different Director roles and committee memberships. Performance of Board Members and executives is evaluated annually and contributes to determining their compensation package. Directors' compensation is linked to Baran's performance against project targets. The Board of Directors monitors and evaluates company performance and its own effectiveness Remuneration Oversees remuneration for Board members, in guiding the company. This is done through internal discussion at Board level. Sustainability management 4 4 Committee management, and employees. at Board level is conducted through the Social and Environmental Responsibility Committee which oversees management and implementation of CSR in Baran group and authorizes proposed objectives. The Board receives an annual report on social responsibility which is reviewed, and appropriate actions decided. Oversees credit and debt positions. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations || Finance Committee Authorizes financial transactions and 4 6 Baran Group holds annual shareholder meetings in which participants can inquire as well as contribute. In commitments. addition, the company has an open door policy, enabling employees to provide their feedback or share grievances at any time to the CEO or any other member of management. Compliance, risk management and internal audit || Oversees external auditor activities. At Baran, we perform an annual risk evaluation covering all financial risks, geographical risks, security risks Audit Committee Rules on unusual issues arising from the 3 19 and those associated with specific activities such as in the telecommunication or alternative energy areas. Risk company's activities. management and implementation of recommended processes are supervised by the Board of Directors. Baran also implements the Israel Sarbanes-Oxley procedures in all departments, which identifies and evaluates core processes and associated risks in all aspects of the company. Processes have been embedded throughout all levels of management. Further information on risks can be found in our Directors Report at Reviews CSR performance and sets objectives. Social and Environmental www.barangroup.com. Oversees management and implementation of 2 1 Responsibility Committee CSR activities. Each year, Baran's Audit Committee of the Board of Directors identifies issues to be audited in Baran's global operations and authorizes an audit plan. This process is informed by an initial risk survey conducted by our internal auditor as well as recommendations from management. Findings from the audits are presented to the Audit Committee. In 2012 there were two meetings of the Audit Committee for the purpose of discussing audit Ensures the integrity of financial reporting findings and agreeing on actions. Financial Reports Review and makes recommendations to the Board of 3 9 Committee Directors. Sustainability management || Baran's corporate responsibility (CR) performance is managed by the CR Manager, Ella Gotman, who reports directly to the CEO. The CR manager is responsible for drafting CR strategy and annual work plans, overseeing the execution of community and sustainability programs, and monitoring performance. The Social and Reviews large projects. Environmental Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for approving strategy and Large Projects Review targets and allocating budgets. The CR Manager reports at least annually to the Social and Environmental Provides advice for effective project 3 1 Committee Responsibility Committee. management. Future Projects Review Provides recommendations to the Board 2 1 Committee regarding new business opportunities. Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 About this Report || 48 49 Ethics || We have always operated from a core value of integrity and ethical behaviour. In 2004, we introduced our Code of Ethics, which is binding upon all Baran Directors, executives and employees in all their business activities on “Business transparency behalf of Baran Group. The key elements of our Code of Ethics include honest and ethical conduct, ethical management of actual or is the way we apparent conflicts of interest, full, fair, accurate, clear and timely disclosure of reports and documents published by Baran, compliance with all laws and government regulations and procedures for reporting compliance violations. The Code is updated every 2 years, and the last update took place in 2012 and included changes regarding clarification on proper conduct for giving and receiving gifts, conflict of interest and employee rights. Following this update, all employees were invited to receive refresher training and sign the updated Code of Ethics, reinforce trust signifying their acceptance and agreement to abide by its provisions. Embedding the Code of Ethics || with all our An Ethics Committee which includes Baran's Chief Financial Officer, Chief Legal Counsel and the CR Manager is responsible for the implementation, enforcement and supervision of the Code of Ethics and reports to the Board of Directors on a regular basis. Baran's internal auditors conduct an annual ethics audit examining process, stakeholders.” practices and effectiveness of our ethics policies and submit a report to the Executive Management Team. Our Human Resources Managers are responsible for updating employees regarding changes in the Code of Ethics, Sasson Shilo, and act as a point of contact for all associated queries. 100% of our employees receive one hour training on the Code of Ethics as part of their orientation upon starting work at Baran. Additionally, every two years, when the SVP & CFO, Baran Group Code is updated, all employees receive one hour training and sign the new Code. The Code of Ethics training includes reference and explanations regarding human rights and anti-corruption. Employees are encouraged to report any violations of the Code of Ethics to a Human Resources representative or to the Ethics Committee. In 2011 and 2012, there were no reports of violations of the Code of Ethics, or of any incidents relating to sexual harassment or misconduct. Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 The Way We Report || 50 51 GRI Reporting Framework || We believe that transparent reporting is part of our Reporting principles || GRI is a global non-profit international organization which acts to increase the level of social and environmental responsibility as a business that is accountable to all In this report, we have reported in accordance with the reporting amongst companies throughout the world. The main way of assimilating this process is the use of stakeholders. Transparency also aligns with the legacy the GRI G3 Technical Protocol principles of materiality, a reporting framework which contains detailed guidelines for reporting on impacts and provides a consistent of openness, trust and collaboration upon which Baran stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, and structure which thousands of companies around the world now use for sustainability reporting. group was founded. Baran commits to publishing a completeness. We have targeted to report on the most For more information, please seewww.globalreporting.org. Sustainability Report every two years, while using the important sustainability issues for our business and corporate website for relevant updates during this for stakeholders providing relevant context for our This report complies with Application Level A of the GRI Framework. This has been confirmed by experts at the period, as well as the publication of a Communication sustainability performance. Global Reporting Initiative who checked our report in draft form and found it to be compliant with this reporting on Progress in line with the UN Global Compact level. principles every year. Our last Sustainability Report was published in 2011, covering business activities in Process used to determine material The different levels of the GRI Framework relate to the level of transparency and disclosure in the report. Below 2009-2010. This was our second report, and the first issues for the report || is the table of the Application Levels of the GRI: published according to the Global Reporting Initiative The process for gathering the information to be G3 Framework. included in this report has been guided by an internal analysis of material issues using feedback from Our current report, covering our business activities for stakeholders gathered in the course of our regular the calendar years 2011-2012, is written in accordance interactions with them in different ways. with the GRI G3 Framework at Application Level A, Stakeholder feedback was analysed and reviewed which demonstrates the highest level of transparency internally by our CSR Manager and a selection within the GRI Framework. of managers, and a scan of material issues in the engineering and construction sector of leading Scope and boundary of this report || companies around the globe was performed. The list of All performance data presented in this report refers to material issues arising from this review was prioritized calendar years 2011-2012 unless otherwise stated. The by the CSR Manager and the CFO after reviewing all report covers Baran Group operations globally, though relevant supporting information. This report has not performance data in certain cases is provided only for been the subject of an independent external verification operations in Israel, where data from other locations due to resource limitations, although data was gathered was not available or activity is very minor. Operations with guidance and support from a third party consulting in Israel include all Baran Group wholly and majority firm, who reviewed our data collection systems and owned subsidiary companies which are headquartered processes and interviewed over 40 managers and in Israel. staff, reviewing sources of data and cross-checking the source of information provided for accuracy and completeness. Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 52 53 GRI Index || Page GRI G3 Description Reported No. Comment Statement from the most senior 1.1 decision-maker Fully 4 Description of key impacts, risks, 19, 20, See also Directors Report at www. 1.2 and opportunities. Fully 24, 28 barangroup.com 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully 6 Primary brands, products, and/or 2.2 services. Fully 6 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, See also Directors Report available 2.3 subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Fully 8 at www.barangroup.com Location of organization's 2.4 headquarters. Fully 6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in 2.5 the report. Fully 6 Nature of ownership and legal 2.6 form. Fully 6 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ 2.7 beneficiaries). Fully 6 Scale of the reporting 2.8 organization. Fully 6 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, 2.9 structure, or ownership. Fully 8 Awards received in the reporting 2.10 period. Fully 13 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/ calendar year) for information 3.1 provided. Fully 50 Date of most recent previous 3.2 report (if any). Fully 50 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 54 55 Page Page GRI G3 Description Reported No. Comment GRI G3 Description Reported No. Comment Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, We do not seek external assurance 3.3 etc.) Fully 50 for this report, as information is Contact point for questions Policy and current practice fully reviewed by internal auditors with regard to seeking external This and our external consultants before regarding the report or its 3.13 assurance for the report. Fully page publication. 3.4 contents. Fully 67 Process for defining report Governance structure of the 3.5 content. Fully 50 organization, including committees under the highest governance Boundary of the report (e.g., body responsible for specific countries, divisions, subsidiaries, tasks, such as setting strategy or leased facilities, joint ventures, 4.1 organizational oversight. Fully 45 suppliers). See GRI Boundary 3.6 Protocol for further guidance. Fully 50 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also State any specific limitations 4.2 an executive officer. Fully 45 on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness For organizations that have a principle for explanation of unitary board structure, state the number of members of the high3.7 scope). Fully 50 est governance body that are Basis for reporting on joint independent and/or non-executive ventures, subsidiaries, leased 4.3 members. Fully 45 facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommensignificantly affect comparability dations or direction to the highest from period to period and/or 4.4 governance body. Fully 47 3.8 between organizations. Fully 50 Data measurement techniques Linkage between compensation for members of the highest goverand the bases of calculations, nance body, senior managers, and including assumptions and executives (including departure techniques underlying estimations Data measurement techniques arrangements), and the organiapplied to the compilation of the and the bases of calculations are zation's performance (including Indicators and other information This included alongside relevant data social and environmental perfor3.9 in the report. Fully Page tables. 4.5 mance). Fully 47 Explanation of the effect of any Processes in place for the highest re-statements of information governance body to ensure conprovided in earlier reports, and 4.6 flicts of interest are avoided. Fully 47 the reasons for such re-statement e.g., mergers / acquisitions, Process for determining the change of base years/periods, qualifications and expertise of the nature of business, measurement This There are no restatements of members of the highest gover3.10 methods). Fully page information from previous reports. nance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, Significant changes from previous 4.7 environmental, and social topics. Fully 47 reporting periods in the scope, There are no significant changes in boundary, or measurement This measurement methods from Internally developed statements 3.11 methods applied in the report. Fully page previous reporting periods. of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant Table identifying the location of to economic, environmental, and the Standard Disclosures in the social performance and the status 3.12 report. Fully 53 4.8 of their implementation. Fully 9, 48 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 56 57 Management Approach Disclosures || Page GRI G3 Description Reported No. Comment Procedures of the highest govCategories and Aspects Report Page Comment ernance body for overseeing ECDMA: Disclosure of Management Approach the organization's identification and management of economic, Economic Performance Fully 6 environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks Economic Impacts Fully 11 and opportunities, and adherence Market Presence Fully 6 or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of ENDMA: Disclosure of Management Approach 4.9 conduct, and principles. Fully 47 Baran is not a manufacturing company and Processes for evaluating the hightherefore does not use large volumes of materials in est governance body's own perMaterials Fully This page its operations. formance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and Energy Fully 39 4.10 social performance. Fully 47 Water Fully 40 Explanation of whether and how This is not material to Baran's business as an the precautionary approach or engineering service provider. We have no direct principle is addressed by the orgaBiodiversity Fully This Page impact on biodiversity. 4.11 nization. Fully 37 Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Fully 40, 41 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charProducts and Services Fully 37 ters, principles, or other initiatives Compliance Fully 37 to which the organization sub4.12 scribes or endorses. Fully 13 Transport Fully 38 Memberships in associations Overall Fully 38 (such as industry associations) and/or national/international LADMA: Disclosure of Management Approach advocacy organizations in which Employment Fully 32 the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates Labor/Management Relations Fully 12 in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond Occupational Health and Safety Fully 35 routine membership dues; or * Training and Education Fully 34 4.13 Views membership as strategic. Fully 13 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Fully 34 List of stakeholder groups en4.14 gaged by the organization. Fully 11 HRDMA: Disclosure of Management Approach Basis for identification and selecBaran purchases products and services from tion of stakeholders with whom to well-established suppliers with which Baran has 4.15 engage. Fully 11 long-term business relationships. Baran requires all suppliers to comply with local laws regarding human Approaches to stakeholder enProcurement Practices Fully This page rights and employment standards. gagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by Non-discrimination Fully 34 4.16 stakeholder group. Fully 11 Freedom of Association and We respect the right of employees to freedom of Key topics and concerns that have Collective Bargaining Fully This Page association and collective bargaining. been raised through stakeholder We forbid all instances of forced and compulsory engagement, and how the organilabor in our operations. We are alert to the risks of zation has responded to those key under-age employment by contractors that work on topics and concerns, including projects we manage, and do what we can to 4.17 through its reporting. Fully 12 Abolition of Child Labor Fully This Page prevent this. Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 58 59 Categories and Aspects Report Page Comment Performance Indicators – GRI G3 || We forbid all instances of forced and compulsory labor in our operations. We are alert to the risks of Page forced employment by contractors that work on GRI G3 Description Reported No. Comment Prevention of Forced and projects we manage, and do what we can to Compulsory Labor Fully This Page prevent this. Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, Complaints and Grievance operating costs, employee Practices Fully 48 compensation, donations and other community investments, retained We provide all security personnel working at Baran earnings, and payments to capital Security Practices Fully This Page offices with training in safety and security practices. EC1 providers and governments. Fully 11 Financial implications and other We do not maintain a specific policy relating to risks and opportunities for the Not indigenous rights as this is not material for the organization's activities due to Indigenous Rights reported locations in which we operate. EC2 climate change. Partially 37 SODMA: Society Disclosure of Management Approach Coverage of the organization's EC3 defined benefit plan obligations. Fully 33 Community Fully 42 Significant financial assistance This Baran receives no financial Corruption Fully 48 EC4 received from government. Fully page assistance from governments. Our policy is not to promote specific political Range of ratios of standard entry affiliations. Use of company property or resources level wage compared to local Public Policy Fully This Page for political purposes is prohibited. minimum wage at significant EC5 locations of operation. Fully 33 Anti-Competitive Behavior Fully 48 As a matter of policy, Baran targets to maintain long term relationships Compliance Fully 47 with local suppliers, including small businesses, and makes local PRDMA: Product Responsibility Disclosure of Management Approach purchases where possible. In 2012, Policy, practices, and proportion of 100% of purchasing for Baran's This is not material for Baran as Baran is a service spending on locally-based suppliers This operations was local within the Not provider of engineering solutions and does not EC6 at significant locations of operation. Fully Page country of operation. Customer health and safety reported This page supply actual products to customers. Procedures for local hiring and Not Baran is a business to business service provider and proportion of senior management Product and service labelling reported This Page we do not supply products. hired from the local community at EC7 significant locations of operation. Fully 33 This is not relevant as Baran does not engage in Not marketing communications given the nature of Development and impact of Marketing communications reported This page Baran's business-to-business activities. infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public It is our policy and practice to uphold customer benefit through commercial, in-kind, Customer privacy Fully This Page privacy in all matters. EC8 or pro bono engagement. Fully 42 It is our policy and practice to comply with all Understanding and describing regulations and legislation governing the supply of significant indirect economic Compliance Fully This page our services to our customers. impacts, including the extent of 19, 20, EC9 impacts. Fully 24, 28 Baran is not a manufacturing company and therefore does not This use large volumes of materials in its EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Fully page operations. Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 60 61 Page Page GRI G3 Description Reported No. Comment GRI G3 Description Reported No. Comment Baran does not manufacture Number of IUCN Red List species products and therefore does not use and national conservation list recycled input materials, with the species with habitats in areas This is not material to Baran's Percentage of materials used that This exception of small amounts of office affected by operations, by level of This business as an engineering service EN2 are recycled input materials. Fully page requirements such as paper. EN15 extinction risk. Not reported page provider. Total direct and indirect greenhouse Direct energy consumption by EN16 gas emissions by weight. Fully 40 EN3 primary energy source. Fully 39 Other relevant indirect greenhouse This Indirect energy consumption by EN17 gas emissions by weight. Fully page There are no other emissions. EN4 primary source. Fully 39 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Energy saved due to conservation EN18 emissions and reductions achieved. Fully 40 EN5 and efficiency improvements. Fully 39 Emissions of ozone-depleting This Baran does not generate emissions EN19 substances by weight. Fully page of ODS. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products Baran has no production processes and services, and reductions in NOx, SOx, and other significant air This which emit NOx and SOx or other energy requirements as a result of 18, 20, EN20 emissions by type and weight. Fully page significant gases. EN6 these initiatives. Fully 28 Baran has zero water discharge Total water discharge by quality and This beyond office water discharged Initiatives to reduce indirect energy EN21 destination. Fully page through municipal waste streams. consumption and reductions EN7 achieved. Fully 38, 39 Total weight of waste by type and EN22 disposal method. Fully 40 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully 40 Total number and volume of This No water sources are significantly EN23 significant spills. Fully page There have been no significant spills. affected by Baran as water is used Weight of transported, imported, Water sources significantly affected This only for office purposes and drawn exported, or treated waste deemed EN9 by withdrawal of water. Fully page from the national water supply. hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and Percentage and total volume of This VIII, and percentage of transported This Baran does not export any EN10 water recycled and reused. Fully page We do not use recycled water. EN24 waste shipped internationally. Fully page hazardous waste. Location and size of land owned, Identity, size, protected status, and leased, managed in, or adjacent to, This is not material to Baran's biodiversity value of water bodies protected areas and areas of high business as an engineering service and related habitats significantly This is not material to Baran's biodiversity value outside protected This provider. We have no direct impact affected by the reporting business as an engineering service EN11 areas. Not reported page on biodiversity. organization's discharges of water This provider. Baran does not discharge EN25 and runoff. Not reported page water. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services This is not material to Baran's Initiatives to mitigate environmental on biodiversity in protected areas business as an engineering service impacts of products and services, and areas of high biodiversity value This provider. We have no direct impact EN26 and extent of impact mitigation. Fully 20, 38 EN12 outside protected areas. Not reported page on biodiversity. This is not material to Baran's Percentage of products sold and business as an engineering service This is not material to Baran's their packaging materials that are This provider. Baran does not sell This business as an engineering service EN27 reclaimed by category. Not reported page products. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not reported page provider. Monetary value of significant fines This is not material to Baran's and total number of non-monetary Baran paid no fines for nonStrategies, current actions, and business as an engineering service sanctions for non-compliance with This compliance during the reporting future plans for managing impacts This provider. We have no direct impact EN28 environmental laws and regulations. Fully page period. EN14 on biodiversity. Not reported page on biodiversity. Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 62 63 Page Page GRI G3 Description Reported No. Comment GRI G3 Description Reported No. Comment Significant environmental impacts Average hours of training per year of transporting products and LA10 per employee by employee category. Fully 34 other goods and materials used This is not material to Baran's Programs for skills management for the organization's operations, business as an engineering service and lifelong learning that support and transporting members of the This provider. Baran does not transport the continued employability of EN29 workforce. Not reported page goods and materials. employees and assist them in Total environmental protection Baran does not calculate LA11 managing career endings. Fully 34, 35 expenditures and investments by This environmental protection Percentage of employees receiving EN30 type. Not reported page investments. regular performance and career Total workforce by employment LA12 development reviews. Fully 34 type, employment contract, and Composition of governance bodies LA1 region. Fully 32 and breakdown of employees per Total number and rate of employee category according to gender, age turnover by age group, gender, and group, minority group membership, LA2 region. Fully 32, 33 LA13 and other indicators of diversity. Fully 33, 45 Benefits provided to full-time Ratio of basic salary of men to employees that are not provided to LA14 women by employee category. Fully 33 temporary or part-time employees, LA3 by major operations. Fully 33 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements Baran respects the right of all that include human rights clauses or employees to freedom of association that have undergone human rights This There have been no significant and collective bargaining, and HR1 screening. Fully page investment agreements. encourages open and free dialogue with employees at all times. All Percentage of significant suppliers Baran's suppliers are local and Baran employees are hired on and contractors that have provide office based materials the basis of open term personal undergone screening on human This and equipment. None have been Percentage of employees covered This contracts. Zero percent are covered HR2 rights and actions taken. Fully page screened for human rights issues. LA4 by collective bargaining agreements. Fully Page by collective bargaining agreements. Total hours of employee training on Minimum notice period(s) regarding policies and procedures concerning significant operational changes, aspects of human rights that are including whether it is specified in This We provide at least the minimum relevant to operations, including the LA5 collective agreements. Fully Page notice period required by law. HR3 percentage of employees trained. Fully 48 Percentage of total workforce There were zero incidents of represented in formal joint Total number of incidents of This discrimination during the reporting management-worker health and HR4 discrimination and actions taken Fully page period. safety committees that help monitor There are no formal joint Operations identified in which and advise on occupational health This management-worker health and the right to exercise freedom LA6 and safety programs. Fully page safety committees at Baran. of association and collective Rates of injury, occupational bargaining may be at significant risk, None of Baran's operations carry a diseases, lost days, and and actions taken to support these This significant risk for incidents relating absenteeism, and number of workHR5 rights. Fully page to freedom of association. LA7 related fatalities by region. Fully 35 Operations identified as having Education, training, counselling, significant risk for incidents of prevention, and risk-control child labor, and measures taken to None of Baran's operations carry a programs in place to assist contribute to the elimination of child This significant risk for incidents of child workforce members, their families, HR6 labor. Fully page labor. or community members regarding Operations identified as having LA8 serious diseases. Fully 35 significant risk for incidents of forced Health and safety topics covered or compulsory labor, and measures None of Baran's operations carry a in formal agreements with trade This There are no trade agreements at to contribute to the elimination of This significant risk for incidents of forced LA9 unions. Fully page Baran. HR7 forced or compulsory labor. Fully page or compulsory labor. Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 64 65 Page Page GRI G3 Description Reported No. Comment GRI G3 Description Reported No. Comment Percentage of security personnel Total number of incidents of nontrained in the organization's policies compliance with regulations and or procedures concerning aspects This is not material for Baran as the voluntary codes concerning health There were zero issues of nonof human rights that are relevant to This company does not employ large and safety impacts of products and compliance concerning health and HR8 operations. Not reported page numbers of security personnel. services during their life cycle, by This safety impacts of products and PR2 type of outcomes. Fully page services during the reporting period. Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of There were zero incidents of All Baran's work is subject to indigenous people and actions This violations involving rights of Type of product and service Performance Specifications provided HR9 taken. Fully page indigenous people. information required by procedures, by customers. Baran does not sell to and percentage of significant the general public and therefore no Baran's business is providing products and services subject to This general information requirements are Nature, scope, and effectiveness engineering services and PR3 such information requirements. Fully page relevant to Baran's business. of any programs and practices that therefore has no direct impacts assess and manage the impacts on communities. However, impact Total number of incidents of nonof operations on communities, assessments are conducted by compliance with regulations and There were zero issues of nonincluding entering, operating, and This Baran in all client construction voluntary codes concerning product compliance concerning product SO1 exiting. Fully page projects. and service information and labeling, This and service information and labeling PR4 by type of outcomes. Fully page during the reporting period. Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks Practices related to customer SO2 related to corruption. Fully 47 satisfaction, including results Percentage of employees trained of surveys measuring customer in organization's anti-corruption PR5 satisfaction. Fully 30 SO3 policies and procedures. Fully 48 Programs for adherence to Actions taken in response to This There have been no incidents of laws, standards, and voluntary This is not relevant as Baran SO4 incidents of corruption. Fully page corruption at Baran. codes related to marketing does not engage in marketing communications, including communications given the nature Baran takes no position in public advertising, promotion, and This of Baran's business-to-business policy development and lobbying, PR6 sponsorship. Not reported page activities. Public policy positions and beyond supporting the work of participation in public policy This the Standards Institute of Israel to Total number of incidents of SO5 development and lobbying. Fully page develop new industry standards. non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Total value of financial and in-kind Baran made no contributions to marketing communications, contributions to political parties, political parties, politicians, and including advertising, promotion, There were zero issues of nonpoliticians, and related institutions This related institutions in Israel in the and sponsorship by type of This compliance during the reporting SO6 by country. Fully page reporting period. PR7 outcomes. Fully page period. Legal actions for anti-competitive This There were zero legal actions against There were zero substantiated SO7 behavior. Fully page Baran for anti-competitive behavior. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of Monetary value of significant fines customer privacy and losses of This customer data against Baran during and total number of non-monetary Baran paid no fines for nonPR8 customer data. Fully page the reporting period. sanctions for non-compliance with This compliance during the reporting SO8 laws and regulations. Fully page period. Baran paid no fines for nonLife cycle stages in which health Monetary value of significant fines compliance with laws and and safety impacts of products for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and services are assessed for regulations concerning the provision This and use of products and services in improvement, and percentage of This is not material for Baran as PR9 and use of products and services. Fully page the reporting period. significant products and services Baran is a service provider of categories subject to such This engineering solutions and does not PR1 procedures. Not reported page supply actual products to customers. Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 66 67 UN Global Compact Index || Feedback and Contact || Statement of support for the UN Global Compact || Credits || This report has been prepared by Baran Group CSR Manager, Ella Gotman, with the full support of the Baran In 2010, Baran Group publicly committed to upholding Group Executive Management Team, and with the input of a wide range of managers and staff at Baran. and promoting the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. As a company committed Professional consulting for the writing of this report was provided by the consulting team at Beyond Business Ltd. to responsible business practices, these principles are consistent with our approach to business and This report was designed by Zipora Uziel Studio www.ziporauziel.com. accountability for our impacts on people, society and the environment. We believe that this approach Printing contributes both to our own business sustainability as This report is designed for online viewing and only a small number of copies will be printed. well as to the sustainability of our planet. Discussion and feedback We appreciate the efforts of the United Nations Global Baran sees the publication of this Sustainability Report as an additional platform for discussion with our Compact as a truly global initiative to raise the bar for corporate responsibility and we are proud to participate in stakeholders about sustainability issues that are important to them and to our business. We welcome the this initiative. We are committed to doing all that we can to ensure we comply with the ten principles of the UN opportunity to discuss any aspect of this report, and will be happy to receive queries and feedback. We commit to Global Compact, disseminating the principles within our circles of contact, and we commit to reporting publicly responding in a full and open manner. each year on our progress. We will ensure that our stakeholders are aware of this commitment and receive our updates. Please consider providing your feedback to: Nahman Tsabar Ella Gotman President and CEO, Baran Group Baran Group CSR Manager Tel: +972-3-9775012 Email: ella.gotman@barangroup.com UN Global Compact Index and GRI Cross Reference Table || Address: 5 Menachem Begin Ave. Corresponding GRI Beit-Dagan, Israel 50200 Indicators (See GRI Index for page Global Compact Principles numbers) Businesses should support and respect the protection of interPrinciple 1: nationally proclaimed human rights. HR1 HR4 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human Principle 2: rights abuses. HR2, HR3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Principle 3: effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. HR5, LA3, LA4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced Principle 4: and compulsory labor. HR7 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. HR6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in Principle 6: respect of employment and occupation. HR4, LA10, LA11 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to enviPrinciple 7: ronmental challenges. 3.13, EN1 EN7 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 8: environmental responsibility. 1.1, EN8 EN15, EN16 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion Principle 9: of environmentally friendly technologies. EN17 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Principle 10: including extortion and bribery. SO2 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012 Baran Group Engineering Sustainable Solutions || Sustainability Report 2012
