Global Compact COP Below is Cermaq’s Communication on Progress (COP) on Principles 1-2, Human rights implementing the ten principles. More detailed information can be found in the many parts of the integrated sustainability and annual report. Principles 3-6, Labour standards The 10 principles, Cermaq’s approach and response are summarized in the table below: Principles 7-9, Fish health The information in the various parts of this report is tagged according to Global Compact’s ten Principles. The ambition is that the Principles 7-9, Environmental impact symbols will guide and assist the reader finding the most relevant information. Principle 10, Anti-corruption Community impact PRINCIPLE APPROACH RESPONSE Human rights 1. Businesses should support and Cermaq supports the UN Declaration of • Cermaq ethical and corporate respect the protection of internationally Human Rights and has made a commitment responsibility guidelines proclaimed human rights. to respecting human rights throughout its • Human rights performance; operations, including in the supply chain. HR 5, HR 8, HR 9 2. Businesses should ensure that they are Cermaq has increased awareness in its • Cermaq ethical and corporate not complicit in human rights abuses. operations where Human Rights are most responsibility guidelines at risk. In 2013, Nomo Gaia made a human • Human rights performance; LA 5, LA 6, LA right impact assessment covering Cermaq’s 7, LA 8, LA 9, HR 5, HR 8, EC 5 operations in southern Chile (RegionXII). In addition Cermaq engaged Futuro Sostenible to evaluate the relationship with it’s stakeholders in region X in Chile The company has mutually beneficial agreements with indigenous people in BC, Canada and sees this as strong foundation for its operations in areas where indigenous peoples’ rights are affected by Cermaq’s operations. Labour standards 3. Businesses should uphold the Cermaq is committed to dialogue with • Cermaq ethical and corporate freedom of association and the effective employees and their unions, and respect responsibility guidelines recognition of the right to collective collective agreements at all levels. • G4-11 bargaining. 4. Businesses should uphold the Cermaq will not tolerate any form of forced • Cermaq ethical and corporate elimination of all forms of forced and and compulsory labour in its operations or in responsibility guidelines compulsory labour. those of its business partners. • Human rights performance; HR 9 5. Businesses should uphold the effective Cermaq condemn child labour and does not • Cermaq ethical and corporate abolition of child labour. permit such conduct at any of the company’s responsibility guidelines sites or with its suppliers. • Human rights performance; HR 5 6. Businesses should uphold the Cermaq does not tolerate any form of • Cermaq ethical and corporate elimination of discrimination in respect to discrimination or harassment. responsibility guidelines employment and occupation. • Labour standard and human rights performance; G4 10, G4 11, EC 5, EC 6 Environment 7. Businesses should support a Cermaq is committed to minimize the • Cermaq ethical and corporate precautionary approach to environmental environmental impacts of its operations. responsibility guidelines challenges. The operating companies have management • Environmental performance; systems certified according to ISO 14001 G414, EN 11, EN 12, EN 14 standard. Cermaq has developed own environmental indicators relevant for its farming operations, which do not yet have globally established GRI indicators. 8. Business should undertake initiatives Cermaq is one of the founders of Global • Cermaq ethical and corporate to promote greater environmental Salmon Initiative (GSI), an organisation responsibility guidelines responsibility. gathering 70 percent of global salmon • Environmental performance EN 3, EN 4, EN farming committed to make significant 5, EN 6, EN 15, EN 16, EN 18, EN 19, EN 29, improvements in terms of industry CEQ 2, CEQ 4, CEQ 5, CEQ 6 sustainability, including aiming for ACS • Acquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) certification of all its operations by 2020. • Global Salmon Initiative 9. Business should encourage the Cermaq has strengthened its research unit, • Cermaq ethical and corporate development and diffusion of with a central staff of researcher, a global responsibility guidelines environmentally friendly technologies team including experts from operating • Environmental performance EN 27 companies, and collaboration with external research groups and institutions. Based on new technology and firm operating procedures Cermaq has applied for “Green licenses” announced in Norway which requires strict environmental targets and performance. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against Cermaq is member of Transparency • Cermaq ethical and corporate corruption in all its forms, including International (Norway), and the company responsibility guidelines extortion and bribery does not tolerate any forms of corruption • Cermaq whistle blowing guidelines including extortion and bribes. In 2013, • Anti-corruption performance: CEQ 15,SO4 TI made an assessment of the largest and CEQ 12 companies at OSE on their communication about measures against corruption, rating Cermaq at #3.
