UNGC COP REPORT LEXCODE Contents 1. About Lexcode 2. CEO’s Endorsement Statement 3. 10 Principles of UNGC 4. Human Rights 5. Labor 6. Environment 7. Anticorruption About Lexcode: Overview Company name: Lexcode CEO: HAM, Cheol-yong Date established: May 2014 Location: Seocho-dong, Seocho-gu, Seoul Republic of Korea Certifications and recognitions: ISO 9001 Quality Management Certificate Venture Enterprise Certificate Innobiz Certificate Corporation-affiliated Research Institute Certificate 2 patents filed, 1 patent granted About Lexcode: Areas of Business TRANSLATION Over 10,000 translation projects handled each year. Translation Translation available in over 30 languages. Over 1,000 translators for each specialty. INTERPRETATION Interpretation Simultaneous, sequential, and accompanying interpretation services. Interpretation signal transmission equipment available for rental. GLOBAL CS CENTER (BPO) Global Customer Services available in over 20 languages. Service Center Center of global marketing, telesales, and help desk. About Lexcode: Organization CEO Philippines China Office Korea Office Office Philippines Offi ce Strategy & Translation Interpretation QA Technology General Mgr. Department Department Department Department General Translation General Interpretat Editing and revisio Strategic Planning Translation Legal Translation ion n of works in all m Web Design Project DIV Video Translation Medical Interpretat ajor languages, inc Editing Support Interpretation Technical Translation ion luding English, Jap Strategy R&D & Project DIV Medical Translation Trade and Busines anese, and Chines Technology Marketing / Custo Marketing BPO KOALA® Automatic Department s Interpretation e. mer Support Project DIV Translation CEO’s Endorsement Statement As a proud member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), Lexcode supports the four core values of human rights, anticorruption, environmental sustainability, and labor, and strives to do its best to uphold and promote these values. As supporters of human rights, we at Lexcode will neither sign on to projects requested by violators of human rights, nor work on documents carrying antihuman rights messages. In fighting against corruption, we at Lexcode will maintain the HAM, Cheol-yong transparency of our management, and continue to honor the CEO, Lexcode principles of fair procedure and fair competition in our external relations. To ensure environmental sustainability, we at Lexcode will actively embrace, adopt, and apply all measures necessary to preserve and restore the environment. In our support for labor, we at Lexcode will comply with all labor laws, and continue to improve our working conditions and environment, providing all our employees with a pleasant workplace and welfare. 10 Principles of UNGC Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of compulsory labor. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective elimination of child labor. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Human Rights All employees at Lexcode support the value of human rights by volunteering for various social causes and sharing projects. Respecting diversity Lexcode is a “young” company, with over 90 percent of its employees still in their 20s and 30s. Youth and diversity are the two defining characteristics of the company’s culture, where employees get to wear comfortable or unique clothes on each “Casual Day,” which is every Friday. Supporting married women As part of its efforts to protect the rights of women, Lexcode guarantees maternity and childrearing leaves for married female employees. All female employees who returned to Lexcode, on or after 2013 after their leaves, were provided with pays and positions they held before their leaves. The company’s policy is to ensure successful readaptation of married female employees to their work. Human Rights: Social Contributions and Sharing Supporting children overseas As part of its efforts to uphold the dignity of all human beings, Lexcode and its employees support poor children overseas. The KRW 60,000 Lexcode sends to Guatemala via Good Neighbors is spent on ensuring physical and psychological health and growth of two Guatemalan children. Moreover, the company also supports sustainable local development projects that benefit children. Supporting the fight against leukemia and cancer Lexcode’s saves part of the money that employees spend on having company breakfasts, paying late fines, use of company’s coffee machine, and other donations and donates each month’s total to the Korean Association for Children with Leukemia and Cancer. Human Rights: Social Contributions and Sharing Sharing talents and passion Interpreters at Lexcode also regularly volunteer their talents and time. Lexcode’s program for volunteer training has just produced the eighth round of graduates, who are ready to donate their professional services to good causes. Fundraising with food Each year, Lexcode organizes a company-wide foodsharing event. Lexcode’s employees first began by selling sandwiches to raise funds for the poor. Then, they went on to make rice rolls for the Children’s Day, and continue to donate the proceeds to various social causes. The funds Lexcode has raised in these events went toward aiding flood victims in the Philippines, supporting the children at the Green School with Dreams, and installing water works in remote regions. Labor Lexcode upholds and respects the rights of employees enshrined in Korea’s Constitution, labor laws, and the UNGC. Lexcode respects the diversity of employees, and strives to improve their quality of life with better working conditions. Promoting communication Lexcode organizes a company-wide workshop each month, promoting more honest and effective communication. Upholding fairness Lexcode’s internal rules clearly state that no person shall be discriminated in an employee evaluation on the basis of their sex, age, faith, or other individual characteristics. *See Article 5 (“Obligations of the CEO”) and Article 8 (“Equal Treatment”) of Lexcode’s Internal Rules. Labor Enriching cultural diversities Lexcode organizes a “Culture Day” every two months, taking its employees to a variety of cultural and artistic events. Employees love enjoying operas, musicals, and rock festivals together. Company breakfasts Mornings tend to be hectic, and we show up at work on an empty stomach. To ensure employees’ health and energy, Lexcode provides unlimited amounts of toasted bread, fruits, milk, jams, and cereal for just KRW 1,000 from each employee. All the proceeds are then donated to various social causes. Labor Supporting employees’ self-development Lexcode supports employees’ selfdevelopment, funding the activities of various social clubs, language study groups, and personal tutorials. Each month, each employee can apply for KRW 50,000 to spend on exercises; the cost of purchasing a book; or the cost of taking language proficiency tests. Improving employees’ 80000 72000 76000 quality of life 60000 52000 Lexcode sends employees to movie theaters once a month as part of its efforts 40000 to enable employees to enjoy culture and the arts. The cost of these trips to the 20000 cinema is accounted for separately from 0 the account of fringe benefits. July 2014 2014년 7월 July 2013 2013년 7월 2013년 2013 January 1월 영화지원금 Cost of trips to cinema Environment Lexcode actively supports the global efforts for eco-friendliness and environmental sustainability. At Lexcode, we will encourage a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and the development of more eco-friendly technologies. Turning the office into a garden The office space of Lexcode is filled with green plants of diverse kinds and sizes, from small Sansevieria to large happy trees. These plants keep the office pleasant by removing formaldehydes and carbon monoxides present in the air, and maintaining optimal levels of indoor temperature and humidity without the help of any chemicals. Environment Daily energy conservation In an effort to minimize energy consumption and wastes, Lexcode monitors its energy consumption patterns each week, checking whether light bulbs, water taps, and air conditioning units have been kept on unnecessarily. Even in the middle of the summer, Lexcode limits the use of the air conditioning system and maintains an indoor temperature of 26°C. Environmental education Lexcode’s employees are regularly given education on the precautionary approach to environmental challenges. With these educational sessions, Lexcode’s employees enhance their sense of responsibility for environmental preservation and efficient use of natural resources. Environment Paper usage reduction As part of its environment policy, Lexcode strictly adheres to e-mails in sending out its newsletters and promotional materials. With this effort, the company saves over 5,000 pieces of A4-sized paper each year. Smart administration Lexcode has developed an internal database and system that minimizes the use of paper. Today, documents are circulated, read, and signed electronically only within the company. The new system is a significant boost in Lexcode’s continued efforts to minimize the use of natural resources, time, and human resources. Anticorruption Lexcode clearly objects to corruption in all its forms, including extortion and other activities that compromise the principle of integrity. Ensuring integrity in all administrative procedures Lexcode reinforces a strong code of ethics in all employees and ensures the integrity of all its official procedures. The corporate credit card management system is employed every month to conduct audits. The company’s financial team is dedicated to finding wastes of budgets. The details of all work-related expenses are transparently disclosed. Fostering a culture of integrity Lexcode encourages employees to cultivate integrity on their own through the company’s collective purse. Employees pay equal amounts into this purse, and the amounts collected are spent on purchasing birthday gifts or providing help for employees in need. Lexcode also discourages the giving or receiving of gifts in its dealings with clients.
