UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS AUGUST 2014 LETTER OF COMMITMENT FROM MANAGING DIRECTOR, AYA BANK AYA Bank embarks on the 2nd year on the journey of being a committed organisation to the UNGC. With the opening up of the country and new developments in the country's financial sector, AYA Bank reaffirms our support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas covering Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption issues. AYA Bank, in working towards achieving its mission to be a leading bank in the country, does not neglect the fact that it is important to work responsibly and thus embed the UNGC Principles into our bank's practices, policies and operations. In this 2nd Communication on Progress Report, we highlight a summary of our progress in adhering to the Ten Principles during the year. Additionally, we commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Phyo Aung Managing Director AYA Bank Limited UNGC Principle AYA Bank's Position AYA Bank's Implementation & Achievements HUMAN RIGHTS  AYA Bank's commitment to respect the AYA Bank has our own Employee Handbook detailing our employees' 1 Businesses should support and fundamental human rights of our rights and resources within the organisation. The Employee respect the protection of employees and our customers reflects Handbook is reviewed, revised and fine-tuned on a regular basis to internationally proclaimed our slogan of Your Trusted Partner ensure that we take into consideration of the organisation’s growth human rights. and always strive to unleash the full and reflects any encountered experiences to help maintain timely potential of our employees. and accurate provisions for the protection of stakeholders. AYA 2 Make sure Businesses are not Bank's recruitment policy also stresses on fair employment and does complicit in human right  AYA Bank practices fair employment not discriminate in employment based on gender and race. abuses. including the right to equal opportunity and non-discrimination, and we are also  AYA Bank stresses on the importance of equality at workplace and committed to ensuring that all our encourages freedom of speech and diversity in the workplace. All our employees receive fair treatment and employees can raise an objection or make a complaint about any respect. incidences of human right violations towards any of their colleague. In order to facilitate such cases, the company has created a special  AYA Bank in its mission to be a leading mail box, staffcommittee@ayabank.com.mm; whereby all requests, bank in the country; strives towards feedback, questions and cases of grievances, if any are addressed. creating the service accessible to every human.  In adopting the UNGC principles into the Bank's business strategies, AYA Bank reaches out to schools by holding seminars on financial services and co-branding their Student Cards (issuing our ATM Cards) so that they can start saving from young and at the same time, get to contribute to the country's economy. For this year, we managed to reach out to (6) universities in the country, opening a total of almost 3000 card accounts for the tertiary students. 2 of 4 UNGC Principle AYA Bank's Position AYA Bank's Implementation & Achievements LABOUR STANDARDS  More than 3,000 employees drive our  AYA Bank has (75) branches across the country, as at 12 Aug 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of business and AYA Bank fully takes 2014, and our employees come from various backgrounds. The association and effective recognition responsibility to create a conducive Bank believes in continuous improvements and provides of the right to collective bargaining. and rewarding work environment for continued Developmental programmes across the country for our employees. all our employees so that they can advance in their careers. 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour.  AYA Bank emphasizes on transparency  AYA Bank also plans to establish a form of Code of Conduct on and offers all our permanent our vendors to promote human right policies, especially in our 5 The effective abolition of child labour. employees with an Employment bank construction sites – to ensure that we have no instances of Agreement that states the terms and child or forced labour. 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of conditions of employment, rights and employment and occupation. disciplinary procedures, etc. ENVIRONMENT  AYA Bank is committed to using  AYA Bank is the first bank in the country to have implemented 7 Businesses should support a innovative ways improve efficiency in the 1st Centralized Core Banking System in its operations – precautionary approach to the organisation and in reaching out greatly reducing the use of fax machines as a means of environmental challenges. to our customers. This also allows the communication, thus reducing paper usage in carrying out organisation to reduce forms of banking operations. 8 Undertake initiatives to promote negative impact on the environment. greater environmental responsibility.  As at 1 July 2014, AYA Bank after adding some modules to its current Centralized Core Banking system; is able to reduce 9 Encourage the development and manual ledger recording, improving efficiency by 16%. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 3 of 4 UNGC Principle AYA Bank's Position AYA Bank's Implementation & Achievements ANTI-CORRUPTION  AYA Bank places a great importance to  AYA Bank creates a corporate culture based on honesty and 10 Businesses should work against all the transparency of relationship openness. Policies and disciplinary actions with regards to forms of corruption, including extortion between staff, customers and third corruption cases are clearly communicated to employees via and bribery. parties, in particular, to the integrity standard internal communication tools. of its staff. Bribes are not accepted or solicited or mediated for a third party.  The Bank also has effective communication system in place for Gifts may not be accepted or given in Complaints/ Suggestions to allow for communication between connection with the performance of the Top Management and the Staff and also consults staff on a work. continuous basis.  AYA Bank Corporate Affairs Team also works closely with the Management and the Internal Audit Team to carry out Flying Squad (Surprise Audits) to ensure that there are no cases of fraud or forms of corruption within the organisation at any touch point.  AYA Bank has proper Guidelines and Committees to ensure increased anti-corruption efforts along the supply chain. 4 of 4
