DN Inves Co., Ltd The world is changing all around us. To continue to thrive as a business over the next ten years and beyond, DN Inves Co., Ltd must look ahead, understand the trends and forces that will shape our business in the future and move swiftly to prepare for what has to come. DN Inves Co., Ltd must get ready for tomorrow today. That is what our Vision is all about. It creates a long-term destination for our business and provides us with a Roadmap” for winning. The United Nations World Commission on Environment and Development (WCED) in its 1987 report Our Common Future defines sustainable development: “Sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. It contains within it two key concepts: • The concept of needs, in particular the essential needs of the world's poor, to which overriding priority should be given; and • The idea of limitations imposed by the state of technology and social organization on the environment's ability to meet present and future needs. ” DN Inves Co., Ltd focused on the areas of activity to make a profit or benefit value towards the development of community life in human society, especially the cultural factors, and the relative activities friendly and in harmony with the environment. Slogan: Let’s go Green 1|Page OUR MISSION: Our Roadmap starts with our mission, which is enduring. It declares our purpose as a company and serves as the standard against which we weigh our actions and decisions. •To be eco-friendly with sustainable development •To inspire moments of optimism and happiness... •To create value and make a difference. OUR VISSION: Our vision serves as the framework for our Roadmap and guides every aspect of our business by describing what we need to accomplish in order to continue achieving sustainable, quality growth. •People: Be a great place to work where people are inspired to be the best they can be. •Portfolio: Bring to the world a portfolio of quality eco-friendly that anticipate and satisfy people's desires and needs. •Partners: Nurture a winning network of customers and suppliers, together we create mutual, enduring value. •Planet: Be a responsible citizen that makes a difference by helping build and support sustainable communities. •Profit: Maximize long-term return to shareowners while being mindful of our overall responsibilities. •Productivity: Be a highly effective, lean and fast-moving organization. 2|Page LIVE OUR VALUE: Our values serve as a compass for our actions and describe how we behave in the world. •Leadership: Be a refresh and self-awareness. Be aware that we are an inseparable part, the courage to shape a better future. •Collaboration: Leverage collective genius. To commit to the development and selfawareness, respect for individual differences. •Integrity: Be real; be creating a balance between tradition and modernity, by which we can create a better quality of life. •Accountability: Uphold human values must be at least equal to the priority of maximizing profits. To committed to protecting and developing the character of the surrounding area and the structure of ecosystems, emphasizing recycling technologies and reuse. •Passion: To committed in heart and mind. •Diversity: As inclusive as our brands. •Quality: What we do, we do well OUR CORPORATION: •Credibility: quality and reliable qualities of leadership speech •Reliability: what you say will do •Can predict: ensuring open communication from the point that the staff and leaders are not unexpected 3|Page •Seriously good: the ability to demonstrate personal interests aside for the good for the whole team, for customers •Emotional safety: as in human health (physical and mental), self-awareness and self-belief system WORK SMART: •Act with urgency •Remain responsive to change •Have the courage to change course when needed •Remain constructively discontent •Work efficiently ACT LIKE OWNERS: •Be accountable for our actions and inactions •Steward system assets and focus on building value •Reward our people for taking risks and finding better ways to solve problems •Learn from our outcomes -what worked and what didn’t BE THE BRAND: •Inspire creativity, passion, optimism and fun 4|Page OUR SEGMENTATION: The DN Inves Co., Ltd is operation based on “green economy” and investing in this Segmentation, which is aiming to green investors, the product (project), must minimize the environmental risks, ecological crisis. 5|Page OUR CORPORATION SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: The DN Inves Co., Ltd, we take very seriously our respect for everything around us, the environment, our employees, our surroundings, our clients and innovation, and we work every day to improve our commitment to Social Responsibility The key issue: Commitment to the environment: The DN Inves Co., Ltd, we are concerned with the quality of life of people in general and of future generations and that is why we have developed different initiatives that are respectful of the environment, using less aggressive techniques for our crops and reducing CO2 emissions year after year. The DN Inves Co., Ltd , not only do we look after our environment but we also look after the consumer by obtaining products of quality, both natural and respectful of everything around us. Commitment to our employees: The DN Inves Co., Ltd, we promote quality employment and are committed to growth and investment even in difficult times and to providing the security that our employees deserve as the most important part of the company. We develop training programmers in certain fields of activity and provide employment. We also collaborate with universities and research centers on different programmers, facilitating the incorporation of students into the job market. Commitment to innovation: Always at the avant-garde of innovation and because working on innovation is to cultivate the future, we have agreements with different universities and research centers throughout the world and we have the most modern machinery in our warehouses. Commitment to clients: Logistics, Customer Care, Quality, Honesty, Punctuality and Service represent the commitment we have to every one of our clients. 6|Page Commitment to the community: The DN Inves Co., Ltd collaborates with schools and with different religious and community support organizations for those who truly need it. OUR SCHEMATIC: Firm schematic 7|Page OUR STRATEGY FOR GREEN ACTIVITY: Life cycle of green activity 8|Page OUR TASK FRAME WORK: 9|Page THE SOCIAL ACTIVITY: The Moon Festival: The Rose Christmas: 10 | P a g e
