Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. ……………………………………………………………………….. June 3th 2014 To our stakeholders: “I am pleased to confirm that KL Industri AB reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication.” Yours sincerely, Paul-Ingvar Ohlsson Chairman of the Board KL Industri AB, COP for 2013 Human Rights. Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. ……………………………………………………………………………. “KL Industri AB’s goal is to influence that our employees and all our business partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human rights and environmental protection. Based on our commitment we have set up a code of conduct, published on our website, to make our position clear for all our suppliers, employees and partners.” Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. ………………………………………………………………………. “KL Industri AB have published and actively informed all our suppliers, partners and employees of our commitment and encouraged them to commit as well. An internal system is in place were the employees are trained in regards of our commitment”. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. ………………………………………………………………………….. “KL Industri AB has a system in places that encourage all employees concerned, clients and partners to report back if they suspect any wrongful doing in regards to our CSR guidelines and Code of Conduct. No reports have been filed since the system has been implemented. KL Industri AB has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations.” Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. …………………………………………………………………………………….. “Our company handbook and policies state the right for collective bargaining. Our handbook covers policies concerning our employee rights and compensation and responsibilities. We assess labor related risks. We have a dedicated resource that monitors and mandates environmental and safety risks. We will continue to refine our employee handbook as needed and incorporate the Global Compact. KL Industri AB support the UNGC principles on labour standards in addition to following local laws on labour rights.” Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. …………………………………………………………………………… “Our written CSR guidelines and Code of Conduct regulate our policies and are compliant with UNGC principles. The documents are published on our website and handed out during training internally.” Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. ………………………………………………………………………….. “We have a system in place that encourage employees, clients and partners to report back if they suspect any wrongful doing in regards to our CSR guidelines and Code of Conduct. No reports have been filed since the system has been implemented.” Environmental Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. ……………………………………………………………………………… “KL Industri AB is certified after the international standard ISO 14001, which systematically monitor our, our suppliers and our partners when it comes to environmental focus in daily business routines. To fulfill ISO 14001 included to have an Environmental Policy. In the coming year KL Industri AB’s main environmental targets are: Reduce emissions of CO2 from fossil fuels from forklifts, heating and electricity to the maximum 90 tons.” Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. ………………………………………………………………………….. “All our new employers got the Environmental Policy the first day on the company. We also show the policy in internal training. Before major changes at the company, we always do an analysis of environmental risks. To reducing the emission of gases from fossil fuels we use fuel mixed with bio-fuel to our forklifts. In the last years we don´t have any reported environmental incidents.” Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. …………………………………………………………………………… KL Industri AB has not had any environmental incidents within the last year and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. We do have processes in place to prevent accidental release e.g. bunded fuel tanks, container for leaking transformers etc. but so far there have been no significant issues. KL Industri AB uses licensed waste companies for disposal of waste and we are registered with REPA for disposal of waste from package. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption ……………………………………………………………………………. “KL Industri AB has a zero-tolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion. The following company policy according to bylaws can be evidence of this: It is the policy of KL Industri AB to pursue all of its business transactions in an honest and ethical manner. In doing business anywhere in the world, KL Industri AB nor any person associated with the company may offer, pay, promise, authorize or receive any bribe, kickback or other illicit payment. Our 2014-2015 goals for the company are to continue to provide education for all level of employees about corruption, as well as what to do if one should encounter it.” Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. ………………………………………………………………………….. “Internally, we have maintained an excellent check and balance system over transactions. The records are maintained with proper proves about where each SEK goes to and what is done with it. This information is checked and controlled by finance, administration and HR department and ultimately reaches to the CEO.” Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. ……………………………………………………………………………. “KL Industri AB has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. KL Industri AB has an external audit company to do four internal audits every year and the report directly submitted to the CEO. Our books and accounts are subjected to statutory external audit annually. These audits are used as one of the methods of identifying any suspicious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behavior. There has been no such incident reported in the period.”
