Contents financialstatements Management Report of the Board of Director for the year ended 31 December 2013 23 Corporate social responsibility report  33 Consolidated financial statements 40 Annual financial statements (French GAAP) 57 Chairman’s’ report on Board practices and internal control 70 Draft resolutions submitted to the Annual Ordinary Shareholders Meeting 17 June 2014 74 Statutory auditors’ reports 77 Responsibility statement 84 Translation disclaimer: This document is a free translation of the French language version of the financial report for the twelve-month period ended 31 December 2013 produced for the convenience of English speaking readers. In the event of any ambiguity or conflict between statements or other items contained herein and the original French version, the relevant statement or item of the French version shall prevail. While all possible care has been taken to ensure that this translation is an accurate representation of the original French document, in all matters of information, views or opinions expressed therein, only the original language version of the document in French is legally binding. As such, this translation may not be relied upon to sustain any legal claim, nor be used as the basis of any legal opinion and CIS expressly disclaims all liability for any inaccuracy herein. FINANCIAL Cateringinextremeenvironments REPORT 2013 21 As shareholders have not been consulted about a capital increase financialstatements XVIII. Corporate foundation reserved for employees for three years, under the provisions of the aforementioned regulations it is accordingly necessary to rule on Pursuant to the decision by the General Meeting of 12 June the merits of proceeding with a capital increase by the issuance 2007, our company set up a corporate foundation that was of cash shares reserved for employees. officially formed by the decision of the representative of the The resolutions hereby submitted to you under the purview of the French government (Préfet) of the Bouches du Rhône region of extraordinary general meeting comply with this obligation. 11 February 2008. We remind you that the objective of this Foundation is to select one or more underprivileged persons wishing to receive secondaryThe draft resolutions we had produced relate to various items school or university training and having defined a career project, of business referred to above, as well as the discharge of the in order to provide them with financial support as well as any help members of the Board of Directors and the agreements referred and assistance over the duration of their studies. to in article L.225-38 et seq. of the Commercial Code, as well as Our Foundation, with an annual budget of €40,000, assisted and the agreements similar in nature to those covered by Article L.225monitored the progress of 17 candidates during fiscal 2013. 42 subsection 3 of the Commercial Code. We hereby request that you approve these resolutions submitted to your vote. B. ITEMS WITHIN THE PURVIEW OF THE EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING The board of Directors A Director The Chairman We remind you that according to the provisions of article L. 225129-6 of the French commercial code, every three years, an extraordinary general meeting must be called to rule on a draft resolution proposing a capital increase in accordance with the provisions of L.3332-18 to L. 3332-24 of theFrench labour code if, in light of the report presented to the general meeting by the Chairman, shares held by the company and companies related to it represent at least 3% of the share capital, whereby this is the case for our company. FINANCIAL Cateringinextremeenvironments REPORT 2013 32 >>Corporate social responsibility report financialstatements Our commitments Our responsibilities OUR BUSINESS: SERVICE. OUR OBJECTIVE: CIS: A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN QUALITY CIS Group since its creation has consistently sought to pursue Our business is providing, as a specialist in international catering a path of sustainable development in a manner that benefits services, food, living accommodations, service and care for local populations and economies in the countries where it thousands of people around the world working on major projects. operates. Through its position as a worldwide leader in remote site management specialised in providing living accommodations Today we are recognised worldwide for our expertise in and catering services, CIS has an increasing responsibility to its managing remote sites in the four corners of the globe, the customers, consumers, staff and suppliers. professionalism of our teams and the quality of our services. Our business has undergone major transformations in recent years. To maintain and improve the performance of our services, I In response to this trend, CIS has decided to regularly introduce initiated a quality process at CIS that in February 2004 received practices increasingly responsible, forward-looking and proactive. ISO 9001 certification and has subsequently been renewed every CIS has developed a comprehensive process built around the three year since. pillars of sustainable development, divided into ten areas: All necessary means and resources have been implemented for this process seeking to: Economic responsibility and performance ■■ Customer and consumer satisfaction ■■ Consolidate CIS’ position in order to respond to major calls for tender and facilitate its access to new markets, ■■ Guaranteeing effective processes to ensure profitable operations for our investors ■■ Improve the efficiency of our organization and working practices, ■■ Contributing to sustainable local economic growth ■■ Strengthen the interfaces between the headquarters and the ■■ Publishing information on sustainable development sites, ■■ Ensure a consistent level of quality over the long-term of our Environmental responsibility and performance services to meet the growing demands by our customers, ■■ Reducing the environmental impacts of our products and particularly in the area of QHSE, services ■■ Promoting and respecting core values in the areas of human ■■ Limiting greenhouse gas emissions rights, working condition standards and the environment, and the fight against corruption. Social and corporate responsibility and performance These quality objectives are reviewed, measured and analysed ■■ Staff safety each year. ■■ Monitoring human resources regulations and anticipating In this context, and because the satisfaction of our customers regulatory developments and consumers is our top priority, I ask all staff, including those ■■ Ethical development of CIS working at the operating sites to actively continue to contribute to this collective and company-wide undertaking, with the Chief ■■ Strengthening relations with stakeholders Quality Officer. “Our values: team spirit in respecting others” Régis Arnoux Chairman and Chief Executive Officer FINANCIAL Cateringinextremeenvironments REPORT 2013 33 Methodology note financialstatements Our ethical values The following information is presented in accordance with the disclosure requirements established by Article 225 of the “Grenelle II Act” of 12 July 2010 and the implementation decree of 24 April THE CIS BUSINESS ETHICS CHARTER: VALUES 2012. The reporting boundary for indicators presented covers the SHARED BY ALL GROUP EMPLOYEES entire Group (CIS France as well as all subsidiaries and companies that it controls), calculated by consolidating data collected from 41 countries where CIS operates. As such the reporting boundary for social data and the Group’s environmental impacts is consistent with the financial reporting boundary. Additional information on our sustainable development commitments and policy is available at CIS Group’s website www.cis-catering.com. The severity of occupational accidents is not disclosed in this report, as is the case for information on collective bargaining agreements, whereby this information is not available. Furthermore, certain indicators are presented herein on the basis of a limited reporting boundary (headquarters or headquarters and expatriate In 2004, CIS incorporated a business ethics charter into its staff) in light of the relevance or availability of such information. management system that defines and highlights the ethical, moral These reporting boundary limitations are specified within the report and professional rules of conduct to be applied in our business for each indicator concerned. practices and relations with third parties (customers, suppliers, partners, authorities, shareholders etc.). The CIS Group employer profile Our teams Indeed, our actions must comply with the principles of integrity, At 31 December 2013, the Group had an average workforce of impartiality and openness in order to maintain and increase the 11,857 employees, up 2% from the end of the previous year. confidence of our shareholders, partners, customers and suppliers, Women accounted for 13% of the total workforce (for headquarter and ensure our continuing success. and expatriate staff). This significant gender imbalance within the Our commitments consist in particular in combating money Group is a direct consequence of our activity as a provider of laundering, fighting against corruption, complying with the rules catering services in extreme conditions and our presence in certain of fair trade and confidentiality, avoiding any situations giving countries where religious rules prohibit women from working with rise to conflict of interests, strictly comply with all applicable the safety of our teams in operating countries remaining our priority. laws and regulations, and adopting environmentally friendly and sustainable development practices. In line with these objectives, CIS teams: a significant presence in international markets CIS has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2005 and 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 regularly publishes on this basis the report to stakeholders entitled Average payroll 12 months % 12 months % “Communication on Progress”. Asia/Pacific 1,606 14 1,812 16 In addition, CIS is actively engaged in its day-to-day operations in Africa 7,093 60 6,769 58 promoting diversity, equal opportunity employment, occupational CIS 1,074 9 825 7 health and safety. These values are shared by all CIS staff and management with the Business Ethics Charter applying to both. South America 1,756 15 1,895 16 Expatriates 279 2 287 3 Head office 49 0 49 0 TOTAL 11,857 100 11,637 100 Changes in the headquarters and expatriate workforce (328 employees in 2013) generated 43 recruitments and 51 departures (including 10 dismissals) in fiscal 2013. FINANCIAL Cateringinextremeenvironments REPORT 2013 34 CIS teams: highly experienced staff Training programmes available to teams cover: financialstatements Head office and expatriate ■■ Quality workforce by age (%) 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 ■■ Safety Less than 25 1 1 ■■ Technical-business line skills 25-29 9 8 ■■ Managerial skills 30-34 17 19 ■■ Information technology 35-39 11 10 External and internal training provided to staff represented 19,316 40-44 18 20 training hours in 2013 or 12% less than in 2012 for expenditures of 45-49 17 16 €88,600 in 2013 and €92,600 in 2012. All staff, regardless of their responsibilities, is offered a training programme adapted to their 50-54 12 14 skills, providing them with a possibility, according to their wishes, 55-59 10 9 for vocational retraining for a career change, an international assignment or career advancement. Training was made available 60 or older 5 3 to all staff in 2013. 100 100 AVERAGE AGE 43 43 Compensation trends The following charts provide a breakdown for headquarters and expatriate staff on permanent contracts by gross monthly compensation: Work-time organisation The legal number of working hours for headquarters staff of 2013 the Group is 39 hours per week (including 4% part-time). The 2% absenteeism rate in 2013 was 0.9% (calculated as the number of 10% days of illness-related or unjustified absences for employee and per year). 34% Working hours for local employees in operating countries are determined in reference to local regulations. 31% ROTATION The frequency of expatriate field assignments in operating countries 23% Less than €2,000 The duration of expatriate assignments is largely dependent on €2 001 to €3,000 the customer contracts. €3 001 to €4,000 Expatriates, depending on their contract and operating country, €4 001 to €5,000 work according to assignments defined in terms of weeks or More than €5,000 months of continuous presence in the field versus the length of their home stay (for example “8/3” corresponds to an eight week 2012 assignment in the field for three weeks at home). 2% 14% The organisation of dialogue between employees and management 32% In light of its workforce, CIS France has established a dialogue of quality with employee representatives who may be consulted, in particular, on subjects relating to occupational health and safety. Employee representation bodies exist at the subsidiary CIS New 33% Caledonia with which the company’s management maintains regular dialogue. The other subsidiaries are not concerned by these provisions. 19% Promoting and developing talent Staff training: developing skills to achieve continuous improvement in the quality of our service and promote professional fulfilment for all our staff FINANCIAL Cateringinextremeenvironments REPORT 2013 35 Average monthly salaries (including social charges) for local employees by geographic region break down as follows in 2013 (and 2012): financialstatements €531 (€438) €385 (€318) €819 (€882) €908 (€857) Safety of our teams: our priority Our Business Ethics Charter: an internal code of conduct The occupational health and safety management methods of CIS Ethical recruitment and promotion practices: an equal Group comply with ISO and OHSAS guidelines. This also applies opportunity employer to subsidiaries not engaged in a certification process. Compliance Recruitment and promotion within the Group are based with these guidelines by all Group staff is further reinforced by exclusively on the skills and qualifications of each employee, provisions that have been incorporated into the Business Ethic without discrimination relating to gender, ethnic origin or physical Charter. condition. By way of example, headquarters and expatriate staff represent 25 different nationalities, with women accounting for 13% (46% for the Group’s headquarters), and disabled employees 3,000 2% (headquarters). The Business Ethics Charter is signed by all The number of days with no lost time injuries (LTI) employees when they join CIS Group. in Chad. In addition, CIS’ Board of Directors complies with the provisions of Law No. 2011-103 of 27 January 2011, pertaining to balanced gender representation. Occupational accidents are systematically analysed to determine the causes and take corrective actions, by taking measures to Furthermore, the Charter requires within the Group the promotion secure the site, train personnel or implement preventive actions. of and strict compliance with the ILO core conventions (freedom In 2013, 8 lost time injuries compared with 28 in 2012 (with of association and protection of the right to organise and negotiate no accidents occurring at the head office in 2013 and 2012), collective bargaining agreements, eliminating employment and representing a lost time injury frequency rate of 0.25 in 2013 and occupational discrimination, abolishing forced labour and the 0.90 in 2012 (calculated according to a multiple of 1,000,000 hours effective abolition of child labour). worked). At the Group head office, no occupational illnesses were reported in 2013. Fair business practices call for an engagement by all employees Promoting the fight against corruption, and in particular, the policy of accepting and offering gifts within the framework of the relations of Group employees with interested third parties (supplier, customer, local public authority, board, etc.) is strictly defined by the Group’s Business Ethics Charter. Furthermore, consumer health and safety is guaranteed by compliance with the ISO and OHSAS guidelines within Group subsidiaries. FINANCIAL Cateringinextremeenvironments REPORT 2013 36 CIS Group as an active environmental stakeholder financialstatements QHSE AND SD The QHSE and Sustainable Development department of CIS Group is responsible for applying the social and environmental policy established by Executive Management. In 2013, the QHSE&SD department implemented the “CSR Data” However, for those sites with effective reporting procedures and project. This project that involved the creation of an environmental for which this information has been obtained, the QHSE&SD reporting metrics provided a mechanism for collecting selected department has launched measures to improve the main energy data. Several operating sites in effect confirmed that it was not consumption and waste reduction indicators. Our teams receive materially possible to evaluate or obtain reliable data to quantify: training and information on sustainable water and energy use for day-to-day operations and poster campaigns are carried out on a ■■ water, electricity, fuel consumption; regular basis on good practices for reducing consumption. Some of ■■ volume of waste produced and recycled, … our customers have also allowed us to carry out awareness-raising initiatives for users on water and energy conservation methods. …as the sourcing of these supplies and their recycling are managed by our customers that possess only consolidated information for the site without a break down between supplier and subcontractors. The Group’s headquarters and certain subsidiaries have engaged in certification processes: ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 ISO 22000 2014 Certifications planned 2014 Mongolia Mongolia 2013 2013 Russia Russia 2012 Kazakhstan 2011 Chad Algeria Algeria Kazakhstan Chad 2010 New Caledonia New Caledonia Certifications obtained 2009 Chad 2008 Bolivia Bolivia Bolivia 2007 Brazil Brazil 2006 2005 Algeria 2004 2004 France Our commitments in favour of protecting the environment the study of renewable energy options. As indicated in the section presenting the “CSR Data” project, this information is not available Responsible consumption of resources for these subsidiaries. However, Country Managers are aware of In 2013, for the Group headquarters water consumption totalled the need for sustainable water consumption practices, particularly 317 m3 (308 m3 in 2012) and electricity consumption 157 MWh in water-stressed regions. (139 MWh in 2012), a low-level that has not warranted measures for FINANCIAL Cateringinextremeenvironments REPORT 2013 37 Our procurement policy provides for sending a questionnaire on In this way, 5.9 tonnes of paper were recycled in 2013 by the financialstatements ethical practices to suppliers prior to their selection. Supplies of headquarters (2.5 in 2012). In priority we systematically print food products for operating sites are dependent on contractual documents in PDF format and scan photocopies with the objective terms (which generally set minimum quantities for food supply of limiting paper consumption and protecting the environment. inventories to be maintained on site). Packaging waste separation procedures exist at all our subsidiaries and sustainable use of food supplies for the preparation of our meals is a key priority, with the goal of reducing our costs while limiting our environmental impact. In 2013, we launched a campaign promoting waste separation practices in Eritrea. We also carry out awareness-raising initiatives on behalf of our customers with respect on ways to avoid food wastage. For example in Chad, food waste is weighed every day and the results are displayed. CIS Group efforts in favour of QHSE and SD Employee training and information initiatives on quality, health, safety and the environment and sustainable development represented 18,869 hours in 2013 or 98% of total training. In 2012, 21,516 hours of internal and external training focusing on QHSE issues were provided to CIS staff. In 2013, CIS Group did not incur expenditures (as in 2012) for the prevention of environmental and pollution risks, to the extent this was not necessary, as it is our customers who are the owners of the installations and consequently responsible for decisions on environmental measures. At 31 December 2013, there were no CIS Group promotes the protection of biodiversity and refuses to provisions for contingencies and guarantees for environmental use any endangered species (such as bluefin tuna) in the menus risks. proposed to customers. Subsidiaries themselves are responsible for taking their own initiatives to promote biodiversity at the local level. Buyers and head chefs receive training from the QHSE and Our societal commitments SD department on ways to improve product freshness (by giving The CIS Nutrition-Health programme priority to local sourcing, respecting the growing seasons for fruit With nearly 40 million meals served every year, CIS Group is very and vegetables, etc.). conscious of the health effects of an unbalanced diet. In response, to combat cardiovascular illnesses and obesity, CIS head chefs Reducing the Group’s carbon footprint receive specific training on measures for reducing saturated fats, The carbon impact of CIS Group’s activities is measurable by sugar and salt in their recipes. On-site awareness raising initiatives carbon assessments for travel by headquarters and expatriate are also regularly conducted. employees. In 2013, travel thus generated 1,428 tonnes of CO2 (1,184 tonnes in 2012. We encourage our personnel to limit their Regional impact of CIS Group activities in operating countries travel to reduce our environmental footprint, notably by using With a policy of giving preference to recruiting staff originating videoconferencing communications to avoid unnecessary travel. from the countries where it operates, 97% of CIS Group activities Electricity consumption of the headquarters represented 14 tonnes are assured by local employees. Employees are offered both job of indirect CO2 emissions in 2013 based on emission factors opportunities and training formations (in certain cases leading to published by the International Energy Agency (IEA). a professional diploma), while subsidiaries promote the transfer of expertise from expatriates to local staff. Releases of dangerous substances, noise nuisance and other specific impacts The commitment of Group companies to local development The Group’s activity does not generate air, water or ground In light of the breakdown of CIS activities throughout the world, we pollution with an environmental impact. Land use, noise pollution have not considered it useful to undertake initiatives in the different and other forms of pollution specific to an activity have also not countries based on a common global project. Instead, CIS Group been measured as indicators not applicable to our activity. emphasises the importance to Country Managers and expatriate staff on the necessity of safeguarding the local environment. In Limiting waste this way, each subsidiary contributes to local projects of its own Recycling and limiting waste can have a meaningful impact on choosing, based on specific regional needs and considerations. contributing to environmental protection. Through this approach, each of our local projects receives the support of teams on-site, thus providing a way to propose initiatives considered relevant and effective by local stakeholders. FINANCIAL Cateringinextremeenvironments REPORT 2013 38 By way of example, our subsidiary CIS Nacala that commenced Training: partnerships with training centres and schools to financialstatements ■■ operations in Mozambique in May 2013, is involved in a number provide apprenticeship and internship opportunities, continuing of local projects: education for local teams; ■■ Agriculture: providing training on agricultural techniques to the ■■ Social engagement: refurbishment of a loading dock, preparation local population; of the hospital incinerator, co-management of a community vegetable garden. ■■ Environment: recycling program, awareness-raising campaign and water and energy consumption reduction controls; In just eight months of existence in 2013, our subsidiary contributed to improving the social and economic conditions of more than 4,000 residents living in proximity of the remote site. Furthermore, CIS Group has been a member of the UN Global Pact since 2005 and regularly publishes on this basis its report to stakeholders entitled “Communication on Progress” on promoting and respecting human rights, labour rights, the environment and anticorruption measures. Finally, in Marseilles CIS Group created a corporate foundation to which it has provided an annual budget of €30,000 since 2008 to young adults from the PACA region originating from under-resourced districts, to provide them with opportunities to join or pursue an educational programme, and in so doing, gain access to jobs in the workforce that corresponds to their ambitions for success. In 2013, the annual budget was increased by more than 33% to €40,000. The foundation has supported 17 youth in pursuing their educational projects. Since 2008, it has supported 50 projects and a certain number of are scholarship beneficiaries were able to obtain their diploma and permanent jobs through the training financed by the CIS Foundation. FINANCIAL Cateringinextremeenvironments REPORT 2013 39
