2013 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND ACTIVITY REPORT BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE Nearly 8 MILLION 21 INDUSTRIAL SITES AND PROFITABLE FUTURE TONS OF 10 EUROPE 6 ASIA* RAW MATERIALS For 80 years now, Roquette has faced all sorts of challenges of a scientific, technological, industrial and commercial Roquette also seeks to participate in the improvement of the environment and in the development of high2 AMERICA 3 INDIA nature. With the transformation of renewable plant-based performance materials. High-purity isosorbide, a product (*) excluding India resources at the heart of our activities, it has been an derived from sorbitol developed by the Group’s Research & incredible entrepreneurial adventure! Development, offers unique functions for high-performance EUROPE 4,800 10% 8,000 Since the beginning, this bold and ambitious path has been plastics. The exceptional properties of isosorbide today fueled by a spirit of conquest and innovation. Founded on a generate value in applications ranging from automobiles to AMERICA 600 stable family shareholder base, and with an eye on the long TV sets. term, the Group invests in innovation where it counts most: These two major innovations clearly illustrate the capacity ASIA* 1,300 in the service of its customers and partners. of Roquette employees to anticipate and respond to the changing needs of markets and customers. Since the OF TURNOVER EMPLOYEES INDIA 1,300 Today, the Group’s 8,000 employees bring their skills very beginning, Roquette’s history has been written by its and their know-how together to build a sustainable and profitable future, thanks to the potential of plant-based raw people, who, at all its sites in Europe, America, Asia and DEVOTED TO R & D AND India, continue to foster the entrepreneurial spirit of the materials that are particularly rich in starches and proteins. The corn, wheat, potato, pea and microalgae sectors offer founders and improve the attractiveness of the Roquette INDUSTRIAL CAPITAL highly promising prospects for our Group and our partners. Group for its partners. The challenges inherent to the surging world population It is with confidence, backed by a strong culture of constitute another lever for additional growth for the Group. Sustainable Development, each day, that our Group gives The launch of the Group’s industrial activities in India in itself the means to serve men and women by offering the 2012 is part of its ambitious strategy to expand into new best of nature. 3.4 territories with higher growth. Such moves allow the Group to deploy its expertise and solutions for nutrition, health and Sustainable Development to respond to the growing needs of populations around the world. The Group’s commitment to innovation can also be seen in the many new ingredients it brings to market. The lipidBILLION rich algae flour developed by Roquette won first prize for innovation at the Food Ingredients Europe trade show in October 2013. This new solution, which helps reduce fat content in prepared foods, provides sustainable functional and health benefits to consumers and producers of food products. Proteins derived from peas are also prized for Edouard ROQUETTE EUROS OF their unique nutritional and functional properties. Chief Executive Officer WORLDWIDE TURNOVER ROQUETTE IN BRIEF Roquette, a French Family-owned Group with an international dimension, processes corn, wheat, potatoes, peas and microalgae, all renewable raw No. in World starch SALES BY 5 materials. industry One of the world’s five leading starch manufacturing businesses, it offers its customers a wide range APPLICATION SECTOR: Pharmaceuticals and of products and solutions in human food/nutrition, Cosmetology animal nutrition, pharmaceuticals/cosmetology, Human Food/ paper/cardboard and chemistry/bioindustry. No. starch company in Nutrition 12% 1 Roquette operates in over 100 countries, has a turnover of 3.4 billion euros and currently employs about 8,000 people. India and France 47% Paper and Corrugated Cardboard Its development in food, nutrition-health and plantbased chemistry is founded on a strategy based on Our Group gives itself the No. 12% a long-term vision, innovation and the commitment in European starch means to be highly innovative in 2 to achieve. Its mission: Serving men and women by offering the industry Animal Nutrition best of nature. the service of its customers and Chemistry and Bioindustry partners. 20% 9% 2. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .3 SUMMARY ROQUETTE 2-17 MATERIAL 28-41 HUMAN 42-53 Roquette, a French Family-owned group with • Message from Edouard Roquette Key figures MATERIAL AND HUMAN CAPITAL an international dimension, processes plant• based raw materials. One of the world’s five • A balanced governance INDUSTRIAL CAPITAL is made up of all the men and women who • An 80-year history bring the company to life and contribute leading starch manufacturing businesses, it is made up of everything related to • Products and solutions in our to its adaptability, performance and offers its customers a wide range of products industrial plant & equipment, processes, daily life dynamism, etc. and solutions. • Ethics at the heart of the corporate Research & Development activities and investment capacity, etc. • One Group, many jobs, the same passion culture • Diversity, an asset for the company • 2013 in words and images • Innovation on a daily basis • Safety according to nine principles • Improving performance • An approach to progress NATURAL 18-27 SOCIETAL 54-65 NATURAL CAPITAL SOCIETAL CAPITAL is made up of plant-based raw materials, is represented by the society that the terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, surrounds us, and in particular the natural resources, water, air, etc. stakeholders specifically concerned by • Plant-based raw materials our activity. • Preserving the environment • CSR, a strong commitment • Supporting local communities • Evaluating and measuring performance 4. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .5 FOUR COMMITTEES JEAN-MARC WILLEFERT TO SERVE THE BOARD Deputy CEO Four special Committees facilitate the performance of EMMANUEL the Board’s duties and assist in the efficient preparation de GEUSER of its decisions. They report regularly to the Board on the Group Financial Director exercise of their respective missions. Lestrem (France) THE STRATEGY COMMITTEE This Committee analyzes the possible major strategic orientations for the development and future of the The family shareholders carry Roquette Group. It examines investment projects prior to their presentation to the Board. The Strategy on the entrepreneurial history. Committee also does the preparation work for the Board on subjects of major strategic interest, such as opportunities for external growth or disinvestments, Is it still appropriate today to remain a family-owned Group? the axes of development and any possibilities for diversification, as well as the financial strategies. Emmanuel de GEUSER: A common project is stronger when it is carried by a familial community that shares the same basic values and ambitions: this is a factor of strategic convergence, anchoring of operational action plans for the long term, and THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS management of economic and financial performance that Jean-François RAMBICUR, Pierre-Emmanuel LEPERS, Didier de MENONVILLE, Denis DELLOYE, Pascal PAYET-GASPARD, Edouard ROQUETTE (President), respects the rhythms of Sustainable Development and the Fabienne DEGRAVE, Christophe ROQUETTE, Stéphane BASEDEN and Marc ROQUETTE characteristic ethical traditions of the company’s history. Jean-Marc WILLEFERT: In my 29 years at Roquette, I A BALANCED have seen the number of shareholders grow by an order of magnitude from 10 to 200. I see today that it remains possible to organize a personalized dialogue between the shareholders GOVERNANCE and the company that is quite different from the anonymous relationships of publicly listed companies. The family shareholders carry on the entrepreneurial history of Roquette THE STRATEGY COMMITTEE and, through their relations with the Board of Directors, maintain Pascal PAYET-GASPARD, Stéphane BASEDEN, Jean-François RAMBICUR (President), Edouard ROQUETTE and Denis DELLOYE a long-term vision of the mission and values of the company. ONE FAMILY, FIVE GENERATIONS THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Roquette has become a global Group, a leader on its Today, the third generation is guiding the Group’s destiny, The mission of this Committee is to monitor the market, yet it remains in the hands of the descendants of the with the objective to expand the activity while maintaining a processes for reporting financial information, the two founders. Today, there are more than 200 shareholders, strong affectio societatis and permitting a certain organized efficiency of the company’s systems of internal control ranging from the second to the fifth generation of family liquidity of the capital for any shareholders who might prefer and risk management, the oversight of internal audits members. to develop their own personal projects. and their efficiency, the legal control of annual accounts and consolidated accounts. With the auditors, the Audit Its growth is founded on solid family values, a long-term The organization of the family has also changed Committee examines the auditors’ intervention plans and vision and the stability necessary for investment in a highly considerably since 2011, both in terms of the structures recommendations, and ensures their independence. capital-intensive industry. that hold the equity in the company as well as the structures With each generation, the company and the family have of governance. One internal rule in particular sets out established a structured organization to guarantee the the process for selecting family members involved in the independence of the Group. An organization with power and governance of the Group. The arrival of independent THE APPOINTMENTS AND SALARIES COMMITTEE means has always been essential to ensure a stable base of members within the Board of Directors has also contributed Jean-François RAMBICUR, Marc ROQUETTE, Pascal PAYET-GASPARD family shareholders committed to the company’s ambitions. to the success of the family project. (President), Edouard ROQUETTE and Christophe ROQUETTE THE APPOINTMENTS AND SALARIES COMMITTEE This Committee deals with different missions concerning appointments, salaries and governance. To this end, it FOCUS ON /// THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS periodically examines issues related to the composition, The Board of Directors of ROQUETTE FRERES is composed of 10 members nominated by the General Assembly organization and function of the Board of Directors and of Shareholders, of which five are members of the family. The Board oversees the strategic orientations guiding the the General Management of the Group. It is informed of activities of all entities within the Group, and monitors the general business market. In particular, it analyzes the major the remuneration policy of ROQUETTE FRERES and its events in the company’s activity, the investment projects and their financing. Over the last fiscal year, the Board met 12 subsidiaries, and the salaries of members of the executive times. To monitor the rules of good governance and their evolution, an independent qualified expert performs a periodic team, and delivers recommendations concerning overall THE AUDIT COMMITTEE evaluation of the Board and its Committees, with regard to their composition, organization and function. Christophe ROQUETTE (President), Fabienne DEGRAVE and Didier de remuneration paid by the company to managing agents. Lastly, MENONVILLE it oversees the proper functioning of the bodies of governance. 6. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .7 GOVERNANCE AND THE DEONTOLOGY & SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE The Deontology & Sustainable Development Committee (C3D) is composed of four members, two of whom also ORGANIZATION participate in the Strategic Committee. This ensures that a fully consistent approach to Sustainable Development is integrated into the Group’s strategy. The main mission of this committee is to study and provide SHAREHOLDERS recommendations on the Group’s environmental policies More than 200 members of the as well as on the Sustainable Development & Activity Roquette family Report prepared each year by the Reliability & Sustainable Development Management. (DFDD). In parallel, it reviews the mapping of major risks that are not directly financial (environmental, social and societal responsibilities), that could have an adverse impact on the BOARD MEMBERS company’s image. It also examines the related action plans. 10 members of the Lastly, this Committee oversees the company’s ability to Board of Directors impose the respect of rules of good conduct on competition, ethics, honesty, integrity and equality. For this, it relies on the Group’s Ethics Committee (see pages 14 and 15), which reports to it annually. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER In 2013, the C3D met three times, with the participation of the Sustainable Development team from the DFDD. Edouard ROQUETTE During these meetings, the members reviewed themes of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility – Sustainable Development as applied to companies) as well as progress made by the company in these areas since the launch of the DFDD in 2008. EXECUTIVE TEAM 1 Senior Executive Vice-President 80 YEARS 10 Executive Vice-Presidents OF HISTORY LEADERSHIP TEAM FROM SME TO GLOBAL GROUP 130 Vice-Presidents, Directors and Experts of the Group Time passes quickly. Just 80 years separate the family brothers took the gamble to launch local production of potato potato starch plant founded in 1933 by two brothers and starch in the area between France’s Nord and Pas-de-Calais the Roquette Group of today – a mere 80 years, the span regions: the historic production site was born, deep in the of a human life, and a rich and rare industrial adventure. countryside. In the beginning, the factory ran from September Let’s look back on these eight decades during which a to December, during the harvesting of potatoes, which is a crop 8,000 small enterprise in northern France became a leader that does not keep well. throughout the world, with nearly 8,000 employees. The investment was considerable, the beginnings difficult: the effects of the 1929 crisis were severely felt. Under the guidance of EMPLOYEES THE TIME OF PIONEERS its founders and Adam GRUNEWALD, an exceptional engineer, ROQUETTE FRERES, THE BIG POTATO STARCH the company grew and remains organized still today around the PRODUCERS OF THE NORTH : the appearance in 1933 original notions of rigor, inventiveness, clarity, discipline, etc. of the Group’s very first sign, over its very first starch The 1930s witnessed the growth of the factory in the midst plant, was the result of a decision taken already back of major regulatory developments: labor laws, growing in the 1920s by two brothers, Dominique and Germain administrative complexity, regulation of cereal prices. Here, ROQUETTE. Grain agents, the two men were well too, the family company’s ability to adapt, sometimes put to the THE DEONTOLOGY & SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE placed to know the needs for raw materials in the textiles test, was at times nothing short of miraculous. After the years Denis DELLOYE, Marc ROQUETTE (President), Stéphane BASEDEN and industry of northern France in the period between the two Pierre-Emmanuel LEPERS of war and occupation, the company extended its activity. In world wars. Potato starch, essential to the activity of this addition to potato starch, production would now include starch sector, was then imported from Holland. The ROQUETTE derived from corn. THE EXECUTIVE TEAM Front row: Gianfranco PATRUCCO (Europe Region), Armand CHEN (Asia Region). Second row: Thierry LAURENT (Plant-Based Solutions Global Market Unit), Jean-Marc WILLEFERT (Transformation), Fabienne VAN ROBAEYS (Human Resources & Communication), Edouard ROQUETTE (Chief Executive Officer). Back row: Dominique TARET (America Region), Emmanuel de GEUSER (Finance, Information Systems & Legal), Thierry MARCEL (R&D), Marc DILLY (Nutrition-Health Global Market Unit). Absent from the photo: Ganpatraj CHOWDHARY (India Region). The Lianyungang factory (China) 8. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .9 The company was now positioned to benefit from the boom years known as the “Glorious Thirty”. Already, the company WHAT HAPPENED THAT YEAR? THE 2000'S: MULTIPLE OPPORTUNITIES THINGS YOU MAY NOT 1982 KNOW ABOUT THE pinned its ambitions on innovation: to extend ever further As of the year 2000, Roquette embarked in new the range of its products derived from starch. One such directions. With strong industrial and commercial effort began to pay off in 1951, with the discovery of the potential of sorbitol, for which industrial production would Welcome to America! In 1982, the Roquette Group opened ties already in Europe and America, the Group set its sights on China and South Korea in 2001, with the ROQUETTE GROUP begin in 1954. Roquette Freres was barely 20 years old, its first production unit for sorbitol in the northern USA, simultaneous acquisitions of two Chinese production and the tiny family SME had already grown considerably. in Gurnee, Illinois. sites, Lianyungang and Ulsan. These moves were 1. The patronym ROQUETTE means little rock . It is a name that is more common in the middle of France The 1950s were marked by a major industrial decision: the The same year saw the birth of Amandine, the world’s first part of a strategic shift. In a world ever more complex production of potato starch was transferred to Vecquemont, «test-tube baby», while the strange silhouette of an extraand competitive, it was necessary to intensify the than in the north, notably in Aveyron, the central town in the Somme, while Lestrem concentrated on corn. This terrestrial with a luminous finger appeared development of the Group in countries with strong from which the Roquette family hails. decade also saw the appearance of the first labor unions. on screens around the world: ET. growth. Another such move was the acquisition of In addition, state-of-the-art research required rigorous Soviet cosmonaut Anatoli BEREZOVOI established a record for time flown in space: 211 days! three industrial sites in India, as was the decision to strengthen its partnerships with recognized companies 2. At the time they began their industrial activity, the two founders, Dominique and Germain, hesitated briefly professional secrecy. Industrial espionage back then already constituted a major risk, against which the company such as Sethness, a global leader in caramel coloring. between launching a copper foundry and producing protected itself by adopting a culture of confidentiality that The idea was to develop the Group’s global activities potato starch. has remained ever since. Success was not long in coming. but without forgetting the company’s roots. This It was time to see things even bigger. spirit continues to define the Group’s expansion. The headquarters at Lestrem remains the biggest biorefinery 3. The original terrain acquired in 1933 for the creation of the first factory, on the site of Lestrem in northern Throughout the 1970s and ‘80s, the capacity of the Group in Europe, as well as the top Research & Development France, was five hectares. It is 30 times that size today. to expand internally, as well as beyond borders, was center, where more than 300 researchers work on the products of tomorrow. confirmed: a new corn starch plant was added in the east of France, at Beinheim, and in 1982 the company entered On the twin pillars of research and production, 4. At the launch, the family company had … seven employees. America, with the creation of its first production site on the inseparable still today, the Group remains poised to other side of the Atlantic, at Gurnee in Illinois. Roquette had now entered the big leagues. build a bright future. 5. In 1995, the flow of the Lys River was moved 700 meters to the north to rationalize operations at the Lestrem site. At Lestrem, the production workshops began operating seven days a week in 1984, increasing production by 6. The first labor union came nearly a quarter century 20%. The same year, the Research & Development Dept. after the founding of the company, in 1957. submitted a patent on a production process for high-purity crystalized maltitol. This allowed the Group to take the leadership in sugarless coatings. Research, development 7. The Group’s very first export shipment was sent to Asia: 250 tons of starch sent from Lestrem to Japan in 1951. and adaptation: the family recipe worked well. In the 1980s, Information Technology introduced a revolution in business practices and jobs. The transition was not without effort. It led to a multiplication of formal protocols and procedures in a company that previously had relied on a strong oral tradition and the sense of keeping one’s word. Here, too, the teams’ ability to adapt was a Gurnee, first steps in America for the Roquette Group in 1982. major asset. The respectful balance between the new and the old generations enabled a smooth transmission of values in a world revolutionized by the new information and communication technologies. LAUNCHING ONTO THE WORLD In the 1990s, the Internet connected the continents: Lestrem With the integration of three industrial sites in India in 2012, including the was no longer so far away from Keokuk, which became the Pantnagar factory shown above, the Roquette Group has become the From the north of France to the world – the path went first Group’s second American starch plant in 1991. leading player in the Indian starch industry. through Spain. In 1958, the international expansion began with the acquisition of the starch plant in Benifayo. Three years later, it was the turn of Italy, in Cassano Spinola, to extend the movement of internationalization. The rising volume of sales for export quickly led the company to multiply its sites and sales offices: Germany, England… ONCE UPON A TIME ... THE RIVER CHANGED BEDS The workforce increased, the outlets multiplied, starch was Improving the safety of the personnel at the Lestrem factory (France) has always been a priority. That’s why the everywhere: food, pharmaceuticals, paper and cardboard, decision was taken in 1993 to install a second bridge over the Lys River, which at the time ran through the middle textiles… All these customers needed the right products of the factory. The idea was to remove a dangerous passageway for trains carrying corn. In the end, however, the at the price and at the right time, regardless of the ups bridge was never built, because the Engineering Dept. came up with another solution: Wouldn’t it be better to just and downs inherent to the production of agricultural raw move the Lys River? This idea was quickly deemed akin to building the pyramids , or qualified as a sort of Pandora’s materials. Here, too, Roquette rose to the challenge, by Box. But the argument gained followers, and the project was eventually given the green light. You might say it’s one organizing and adapting itself to the realities of the market. of those major actions that today would be called Sustainable Development and protection of the environment. The end of the 1960s saw the transfer of the company reins Changing the course of the Lys, which was done in 1995, meant the factory was no longer separated into two from the first to the second generation of the Roquette sections, and also reduced the risk of pollution from rain water or potential leaks into the river. It also significantly family. It was also a period of major social evolution. reduced the movement of personnel at the site and improved productivity. Another big advantage: it provided zones While the company was for the most part spared by for extension that we needed at the time. They’ve proved to come in very handy for the expansion of the site. To the events that rocked France in May 1968, the labor conclude this feat, a bridge retrieved by the SNCF has been placed above the new path of the Lys. Here, too, we unions made clear their demands, notably with regard to see an action of Sustainable Development. ergonomics and the safety of workers. It became clear that a renewed social dialogue was needed between Henri COMPERE, former Technical Director of the Group, retired since 1998 after 36 years at Roquette management and employees. In 1951, the company set up its first research laboratory at Lestrem (France). 10. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .11 See key opposite There is nothing like a relaxing read! The Roquette Group’s range of thermally modified starches help improve the quality of printing, while reducing the latex content in paper for magazines. Welcome to a healthier environment! The Roquette Group’s isosorbide derivatives are biosourced plastifiers used for PVC floor covering. Gina STEFFENSMEIER, Directeur Marketing Geneva (USA) PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS Pets are gourmets! CUSTOMERS, PARTNERS The Roquette Group’s proteins and starches are used to produce pet food recipes that provide quality In nutrition-health, the Roquette Group serves IN OUR DAILY LIFE nutrition, consistent aspect and flavor and respect of industrial customers in the agrofood and food safety standards. pharmaceuticals sectors. Their main objective is to respond to the expectations of consumers by ensuring The Roquette Group’s activity consists in extracting the photosynthesis of plants, which are one of the main sources an irreproachable level of Food Safety. Improving the nutritional profile of products is another of their 700 PRODUCTS FOR components of renewable plant-based raw materials to of life on the planet. exploit their technological and nutritional properties. This These granules of different shapes and sizes are composed priorities. In the industrial domain, customers seek to improve EVERYDAY USE relies on a long tradition of research and innovation that has of chains of glucose molecules. The granules gel when allowed the company to offer to the food, pharmaceuticals exposed to heat, which happens without our knowing it their productivity and reduce the environmental impact and industrial sectors more than 700 products and when we cook pasta or potatoes. The heat makes the starch of their activities. The Roquette Group responds to Intervention simulation numerous solutions for customers in the food and non-food soluble and therefore digestible explains Marie-Helene these needs through its in-depth knowledge of the markets. At the heart of these components derived from SANIEZ, Director of Nutrition for the Roquette Group. procedures used by its customers and its range of biomass, starch plays the primary role. plant-based products. THE EVERYDAY MOLECULE STARCH, A CONCENTRATION OF ENERGY Regardless of the sector, customers have another The agrofood sector uses this source of slow carbohydrates major need: to find a partner able to accompany The world would be very different without it: an essential extensively: confectionary, bakery, biscuits, and many other reserve for plants, starch is a source of considerable them in the emerging markets. Here, too, with its food products all rely on its properties for thickening and energy. Humans have benefited from its particular nutritive improving their tastes and textures. Outside the kitchen, international presence, the Roquette Group is up to and technological properties since the earliest days of the starch is used in the composition of cosmetics, toothpaste the task. species. Grains of cereals, legumes, tubers, fruits, etc. and beauty products. The pharmaceuticals sector uses it to all accumulate starch, which allows them to survive, grow coat the active principles in its medications, whether in syrups and proliferate. Certain plant-based raw materials are or tablets. The paper industry could not function without richer in starch than others. For example, potatoes present starch, which serves to increase the resistance of papers a much higher proportion of starch than wheat, corn or and their printability, and also improves the softness of tissue peas. This efficient form of storage is obtained through the papers as well as the water-resistance of cardboards. Long live the molecule of life! Apyrogenic dextrose (glucose) produced by the Roquette Group is used in solutions for injection, AND TOMORROW? notably for medical emergencies. Research on starch never stops. One of the main avenues concerns renewed interest in the metabolic and nutritional properties of starch says Marie-Helene SANIEZ, Director of Nutrition for the Roquette Group. In the agrofood domain, Recovering after sports! researchers work on modifications that would reinforce the sensation of satiety and therefore play a role in reducing Practicing a sport requires managing energy during the risks related to obesity. Modifying starches to permit slower degradation during digestion would also allow diabetic the effort, as well as recuperation afterwards. The patients to assimilate certain food products without danger. Roquette Group helps athletes accomplish this, thanks to its ranges of maltodextrins and proteins. 12. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .13 Published in nearly 10 languages, the Code of Conduct and the Ethics Charter are available on the Group’s WHAT HAPPENED THAT YEAR? intranet site. They are also communicated to customers so that the latter can verify that they are in line with the customer’s own specific documents 2009 While the Roquette Group published its first Sustainable RECOURSE TO THE ETHICS COMMITTEE Development report, the planet was hit by the H1N1flu virus, qualified as a pandemic by the World Health Organization (WHO). The Roquette Group established its Ethics Committee in At the same time, the entertainment world was shocked by two 2009. Led by the Reliability & Sustainable Development events: the death of Michael JACKSON and the blockbuster Dept., this governing body is composed of success of AVATAR, which became the first Hollywood film to earn representatives from the Human Resources and Legal more than 2.7 billion dollars at the box office! functions from the different regions of the Group. An external referent guarantees that all issues are treated in a human, constructive and responsible manner and without conflict of interest or influence. The mission of the Ethics Committee is to guide professional conduct and behavior, in particular in GEERT situations of ethical dilemma or uncertainty. It reports to the Deontology & Sustainable Development Committee DEMUIJNCK of the Board of Directors (see page 8). Professor of ethics at Over the past four years, all employees can contact the the EDHEC Business Ethics Committee via its e-mail address in order to report a problem or share an ethical question or dilemma, all in School complete confidentiality. Lille (France) The satisfaction of working on a project with a real purpose. ETHICS AT THE HEART OF THE Ethics or not Ethics CORPORATE CULTURE ? Business ethics, what’s the point? There is no reason to believe, a priori, that a company that wants to impose more rigid constraints on itself, such as very Enquirer Ethics Committee strict ethical standards – be they business practices that are VALUES SHARED BY ALL respectful of customers, a proactive effort to minimize the impact on the environment, or an exemplary management of Human Questions are sent, anonymously or not, as the sender desires, to the e-mail address of the Ethics Committee: Resources, etc. – will generate more profit in the short term. A company defines itself by its capacity to create value, but fruit of a collective reflection led by the men and women ethics@roquette.com However, it has been demonstrated many times that over the also by the men and women of whom it is composed, its of the Group, accompanied by an external referent: Cecile long term an ethical approach is not an infringement but on the values, its vision, its culture and its ethics. Renouard, a philosopher and nun. contrary can tend to have a positive impact on results. There Ethical guidelines are not designed to respond to the easy The Ethics Charter addresses the history of the Roquette questions. The ethical principles defined by a company Group and defines its convictions by reaffirming the values are multiple explanations for this: a solid reputation takes time The members of the Ethics Committee discuss the to build, positive effects such as lower employee turnover are must help its employees choose between different and the action principles of the company: Respect, Trust, issue. The anonymity of the enquirer is maintained solutions generally composed of both positive and negative Solidarity, Commitment to achieve, Innovation and Passion not immediate, lower costs of energy first require investment. throughout the process elements. for the job. It also describes the responsibilities and Nonetheless, the question of whether or not ethics pays is The Roquette Group’s approach to ethics relies on three commitments of the company. not really appropriate. Not being ashamed of the practices of pillars: an Ethics Charter, a Code of Conduct and an Ethics It will be revised in 2014 and translated into Hindi for your company, but on the contrary having the satisfaction of Committee. These three pillars define the principles, the employees in India. working on a project with a real purpose, with people who are areas of action and the commitment of the company in The question is an The question is not an THE CODE OF CONDUCT, A DAILY TOOL serious, who reflect on the founding principles behind their terms of ethics. They are promoted by the directors and ethics issue ethics issue The Code of Conduct defines how the principles of the actions, that’s not just good business . It is just plain good, shared by the teams in their daily business practices. Ethics Charter are to be applied operationally. It addresses and on that you cannot put a price. THE ETHICS CHARTER, A COMMON BASIS such subjects as the respect of laws and regulations, good The Ethics Charter is the document of reference that business practices, the preservation of social rights of defines the convictions, the responsibilities and the employees, the respect of the environment, the prevention The Ethics Committee commitments of the Group. It is given to all employees at of conflicts of interests, the management of information examines the question and issues an opinion the time of their integration. First published in 2009, it is the and the protection of the assets of the Roquette Group. BEING A MEMBER OF THE ETHICS COMMITTEE Testimony from Chris SCARROTT Ethics are an intrinsic part of everything we do, everything we are. However put into the perspective and dimensions of Roquette’s global operation, consideration of the concept of right or wrong, correct or incorrect, is tantalising. The diversity and extent of the network and activity which is Roquette today, combined with the desire for the continuation The Ethics Committee The Ethics Committee transmits its opinion informs the enquirer of and emulation of the groups extraordinary eighty year history makes the challenge simply humbling. Being given the to the enquirer and, if the appropriate contact chance to be part of this search for equilibrium in such a dynamic, cosmopolitan, and at times ruthless world, is both appropriate, informs the overwhelming and extremely gratifying simultaneously. It is a privilege to be considered to make some contribution to the person, in complete CEO and/or the C3D, in confidentiality work of the multi-cultural team which constitutes the Roquette Ethics Committee. complete confidentiality 14. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .15 Pride and emotion for the Roquette Group teams at the FIE 2013 WHAT HAPPENED THAT YEAR? 2013 LEED CERTIFICATION / CHINA The end of 2013 was marked by the death of Nelson MANDELA (Madiba), global symbol of the The Quality Control laboratory of Lianyungang struggle for racial equality. completed in 2012 obtained LEED certification, with A few months earlier, an asteroid of 45 meters in diameter Gold rating. The latter is awarded to constructions passed at a distance of just 27,700 kilometers offering excellent energy performance, reduced from the Earth. water consumption and a healthy and pleasant environment for its occupants. JOINT VENTURE / EUROPE After more than 50 years of success working together, Roquette and Barentz have formally joined forces on the markets of the Benelux and Central Europe with the creation of a new business model. This will take the form of four joint ventures in which Roquette holds a majority, created under the name of ROQUETTE & BARENTZ, in Belgium, the Netherlands, Poland and the Czech Republic. The 2013 IN WORDS objective is to provide the clientele with solutions that are better adapted to markets that are increasingly demanding and competitive. The extent of this strategic partnership AND IMAGES also includes a broadening of the distribution and sales activities exercised by Barentz for Roquette in Europe. Hidde VAN DER WALL, Director General, Barentz Europe, and Jean-Marc MICROALGAE / GLOBAL WILLEFERT, Deputy CEO, Roquette Group In 2013, the Roquette Group continued to work independently PLASTIFIER / CHINA on the development of food ingredients derived from microalgae. At the end of the year, it launched a production Roquette received the plastics industry’s 2013 Ringier Innovation Technology award for its range of CUSTOMER INNOVATION unit in Lestrem (France) with capacity of 5,000 tons of microalgae. Meanwhile, the Roquette Group’s lipid-rich 100% plant-based plastifiers and its range of highly purified grades of isosorbide, both resulting from its CENTER / U.K. algae flour was recognized as the most innovative ingredient programs on plant-based chemistry. Roquette U.K. inaugurated its Customer Innovation Center at of the year at the Food Ingredients Europe (FIE) trade show its Corby site. With a demonstration kitchen, an exhibit wall for (see page 32). customers, and an ultramodern meeting space, this center offers improved installations and flexible technology to encourage partnership and cooperation in the service of innovation. INDUSTRY / FRANCE The Roquette Group received the 2013 Chaptal prize for industry. This high distinction, awarded each year by the French Society for the Encouragement of National Industry, rewards the industrial SKILLS / USA company that promotes or demonstrates the greatest progress in a renovated and diversified industrial sector. CODE OF CONDUCT / Roquette America was recognized by the Economic Development Group of Lee GLOBAL County (Iowa, USA) for its commitment Edouard ROQUETTE, CEO and partnership with the Southeastern The Roquette Group has implemented a Code of Community College in the launch of the Conduct applicable to all its suppliers throughout the PARTNERSHIP / GLOBAL world. This code states the Group’s expectations in Manufacturing Skills Program. This training program reinforces the local pool of terms of human rights and ethical business practices, qualified workers, teaching them essential Reverdia, a joint venture of DSM and Roquette, received the prize of Best Partnership of the i.e. practices that are socially responsible and respectful skills sought by industry (see page 48). Year at the global WBC congress on biofuels and biosourced chemical products. of the environment (see page 56). This prize rewards Reverdia for its innovative approach towards the production and marketing of biosourced succinic acid. 16. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .17 passion-apiculture.over-blog.com NATURAL 18-27 NATURAL CAPITAL is made up of plant-based raw materials, the terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, natural resources, water, air, etc. In the context of its environmental approach, the Roquette Group implements best practices to preserve biodiversity. 5 LAURENT DURIEZ Agricultural Inspector 1.9 1 Vecquemont (France) 0.1 Wheat Corn Potato Pea My daily job is characterized Capacities of plant-based raw materials transformed by a close collaboration with farmers. at Roquette Group sites (in millions of tons) You’ve been an agricultural inspector for 23 years at the Vecquemont site. In your job, what do you do? ONCE UPON A TIME ... My daily job is characterized by a close collaboration with farmers around three big subjects, specific to a potato starch THERE WERE POTATOES campaign: the seeds, the sourcing and the field spreading. One of my first tasks is to define the quantities of potato plants necessary to respond to the estimated needs of the campaign, A basic food for humanity, originating from the Andes then to conclude the contracts with the suppliers of the plants. Cordillera, introduced into Europe in the 16th century In parallel, I define the planting of test fields in order to evaluate and promoted by Antoine PARMENTIER, potatoes were PLANT-BASED the current varieties and test new hybrids. To supply the factory the first raw materials worked by the Roquette Group to with potatoes, the contracts are concluded directly with the extract potato starch. cooperatives, but I personally meet with each potato farmer It was 80 years ago that the Group set up its first potato RAW MATERIALS in my zone, to define together the surface area to plant, the starch plant in Lestrem (France). Built in 1956, the Vecquemont factory is currently the only potato starch distribution of plants (varieties and quantities), and I provide plant of the Group. It represents 75% of the potato advice on the choice of ingredients and draft the planning for starch produced on French territory. delivering the potatoes. In agronomic terms, potatoes are an excellent crop for I’m also in charge of all field spreading, which represents a lot USING LOCAL SUPPLIERS rotation. It is worked in seasonal campaigns running from September to February, during which more than of work in terms of organization and relations with the farmers. They make available the farmlands on which to spread the 1,000 farms deliver the 5,000 tons of potatoes that effluent left from the starch-making process, which is good The factories of the Roquette Group have always bought and have been selected from among some 1,500 suppliers are transformed each day in the factory. For these as a fertilizer because it is rich in potassium and nitrogen. renewable raw materials produced locally each year: corn, of raw materials. campaigns, seasonal workers are brought in to reinforce wheat, potatoes and peas. The project’s objective is to improve the sanitary quality This requires, well before the campaign, that I identify the the permanent workforce. Local sourcing not only helps establish long-term relations of this special corn by selecting varieties that perform parcels of land needed (2,800 hectares per year) in a radius The production of potato starch is an agro-industrial with the suppliers but also improves performance by better and are less sensitive to contamination from fungus; of 15 kilometers around the factory, taking into account the activity that does not pollute much in terms of reducing CO2 emissions, notably by limiting transport to adopt agricultural practices that are respectful of the constraints (crop rotation, frequency of return, type of soil, other atmospheric emissions or effluent. The extraction between storage locations and loading platforms. environment; and to optimize harvesting operations and existing field spreading, etc.), and establish the corresponding of potato starch and its purification are done by In certain cases, these close relations with farmers can help delivery to the Cassano factory. For example, using drop mapping. My task continues throughout the campaign with the successive washings with water that is continuously improve the quality of raw materials, as is the case in Italy by drop irrigation systems has led to considerable savings recycled, diminishing the need for clear water drawn organization and the monitoring of field spreading operations with a program to test a special type of waxy corn. in water. In parallel, the implementation of a new system from outside the system. Vegetation water contained and the taking of soil samples to verify the rate of nitrogen and has cut the quantity of fertilizer needed. The corn produced IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF RAW MATERIALS in the potatoes is rich in nitrogen, potassium and adjust it, if necessary. by these new men and women showed no contamination phosphate. After concentration, this water constitutes Throughout 2013, the teams of Roquette Italy have related to mycotoxins. In addition, the new organization of All these steps are done hand in hand with the farmers, in a an excellent fertilizer to spread on fields, which is done worked with an Italian university (the Catholic University of harvesting operations and the planning of logistics have win-win spirit. under contracts concluded with farmers located around Piacenza) on the project Quality and value of the land , in cut by about five hours the time between harvesting and the factory. In the manufacturing process, the potatoes partnership with 80 farmers that produce green waxy corn delivery of corn to the Cassano factory. are shredded, then run through phases of separation, sieving and refining to obtain potato starch. The other products derived from the transformation processes, such as the soluble matter, the proteins and fibers, are used to generate value in animal food or fermentation. Potato starch is distinguished from other starches by its great purity, its neutral taste and its absence of FOCUS ON /// ANTOINE PARMENTIER odor. These properties are highly appreciated in food The year 2013 marked the bicentennial anniversary of the death of Antoine PARMENTIER, applications. Potato starch is also good for thickening, who among his many accomplishments in health and nutrition was a strong promoter of viscosity and texture in soups and infant formula, for potatoes as a source of human food. For the occasion, and to enhance the fabulous example. Its characteristics are also interesting for career of the tuber , Christophe NAUD, Director of the Vecquemont factory (France), paper applications and glues. delivered a presentation on the chemistry of potatoes at the colloquium organized in Potatoes continue to be an interesting raw material for Amiens in memory of Antoine PARMENTIER, in the region of his birth (Picardie France). increasingly numerous and diversified applications in nutrition-health and plant-based chemistry. 20. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .21 Green frogs, which have been observed at the lagoon Lestrem (France) WHAT HAPPENED THAT YEAR? THE WATER PERFORMANCE INDICATOR 2000 Established in 2012, this indicator tracks the performance of water use in starch plants. It For the Roquette Group, 2000 was the year the lagoon was is defined as the ratio between the average created to provide water to the Lestrem site (France). consumption of process water for all starch The same year, India’s population surpassed one billion people. plants and an average target consumption. In other news, the dreaded passage to the new millennium The consumption targets for each type of did not cause computers to crash. starch plant have been defined by the technical Regarding the soccer player of the century, the trophy teams, based on the experience of the Roquette goes to the Brazilian Edson ARANTES DO NASCIMENTO, better known under the name of King Pele . Group. The indicator also serves internally to . compare water performance of the Group’s different starch plants. The ratio obtained is not based on a unit, and the objective is to be below 1. In 2013, the result obtained for the Group was 1.30. BIODIVERSITY The Roquette Group sites apply best practices to preserve biodiversity. PRESERVING For example, the Environment Dept. of Lestrem (France) wanted to know the impact on biodiversity of a lagoon providing water to the site that was built some 15 THE ENVIRONMENT years ago. A study of fauna and flora was performed around this body of water, covering an area of about 10 hectares. Ornithological monitoring identified a broad diversity Flowering rushes grow in the lagoon Lestrem (France) of nesting, migratory and hibernating birds, with 77 WATER, A RESOURCE TO PROTECT different species observed within the site or close to it, including a few species classified as rare or in danger. Water is often considered a renewable natural resource In 2013, the Italian site of Cassano built two new aeration In addition, in the ecological corridor of the valley of the Lys River, the lagoon presents a particular interest for AIR that is available and abundant. However, the physical basins. The associated decanters will serve to ensure migratory species, providing an area to rest and find availability of water is unequal, depending on the region that effluents always comply with the regulations, even in food for various species from humid zones in migration and seasonal variations. the event of maintenance on the oldest installations or an LIMITING DUST EMISSIONS or in hibernation. Forecasts show that by 2030 there will be a 40% imbalance increase in capacity, etc. To reduce organic dust emissions as much as possible, a lot of For insects, no fewer than 38 species have been between global supply and demand for fresh water (CERES In the USA, the Keokuk factory has added two new basins identified, including 18 butterfly and 12 dragonfly powerful filtration equipment was put in place throughout the study, 2011). The regulations concerning the drawing of 10,000 m3 and two clarifiers to its water-treatment station. species. The lagoon also serves as a hunting zone production processes, whenever possible, in all the industrial and use of water, as well as aqueous emissions into the Globally, the preservation of water in quality and quantity for pipistrel and other chiropters (bats), and for the units of the Group. natural environment, will be more and more restrictive. All poses constraints that can also become a formidable reproduction of frogs and toads. To attain the desired level of performance for this equipment these projections for the future must be confronted with lever for the development of innovative products and and the combustion installations, the Lestrem industrial In terms of flora, a protected heritage species has been the reality of the company. As a result, it is necessary to technologies. Working on products upstream so that they site (France) charged ATMO, an accredited association observed on the banks: the flowering rush. work on performance indicators on water usage, taking into consume less water during production, defining more that monitors air quality, to perform an impact study on the account the risks, and also study ways to optimize internal In conclusion, this study has shown that the lagoon precisely and calling into question the environmental atmospheric emissions of the factory. recycling of water in the processes of the Group. designed to provide water to the site has had direct emissions of workshops, systematically planning for the Two measurement campaigns have already been done in benefits on the development of local biodiversity. At the Lestrem site (France), for example, efforts in the recycling of water in projects… all of these are avenues 2013 to verify that the impact of the factory’s activity on the Sugars Sector have reduced the rate of chlorides in that will help the Roquette Group better anticipate the neighboring environment is low and that the air quality complies aqueous emissions by 15%. New investments in workshops environmental constraints that cannot help but impact with the regulatory values. To take these measurements, three can thus be planned with respect to the regulations. global business activity in the future. mobile stations were installed in the adjoining municipalities. When concluded, the results of this study will be communicated in complete transparency to the municipalities concerned. REDUCING ODORS To avoid unpleasant odors that could disturb neighbors, FOCUS ON /// WATER-TREATMENT STATION OF BEINHEIM certain factories have put in place odor-reduction plans. This The teams of the Beinheim site (France) built a new aeration basin in 2013 and are is notably the case in Italy at the Cassano site. A general studying the energy yields of aeration turbines available on the market. Until now, the mapping of odors revealed that the sectors with the most odors basins were equipped with rapid turbines. Slow turbines are more complex to handle were located by the workshops for first products (the oil press, and require more maintenance, but they provide a considerably higher yield of aeration. for example) and notably when there were dryers present. Two The replacement in 2013 of four rapid turbines with two slow turbines has led to annual scrubbers were therefore installed in the most appropriate energy savings of 600 MWh for an equivalent level of aeration. areas, reducing the overall flow of odors from the site by more Male gadwalls make use of the lagoon Lestrem (France) than 70%. 22. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .23 NOISE The cleaning of tanks for bulk transport is the object of an optimization study to limit the need for cleaning without impacting the quality of products. The Roquette Group takes into consideration the noise Each unnecessary cleaning avoided would economize factor in the design of new installations. the consumption and treatment of 3 m3 of water! To improve the treatment of noise at the older workshops, a sonic mapping is done to identify the noisiest equipment. In the USA, the site of Keokuk has put in place a tripartite partnership for the recovery and recycling of Thanks to the new technologies, it is now possible to obtain its packaging. North Cedar, a local recycling center, acoustic imaging. makes available a part of the equipment: compactor, Coupled with recorders that track noise over long periods, storage bins. Roquette America provides the workers to this technology serves to draw a map of the noise and sort the materials (bags, cardboard, big bags, plastics, identify the installations on which action must be taken in etc.) and compact them into balls . Then Sharkey priority to reduce sonic emissions. Analyse Spectrale Transportation transports these balls from the Keokuk In the USA, for example, the regular opening of an automatic factory to the North Cedar sites. valve installed on the boiler at Keokuk caused a recurrent Limiting the need for cleaning tanks without impacting the quality of products sonic disturbance for the neighboring inhabitants. Installing transported serves to reduce water consumption. a silencer on this valve and reducing the frequency helped cut the level of noise, considerably diminishing the nuisance Acoustic measurements performed at the Lestrem site (France) serve to for the local inhabitants. identify the noisiest equipment and establish the sonic mapping. GROUND SOIL CECILE The Roquette Group takes into account the needs of local residential, natural and agricultural zones next to MANHES WASTE Example of generating value its factories. In this spirit, it engages with agricultural SATEGE from the components of corn partners by providing solutions that contribute to the CHAMBER OF AGRICULTURE preservation of ground soil quality. NORD PAS DE CALAIS In general, the industrial sites of the Roquette Group generate very little waste. NATURAL FERTILISER (France) 69.5% All components of the renewable raw materials worked in The Lestrem factory has always maintained a close the Group are fully used to generate value. partnership with farmers in the local area, firstly by Regarding residual waste such as paper, cardboard, using their raw materials, and secondly, by supplying Before integrating a farmer plastics and metals, each site has a system for recovery, sorting and generating value. 100% them with a natural fertilizer: Lyssol. A byproduct in the production of starch and its into the perimeter for field spreading of 3.2% valuated derivatives, Lyssol reduces the need for chemical Lyssol, several points must be verified. TEAMS TRAINED IN SORTING 5.3% fertilizers. When processed, the biological nutriments Managing waste is something you can learn! On the Spanish contained in the cereals are eliminated by the steps of site in Benifayo, for example, 110 people participated in washing and separation. When used as fertilizer, these a training program to raise awareness on the theme. To 7.5% 14.5% You participated in the project to extend the perimeter nutriments are safely returned to the biosphere, thanks accompany this action, the location of waste containers to strictly controlled field spreading. for field spreading of Roquette’s Lyssol. What was your has been reworked, with the installation of new signs and In 2013, this field-spreading program was updated and contribution? compactors. The benefits from such efforts are very real: subjected to a public survey to take into account times Starch: all applications, including more than 50% used in human food SATEGE (service of technical assistance for the management more efficient sorting, fewer trucks carrying waste on the of increased production and the evolution of spreadable road and an improvement in generating value from plastic Cellulosic Fraction: animal feed of field spreading) is a service of the Chamber of Agriculture of Soluble Fraction: substrate for fermentation or animal feed agricultural parcels of land. Nearly 37,000 hectares the Nord-Pas de Calais Region, created in partnership with the wastes. Proteic Fraction: animal feed could soon benefit from this natural fertilizer. In this Artois-Picardie water authority. It is in charge of monitoring the BETTER MANAGEMENT OF PACKAGING Lipidic Fraction: human food approach, the Roquette Group applies the principles of field spreading of organic effluent and provides regulatory and the circular economy! In logistics, the Roquette Group is also attentive to the technical support to the actors in the field-spreading sectors. choice and management of its packaging, given their It relies on an Information System that centralizes the data. environmental impact. This tool includes a mapping module that allows us to track In this spirit, several actions have been implemented over For example, the weighting of bags for the packaging of the locations of field spreading down to the agricultural parcel. the years, such as the use of materials that are respectful powdered products has been reduced. This allows a lighter SATEGE is responsible for the exploitation of the data. of the environment, their recycling, the recovery of reusable weight for the bag without altering its solidity. The new bags flexible containers, the sorting and repair of wood pallets in preserve the quality of the product during transport, with Before integrating a farmer into the perimeter for field order to return them to the circuit, and reducing the weight lower environmental impact from the bag at the end of its spreading of Lyssol, several points must be verified, such as THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY of certain packaging. life. the agronomic compatibility with other effluents or the nitrogen The “circular economy” refers to a system load on the farmland. SATEGE tracks the effluents used by of production and exchange that takes into farmers admitted to the field-spreading perimeter. If a farmer account the design, durability and recycling already uses an effluent that is not complementary with Lyssol, of products or their components. At the end several options are available: don’t enter the plan for field of their use, these goods can thus be turned back into reusable objects or new raw materials spreading of Lyssol, divide the parcels to spread the different FOCUS ON /// THE RECYCLING OF CUPS effluents on different parcels, or exit the plan for field spreading (such as Lyssol, for example) with the objective At the Lestrem site (France), the consumption of hot drinks from distributors represents of the other effluent. Roquette is attentive not to destabilize to improve the efficient use of resources. The 670,000 plastic cups annually. With an external partner, VERSOO, the company has placed other existing sectors for field spreading (urban or industrial circular economy calls for an end to the linear collectors next to each drink dispenser. The cups collected are then recovered by the system to produce, consume and throw away by-products). partner. They are then 100% recycled and used in the manufacturing of spare parts for and relies on the principle of a closed-circuit A brochure on the SATEGE public surveys on the field washing machines. In a show of solidarity, these jobs are given to disabled persons or lifecycle for products, wastes, materials, etc. spreading of organic effluent has been provided by Roquette people re-entering professional life. to the municipalities concerned. 24. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .25 REDUCING CO2 EMISSIONS THE GHG PERFORMANCE ECO-RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS As a responsible company, the Roquette Group expects GERT For years, the Roquette Group has optimized its energy INDICATOR its partners also to respect the principles of Sustainable Development, notably in terms of preserving the LAURIJSSENS In 2012, the Roquette Group put in place a environment through more efficient logistics activities. CEO of consumption and invested in renewable energy in order performance indicator for CO2 emissions avoided. Maritime shippers share in these efforts (reducing CO2 to reduce its emissions of CO2 and other Greenhouse It is defined as the sum of benefits provided by all BRUHN SPEDITION Gases (GHG). It thus contributes to limiting the impact of its emissions by voluntarily slowing their cruising speeds, the actions designed to reduce CO2 equivalent reducing friction on hulls with special high-performance Anvers (Belgium) activities on climate change. emissions from the Group’s industrial installations paints, better balancing of loads on the ship, etc.). Each of the Group’s sites tracks the quantity of its non(installation of speed variators, use of biofuels, tools emissions of CO2 via a performance indicator. The latter is Regarding road haulers, many seek to improve their consolidated at group level and has now been published for cogeneration, etc). In 2013, this indicator increased by more than environmental performance by improving the efficiency We consider Sustainable of their equipment, optimizing the organization for the second consecutive year. 35,000 tons eq. CO2, for a total of more than 543,000 of transport flows and training their drivers. Their Development as the real driver of our tons eq. CO2 not emitted in the year. The target set for 2017 is 620,000 tons eq. CO2/year. commitment is formalized by the Objective CO2 – The carriers commit logo, which comes from a charter growth. of voluntary commitment to reduce CO2 emissions Each year you haul thousands of tons of Roquette products REDUCING THE IMPACT OF developed by the Ministry of Ecology, Sustainable to its customers. How would you qualify your supplier/ Development, Transport and Housing and the ADEME customer relationship? (Agency of the Environment and Management of TRANSPORTS Energy). Bruhn Spedition is a private company with more than 100 543,882 years of experience in transport and logistics, faithful to the 507,147 traditional values of the family company. 465,252 465,374 Our cooperation with Roquette goes backs to the late 1970s The Roquette Group organizes the sourcing of raw when our company took its first steps in the transport of materials to its industrial units and the delivery of finished products to its customers throughout the world. Given the products in bulk. Furthermore, it was Roquette that introduced amplitude of these upstream and downstream deliveries, us to the world of transport by tank containers! The exchange the logistics teams have a major role to play in limiting the of know-how and expertise acquired over the years, based on environmental impact of the Group’s transport activities. the principles of mutual respect, commitment and trust, have 2010 2011 2012 2013 led us to the point where we can speak of true partnership. A MULTIMODAL APPROACH Your word is your word, and a promise remains a promise. And The improvement of environmental performance in The Roquette Group’s GHG performance indicator that’s the basis of any true commitment. the transport of merchandise starts with the intrinsic (in tons eq. CO2 avoided) optimization of road transport, as well as the use of other How do you integrate Sustainable Development into your complementary modes such as rail, river or maritime. transport activities? Multimodal transport combines several modes of Sustainable Development is completely integrated into the transporting the same container. Each mode of transport different activities of our company. presents specific advantages and disadvantages. In OPTIMIZING LOADS In economic terms, our business strategy is concentrated certain cases, combining several of these modes can help attain a better balance between the constraints of cost, Whether for bulk or packaged products, optimizing weight on constant growth and continuous investment through the quality of service and environmental impact. The energy loads can help reduce the number of transports needed. replacement and maintenance of the equipment, taking into efficiency of combining different methods of transport can This, in turn, reduces CO2 emissions. account the aspects of safety and ergonomics. be three to four times higher than that of road transport All Roquette Group sites are involved in this approach, On the social level, our commitment is to be a responsible alone! As a result, all Roquette Group sites seek to develop and each point gained on the load rate means avoiding employer, partner and supplier, where everyone can feel multimodal transport. The sites of Vic, Vecquemont and several dozen unnecessary transports a day at Group comfortable, be respected and allowed to grow. Lestrem, for example, have doubled the use of multimodal level. Lastly, in terms of the environment, our company has always transport to Italy for bulk loads of products. The involvement of loaders and charter companies is responded to the growing demand for eco-mobility and will In 2013, Lestrem began using a new river fleet for the necessary to achieve even further optimization, which can transport of containers between Lille and Dunkirk as a continue to seek modes of transport that are more economical depend on the equipment or the regulations in application. substitution for road transport. Raw materials and certain Proposals from carriers to make lighter equipment and produce fewer CO2 emissions. products destined for animal nutrition also benefit from available are being studied, with a focus on the extent to We consider Sustainable Development as the real driver of our extensive river transport. which they can contribute directly to this optimization. future growth! FOCUS ON /// THE ADVANTAGES OF A LOCAL IMPLANTATION The evolving life styles in regions with strong demographic growth, such as Asia and India, is accompanied today by high demand for ingredients to produce prepared foods. This applies to all ingredients and in particular those for infant formula. Roquette produces most of the ingredients used in powdered infant and growth formulas directly in the countries concerned. This approach allows it to deliver locally to markets, according to the highest standards of quality, in order to ensure maximum food safety to the populations while reducing the environmental impact from the transport of products. 26. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .27 MATERIAL 28-41 MATERIAL AND INDUSTRIAL CAPITAL is made up of our industrial plant and equipment, our processes, our Research & Development activities and our investment capacity, etc. The Roquette Group’s ambition is to be ranked among the most innovative companies of its sector. view to improving the performance of production units and reducing their environmental impact. WHAT HAPPENED THAT YEAR? By listening to the markets, and with a global network of application development centers, the Roquette Group’s 1951 Research & Development always seeks to go further, by offering innovative and competitive solutions to its In a year of remarkable scientific advances around the world, customers while providing real benefits to consumers major breakthroughs in R&D at the Roquette Group opened the door to a promising future for the company. and taking into account the major challenges the world In astronomy, the term Big Bang was coined during faces today. the debates on the origins of the Universe. Meanwhile, in Information Technology, the marketing of the first computer made quite an impact, notably because of its size, requiring 25 m² of ground space! FOOD, NUTRITION AND HEALTH BETTER ACCOMPANIMENT FOR DIABETICS Diabetes is an illness characterized by chronic hyperglycemia and metabolic perturbations. Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is linked to the absence of production of insulin by the pancreas and generally develops during childhood or adolescence. Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is characterized by a defect in the secretion of insulin. It is linked to obesity, to a lack of physical activity and poor DAILY diet. It is the most common type of diabetes. While the treatment of T1D means taking insulin for the rest of the patient’s life, T2D can be treated first and sometimes INNOVATION simply by changing life style, improving eating habits and losing weight. Diabetes has major consequences in terms of health and the economy: amputations, blindness, kidney 5,000 PATENTS SINCE 1951 failure, higher risk of infections, arthritis, cavities, cardiovascular illness, etc. The growing number of diabetics in the world (nearly 350 million today) make this akin to an INNOVATING IN ALL SECTORS OF THE COMPANY epidemic, even though the disease is not transmissible. Since its founding in 1933, the Roquette Group generates innovation has allowed the Roquette Group to multiply its Throughout the world, the national health authorities and PROTECTING TEETH AND GUMS value from natural and renewable raw materials by adapting partnerships with industrial and scientific laboratories in the World Health Organization (WHO) have established them to the needs of industry. recommendations. In this context, the Roquette Group Oral-dental health is an essential element of our quality of life the private and public sectors of all countries. Through can provide solutions in line with the prevention of and reflects our state of health. One aspect is the prevention of As a result, the Group’s Research & Development naturally the sharing of skills and expertise, the Group seeks to diabetes. Polyols such as SWEETPEARL® maltitol or cavities which, when successful, contributes to maintain good adopts an approach of sustainable innovation, creating accelerate the development and marketing of offers that fibers such as NUTRIOSE® can be incorporated into mastication value from each of the components of the plant-based raw reinforce its range of solutions. materials that it processes. many foods, offering both technological and nutritional Since the 1970s, preventive actions (such as fluoridation Innovations are aligned with the Group’s strategic areas for benefits, preserving the organoleptic properties, while of water, tooth brushing, regular visits to the dentist) have Since the creation of the first R&D center in 1951, the Group development: Food, Nutrition and Health, and Plant-Based allowing a lower increase in glucose levels in the blood resulted in considerable progress in the Western countries. has always given itself the means to meet its ambition: to be Chemistry. However, innovations also are approached after meals. It is now possible to publish health claims on The consumption of products that are good for the teeth ranked among the most innovative companies of its sector. transversally, notably in the domain of technology. these ingredients, notably on the prevention of certain has further assisted these preventive measures. However, Each year, innovations in products, technologies and Beyond the daily support of the Group’s production units, factors that can lead to diabetes, and the promotion of regional disparity in access to care, education and preventive applications are added to a portfolio that already contains the dedicated process teams continuously keep an eye oral-dental health. action plans has meant that dental cavities remain ranked in nearly 5,000 patents. on new technologies and take a proactive approach to the third place among global health problems, according to WHO The Roquette Group’s scientific and technological optimization of installations and the development of new experts. research relies on multi-disciplinary teams and state-oftechniques. This expertise in industrial processes serves, Since the 1980s, the Roquette Group has been one of the the-art technologies. In recent years, an approach of open for example, to optimize the use of energy or water, with a pioneers in the development of solutions designed to maintain good oral-dental health. It relies on the results of nutritional studies to show the benefits of its ingredients in fighting the development of dental cavities. The Roquette Group further shows its strong commitment to research and the promotion of oral-dental health by FOCUS ON /// OPEN INNOVATION participating in major scientific events and working with Open innovation means working with upstream and downstream partners in common research programs. In the associations whose goal is the promotion of oral-dental health. domain of plant-based chemistry, for example, thanks to French governmental support approved by the European The company contributes to the dissemination of messages in Commission, the Roquette Group launched a few years ago a Research & Development program called BIOHUB® this domain with dentists and other professionals. with numerous private and public partners. One of the successes of this ongoing program has been the development Polyols, and more recently soluble fibers, are ingredients that of a high-purity isosorbide, which is used as a monomer for the synthesis of polymers and as a plastifier that can, for are “good for the teeth” and offer industrial customers the example, replace phtalates in PVC (polyvinyl chloride). possibility to develop confectionary products that taste good while promising health benefits for the consumer. 30. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .31 PREVENTING OBESITY IN PETS Pets can suffer from the same problems as their masters, CHRISTOPHE notably obesity. Cats and dogs increasingly live in an urban environment, with little opportunity to do much physical RUPP-DAHLEM exercise. They eat prepared foods that they adore but Director of Plant-Based are very high in calories. One way to counter or prevent this trend in obesity is to offer pet-food recipes specially Chemistry Innovation designed for the management of the animal’s body weight. Programs Pets should continue to enjoy what they eat, but without Lestrem (France) excess and without digestive problems. Pea external fiber (also called pea shell), when added at about 10-15% in dog biscuits, for example, responds perfectly to these three objectives: pleasure, health and Plant-based chemistry is no digestive comfort. In 2013, almost all the production of pea shells at the factory of Vic-sur-Aisne (France) was destined longer simply an opportunity but an for this segment of Premium Pet Food. industrial reality. With age, dogs and cats can also suffer from declining visual acuity. It is possible to slow this natural phenomenon The Roquette Group’s algae flour, recognized as the most innovative ingredient with nutrition. The lutein and zeaxanthin found in corn of the year at the FIE 2013 trade show, is used to make a brioche with the texture and taste of a traditional brioche, but with an improved nutritional gluten, like the chlorophyll contained in green microalgae, are excellent natural antioxidants to produce pet food with PLANT-BASED CHEMISTRY Why is plant-based chemistry a pillar of the sustainable economy? profile. real health benefits. Food rich in omega-3 can also help pets keep a shiny coat BINDERS FOR PAPER AND CARDBOARD THAT ARE 100% Different elements today make plant-based chemistry a pillar and a healthy skin. The research teams of the nutritionPLANT-BASED of the sustainable economy. health program are working on a selection of microalgae First, in the context of climate change, plant-based chemistry MICROALGAE, INGREDIENTS OF THE FUTURE At the end of the 1990s, the Roquette Group began the rich in omega-3 that can be produced in a sustainable contributes to helping industry reduce CO2 emissions by development of a starch that could be used as a binder Microalgae are microorganisms that are rich in nutritional manner. These can be used to substitute for sources of using renewable resources that capture carbon gas from the for the surfacing of paper and cardboard. This market for compounds, offering significant potential for innovation in omega-3 that come from fish oil, in a context where halieutic atmosphere during photosynthesis, and by using processes starches used in the paper-cardboard industry quickly the food and nutrition-health markets. resources are under threat. proved to be highly dynamic. The objectives: to replace that consume less energy. The resulting products therefore Since 2007, the Roquette Group has worked to develop a petroleum-based binders (of synthetic latex type) with benefit from a lower carbon footprint. dedicated sector for microalgae (expertise in phycology, binders of plant-based origin, and to achieve economies Another context is the increasing cost of fossil resources over pilot workshops and industrial units). At present, the in manufacturing costs for the customers. The first Group offers a range of several ingredients derived from the long term: the new middle classes in emerging countries thermally modified binders from the STABILYS® range microalgae. For example, its lipid-rich microalgae flour were launched on the market in 2002. will continue to drive global growth, which in turn will cause significantly improves the nutritional profile of foods in On the paper-cardboard market for more than a prices for fossil raw materials to trend higher. Plant-based many applications, such as products for bakery, sauces, decade now, this product range responds to customer chemistry is a big piece of the puzzle in this transition from a drinks and food supplements. With a combination of expectations and benefits today from a strong position linear economy (exhaustion of finite resources) to a circular lipids, fibers and proteins, this algae flour offers customers in Europe. Market penetration in India, and more recently economy (generating value from renewable resources, then innovative opportunities to improve the nutritional profile Japan, is also growing. recycling and reusing the materials, for example through of their food products, while retaining and/or improving The Roquette Group’s teams cooperate daily with organic recycling). their texture. customers seeking to reduce the carbon footprint of Lastly, in the context of innovation, plant-based chemistry The lipid-rich algae flour is an alternative source of hightheir products and their dependence on petroleumserves to develop products that are healthier or that offer new quality fatty acids: with 80% unsaturated fatty acids, based binders. At the research center and application without any trans fatty acids and without cholesterol, its technological functions. development centers, the technicians work to optimize lipid profile is close to that of olive oil. the current range and put the finishing touches on a new How does the Association of Plant-based Chemistry work At the Food Ingredients Europe trade show in Frankfurt series, STABILYS® EVO, which seeks to go even further in the replacement of synthetic latex. to promote green chemistry? in November 2013, the Roquette Group’s lipid-rich algae flour was recognized as Most Innovative Ingredient of the These plant-based products are now considered among Since 2007, the Roquette Group has been one of the year, all categories combined. the leading solutions for surfacing applications, making five founding members of the Association of Plant-based This revolutionary ingredient made with microalgae it possible to produce surfaced papers and cardboards from 100% renewable, natural materials, and this for the Chemistry (ACDV), and its president for over six years. The was also presented at the International Baking Industry The health of domestic animals requires nutritious pet foods that are rich in Exposition (IBIE) held in Las Vegas in October 2013. fibers, natural antioxidants and omega-3. greater satisfaction of customers. ACDV is a French association that is unique in its genre (bringing together multiple actors from multiple sectors), dedicated to accelerating the industrial development of plantbased chemistry. With 48 members, industrial leaders in their sector and representatives from industrial groups, the ACDV is involved in lobbying, regulatory affairs and the promotion of PLANT-BASED CHEMISTRY the plant-based chemistry sector. Plant-based chemistry uses vegetal biomass, The ACDV, for example, co-organized the Plant-Based FOCUS ON /// MICROALGAE, WHAT IS IT? primarily from agriculture and forest management, Summit 2013 congress in Paris. The event was a big success, Discovered several centuries ago but exploited industrially only in recent years, to design chemical products and derivatives which shows the dynamism of the actors in plant-based microalgae counts several hundreds of thousands of species. These microorganisms that can be used as materials and in formulas. It chemistry: more than 550 specialists, including more than are recognized for their extraordinary composition: proteins of high nutritional value, offers industrial markets alternatives to petroleum20% from outside France, met and exchanged information for a broad range of vitamins and minerals, various pigments and lipids, including based products, often with improved properties two days on this theme. omega-3 and omega-6. Inspired by their health potential, and faithful to its ambition and functions, while being more respectful of the Plant-based chemistry is no longer simply an opportunity for to innovate, the Roquette Group has established a dedicated microalgae sector. environment. the agricultural or chemical industry, but an industrial reality. 32. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .33 BIOSOURCED SOLUTIONS FOR THE PLASTICS INDUSTRY WHAT HAPPENED THAT YEAR? One of the objectives of the Roquette Group is to help customers develop materials that offer new functions and 2007 that are more respectful of the environment and mankind. In 2007, the Roquette Group founded the Association for The development of isosorbide, a biosourced molecule Plant-Based Chemistry with four partners. obtained from the dehydration of sorbitol, is an example. New polycarbonates now exist in which isosorbide is That same year, BAN Ki-Moon was named Secretary General of the United Nations. used to replace Bisphenol A (an endocrine disruptor) and to provide new properties to the materials. These new Al GORE and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) shared the Nobel Peace Prize for their products are already being developed for the automobile, collection and dissemination of information related to construction and high-technology industries. For example, climate change and the means to counteract it. the Roquette Group has established a partnership with a The first commercial flight of the Airbus A380, the result Japanese company that has developed a polycarbonate of a collaborative European project, flew between based on isosorbide. This company recently announced Singapore and Sydney. a partnership with a Japanese automobile manufacturer. The year 2007also marked the beginning of For the first time, isosorbide will be found in the dashboard the subprime crisis in the USA. of a car! In parallel, the Roquette Group seeks to broaden its range of biosourced plastifiers derived from isosorbide. These plastifiers are 100% plant-based in origin and pose no risks for human health or the environment. On certain markets, they are being considered as a substitute for phtalates, some of which may be toxic. This is why the market for PVC floor coverings is seeking alternative solutions for use in hospitals and schools, by using plant-based plastifiers from the Roquette Group. IMPROVING Another application of interest for industry is polypropylene. In 2013, the company began production of Disorbene 3, a clarifier derived from sorbitol that can be produced in PERFORMANCE a sustainable and efficient manner. The Roquette Group became the first European producer of this product, which provides the properties of transparency and mechanical resistance to plastics used in packaging for foods and cosmetics. A CONSTANT AND SHARED EFFORT ANTARES, A WIDESPREAD APPROACH Disorbene 3, a clarifier derived from sorbitol, provides properties of transparency and mechanical resistance to plastics used in packaging for The ANTARES industrial performance program seeks to in the workshops bring together employees from the different foods. extend the continuous improvement approach to all sites job sectors (Operations, Quality, Safety, Human Resources, of the Roquette Group. Initiated in 2010 at the Lestrem Technical, etc). This collaborative approach allows members site (France), the approach continues its deployment to share and work together on common objectives. On a in sites across the regions of Europe, America and technical basis, the ANTARES methodology is applied to Asia, extending to all types of functions (production, problems in the workshops that are relayed by the operators OPTIMIZING INDUSTRIAL maintenance, purchasing, laboratories, etc.). To date, more than 130 projects have been launched and then resolved using the tools of continuous improvement, leading to improved productivity. Economically, the preceding three areas lead to economic gains for the Roquette Group PROCESSES throughout the Group, involving more than 2,500 people. Some 14 Continuous Improvement Coordinators have and also provide added value to its customers. been named in the factories, to anchor the approach In Asia, among the many tools of continuous improvement and assist the managers. deployed, visual management has been generally adopted at The benefits of continuous improvement can be divided all the factories. Chester CHENG, Reliability Manager for the The teams in charge of industrial processes (Operations, into four categories: social, technical, organizational Asia region, explains: It is highly motivating to see the results Industrial Development, Research & Development) work and economic. In terms of social aspects, more than of the ANTARES projects that we launch in pilot workshops at together and share the objective to improve the processes 25% of the improvements implemented to increase the Lianyungang factory. These projects allow us to support used in the Roquette Group’s workshops in order to reduce the performance of the workshops have also led the teams with appropriate tools such as visual management. their environmental footprint. to improvements in working conditions. In terms of Our operators regularly consult the visual tables to monitor the In this approach, they use a collaborative mode of project organization, the transversal working groups organized performance of their workshops. management. This allows them to optimize processes and test all options that could lead to lower energy consumption and fewer effluents, even in time-tested methods of production. FOCUS ON /// THE ANTARES LABEL IN SPAIN Depending on the case, the improvements pass through The Benifayo site (Spain) was honored for its successful implementation of continuous optimized process conduits (for example, crossing improvement in 2013. The label of recognition for the implantation and anchoring of flows can help save energy), by the use of innovative continuous improvement in performance was awarded to five sectors of the factory: the technologies (such as the new membrane technologies, sweeteners workshops, the starch bagging operations, the warehouses, the starch plant for example) or by the intensification of processes (going and the laboratory. This first for the Roquette Group sets a good example for all the other The use of new membrane technologies generates value from industrial byfrom batch technologies to continuous technologies, for sites where the ANTARES approach is under deployment! products and limits their environmental footprint. example). 34. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .35 After three years of deployment, the time is ripe for the consolidation and anchoring of the methodology. WHAT HAPPENED THAT YEAR? SMART INVESTMENTS Franck MORALY, Director, Industrial Excellence, comments: Our ambition is to anchor the approach by ensuring that these new ways of working become positive habits and 2010 In 2013, the Roquette Group significantly changed the way it manages investments. This evolution, made opportunities. The year 2010 marked the launch of the ANTARES necessary by a global environment that is increasingly program within the Roquette Group. complex and uncertain, is part of a global objective to In India, parliament voted a new law making schooling improve the performance and competitiveness of the mandatory and free for children ages 6 to 14. Group. Spain won the Soccer World Cup and Shanghai hosted the A new initiative has been put in place at global level: World Expo on the theme Better city, better life . the Projects Portfolio Management (PPM) network. This new decision-making network will now intervene throughout the process: upstream to select the best investments, and then during the implementation phase to guarantee optimal management of the overall portfolio. The PPM network also ensures a better capitalization of experience throughout the Group, thus promoting continuous improvement of know-how in terms of The strong involvement of all employees and management enabled a rapid and efficient deployment of ANTARES at the Cassano site (Italy). CORINNE investment by sharing best practices. In summary, this approach has allowed the company COLLABORATIVE WORK AND BEST PRACTICES GODARD to better anticipate and therefore manage the risks inherent to any investment, thereby reinforcing its Transform’action is a collaborative intranet site that seeks Group Transformation capacity to better serve customers while improving to share best work practices and successes in a spirit profitability. Meeting of the Projects Portfolio Management network at Lestrem (France). of continuous improvement. The operation Draw Me a Manager Customer is an example of a best practice put on line on this site. It stems from a simple observation: we understand Lestrem (France) better what to do when we know why we do it. Launched at the end of 2011 at Lestrem (France) in a few IMPROVING ENERGY EFFICIENCY pilot workshops, the approach is quite innovative: bring the customer into the heart of the production process. In The objective is to promote By working on the energy efficiency of its sites, the being manufactured while preserving productivity and quality. Roquette Group reduces its global CO2 emissions into practice, the sales manager goes around to the workshops, gives a presentation on the activity of the customer, with the sharing and replication of the atmosphere and its energy consumption. At the Lianyungang site (China), a team dedicated to energy efficiency has been created. Areas for improvement have been details and comments on the customer’s expectations and requirements, and provides samples of the customer’s successful experiences. ENERGY EFFICIENCY, AN OBJECTIVE OF COMPETITIVENESS defined: raise awareness among the personnel about saving energy, choose technologies that perform more efficiently, and products and lets the teams taste them. It is an opportunity Certain ranges of products are subject to an optimize the production of heat. Energy savings of nearly 25% for the teams to exchange information on the Group’s You and your team are behind Transform’action for the increasingly competitive environment, making it vital to have been achieved in 2013. products and its customers. The program takes between 30 optimize production costs. Finding ways to cut energy whole Roquette Group. What is the purpose of this site? and 45 minutes outside working hours and remains optional. consumption constitutes one of the most efficient and Transform’action is an approach and a tool in the service TOOLS IN THE SERVICE OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY All members of the workshop are invited to attend, as are rapid means of improving operating costs. all employees from Maintenance, Logistics and Quality of Roquette employees. The objective is to promote the A good example of this can be seen at a production The cheapest energy is the one you don’t consume. Putting this who work with Production. Since the launch of the program, sharing and replication of successful experiences and workshop at the Nanning factory in China, where principle into practice means using equipment that performs several customers have been the object of presentations. best practices that lead to concrete results and allow us to actions taken in 2013 led to a 15% cut in electricity better in terms of energy consumption. But this alone is not With a participation rate of 80%, these operations are a real reinforce our collective efficiency. consumption for cooling and distribution networks. enough. It is still necessary to operate the equipment in an success and are highly appreciated by the teams. This was the result of efforts to optimize the existing optimized manner, and doing that means analyzing usage. Transform’action is a collaborative intranet site that can be We didn’t know our customers or their brands all that well. regulation systems for the equipment and a reflection To do this, the Roquette Group has set up an Industrial accessed by all employees of the Group. It allows people When we went shopping, we had a hard time identifying the led by the local transversal teams on how to meet the Information System (also called MES), with a component to to share their experiences about concrete successes with needs of workshops for the different types of products brands that used products made by Roquette says Pierre track energy efficiency. results that can be duplicated elsewhere and that can DESBONNETS, spray-drying supervisor, who initiated the help improve our collective efficiency, share indicators project. and tools, or identify people to contact to help employees Michel DUQUENNE has benefited from these sessions put into place a best practice in their environment. When and speaks with enthusiasm: It is a great opportunity to participate in these events. It allows us to see how our we say it is collaborative, we mean it is also possible to products are used, to become aware that we all consume respond to these testimonies, to post comments, contribute REDUCING SALINE EFFLUENTS what we produce, and to understand why the customer is and like on line. This site is run by a group of editors and so demanding. contributors from throughout the world. Evaporators treat the saline effluents generated in the purification of glucose syrups. To optimize the existing installation and considerably improve its performance, the Benifayo site (Spain) installed FOCUS ON /// TRANSFORM’ACTION IN NUMBERS a second evaporator, in line with the existing one. Valerie PROTIN, Transform’action facilitator, presents the site’s first results since it came The installation significantly reduces the volume of on line in fall 2013: More than 400 pages consulted per day, 27 successful experiences saline effluent by increasing the concentration of shared, 21 indicators and tools placed on line, more than 800 Likes , and nearly 100 saline waters exiting the evaporators. In addition, it contributors throughout the Group. To maintain this dynamic, it is important to explain is powered by energy recovered from the factory’s the Transform’action approach and how each employee can contribute. We will pursue cogeneration systems, which further contributes to The website to share our success the actions to raise awareness throughout the year to make dialogue and exchanging cutting energy costs while generating value. stories and progress collectively practices a habit within the Group. The optimization of the existing installation has reduced quantities of saline effluent at the Benifayo factory (Spain). 36. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .37 A powerful tool for continuous improvement for operators and production managers, the MES system collects WHAT HAPPENED THAT YEAR? The Gokak site in India is the industrial site equipped with the biggest electric motors powered by biogas CLEMENT measurements taken on the production lines and structures the data. It then provides reports on energy performance 1989 (3 MW electric). Beyond the reduction of CO2 emissions, this equipment considerably improves the reliability of ROBERT that allow the operators to analyze problems and identify electric power at the site. Plant Director points for improvement. The year 1989 witnessed the installation of the Roquette Group’s very first cogeneration system, at the Spanish site BIOMASS EQUIPMENT THAT USES LESS ENERGY in Benifayo, marking the beginning of a new era Beinheim (France) In 2013, the Group optimized the capacities of the in energy efficiency for the company. The installation of efficient equipment is key to lowering biomass boilers it had installed in previous years. The same year, the fall of the Berlin Wall symbolized energy consumption. The Roquette Group considers it the end of the Cold War. At the Calafat site (Romania), for example, the boiler essential to study and apply the most efficient technologies Homer SIMPSON arrived on the small screen, embarking on a now uses straw from wheat, which before this had Satisfying 75% of our site’s within the industrial environment. been directly burned in the fields. Optimization of the One example is the installation of speed variators on satire of society that has already lasted 25 years! boiler continued in 2013, making the site less and less steam needs with renewable sources.” compressor motors for the production of cold water at 2°C dependent on fossil energy sources. Currently, the used at a new workshop at the Lestrem site (France). The biomass boiler produces 50% of the site’s steam needs. motors installed in this workshop represented total electric At the Beinheim site (France), optimization efforts on the The Beinheim site is a model within the Roquette Group in power consumption of 1.7 MW (the equivalent of 43,000 wood-burning boiler continued in 2013. For example, terms of renewable energy usage. What is the latest news light bulbs of 40 watts). One of the compressors is even improvements were made to the systems for combustion on the biomass boiler and the geothermal energy project? equipped with a state-of-the-art motorization system. These and for conveying the wood biomass to the grinder. measures guarantee that the equipment can be adapted to Outside Europe, other factories are installing biomass We launched a wood-biomass boiler at the end of 2011. It is the varying demand of the workshop while retaining optimal boilers. For example, the boilers for producing steam sized to produce 43 megawatts (MW) from about 145,000 tons energy efficiency. at the Pantnagar factory (India) now use rice biomass of wood biomass. This allows us to avoid the emission of 75,000 to substitute for the equivalent of 550 tons/day of coal, tons of fossil CO2. The wood is sourced from an average radius BUILDING A NETWORK OF EXPERTS leading to savings in CO2 of more than 1,000 tons/ of 100 km around the site. It is the biggest boiler in France that Energy improvements mature with shared and continuous day. In addition, the use of rice biomass has other uses wood biomass. reflection, so each factory of the Roquette Group has an environmental advantages, such as the reduction Energy Correspondent, whose mission is to locally promote of Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) emissions in the smoke from After a first year in service, with the improvement in reliability energy efficiency and develop ties with the Group’s other combustion and the use of residual ash as an additive of the installation, 2013 was marked by the rise in power of correspondents to exchange information related to energy. The new boiler at Lianyungang (China) benefits from technology that is more for the production of cement. the boiler and the improvement of combustion. It currently As members of this network, the correspondents meet once efficient for combustion and the treatment of smoke. consumes more than 133,000 tons of wood, producing 49% a year during the Energy & Environment Days, organized by of the site’s steam needs and avoiding the emission of about the Industrial Skills Center, in order to share their problems, 63,000 tons of fossil CO2. We are highly satisfied with this their successes and learn from the experiences at the other production sites. TURNING TO ALTERNATIVE sustainable investment, which fully meets our expectations both ecologically and economically. ENERGY SOURCES The second source of renewable energy for our site concerns a project to develop deep geothermal energy. This is a world Attentive to the impact of its activity on the environment, first for the sourcing of geothermal energy in the form of steam the Roquette Group contributes to limiting climate change for industry. The first shaft was drilled at the end of 2012, to by using new and renewable sources of energy, such as a depth of more than 2,500 m. This allowed us to estimate biogas, biomass and geothermal energy. the energy potential at around 21 MW, close to the objective BIOGAS of 24 MW. Drilling of the second shaft, which is planned for The Roquette Group has developed and installed the spring of 2014, will allow us to estimate the real power equipment to process effluent from its production workshops attainable. We could then decide whether or not to continue in order to generate value by turning it into biogas. This the project: the construction of the central power station, the process of methanization has helped reduce CO2 emissions fresh-water conduits to transport the thermal energy and the as well as effluent from its water-treatment stations. site’s internal circuit. Biogas is either used directly in boilers as a substitute The overall installation should be operational in 2015 and for natural gas to produce steam, or in gas motors for satisfy about 25% of the factory’s needs for steam. At that point, cogeneration to produce electricity and heat. fossil CO2 emissions thus avoided would reach an additional The Cassano site in Italy is the latest factory of the Group to 35,000 tons. The biomass boiler of the Beinheim site consumes currently more than install methanizers and a gas motor with power of 750 kW 133,000 tons/year of wood energy that comes from various sectors, (electric). Thanks to this investment, CO2 emissions avoided Overall, these two emblematic projects for the Group will The installation of a gas motor at the Cassano site (Italy) allowed emissions including forest management, saw mills, and recycling centers located avoided to rise to 1,500 tons/year of CO2. have risen to more than 1,500 tons per year! within a radius of 100 km. satisfy more than 75% of steam needs with renewable sources! ENERGY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR FOCUS ON /// DEEP GEOTHERMAL ENERGY Deep geothermal energy is defined by two criteria: temperatures superior to 150°C and The energy performance indicator was put in place in 2012. It tracks the performance of tools for the centralized depths of more than 1,500 meters. It uses heat stored in rock formations. Several shafts production of heat. This indicator is expressed as a ratio between the real average operational yield of all boilers are drilled through the rock, then pressurized water is injected to create a deep thermal and an average target yield, as described by European Directive (Directive 2004/8/CE). exchanger. A closed loop is set up and the water, heated by contact with the hot rock, The objective is to be superior to 1. The result obtained for the Group as a whole was 1.01 in 2013. can then release its energy, for example, in a unit with a turbine that produces electricity. 38. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .39 In parallel, the Lianyungang site (China) obtained approvals from its major customers for the new SERGIO production of maltodextrins for infant formula. This customer approval is a real success and now allows NEVES the Roquette Group to count on three sites, in three different countries, able to provide maltodextrins for the Global Director most sensitive baby-food applications: the factories of Microalgae Business Line Lestrem (France), Lianyungang (China) and Pantnagar (India). Lestrem (France) In India, the work in 2013 focused on Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi’s different departments and their harmonization with the Quality standards of the Roquette Group, as The Quality organization has well as on the identification of best practices between the two entities. been built to take into account the recommendations of our customers. How has the restructuring of the Quality organization been perceived by our customers? PROTECTING INTERESTS The approach to reinforce quality at Roquette has been marked by a shortening of the quality chain, as well as AND ASSETS efforts to harmonize the practices within the Group. The Quality organization has been built to take into account the recommendations of our customers. Our customers want In a world where things evolve rapidly, the threats greater reactivity, even the anticipation of their specific weighing on the company have significantly intensified. regulatory requirements or quality assurance needs. The initial In just a few short years, the protection of the Roquette AN APPROACH Group’s assets has gone from a serious concern to a feedback from customers shows that they appreciate our critical necessity. new quality organization, which empowers the managers who The company today is exposed to a broad spectrum are closer to the field of action, and we believe that this will TO PROGRESS of malevolent actions, ranging from the theft of assets, translate into greater competitiveness for our solutions. information or know-how, to the stealing of funds and The results will be visible in the years to come: we will continue attacks to disrupt the information and automation to monitor our performance on quality, of course, and confirm systems. Protecting the integrity of products against new ways to make progress in this domain. malevolent acts has become a top priority for the QUALITY, A CONSTANT OBJECTIVE company. Confronted with these risks, the Roquette Group has progressively adopted a structured response, with A FUNCTION IN FULL EVOLUTION the governance of security deployed at Group level in To deploy a quality system in line with the expectations of our factories, the Quality function has been given greater order to improve protection around three main domains. an increasingly global market, the Group in 2013 reinforced autonomy and its responsibilities reinforced. For example, The first domain is the Information System (I.S.), for its quality organization and practices. the procedures for handling claims and performing which security has been reinforced by the drafting The decision was taken to strengthen the Group Quality customer audits have been revised and harmonized. At and management of an I.S. safety policy, based on the function in order to harmonize and consolidate practices Group level, this approach has translated into an initial drop ISO/CEI 2700X standard. The second domain, industrial and guarantee their consistent application throughout the in the claims rate of more than 10%. I.S. security, was the object of a specific analysis. The Group. This function has a double role and is managed by evaluation and classification of installations at all the two teams: the first provides an interface with our customers ACTIONS AND CONCRETE RESULTS sites will soon complete this analysis. The third domain is and identifies their expectations in terms of ReliabilityIn Asia as in Europe, customers remain extremely also a key objective for the company: raising awareness Quality; the other acts as an internal interface to identify demanding when it comes to the sourcing of products made among the personnel and subcontractors about these and address external requirements (customer demands, from corn that is not genetically modified (non-GMO). The risks. To achieve this, security must become an integral regulatory requirements, standards, etc.) and establish Chinese sites of the Roquette Group, which have worked part of corporate culture. guidelines for procedures, rules and practices for all the for many years on a non-GMO sector, have been awarded In order to ensure the efficiency of the protective sites. The ambition to reinforce and anchor the Group’s IP System certification, in recognition of their control over measures, a periodic evaluation is done to identify any Quality and Food Safety networks has been integrated into their raw materials sourcing. The certification attests to the gaps compared with the references, and regular audits The security of the company consists in putting into place the appropriate this new organization. traceability, recording and monitoring of the parameters are executed. Corrective actions are then put in place to measures to protect against the many potential risks that could cause loss or To guarantee the efficient implementation of practices within concerned. cover any risks identified. damage to its assets and/or harm the men and women who make up the company. FOCUS ON /// HARMONIZED FOOD SAFETY FOCUS ON /// RISK MANAGEMENT In the context of the harmonization of practices at Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi to align them The identification and assessment of risks are at the heart of our jobs, our projects and the governance of the Roquette with the standards of the Roquette Group, training sessions in Food Safety were provided Group. Risk mapping allows us to appreciate and monitor risks, under the control of the functions, the dedicated at the end of 2013 in India by the Group Quality Dept. The managers of the Pantnagar governing bodies and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. site and the Indian Quality team were thus able to share and understand more easily In addition, the company is currently in a mature phase that will allow it in 2014 to orient the strengths and areas of the practices of the two entities. These exchanges allowed for better understanding of improvement of its organizations. The purpose is to better manage risks related to operational and strategic objectives daily operations at the production sites in order to ensure their correlation with Group and the realization of projects. requirements and the satisfaction of customers. 40. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .41 Sorting and repairing of pallets by personnel of a local company committed to the employment of the disabled Lestrem (France) HUMAN 42-53 HUMAN CAPITAL is made up of all the men and women who bring the company to life and contribute to its adaptability, performance and dynamism, etc. The Roquette Group promotes diversity, notably by developing its relations with companies devoted to the employment of disabled persons. has fully embraced its social responsibility, with its own Safety Culture that places a particular accent on THIERRY the safety of the personnel while always integrating Sustainable Development . POIRET THE REGIONS LISTEN TO THEIR EMPLOYEES Director of Human In Asia, several actions were undertaken in 2013 to Resources & Social encourage employees to express their views and to Affairs France promote listening among managers. For example, all employees in the Shanghai office participated at Lestrem (France) least once in a lunch meeting with the management. Appreciated by the employees, this practice has also been deployed at the other Asian sites, notably at the Lianyungang factory where more than a hundred The managerial meetings were employees so far have participate in this type of meeting. an opportunity for direct sharing and For its part, Roquette America in 2013 launched Open Forum Meetings at its factories in Keokuk and Gurnee: were greatly appreciated. every Wednesday, a manager gives a presentation, on a subject determined beforehand. The meeting ends with What is your role at the Lestrem site? an informal debate between the different participants, all of whom come on a voluntary basis. As an HR Director, I participate in the management of all questions related to the careers of the 2,800 employees at the site: recruitment, contracts, career development, training. In terms of Human Resources, Lestrem is particular because it is a big industrial production site as well as the headquarters for the Group. We therefore have to manage the careers of employees with a broad range of different profiles. In terms of Social Affairs, ONE GROUP, MANY JOBS, I am the special point of contact for the labor unions. This social dialogue witnessed certain tensions in 2013. What happened? THE SAME PASSION The object of the conflict was the calculation of profit-sharing paid out to the employees. The social partners, who had signed the profit-sharing agreement, felt trapped by the application of the formula. The Management had accepted to pay an additional bonus and wanted to engage the discussions in LISTENING AND DIALOGUE order to arrive at a new profit-sharing agreement that would satisfy both sides. These proposals were deemed insufficient The year 2013 saw a number of Internal Communication a window onto the rich multiculturalism that characterizes and discussion became difficult, ending in a strike action and actions, such as opening up the annual Horizon meetings the teams in Europe, America, Asia and India. the stoppage of work. Manufacturing was interrupted, to the to all employees, and the publication of a photo album point where it was sometimes difficult to deliver orders to a The Horizon meetings are a powerful moment to share the objectives of offered to all employees of the Group. HORIZON , A MOMENT OF SHARING the company with all employees. few customers. The album was distributed during the Horizon meetings. 80 YEARS, 7,800 TALENTS How did the company react? These events are organized each year by all the sites of On the occasion of the Group’s 80th anniversary, the the Group. They provide a time to review the results of the With time, each side was able to observe that the social conflict shareholders and the General Management sought to previous 12 months and to share views on the objectives had gone too far and was based on increasingly disparate honor all employees of the Group, all those who have made of the company. Originally just for managers, in 2013 all elements, to the point of creating feelings of confusion among today’s successes possible while preparing for its future. IN THE WORDS OF the employees. Some of them concluded that the movement employees were invited to participate, giving them an This homage is in the form of a selection of photographs of opportunity to meet with their site directors and sometimes EMPLOYEES no longer made sense. Finally, a new profit-sharing agreement employees, in their work environment, at their workstations, even with the Group’s Chief Executive Officer, Edouard was signed unanimously, ending the conflict. The managerial meetings and the Horizon collected and published in a handsome volume, with a ROQUETTE. meetings are an opportunity for all employees to The last labor elections, in November 2013, have led to a new copy given to each employee. This meeting gave us a clearer vision of the Group’s express their views: equilibrium, with the emergence of a fourth social partner, the A wonderful illustration of the passion and professionalism objectives in 2013 says Xiao Zongwu, member of the UNSA, which has joined the (French trade unions) CFDT, CGT of the men and women of the company, this collection of 200 Health, Safety and Environment team at Wuhan (China). In Beyond the big governing bodies, we need and CFE-CGC, at the core of the representative bodies. The portraits is called 7,800 talents in action . It captures the conjunction with my two years of professional experience to communicate on a daily basis. balance is now more complex, but this new situation is also diversity of jobs, skills and know-how of the Group. It is also here, it made me realize that Roquette is a company that We need direct communication that is the occasion to renew the social dialogue on a more regulated based more on the future. basis. Our customers demand quality Was the Management directly involved? and reactivity. FOCUS ON /// READING, LEVER FOR EXCHANGE We no longer talk about the house of Throughout this delicate period, all kinds of rumors began to circulate. In order to reassure employees, the Management Organize a book club to better understand the job and promote dialogue: this original idea was launched at Roquette but of the company. Lianyungang (China) with a first book called Show Me Results that is perfectly in line with the daily job of each team decided to go to the shop floor to discuss, explain and member. Initially proposed for the managers of the site, this initiative was then extended to all the personnel. Some 34 We must all make the effort to provide exchange information with the personnel, in complete candor. people joined the reading club. The concept: after a careful reading of the book during their free time, the readers met reliable, high-quality products. These managerial meetings were an opportunity for direct to share their understanding of the work. Each in turn presented their views on the theoretical aspects and the practical The Horizon meetings provide a new sharing and were greatly appreciated. Other meetings of case mentioned in the book, and drew parallels with their own work context. opportunity for dialogue. this type will be programmed in 2014 in order to pursue and maintain the dialogue. 44. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .45 A WEB SITE DEDICATED TO RECRUITMENT The Group in 2013 set up a dedicated recruitment web site WHAT HAPPENED THAT YEAR? WORK/TRAINING SCHEMES, AN OPPORTUNITY FOR THE COMPANY TOM that can be accessed directly or via the Group’s corporate web site. Candidates can review the list of job openings, 1984 The term work/training scheme refers to a system of training that provides work experience at a company as ROSS notably in the USA, France and Germany. They can freely In 1984, production at the Lestrem site (France) increased part of a program at an educational establishment (high Director of Human apply to the job offers proposed, or submit a spontaneous school, training center, university, etc.). application. 20% with the transition of operations to a seven-day week. Resources America It was also the year when the United Kingdom Work/training schemes are an excellent way for future This tool for attracting new Talents serves to bring and China began preparations for the future return employees to gain on-the-job experience. The Roquette candidates closer to the company and facilitate exchanges, Keokuk (USA) of Hong Kong in 1997. Group offers many work/training schemes at its French while protecting the environment by significantly reducing Meanwhile, Steve JOBS launched the first Macintosh! sites, particularly at Lestrem, which had 37 participants the volume of Curriculum Vitae received in paper format. This period also witnessed the tragic explosion of the in work/study programs in 2013, including 20 new ones. Jodie Dotson, Human Resources manager at Roquette Bhopal pesticides factory in India, one of Participants in these programs benefit from special We encourage diversity by America, says: Since its launch in September 2013, our chemical industry’s most deadly catastrophes. recruitment site received more than 24,000 visits. On-line monitoring during their time at the company. They are accompanied by qualified tutors who share their attracting men and women from access responds to today’s needs, notably during career fairs at universities, where it has been a big success. knowledge of the business and support them in their work and studies. different cultures. In order to promote the integration of these young people and teach them the rules of quality and safety, How does the Human Resources Dept. play a role in a meeting is organized each year at the Lestrem site, Sustainable Development for the company? bringing together all the students, tutors, teachers, TRANSMITTING KNOWLEDGE sector managers and the Human Resources team. Human Resources contributes actively to Sustainable Development by addressing social components such as This good practice and the Roquette Group’s commitment to promote apprenticeships were diversity, maintaining employment, professional equality The growth and long-term viability of the company relies on maintaining and developing the skills of its employees. The recognized by the MEDEF Nord-Pas de Calais (a French among employees, the improvement of their skills and their transmission of skills and knowledge is therefore crucial. employers federation) and the Chamber of Commerce development. This starts with the integration of new Talents and the and Industry of the Nord region, which awarded the Human Resources works in partnership with the business career training of existing employees. company the 2013 prize for Golden opportunity in work sectors so that the right jobs are assigned to the right people, experience (photo below). at the right time to respond to current and future job needs. ON-BOARDING NEW EMPLOYEES We develop the skills of employees by offering them appropriate In 2013, a total of more than 400 employees were recruited Any candidate can now apply for job offers on the recruitment site: training programs that combine personal development with the or promoted at the Group’s sites. www.recrutement.roquette.com. job demands. The Human Resources teams and those from the other Corporate functions mobilized to provide all the new We encourage diversity, notably by attracting and building employees with appropriate accompaniment via the the most frequently asked questions when someone loyalty among men and women from different cultures. different individual and collective initiatives. new arrives at the department. The same approach has To promote honesty and integrity, Human Resources New actions to promote integration were launched in 2013. been initiated at the IT Dept. Significant research on the communicates policies and practices based on the company’s Certain functions have developed dedicated informational existing documentation has allowed these departments to values, as specified in the Ethics Charter and the Code of tools for their specific job sectors. For example, at the put together an on-boarding tool kit , complete with the Conduct. Industrial Purchasing Dept., a working group has identified essential aspects of the organization of their respective We interact with our colleagues, our customers and the the key points that all new employees must know, and departments. The entire integration process is covered: from the day the new hire arrives to the employee’s community that surrounds us by drawing from our different feedback after three months on the job. cultures, our strengths and our assets. Integration programs have also been organized by other departments, such as Research & Development, which offers an R&D Welcome Day , and Logistics, which launched its own Logistics School. Organized into workshops, working groups and site visits, these programs accelerate the new employees’ understanding of the SPONSORS AND TUTORS, A MUTUAL ENRICHMENT objectives and challenges of the job, as well as the culture Discover the company culture and its operations, get to of the company, and above all provide an opportunity for know the customers better, improve dialogue – these are sharing and dialogue. the main objectives of the Group’s sponsorship actions. Integration also seeks to be transversal, inter-sectorial and The approach to tutoring has allowed new employees intercultural. The Group Welcome Seminar, a three-day (or employees moving into another function of the integration program, allows managers from the four regions company) to be supported by a sponsor for several On the program for the three-day Group Integration Seminar: the forum on the to discover the multiples facets of the company, its global weeks, sometimes even several months, in order to company’s major functions. operations and its organization. understand more rapidly their new work environment. The sponsor hosts, guides, teaches and facilitates in the integration of the new hire. Sponsors possess the desire to pass along their know-how, and are recognized for FOCUS ON /// THE LOGISTICS SCHOOL their professionalism in terms of technical expertise, The integration of new arrivals is a considerable challenge for any company. To facilitate and accelerate this integration relational sense and knowledge of the company. within the Group Logistics Department, a three-day training program has been developed and rolled out internally. Several functions engaged in this approach, such as Taking place at the Lestrem site (France) in 2013, the program allowed the participants (from China, Italy, India, Turkey Purchasing and R&D. Julie LEROY was sponsored and France for this first session) to discover all the activities supported by logistics. The training also included visits to when she started in the Direct Purchasing Dept.: The various parts of the site to better understand the products and processes of the company and to meet the colleagues sponsorship is a plus, it gives you confidence, it’s the with whom they will be working. basis of a successful integration within a team, and the Tutoring allows employees moving to a new function within the company to be certainty to be supported at all times. supported for several weeks by a sponsor. 46. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .47 DEVELOPING SKILLS TRAINING, A GAUGE OF SUCCESS The company implements training actions that 44.7 44.3 correspondent to its immediate or future needs for skills. This year, the company offered an average of 27 hours of training per employee, for the acquisition or development of skills on different themes: jobs and techniques, safety, quality, environment, managerial development, foreign 27.4 languages, office automation, or personal development (for example, public speaking, or time management). 20.3 The need to invest in training varies from one site to another and depends on different factors. For example, sites with a high rotation of the workforce, such as in Asia, must regularly train new employees on the installations, tools, processes, rules and standards of the company. A high number of training hours can also result from the development of new activities in a geographic zone or site, such as for example the creation of a sales office or Europe Asia America Group average the acquisition of a company, or the reinforcement of the Roquette Group’s presence on new markets, etc. Average number of hours of training per employee in 2013 (Excluding Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi India) FRUITFUL PARTNERSHIPS WITH SCHOOLS The Roquette Group develops special relations with universities and schools in each of the regions in which it operates. The nature and quality of these School-Company DIVERSITY, AN ASSET relations are significant because they allow the Group to raise awareness about its jobs among students and teachers, and this in turn helps to attract talents. These FOR THE COMPANY common pedagogical projects benefit all the parties PROMOTING GENDER EQUALITY involved, and help the company anticipate its needs in terms of Human Resources. Already a privileged partner of many schools, the company confirmed its commitment to this approach in 2013. In Asia, A factor of social dynamism and development, EQUAL PAY, EQUAL OPPORTUNITY for example, it is working with the University Shen Yang professional equality is guaranteed by a Human to offer training for the pharmaceuticals sector. In another The company pays particular attention to policies and Resources policy that is backed by concrete actions to example, the Benifayo site (Spain) provides support to practices of remuneration, training and career development promote greater gender diversity in the company. the University of Valencia, for its Master's Degree in Food in line with the principles of equal opportunity and treatment. In France, an agreement on professional equality was Safety. In Production, for example, several women have been signed for the period 2012-2014. It covers three main In the USA, a Manufacturing Skills Program was created promoted to supervisory positions, and new hires have been segments: gender diversity in employment, professional in partnership with Southeastern Community College. recruited to other positions of responsibility. careers, and balancing professional and private life. Feedback from this program has been very positive. Dave BOGNER, Maintenance Director at Keokuk, PROMOTING GENDER DIVERSITY RECONCILING PROFESSIONAL LIFE AND PRIVATE LIFE testifies: Roquette America hired two people who took To progressively modify sociocultural representations, Different actions have been put in place on this theme. this program and who we would not have recruited under the Roquette Group encourages women to take jobs For example, the company encourages employees to return other circumstances, and we have sent 12 employees traditionally done by men, and vice-versa, in a desire after a long absence for a family event, such as maternity to take these courses. In addition, we have observed a to achieve professional balance. Several actions have leave, or parental leave for either the man or the woman. significant improvement in practical test results after this been put in place, such as for example the development It also put in place in 2012 four half-days of paid leave to training. Other local industries have also taken advantage of internships in technical domains for women, or the cover child illness, and in 2013 it distributed a Parents Guide of this program, either by hiring graduates, or by sending Roquette America contributed actively to the Manufacturing Skills Program in creation of a film presenting jobs at the company with a listing information on all the programs and initiatives the their own employees to take the course. partnership with Southeastern Community College. focus on women in industry. company offers in this area. FOCUS ON /// ROQUETTE UNIVERSITY, ASIA FOCUS ON /// THE PARENTS GUIDE Learn, Share, Practice ; that is the vocation of the virtual university established by To illustrate the segment on reconciling professional and private life in its professional Roquette Asia in 2013. This original internal training platform offers employees of the equality agreement, the company made available to the personnel of its French sites a Asian sites the opportunity to participate in courses on developing managerial skills, job guide listing all information on company initiatives for parents. For example, this guide training or additional expertise. The training combines theory and practice and relies on addresses the different types of leaves (maternity, adoption, paternity, etc.), what to do a participative pedagogy where the employees reflect and find solutions together, in a when returning to work following a leave, part-time work, and other initiatives the company positive and convivial spirit. This results in mutual enrichment and better dissemination of makes available, such as nursing rooms for new mothers. the company’s best practice. 48. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .49 CREATING BRIDGES In addition, in collaboration with the Lestrem town hall and this federation, the company organized an initiation WHAT HAPPENED THAT YEAR? BETWEEN GENERATIONS and match of wheelchair rugby, a spectacular game. RECRUITING TO BETTER INTEGRATE 1985 In collaboration with the AGEFIPH (Association to In 1985, the Lestrem site (France) for the first time requested The average age of employees at all sites of the Roquette manage funds for the insertion of disabled persons), services from a company devoted to the employment Group is 41 years old, and employees older than 45 several members of the SACHa group worked on a of the disabled (ESAT). represent nearly 35% of the workforce. training project for laboratory internships for disabled The same year, the shipwreck of the Titanic was located off the In France, two Seniors action plans have been put in persons. The program is designed to allow the company coast of Newfoundland, 73 years after it sank, while Serguei BUBKA broke the six-meter record in pole vaulting. place since 2010 to anticipate the evolution of professional to anticipate its future recruitment needs while providing The year 1985 is also the first time the term biodiversity careers. All employees over the age of 45 can ask for an candidates with an opportunity to acquire knowledge appeared, replacing the expression biological diversity . interview on the second part of their career, an occasion and experience. to review their career path, their desire for mobility, and the ADAPTED COMPANIES, SUBCONTRACTORS LIKE ANY development of their skills. OTHER In 2014, the Group Human Resources and the social partners will meet to define a generational contract on For many years, the Lestrem site has relied on the the sustainable insertion of the young into the company, services of companies in the region that are devoted to the employment of disabled persons. PHILIPPE maintaining the employment of seniors and the transmission of their know-how, and the transition from professional The transmission of know-how between seniors and juniors is a significant Recourse to these companies, which are known in France as adapted or protected-sector companies, LIENART activity to retirement. step in an intergenerational approach. helps the Roquette Group satisfy in part the legal Plant Quality Manager obligation in France to employ disabled workers, but it also provides services of quality, subject to a strict list ACCOMPANYING DISABILITIES of specifications, just as with any other subcontractor. In this context, several activities have been entrusted Lestrem (France) SACHa, A WORKING GROUP DEDICATED TO DISABILITIES maintaining the employment of employees with a physical to the employees of these adapted companies: repairing pallets, cleaning exchanger plates, washing Allowing people in difficulty and/or mental challenge, further opening up recruitment to In 2008, some 15 employees of the Lestrem site (France), from a variety of functions and socio-professional disabled persons, and continuing and further developing filtration sleeves, repairing and painting certain motors, maintenance of green spaces, preparation and serving to make a change in their professional categories, met to discuss the theme of disabilities in the company. The group took the name SACHa, a French collaboration with companies devoted to the employment of disabled persons. of festive cocktails during events, etc. life is an opportunity for the company. Most of the services are performed directly at the Lestrem acronym that translates as Knowing how to accompany For more than five years now, the actions of the company in industrial site. In total, some 20 people from the adapted each disability . favor of disabled persons have been based on these main How did the company establish its job-experience program company (SAPHA) and the ESAT (Establishments and Their first efforts led to the identification of four priorities: themes. services of assistance through employment) in the for disabled persons at the Lestrem site? demystifying and communicating about disabilities, BREAKING AWAY FROM CLICHÉ nearby town of Hazebrouck come to the site each day The idea had been germinating for two years when the to perform work. AGEFIPH met with the Human Resources team at the Lestrem For the fourth consecutive year, the Lestrem site has supported France’s National week for the employment of site (France) and a member of the SACHa group to propose disabled persons. Many partners (internal and external developing a training program with targeted jobs for disabled to the company) mobilized to make this national week an Chez ROQUETTE people who were seeking employment. At the time, we were event for the company. having a hard time recruiting lab technicians (with science At the company restaurant, a photo exhibit was set up on and technologies training), the students in general preferring the professional activities of the personnel from companies Bourellerie Filtration to pursue their studies in other sectors. While there was some devoted to employing disabled persons. Many employees initial skepticism, notably because the labs didn’t seem set said they were deeply moved by the smiles on the faces Lavage, up for it, we took the plunge, and we were soon very happy séchage, of these disabled workers going about their jobs, a life contrôle et réparation de that we did! First we had to construct the training program lesson for us all. manches filtrantes with the ADEFA (Association for the development of training In a more playful mode, the Sac À Dés association by internship), an organism chosen by the AGEFIPH. We then offered a series of games designed to help employees experience a bit of what it means to have a disability, and did five Job Speed Dating sessions in July, from which we to better understand some of the difficulties that can be retained two final candidates. The interested parties were encountered. invited to our laboratories in November 2013. They were very Lastly, the Handisport federation participated in quickly integrated into the teams, and each was able to benefit organizing a retrospective on the 2012 Paralympic Games from the accompaniment of a tutor. One employee of the With the participation of the Sac À Dés association, employees could try out a held in London, along with an exhibit of sports equipments company also took advantage of this training program in the series of games on having a disability. designed for athletes with reduced mobility. context of a reconversion. What lessons have you drawn from this adventure? First, nothing would have been possible without the support of the site Director and the help of the Human Resources and FOCUS ON /// MAINTAINING GREEN SPACES Job Health services, which are indispensable for this type of Magasinage Since 2008, the Lestrem site has asked the ESAT of Hazebrouck to maintain the green filtres project. Then, it was necessary to be persuasive, internally spaces of its 150-hectare site. Four workers from the ESAT, accompanied by a monitor, as well as externally. Allowing people in difficulty to make come each day to the site to mow the grass, trim the roses, cut the hedges, plant flowers, a change in their professional life is an opportunity for the set up fencing, etc. and this throughout the year. They are accompanied by an employee from the company who himself has a disability. All the employees of Roquette can Crédit Photos : Patrick James company, and undeniably, it changes the way employees think Photos on various jobs performed at the Lestrem site (France) by about disabilities. In conclusion, I retain that you need to know witness the care and professionalism as well as the good humor of the ESAT workers. personnel from an adapted company were exhibited during the national disability week. how to dare, and above all to remove the but from yes but ! 50. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .51 ACTIONS IN 2013 Safety challenge at the Benifayo site (Spain) WHAT HAPPENED THAT YEAR? In 2013, various actions were deployed throughout the 1952 Group to make progress on Safety. In Asia, as elsewhere, Safety relies on three pillars: In 1952, the Roquette Group for the first time calculated its Frequency Rate 1 (number of accidents with lost time well-designed infrastructures that benefit from safe per million hours worked). manufacturing circuits, a system for managing Safety The same year, Elizabeth II became the fifth sovereign of the with accessible procedures, human behavior that British Empire, beginning one of the longest reigns respects the Safety rules. Among these three pillars, of the English monarchy. human behavior is an essential element to attain the In aeronautics, aviation history was marked by the first ultimate objective: operations without accident . commercial flight of a jet aircraft connecting Towards this target, the three industrial sites of China London to Johannesburg. have implemented Safety actions with a series of In sports, the FERRARI team took the first of what would become monthly campaigns in 2013, designed to cultivate a long line of championship titles in the world of Formula 1. behavior entirely based on Safety. In India, 2013 witnessed three Safety audits and numerous training programs on Safety (work permits and hot-work permits, principles of evacuation, fire drills). The involvement of directors and management, and the motivation and behavior of the teams, led to significant advances on Safety. Average FR1 over the period In Europe, the development of a Safety Culture is a top priority of the Safety action plan that has been 50 adopted. In 2013, a competitive challenge on Safety was organized for all European employees. Five SAFETY ACCORDING TO major themes were addressed: moving around the FR12013 site, preventing hand injuries, daily handling activities, 30 2.9 the human factor, and the application of rules and instructions. The competition was a big success, with a NINE PRINCIPLES participation rate of more than 75%. In the USA, the company works to develop a culture where all employees make a commitment to perform 10 Objective <1 4 4 0 3 6 their activities safely and at each instant of their 2 196 198 200 201 201 WORK ACCIDENTS: OBJECTIVE ZERO 195 professional and personal life: No priority goes before Safety . To improve Safety results, an operation Historical evolution of the FR1 for all the Roquette Group (number of accidents with lost time per million hours worked) called Observations on Safety and Management Health and safety are top priorities for the Roquette DEVELOPING A SAFETY CULTURE was launched in 2013. On average, some 96 people Group. The objective is clear: Zero accidents at work, zero participated each month in this operation and nearly Created at the end of 2011, the Group Safety Network is professional illness! 2,400 observations have been relayed over the year. composed of the Safety Manager from each region and run by the Group Safety Manager. At each quarterly meeting, 2013, A DIFFICULT YEAR members exchange information on incidents, share best The results for 2013 failed to meet the company’s targets, practices and develop the rules for the Group. The network EUROPE degrading for the second consecutive year despite an action plan covering the four regions. The number of works on the implementation of a Safety Culture that is consistent and applied at all the sites of the company. Golden ASIA 安全第一，远离事故！ injuries with lost time increased 10%. In addition, a fatal Rules (the rules that save lives) have been validated in 2013 Each region of the Roquette Group accident occurred at one of the European sites. 安全第一，不妥协 and will be disseminated throughout the Group in 2014. They Safety first: no has adopted a Safety slogan that The FR1 for all sites of the Roquette Group (number of accidents with lost time per million hours worked) reached complete the nine General Safety Principles defined in 2012. Safety first. accident today! it deploys at its sites. Health and Safety at work are everyone’s business. The 2.87. The objective for 2016 is an FR1 below 1, with the approach may be driven by the director of the company, No compromise! ultimate target, of course, being zero accidents . but the involvement of each and every employee is just as La sécurité avant tout : At the end of 2013, seven of the Group’s industrial sites important. Shared by the entire personnel, the key points of La sécurité avant tout. Pas de compromis ! pas d’accident aujourd’hui ! INDIA recorded a frequency rate equal to zero, showing that it is the Safety Culture reside in the respect of the safety rules, the possible to attain the objective. relaying of anomalies and their correction, vigilance and rigor. सबसे पहले सुरक्षा। सबसे पहले सुरक्षा। 安全第一，而后工作… कोई समझौता नहीं। आज कोई दुर्घटना नहीं। Safety first. AMERICA FOCUS ON /// WEARING PPE EQUIPMENT IN INDIA 每项工作安全第一 … 杜绝伤害! Work next! During Safety audits in India, one of the areas identified for improvement was the wearing Safety first in every action we La sécurité avant tout. of personal protective equipment (PPE). The three production sites have implemented take ... No one gets hurt today! Le travail ensuite ! actions to make it mandatory to wear PPE in the workshops. The Pantnagar site is the most advanced so far on the subject: it provided safety shoes to all the employees of La sécurité avant tout pour toute action entreprise... the company as well as to those of its external subcontractors. In addition, it has made Personne ne doit être blessé aujourd’hui ! सबसे पहले सुरक्षा। available specific PPE in the zones where chemical products are handled (protective clothing, masks, separate breathing apparatus, etc.). हमारे हर कार्य में सबसे पहले सुरक्षा। आज किसी को चोट नहीं। काम बाद में। 52. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .53 Customer Innovation Center Corby (U.K.) SOCIETAL 54-67 SOCIETAL CAPITAL is represented by the society that surrounds us, and in particular the stakeholders specifically concerned by our activity. With its Innovation Centers, the Roquette Group makes its know-how available to its customers in order to better respond to their expectations. THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Since 2009, the Roquette Group has supported the United Nations Global Compact. Created in 2000, this The Global Compact benefits compact is the principal global initiative for corporate citizenship. It groups thousands of companies in more from the notoriety of the UN. It is than 100 countries. The companies that adhere commit to aligning their operations and their strategies with the known by our customers and in line 10 universally accepted principles on human rights, with our objectives and values, this is labor standards, the environment and the fight against corruption. why we have chosen to adhere to it Each year, the adhering companies describe in their Sustainable Development & Activity Report or in other since 2009. similar reports the ways in which they apply the Global Compact and its 10 principles. Philippe OLIVIER, Reliability and Sustainable Development Director of the Roquette Group PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should support and respect the Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit protection of internationally proclaimed human in human rights abuses. rights. The Roquette Group respects this principle: see pages CSR, The Roquette Group respects this principle: see 14, 15, 56. pages 14, 15, 56. A STRONG COMMITMENT PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should support the PRINCIPLE 3 elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. ENRICHING THE STRATEGY WITH CSR Businesses should uphold the The Roquette Group respects this freedom of association and the principle: see pages 14, 15, 56. effective recognition of the right At the Roquette Group, the principles of Sustainable Furthermore, the company adheres to Réseau Alliances . to collective bargaining. Development constitute the framework of reference for The latter’s mission is to help companies improve their its strategy and its growth. All employees of the Group performance in terms of human rights and the environment. The Roquette Group respects are committed to developing global access to products in nutrition-health and plant-based chemistry that are For 18 years, Réseau Alliances has identified and promoted the sharing of best CSR practices. Each year, it organizes this principle: see pages 14, 15, 45, 56. PRINCIPLE 7 sustainable, healthy and high quality. the World Forum Lille, an international three-day event for Businesses should support companies engaged in The Responsible Economy . a precautionary approach The Group’s approach to Corporate Social Responsibility to environmental chal(CSR) is designed to respond to the different challenges More than 6,500 participants from around the world came to lenges. confronting the Group: to limit the impact of the company’s activity on the environment, optimize profitability, meet listen to 200 speakers from 34 different nationalities express their views on the main theme for the 2013 edition: Yes, PRINCIPLE 5 PRINCIPLE 6 The Roquette Group the expectations of all its stakeholders, develop skills and We Change – Another way to do business and consume . Businesses should support the respects this principle: see Businesses should support the adapt them to the orientations of the company in a global Since 2007, the Roquette Group has been a partner of this effective abolition of child labor. pages 22 to 25. elimination of discrimination in respect context. This approach rests on four main axes: natural event and participates in different conferences. In 2013, The Roquette Group respects this of employment and occupation. capital, material and industrial capital, human capital for example, the Roquette Group’s Director of Reliability principle: see pages 14, 15, 56. and societal capital. To each capital, the Roquette Group & Sustainable Development, Philippe OLIVIER, gave a The Roquette Group respects this makes commitments and defines concrete actions that are presentation at a workshop on the theme of Doing business principle: see pages 14, 15, 49 to 51, 56. detailed in this report. differently with the Global Compact (photo above). PRINCIPLE 8 PRINCIPLE 9 FOCUS ON /// A COMMON CODE FOR SUPPLIERS Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion PRINCIPLE 10 The Roquette Group considers that its suppliers play a significant role in the ethical approach in which it is engaged Businesses should work against environmental responsibility. of environmentally friendly and the promotion of its values. In this context, a Supplier Code of Conduct was established in 2013, applicable corruption in all its forms, including The Roquette Group respects technologies. to all the suppliers of the Group throughout the world. This code lists the expectations of the Roquette Group in extortion and bribery. terms of human rights and ethical business practices, i.e. practices that are socially responsible and respectful of the this principle: see pages 20 to The Roquette Group respects 27, 37 to 39. this principle: see pages 34, 37 The Roquette Group respects this environment. The company expects its suppliers to share these same values and encourages them to ensure that the principle: see pages 14, 15, 56. principles of the Code of Conduct are respected throughout the supply chain. to 39. 56. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .57 GIVING THE STAKEHOLDERS A SAY A CULTURE SHARED BY OUR SUPPLIERS WHAT HAPPENED THAT YEAR? BD Graphic, a printer located close to the Lestrem The stakeholders are individuals or groups of individuals factory (France), has provided services to the company for nearly half a century. In 2013, like all suppliers of 2008 who influence or are influenced by the activities of the the Group, this subcontractor received Roquette’s Supplier Code of Conduct. Bernard DUHAMEAU, Our customers, company. The Roquette Group has identified all its In 2008, the Roquette Group created its Reliability & stakeholders: shareholders, employees, social partners, Director of BD Graphic, provides this testimony: Sustainable Development Dept. and listed all its stakeholders. Our commitment… customers, suppliers, associations, financial institutions, I had a feeling of pleasure, of pride even, to be Water and Sustainable Development were the themes public authorities, industrial and scientific partners, the among the suppliers of Roquette, a sentiment shared at the World Expo in Saragossa (Spain). media, etc. Taking into account their expectations serves to by our small team. While our structure is not on the The same year, Barack OBAMA became the first LISTENING adapt the mode of dialogue to each type of stakeholder, as same scale as Roquette, I fully subscribe to this code SERVICE Afro-American president of the United States of America. PARTNERSHIP QUALITY is illustrated in the following examples. of good conduct. We try on a daily basis to promote On the other side of the planet, Beijing prepared to host the RELIABILITY respect and confidence quite simply on a human 29th Olympic Games, at which three world records were set by EMPATHY SMILING level. I am persuaded by these two values, like all the the Jamaican Usain BOLT, the fastest man in the world! SERVICE INNOVATION DAYS FOR THE CUSTOMER PARTNERSHIP INNOVATING PROXIMITY LISTENING RELIABILITY others listed in the Supplier Code of Conduct that was PROXIMITY LISTENING SIMPLICITY CUSTOMER LOYALTY addressed to me in 2013. DEVELOPING! The Russian team in 2013 developed Innovation Days PARTNERSHIP SOLUTIONS dedicated to local customers. In terms of Sustainable Development, we have SMILING been engaged for the past few years in the standard Three main events mark these days, which cover both QUALITY QUALITY LISTENING SOLUTIONS SERVICE DEVELOPING technical and commercial aspects. First, a general Imprim’Vert , the label for printers respectful of the LISTENING PROXIMITY QUALITY presentation is given of the Roquette Group, its implantations PARTNERSHIP environment. SMILING PARTNERS IN THE GROUP APPROACH and the Moscow office. Then there is a presentation of new SERVICE PROACTIVE DISCOVERING products and new solutions in the sphere of interest of the ! LISTENING LISTENING SOLUTIONS DEVELOPING EXPERTISE RELIABILITY EXPERTISE SOLUTIONS QUALITY DEVELOPING customer, as well as on market trends. The customer is then Testimony from Crédit Agricole Nord de France: LISTENING given the opportunity to participate directly in a test in an SERVICE SHARING Crédit Agricole Nord de France has long been a financial application laboratory or sometimes even at the customer’s SOLUTIONS SERVICE IMPROVING partner of the Roquette Group. In recent years, each of these RELIABILITY DISCOVERING own site. This allows customers to address, or even directly DEVELOPING RELIABILITY two institutions has developed its own approach to Sustainable LISTENING CUSTOMER LOYALTY DISCOVERING resolve, any technical questions they may have. At the PARTNERSHIP QUALITY THE FAMILY UNIVERSITY Development and put in place a range of concrete actions. ASSISTING end of the day, an action plan is jointly defined from the The Roquette Group published its Sustainable Development & SIMPLICITY results obtained, with follow-up ensured by the teams of the Beyond the General Assemblies and Activity Report, which highlights its axes of development and its Roquette Group. the biannual informational meetings for innovations, in particular in terms of plant-based chemistry and This new collaborative approach constitutes an excellent shareholders, 2013 was marked by several sustainable alternatives to products derived from petroleum. way to develop dialogue with customers, to listen to their new initiatives and events to reinforce the Developments in plant-based chemistry are of particular concerns and respond to their expectations by providing affectio societatis, with opportunities for each interest to the Crédit Agricole Group, which since 2013 has solutions to their needs, which in turn improves overall shareholder to contribute to the future of the adopted an Environmental Card approach. A world first, customer satisfaction. Group. this innovation of the Crédit Agricole Group offers customers The first edition of the Roquette family university an eco-designed bank card. Bank cards have traditionally PLACING THE CUSTOMER AT THE HEART OF THE 12827Poster Client GB.indd 1 18/04/13 14:55 was launched in 2013, with leading guest been made out of PVC, a plastic considered toxic for the DAILY ACTIVITY speakers, debates and direct exchanges with environment. The eco-card is made with a material of plantthe Executive Team. This new periodic program based origin, derived from corn starch. Because the customer relationship exists in a world that provides a time for reflection and meetings is ever more competitive and complex, it is no longer a Working together to improve the environmental approaches of to collectively build the future of the familymatter only for the sales teams. It must now be a central the two Groups could be an occasion for the Roquette Group owned Group. The event was also an occasion part of the daily activity of each employee of the Group. and the Crédit Agricole Group to go beyond their financial for shareholders to discover the NORIAP With this strong conviction, the company has taken various partnership and add in the near future an industrial partnership cooperative, a supplier of reference for the actions to develop a shared customer culture. Here are a as well. FEEDBACK ON French factories of the Roquette Group for the few examples: sourcing of raw materials, and to celebrate in a SUCCESSFUL INTEGRATION Showcases presenting our customers’ finished products convivial family atmosphere the 80 years of the The Group Integration Seminar, the R&D Welcome that contain our ingredients have been set up in strategic company. Day, the Logistics School, all are actions dedicated areas of passage at most sites of the Group: production to the successful integration of employees. Let’s workshops, entrances to buildings, meeting rooms, etc. hear what the integrated have to say: At Lestrem (France), operations such as the Draw Me a Customer program (see page 36) allow the sales teams The Welcome Day is an excellent initiative because to meet with the industrial teams to discuss the needs of A MINISTER VISITS LESTREM it concerns all new arrivals, and the employees are customers. In the USA, all employees have received and very interested. I appreciated this day, which allowed signed a card attesting to their commitment to place the In July 2013, the Lestrem site (France) received the visit me to get to know people from other sectors in R&D customer at the heart of their daily activity. of Mr. Frederic CUVILLIER, Minister Delegate in charge and exchange information about our work. This of Transport, Fisheries and the Sea, accompanied by Another action consists in giving the customer a voice at initiative should be extended to all the departments! the Prefect of Pas-de-Calais and numerous elected the heart of the company. After a first testimony in 2012, a Virginie LEMORT, R&D Assistant at Lestrem (France) second customer, in the Human Nutrition sector this time, officials and representatives from the administration in accepted an invitation to directly address the employees charge of Transport. Participating in the Group Integration Seminar is for us an excellent way to see what we provide of the company. In an interview filmed at its headquarters, Accompanied by several representatives of the directly to the company. We learn what’s being done this customer objectively shared its vision of the Roquette Roquette family and a few directors of the company, elsewhere, and this motivates us to try to apply Group. Thanks to this video listing strong points and areas the ministerial delegation was given an opportunity these lessons within our own region. for improvement, each employee becomes aware of all the to discover the extent of the site, with a guided tour challenges involved in a successful customer relationship. and an on-site presentation of the corn starch plant. Nasser SYED, Sales Director, Southeast Asia It makes them realize that the Roquette Group is not the The visit continued with a meeting to address the (Singapore) only actor on the market and that the company must, now challenges of opening up and providing accessibility Mr. Frederic CUVILLIER, Minister of Transport, Fisheries and the Sea, is greeted by more than never, rise to the expectations of its customers. to the Lestrem site as part of its ongoing development. Mr. Edouard ROQUETTE at Lestrem (France). 58. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .59 3,000 KM BY BIKE / FIRE EMERGENCY / TURKEY CHINA A biking rally between Istanbul (Turkey) and Strasbourg In March 2013, a pile of wood caught fire in (France), covering 3,000 km and cycling through 10 an area of Qianye, close to the Lianyungang countries, was the challenge accepted by 25 students factory. Alerted about the incident, the factory’s and 15 professors from a local school in Istanbul. emergency firefighting team rapidly arrived Roquette Turkey provided financial support for this on the scene. By the time the city fire brigade adventure of sport and good citizenship! arrived with 10 fire trucks and 30 firefighters, the fire was already under control! EDUCATION / INDIA Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi continued in 2013 its support for YUVA Unstoppable, an NGO committed to improving living conditions and education of children in India. SUPPORT FOR MISSISSIPPI / USA LOCAL COMMUNITIES Operation Mississippi Cleanup at Keokuk : Roquette America sponsored this convivial environmental event, which brought together more than 70 people, including employees of the company, family and friends. The program included cleaning RESTORATION OF FIGHTING MALNUTRITION / ROQUETTE GROUP up the river banks, educational workshops, and activities for WOODLANDS / U.K. the preservation of the site, such as the planting of trees. The restoration of the old woodlands in the On the strength of one of its core values, Solidarity, month program at the application development centers in town of Corby, a project in which Roquette the Roquette Group works with Antenna Technologies, Lestrem (France) and Mumbai (India), and also thanks to a foundation that fights malnutrition in the world, by helping in the implantation and development of farms to the active collaboration of various Roquette Group teams in France and India. U.K. was already engaged last year, continued in 2013. Armed with shovels, boots SOLIDARITY WITH grow spirulina. This microalgae is very rich in nutriments, including proteins, vitamins (A, D, B12…), fatty acids of With the help of the Antenna Foundation, these jellies have and raincoats, two groups of volunteers from Roquette U.K. joined a team from the local POPULATIONS IN NEED/ been tested in Madurai in southern India, on a panel of type omega-6, and oligo-elements. A child suffering from malnutrition can be restored to health with one to three about a hundred children. The kids appreciated the taste test, and said they were eager to eat this fruit jelly on a daily association devoted to this cause, to clean the drainage ditches of the old woods. ITALY grams of spirulina per day for four to six weeks, in addition basis. Two initiatives were launched in 2013 by Roquette Italy to a balanced diet. The project will continue in 2014. The main objective now to help people in the Philippines who were affected For the past two years, the company has provided Antenna is to find a partner to manufacture and package these by a recent typhoon, and Sardinia, which was hit by with its know-how in order to find an accessible solution, to candies. They could then be tested more broadly in the extreme weather. A voluntary fund-raising drive was distribute spirulina in the form of a pleasure product, such context of the program Feed one million children with organized: employees who joined the initiative donated as a healthy candy, that would be appreciated by children. spirulina in India , which is being run by the Antenna 1 hour of their salary, an amount then doubled by the In 2013, the project developed a fruit jelly that contains 6% Foundation with an Indian non-governmental organization company as its contribution. In total, nearly 15,000 € spirulina. This development was possible thanks to a sixand another French foundation. were raised and sent to victims via the Italian Red Cross. FOCUS ON /// ANTENNA Antenna Technologies France is an association created in 2002 under France’s 1901 law. It is an offshoot of the Antenna Technologies association created in 1989 in Geneva, at the initiative of Denis Von Der Weid and a network SOLIDARITY CALENDAR / SPAIN of top scientists. In 2010, that association became the Antenna Foundation. The Foundation’s mission is to establish innovative and sustainable local solutions to make technologies available to disadvantaged populations, while allowing For the seventh consecutive year, Roquette Spain has sponsored the local them to be actors in their own development. Its actions focus on two main areas: malnutrition and access to drinking association for the disabled persons SOM I ESTEM for the publication of water. its solidarity calendar. This year, the calendar was entirely designed by the company, with photos shot exclusively by its employees, on and off the site. 60. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .61 DETERMINING THE PERIMETERS In order to consolidate the reporting and ensure its reliability, several methodological notes have been prepared to define the perimeters and give precise Roquette Frères S.A. definitions of the indicators. These have been written Attestation de présence de l’un des commissaires aux comptes, désigné organisme so that they can be understood by the whole Group. tiers indépendant, sur les informations sociales, environnementales et sociétales consolidées figurant dans le rapport de gestion Several perimeters have been defined according to Exercice clos le 31 décembre 2013 their indicators (pages 64 and 65): Aux actionnaires, Regarding the social indicators, the Group perimeter En notre qualité de commissaire aux comptes de la société Roquette Frères S.A. désigné organisme tiers includes the legal entity ROQUETTE FRERES and all indépendant, dont la recevabilité de la demande d’accréditation a été admise par le COFRAC, nous avons établi la présente attestation sur les informations sociales, environnementales et sociétales consolidées its subsidiaries controlled directly or indirectly with relatives à l’exercice clos le 31 décembre 2013, présentées dans le rapport de gestion (ci-après les a holding of more than 50% at 31 December of the « Informations RSE »), en application des dispositions de l’article L.225-102-1 du code du commerce. relevant year. The restricted perimeter includes the Responsabilité de la société Il appartient au Conseil d’administration d’établir un rapport de gestion comprenant les Informations RSE legal entity ROQUETTE FRERES and all its industrial prévues à l’article R.225-105-1 du code de commerce, préparées conformément aux référentiels utilisés par subsidiaries integrated into the Roquette Group for la société (ci-après les « Référentiels »), dont un résumé figure dans le rapport de gestion et disponibles sur demande au siège de la société. at least 2 years at 1 January of the relevant year, Indépendance et contrôle qualité controlled directly or indirectly with a holding of more Notre indépendance est définie par les textes réglementaires, le code de déontologie de la profession ainsi than 50% and having a workforce of more than 50 que les dispositions prévues à l’article L.822-11 du code de commerce. Par ailleurs, nous avons mis en place un système de contrôle qualité qui comprend des politiques et des procédures documentées visant employees. à assurer le respect des règles déontologiques, des normes d’exercice professionnel et des textes légaux et For the environmental indicators, the perimeter réglementaires applicables. Responsabilité du commissaire aux comptes defined concerns all industrial sites integrated into Il nous appartient, sur la base de nos travaux, d’attester que les Informations RSE requises sont présentes the Roquette Group since at least 3 years at 1 January dans le rapport de gestion ou font l’objet, en cas d’omission, d’une explication en application du troisième of the relevant year, controlled directly or indirectly alinéa de l’article R.225-105 du code de commerce. Il ne nous appartient pas de vérifier la pertinence et la sincérité des Informations RSE. with a holding of more than 50% and for which energy Nos travaux ont été effectués par une équipe de trois personnes entre février et mars 2014. Nous avons fait appel, pour nous assister dans la réalisation de nos travaux, à nos experts en matière de RSE. consumption is superior to 1,000 TOE/ year. Nature et étendue des travaux Lastly, the perimeter determined for the environmental Nous avons conduit les travaux suivants conformément aux normes d’exercice professionnel applicables en performance indicators concern all industrial sites EVALUATING AND MEASURING France et à l’arrêté du 13 mai 2013 déterminant les modalités dans lesquelles l’organisme tiers indépendant conduit sa mission : integrated into the Roquette Group since at least 3 nous avons pris connaissance, sur la base d’entretiens avec les responsables des directions concernées, years at 1 January of the relevant year, controlled de l’exposé des orientations en matière de développement durable, en fonction des conséquences sociales et environnementales liées à l’activité de la société et de ses engagements sociétaux et, le cas échéant, des directly or indirectly with a holding of more than actions ou programmes qui en découlent ; PERFORMANCE nous avons comparé les Informations RSE présentées dans le rapport de gestion avec la liste prévue par 50% and for which energy consumption is superior l’article R.225-105-1 du code du commerce ; to 5,000 TOE/year for the two years preceding the en cas d’absence de certaines informations consolidées, nous avons vérifié que des explications étaient fournies conformément aux dispositions de l’article R.225-105 alinéa 3 du code du commerce ; financial year. nous avons vérifié que les Informations RSE couvraient le périmètre consolidé, à savoir la société ainsi que ses filiales au sens de l’article L.233-1 et les sociétés qu’elle contrôle au sens de l’article L.233-3 du code de commerce, avec les limites précisées dans les parties « Reporting social Annexes » et « Reporting environnemental Annexes » du rapport de gestion. CLEARLY DEFINED INDICATORS Sur la base de ces travaux, nous attestons de la présence dans le rapport de gestion des Informations RSE requises. L’un des Commissaires aux comptes, le 27 mars 2014, KPMG Audit Département de KPMG S.A. IN LINE WITH GRENELLE Since 2008, the Roquette Group has voluntarily and procedures for measurement and reporting, inspired by Christian de Brianson Philippe Arnaud proactively published a report listing the main actions of best practices, have been defined by a group of experts Associé Associé Département Changement the company on the three main themes of Sustainable representing the different functions and business sectors Climatique & Développement Development: environmental, social/societal and of the company. They cover the 29 themes imposed by the Durable economic. Grenelle II law. In 2012, a decree was issued under France’s Grenelle II The report was written and integrated in the Management law (article 225) requiring companies that are not listed report. One of the auditors, KPMG, wrote a statement on stock exchanges, but are above a certain threshold in of completeness of the CSR information testifying to terms of workforce and turnover, to communicate certain the presence of 29 themes related to Corporate Social extra-financial data in their management reports. The extraResponsibility as required by the legal decree. Most of the INDICATORS BASED ON INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS financial information corresponds to social, environmental information is also listed in this Sustainable Development and societal data, defined and consolidated on the basis & Activity Report, sometimes in significantly more detail. The extra-financial reporting consists in measuring a of the reporting procedures in application. Regarding the quantitative indicators, for the last three company’s performance in this area, when possible, For the Roquette Group, this rule became effective as of the years the Roquette Group has relied on the Guidelines of communicating the results via indicators, then rendering closing of the 2013 fiscal year. As a result, methodological the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). account to the internal and external stakeholders. To prepare its Sustainable Development & Activity Report, the Roquette Group took inspiration from the G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Used throughout the world, the GRI provides a framework for reporting on Sustainable Development. These Guidelines are designed FOCUS ON /// THE GRENELLE LAW for be universally applicable by all organizations, regardless The Grenelle environmental law, launched in France in 2007, is the result of a commitment by the President of the of their size. They also constitute an international reference Republic. It translates the desire to reshape environmental policy in France and collectively create the conditions for for all those interested in the communication of information new growth. Its legislative implementation is set forth in two laws: the Grenelle I law (voted by Parliament in 2009) which on the governance and environmental, social and economic defines the framework, and the Grenelle II law (voted by Parliament in 2010) which puts the latter into application. This performance of companies. This report therefore contains second law implements six main projects: housing and urban development, transportation, energy, biodiversity and elements derived from the G4 Guidelines, such as for example agriculture, the management of waste and health risks, and governance. the references for indicators (G4-…) listed in the tables on pages 64 and 65. 62. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .63 THE ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS (1) THE SOCIAL INDICATORS (1) 2013 2012 GRI (1) 2013 2012 GRI (1) 7,451 ENERGY CONSUMED WORKFORCE (2) (Group perimeter) 7,938 7,817 7,249 Electricity GWh (2) 2,280 2,247 G4-EN3 Europe 4,771 4,766 G4-10 7,163 Natural gas GWh 7,163 7,249 G4-EN3 America 602 614 G4-10 Heavy fuel ton (t) 4 5,120 G4-EN3 Asia 1,309 1,355 G4-10 Domestic fuel m3 1,008 792 G4-EN3 6,662 Coal + Pet Coke kt (3) 335 312 G4-EN3 India 1,256 1,082 G4-10 Wood kt (50% DS) (4) 159 132 G4-EN3 2011 2012 2013 GROUP 7,938 7,817 G4-11 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Straw t (85% DS) 6,255 0 G4-EN3 Consumption of natural gas Ton of oil equivalent t/kt of starch 214 234 G4-EN3 Total workforce of PROFESSIONAL EQUALITY (2) (Group perimeter) of the Roquette Group (in GWh) the Roquette Group Men workforce 6,352 5,187 (3) G4-LA12 ENERGY PRODUCED including % managers 12.5 % 12.0 % (3) G4-LA12 Electricity GWh 1,372 1,280 G4-EN3 Women workforce 1,586 1,548 (3) G4-LA12 Biogas GWh 47 55 EN22 including % managers 12.6% 12.0% (3) G4-LA12 49 TONS Ratio Women/Men 25.0% 29.8% (3) G4-LA12 WATER 75% Pumping Rivers 103 m3 57,107 61,736 G4-EN8 EQ. CO2 / KT OF Aquifers 103 m3 12,788 12,847 G4-EN8 Men NEW HIRES / DEPARTURES (Group perimeter) Urban network 10 m 3 3 10,482 12,233 G4-EN8 STARCH Water restored 103 m3 48,697 29,559 G4-EN22 New hires 423 473 (3) G4-LA1 Resignations 285 307 (3) G4-LA1 IN 2013 COD (5) emissions t/kt of starch 1.40 1.84 G4-EN22 Women Terminations 84 64 (3) G4-LA1 25% The decline, compared to Deceased 15 11 (3) G4-LA1 2012, is the result of all actions AIR designed to reduce CO2 Distribution of Women/Men Retirees 90 67 (3) G4-LA1 emissions. CO2 emissions t eq. CO2/kt of starch (6) 504 553 G4-EN16 in the Roquette Group in 2013 Other departures 25 85 (3) G4-LA1 SO2 emissions t/kt of starch 0.27 0.35 G4-EN21 NOx emissions t/kt of starch 0.44 0.34 G4-EN21 Dusts t/kt of starch 0.16 0.21 G4-EN21 TRAINING (Restricted perimeter) Training: average number of hours/employee 27 27 G4-LA9 WASTE 121 88,956 Dangerous t/kt amidon 0.17 1.41 G4-EN23 86,816 INSERTION OF DISABLED WORKERS (France perimeter) Non dangerous t/kt amidon 33 35 G4-EN23 117 80,377 115 Disabled workers 121 117 G4-LA12 Revaluated (except field spreading) t/kt amidon 21 24 G4-EN23 t eq. 100 % MS/kt Field spreading amidon 35 48 G4-EN23 CONDITIONS OF HYGIENE AND SAFETY (Group perimeter) 32.6% 34.1% 60.6% Accidents with lost time FR1 (4) 2.9 2.4 G4-LA6 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (7) 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Accidents with or without lost time FR2 (5) 8.2 8.6 G4-LA6 2011 2012 2013 Consumption of pumped water Energy ratio 1.01 1.01 by the Roquette Group Number of workers Lost days 1,768 2,070 G4-LA6 Water ratio 1.30 1.27 (in thousands of m3) with a disability and quantity restored (in %) GES t eq. CO2 avoided 543,882 507,147 G4-EN19 (Roquette France) Severity Rate (6) 0.12 0.14 G4-LA6 (1) Perimeter and GRI: see page 63 (2) GWh: Giga Watt per hour (1) Perimeter and GRI: see page 63 (3) kt: 103 metric ton (2) Open-Term Contracts and Fixed-Term Contracts at 31 december (4) DS: Dry Substance (3) Key figures for Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi not included in 2012 (5) COD: Chemical Oxygen Demand (4) FR1= Frequency Rate 1: number of accidents with lost time per million hours worked (6) eq.: equivalent (5) FR2= Frequency Rate 2: number of accidents declared per million hours worked (7) Performance indicators Energy: see page 38, Water: see page 23, GES: see page 26 (6) Number of lost days (not including the day of the accident) per thousand hours worked 64. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .65 page 30: Matthieu COSSART (Lestrem, France) page 52: José RODRIGUEZ SEBASTIA, José MARTI DONAT, page 31: Marine DURIEZ (Lestrem, France) Jordi BELTRAN SOLER, José Manuel BARBERAN PILES, Noelia CANTO CABALLERO, Miguel page 32: Gary LYNCH and his dog Maddie MAHIQUES CALABUIG and Salvador FERRIS (Geneva, USA) NACHER (Benifayo, Spain) page 34: Vincent COURBOIS (Lestrem, France) page 52: Suhas SURESH MORE, Ajeet BELAVI, page 35: Jianpeng KOU and Guangyan CAO Ravindra KALAGATE (Gokak, India) (Lianyungang, China) page 54: Steve CLARK, Shelley HULKA and Chris page 36: Paolo CALISSANO, Thomas PIGNARI, SCARROTT (Corby, U.K.) Sandro MANCA and Giorgio BISIO page 56: Philippe OLIVIER (Lestrem, France) (Cassano, Italy) page 62: Tyler ROBERTSON (Corby, U.K.) page 37: Eric BERNOS, Cédric DE CONINCK, Christophe VROMANT, Thibault LACINA, PRINTING OF THE DETACHABLE TANGRAM Patricia DOLLET, Géraldine DHINAUX, BD Graphic François DUPAS, Franck CHUFFART and Stéphane MARISSAL (Lestrem, France), PRINTING OF THE REPORT Weiwei KANG (Shanghai, China), Reprography Dept. of the Lestrem site (France) Rick O’HARA (Keokuk, USA), The paper used for this report was made using materials from Viren THAKKAR (Ahmedabad, India) sustainably managed forests. page 38: Stephano CASO (Cassano, Italy) LEGAL INFORMATION page 40: Isabelle BLANCHO (Lestrem, France), Rajendra BORA, Anand SRIVASTVA The information contained in this document is accurate, (Pantnagar, India) to the best of our knowledge; however, all indications, recommendations or suggestions are provided without page 46: Sophie MARCILLE, Camille BUREL, any guarantees, stated or implied. In addition, none of the ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Guillaume SALAUN, Romain JOLY and information provided in this document should be considered Laurent COUSIN (Lestrem, France) as permission or incitement to infringe on any patent. page 47: Louis-Jacques DEBEUSSCHER, Thierry Any partial or total reproduction of the contents of this document TO THE CONTRIBUTORS POIRET, Laurence FILLEBEEN and Françoisis strictly forbidden unless prior written authorization has been Régis DORGEVILLE (Lestrem, France) provided by ROQUETTE FRERES. page 47: Sophie BASSEMENT and Marie-Laure ® and ™ are registered trademarks of ROQUETTE FRERES. MORONVAL (Lestrem, France) WE ARE INTERESTED IN YOUR OPINION page 49: Deepali SUREKA, Rachit OZA, Vaibhav You can write to us at the following address: We thank all the employees and stakeholders who have TALENTS CAPTURED PANCHOLI and Mukesh SHARMA contributed to the preparation of this 2013 Sustainable ROQUETTE FRERES Nearly all the men and women shown in the photographs (Ahmedabad, India) Development & Activity Report. Reliability and Sustainable Development Management used to illustrate this report are among the 8,000 talented page 50: Fabien BARRAS and Gérald WESOLEK 1, rue Haute Loge TEAMWORK employees who compose the Roquette Group. (Lestrem, France) 62136 LESTREM The Sustainable Development team: page 1: Jingfeng LIU and Yingbo ZHU (Lianyungang, page 50: Céline COUPLET (Vecquemont, France), FRANCE Anne LAMBIN and Marie-Gabrielle BAILLY. China and Lestrem, France) Sarah DUCULTY, Maïté FERRANT and Tel: + 33.3.21.63.36.00 The contributors from each site of the Group. page 12: Gina STEFFENSMEIER (Geneva, USA) César AUBERT (Lestrem, France) E-mail: developpementdurable@roquette.com LUNA CREATIONS. page 13: Christophe DUCORNETZ, Stéphane LOURME, Hélène GALLOIS and Odile COURBOIS PHOTO CREDITS David TRINH, Gonzague DIERS, Marie-Gabrielle BAILLY, (Lestrem, France) www.roquette.com page 13: Carole CIESIELSKI and her cat Crystale Mélanie SERGHERAERT, Christophe HAZEBROUCK, Jean-François HERLEM and Philippe OLIVIER. (Lestrem, France) The Internal Communication Correspondents of the Group. page 13: Benjamin BAPTISTE, Frédéric FACON and Jean-Michel ROTURIER (Lestrem, France) NOTES External photographers: page 13: Hubert DHOISNE, Alain CORDONNIER, Patrick JAMES, Jean-Christophe PIOT, Patrick MULLER (passion-apiculture.over-blog.com), Grégory DESVAUX and Loïc DELATTRE NAM. ART. PHOTOGRAPHY, Nicolas VALET (AIRELE), (Lestrem, France). AVERTI, SIME. page 28: Damien RAECKELBOOM (Lestrem, France) FOCUS ON /// INFORMATION THAT IS ACCESSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE The accessibility of digital information constitutes an essential domain of responsible communication. In France alone, there are more than two million people who are blind or visually impaired who are concerned by the problems of digital accessibility. It is today possible to use assistive technology on a PDF document to make it more accessible and allow everyone in the world to read it. The screen readers used by people who are blind or visually impaired integrate functions to read and navigate in these PDF documents. In addition, the Roquette Group offers the option of receiving this Sustainable Development & Activity Report in a PDF format that can be accessed and downloaded from its Internet portal at www.roquette.com Roquette Frères S.A. 06/2014 (EN1) 66. ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2013 ROQUETTE .67
