Connect | Collaborate| Secure | Enhance Our World United Needs Con,nued Support Of The United Na,ons Global Compact May 20, 2014 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to conﬁrm that United Needs reaﬃrms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Na,ons Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and An,-­‐Corrup,on. In this annual Communica,on on Progress, we describe our ac,ons to con,nually improve the integra,on of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily opera,ons. We also commit to share this informa,on with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communica,on. Sincerely yours, Jason Blair Founder & CEO United Needs 1 6/6/14 Conﬁden,ality. All Rights Reserved United Needs DECLARATION “Applying Barely Repeatable Business Processes (BRP) and Technology to the United Na,ons Global Compact Ten Principles and the United Na,ons Millennium Goals” Date: May 20, 2014 This paper concerns the subject of how United Needs is using the concept of Barely Repeatable Business Processes (BRP) to align itself with the United Na,ons Global Compact Ten Principles as well as the UN Millennium Development Goals. The United Needs pla^orm called the United Needs Exchange Pla^orm (UNXP) currently being constructed, intents to provide the necessary informa,on technology infrastructure to enable supporters of to the United Na,ons Global Compact (UNGC) and the en,re United Na,ons to much more eﬃciently apply its principles and goals to resolve the world’s needs in all categories through human collabora,on in the BRP framework. United Needs will con,nue to support and commit the UNGC on going ini,a,ves and its 10 principles for many years to come. It is our corporate and personal responsibility to do so. Sincerely yours, Jason Blair Founder & CEO United Needs 2 6/6/14 Conﬁden,ality. All Rights Reserved United Needs UNITED NEEDS INTRODUCTION • United Needs (UNC) is a wholly-­‐owned Invizeon subsidiary of Invizeon Corpora,on. Owns United Needs Founda,on • UNC is developing a “game-­‐changing” United Needs Enhancing technology pla^orm to improve the way Servicing Developing Growing & Suppor,ng Developing Economies social and economic needs are iden,ﬁed, matched, nego,ated, and transacted globally. Game-­‐Changing Technology • UNC technology address a $1 Trillion market of annual Social Spending. 3 6/6/14 Conﬁden,ality. All Rights Reserved United Needs THE GLOBAL PROBLEM • Advanced economies annually provide nearly $1 trillion in assistance to developing countries -­‐ we call this “social spending”. • The current way this money ﬂows is ad-­‐hoc, isolated, bureaucra,cally driven and the methodology and technology used to deploy this capital and measure results is an,quated, not transparent, and extremely ineﬃcient. • Consequently, this $1 trillion in social spending on projects in developing na,ons rarely translates into sustainable economic ac,vity. ADVANCED ECONOMIES DEVELOPING NATIONS Foundations Development AID (ODA) Individuals $ Individuals! Governments NGOs The LIMITED THIS IS A Corporations (CSR) PUBLIC & PRIVATE SECTORS Outcome Accountability Transparency = VERY POOR Results ROI. Spend Over $1 Trillion In Social Receives $1 Trillion In Sustainability Capital For Needs Development Assistance 4 6/6/14 Conﬁden,ality. All Rights Reserved United Needs THE GLOBAL DEMAND ADVANCED ECONOMIES DEVELOPING ECONOMIES Seek greater access to developing countries’ Seek to convert social spending into resources, beler outcomes from their social sustainable economic development and increased trade opportuni,es with advanced spending, long-­‐term poli,cal and economic economies. stability. D e v e l o p i n g m a r k e t s a r e u n a b l e t o Advanced market systems are driven by interoperate with ERP based advanced linear Easily Repeatable Process (ERP) markets because their economies are based resul,ng from access to greater access to on Barely Repeatable Processes (BRP) due to i n f o r m a , o n a n d e m p o w e r e d b y the lack of technology, informa,on and technologies like Microsom, SAP, Oracle, & standards that are inherent to advanced Google Desktop. markets. 5 6/6/14 Conﬁden,ality. All Rights Reserved United Needs THE ROOT OF THE PROBLEM Capital Providers Input Providers Processors Advanced Economies ERPs = Somewhat Eﬃcient Trade Advanced Economies Facilitators Sellers Logis,cs Buyers $1 Trillion of annual Social Capital fails to produce sustainable economic Social development because trade occurring both within developing markets and Capital between developing markets and advanced markets are comprised of BRPs. Flows Buyers Sellers Facilitators Processors Developing Economies BRPs = Ineﬃcient Trade Advanced Economies Logis,cs Input Providers Capital Providers 6 6/6/14 Conﬁden,ality. All Rights Reserved United Needs THE UNITED NEEDS SOLUTION The United Needs Exchange Pla^orm (UNXP) is Micro-­‐Banking Solu0ons a game changing Economic Transac,on E-­‐Commerce & Auc0ons Payment Gateway Pla^orm that connects the trade ecosystems of developing economies with advanced global markets. Collabora0ons Fulﬁllment Services UNXP integrates the best elements of social networking, crowd & micro ﬁnance, e-­‐ Social & Crowd Sourcing Network Big Data c o m m e r c e , a u c , o n s , s u p p l y c h a i n management and big data and revolu,onizes this $1 Trillion economic ecosystem by: UNXP solves these issues by taking BRP • Automa,ng the Barely Repeatable scenarios and conver,ng them into coherent Processes (BRP) inherent within the sub sets of ERP, which are able to ecosystems of the developing world. interoperate with Advanced Market • C o n n e c , n g t h e m w i t h t h e E a s i l y standards and systems. This means the Repeatable Processes (ERP) programs and ecosystem is more eﬃcient, costs are systems of the advanced economies. reduced and lives are improved. 7 6/6/14 Conﬁden,ality. All Rights Reserved United Needs WHAT IS UNXP? • A simple process based matching, collabora,on, nego,a,on, sellement and fulﬁllment infrastructure or framework that aﬀords Subscribers the means to process requests, informa,on, capital, goods and services. • A ﬂexible and non-­‐sta,c infrastructure allowing any unpredictable humanitarian or business process or Barely Repeatable Processes (BRP) to be scaled and quickly added to the Pla^orm across mul,ple value-­‐streams. Types Of Social Capital Economic Capital Development Exchanges Flows Flows UNXP Core Processes MATCHING COLLABORATIONS NEGOTIATIONS SETTLEMENTS FULFILLMENTS UNXP Evolving Commodi,es UNGC Principles & Global Indicators Global Big Data Data MDGs Data 8 6/6/14 Conﬁden,ality. All Rights Reserved United Needs HOW DOES UNXP DO IT? “ W e n e e d g r e a t e r • UNXP provides more choice and direct transparency to those SOCIAL transparency and choice in who distribute the $1 T and growing social capital ﬂows. where our money goes. We CAPITAL need measurable results T $1 versus just believing someone • UNXP recipients of social capital in developing na,ons are is making an impact.” willing to do anything to con,nue receiving the $1 T • UNXP alracts social capital and trade demand to the pla^orm because it provides “total transac,on transparency”, which is the big barrier to connec,ng developing markets with the “I was trained, set-­‐apart and given the ability to compete advanced global markets beyond my local market. I produced more and made more money. I now have the • UNXP streamlines capital ﬂows from ecosystem “upstream” ability with this technology to sources (i.e.; smallholder/ﬁsherman) to “down stream” end provide for my family” user groups (i.e.; end-­‐buyers) with auditable levels of eﬃciency. DEVELOPING MARKETS • UNXP drives “user adop,on” to the pla^orm through providing an total end-­‐to end transac,on pla^orm, connec,ng beler “qualiﬁed” users to a complete ecosystem of new markets for trade, social capital and micro-­‐ﬁnance. UNXP Sustainable economic development Uni,ng Needs simply unites those in social need with those who created, which advances the overall provide sustainable economic solu,ons. economy. 9 6/6/14 Conﬁden,ality. All Rights Reserved United Needs WHAT MAKES UNXP SERVICES UNIQUE? Other web-­‐based trade pla^orms only serve as a marketplace, not impac,ng human needs. The UNXP handles the actual need processes (people, goods, services and capital) automa,cally; step-­‐by-­‐step assuring completeness of the process without having to remember what to do, assuring full and auditable accountability, legality, security and handovers. It also eliminates the use of email and other ad-­‐hoc communica,on methods as well as escrows and other costly third party services. Process Company A Company B Company C Company D Company E Matching NO NO NO Yes NO Yes Collabora,on Par,al Yes Yes Yes Par,al Yes Nego,a,on Par,al Par,al NO NO Par,al Yes Sellement Par,al Par,al NO NO NO Yes Fulﬁllment NO Par,al Par,al NO NO Yes Social Development NO NO NO Yes NO Yes 10 6/6/14 Conﬁden,ality. All Rights Reserved United Needs UNXP & MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS “UNXP was designed to create g r e a t e r t r a n s p a r e n c y , increased accountability, help mi,gate risk and enable more eﬃcient processes for anyone UNXP who has a need.” Digital, par,cularly social Fixed-­‐broadband prices drop pla^orms like Facebook and by 82% between 2008 and 2012. Google, engage with Over the past ﬁve years, consumers in developing ﬁxed-­‐broadband prices as a na,ons. The inﬂuence of new GPS share of GNI per capita technologies like UNXP will dropped by 82%. mean new approaches, and products and tools will travel SMS Alerts faster, beler and cheaper. There are 1.5 billion UNXP is designed to Communica0ons subscrip,ons in developed Mobile Factbook 2013 work on android and na,ons, which is similar to predicts that mobile iPhone smart devices 2013. With 120.8 percent subscribers worldwide mobile penetra,on, there and computers. is already more than one will reach 7.5 billion by the end of 2014 and There are nearly 7 billion mobile subscrip,on per mobile subscrip,ons 8.5 billion by the end person of 2016 worldwide, es,mates says the Interna,onal Telecommunica,on Union (May 2014). This is equivalent to 95.5 percent of the world popula,on. Mobile communica,ons are helping to reduce poverty, increase literacy rates, enable more compe,,ve trade, and simply help people to have their needs beler met. 11 6/6/14 Conﬁden,ality. All Rights Reserved United Needs UNXP PRODUCT & MARKETING DEMO UNXP Admin Demo UNXP Admin Demo UNXP Core Back-­‐End UNXP Agri Video 12 6/6/14 Conﬁden,ality. All Rights Reserved United Needs PILOT PROGRAMME JOINT COOPERATION UNITED NEEDS CORPORATION (UNC) UNITED NEEDS FOUNDATON (UNF) (For-­‐Proﬁt) (Not-­‐For-­‐Proﬁt) • Will be responsible for crea,ng and suppor,ng a • Will be responsible for scaling the current Bahamian community development center that United Needs Exchange Pla^orm (UNXP) with oﬀers individuals and businesses a cer,ﬁca,on UNF into a controlled 15 Month pilot programme (fair trade prac,ces, UNGC 10 programme that makes more eﬃcient the Principle educa,on, na,onal iden,ﬁca,on, agriculture and marine sectors within the inspec,on and and work-­‐force training) that Bahamas. The pilot programme will begin late promotes sustainable economic development. 2014. • Will work with United Needs to further and • Will be responsible for providing level 2 and 3 enhance the UNXP by providing local exper,se to support to UNXP system users. their development team. • Will deliver to UNC a perpetual license and • Will be responsible for helping to onboard, train support agreement to u,lize and distribute the and provide level 1 support to cer,ﬁed UNXP UNXP throughout the CARICOM territories. system users. • Will scale the UNXP system beyond the pilot • Will be responsible for marke,ng their services programme to other CARICOM countries in to the donor community. parallel with the UNF. 13 6/6/14 Conﬁden,ality. All Rights Reserved United Needs PILOT PROGRAMME UNF SERVICES UNF Social Impact Donors Social Impact Community Territorial Implementa0on With Support Cer0ﬁca0on & Crowd-­‐sourcing Portals & Grants United Needs Corpora0on (UNC) Professional Services $ Local Development Center Established “Government Programmes, Founda0ons, CSR & Individuals Sponsor UNF Work. Development Center Plan Ini,ated (i.e.; agriculture/marine need) UNXP Performs Cer,ﬁca,on Development Services Permits Fair Trade Inspec,on Donors Buyers Vexng ID Micro-­‐ﬁnance Inputs Facilitators Logis,cs Work-­‐Force Training Provides Professional UNXP Training & Support Services to Developing UNGC Impact Principles Advanced Markets Markets Economic Educa,on UNXP Users Sellers Capital Sources Processors Social Educa,on Quality Controls On-­‐Boards Ecosystem Manufacturing Users Into UNXP Cer,ﬁed Users 14 6/6/14 Conﬁden,ality. All Rights Reserved United Needs PILOT PROGRAMME MARKET & USERS UNF Licenses UNXP Technology from UNC FOUNDATION PERFORMS UNF On-­‐boards & Trains Pilot Programme Users PILOT PROGRAMME CERTIFICATION & SERVICES UNXP Partners & Supporters CONTROLLED PILOT PROGRAMME Bahamas Contribute Services & Exper,se To Pilot Programme Development & Ongoing Services Smallholders | Fisherman Facilitators (NGOs & Experts) Input Providers Capital Providers (micro & programmes) Processors End-­‐Buyers Fulﬁllment Providers (Transporta,on, Insurance, Customs, Inspec,on) 15 6/6/14 Conﬁden,ality. All Rights Reserved United Needs PILOT PROGRAMME UNXP FLOW UNXP Smallholder/Fisherman and all Smallholder/Fisherman uses UNXP to Smallholder/Fisherman use UNXP to link with ecosystem Subscribers are on-­‐boarded determine economic need (i.e.; capital to micro-­‐ ins,tu,ons, subsidy programmes, farm into UNXP by UNF buy goods and services). credits that will help them purchase goods and services. Smallholder/Fisherman micro-­‐capital funds and Smallholder/Fisherman completes UNF Smallholder/Fisherman required to determine cost of goods credits held in UNXP controlled account un,l socio-­‐economic cer,ﬁca,on as a and services to UNXP Subscribers. Amer auc,on, UNF cer,ﬁca,on is completed and cost of goods condi,on of receiving funds. Social nego,a,ons and sellement winning goods and services and services have been determined. capital ﬂows help pay for for UNF providers are paid by the UNXP once fulﬁllment is cer,ﬁca,on completed. Smallholder/Fisherman receives goods and services to help fulﬁll their needs. Smallholder/Fisherman u,lizes the ongoing All needs in the Pla^orm ecosystem Smallholder/Fisherman increase their yield and UNF work-­‐force training and their acquired between all Subscribers are aligned with receives UNF inspec,on services from UNXP Service goods to sustain and grow their business. global ini,a,ves Subscribers to validate the quality and quan,ty of goods oﬀered. Smallholder/Fisherman and all ecosystem Smallholder/Fisherman use the UNXP Smallholder/Fisherman use the UNXP to let the Subscribers in Subscribers are given direct access to the local to determine where and how to sell the marketplace compete. Service providers also compete to and global marketplaces within the UNXP their goods in the marketplace. provide services to end-­‐buyers. Smallholder/Fisherman and ecosystem maximizes proﬁt and impact. 16 6/6/14 Conﬁden,ality. All Rights Reserved United Needs UNGC PRINCIPLES United Needs and BRP as they relate to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact As the UN cannot impose any speciﬁc informa,on capture or documenta,on method on third par,es unless they work directly with the UN, the UN must show the way. This can be As ERPs are well structured, the results are also well documented and therefore any twofold: required compliance will be rela,vely easy to ensure. 1. Lead the way by showing how it can be done by ensuring full transparency, The real problems arise from the current methods used to register and document BRP accountability and untouchable historical records in all their own ac,vi,es, and ac,vi,es and results, almost exclusively by repor,ng in areas, the results are consequently 2. Ensure that all dealings with third par,es are following the same procedures. i.e. only as good (or bad) as the reporter chooses to be without any path to deeper insight by using the same system and processes. any outside body. In other words, the UN could set the standard: Rules and regula,ons are only as good (or bad) as the underlying systems that will capture the on-­‐going business and transac,ons. United Needs' BRP system captures all on-­‐going United Needs' BRP architecture fulﬁlls all of the above requirements and is built to include business and transac,ons in the process itself. When a task has been assigned and the any outside par,es allowing the UN throughout its vast organiza,onal hierarchy to ensure task has been completed who, what and when are registered in an unalterable way, and full compliance for all internal and external dealings. the full context is also captured. It is not possible to alter data once it has been registered, hence, by deﬁni,on all processes and data are stored inﬁnitely “as is” and therefore, the Very speciﬁcally, United Needs' BRP approach applies directly to each of the Ten person crea,ng the data is accountable for his or her ac,ons. Principles of Global Compact as follows: Ethics are self-­‐evident, if complete transparency combined with rules and guidelines Human Rights: exists. When the chance of gexng caught is 100%, ethics become evident. This mechanism is built into the United Needs BRP architecture while the guidelines are given Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protec,on of interna,onally by the Ten Principles of the Global Compact. proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. As a core base these are the three features such a system must deliver: United Needs' alignment: • True records: Historical, unchangeable and versioned, Full compliance can only be assured by real-­‐,me in-­‐process capture of all ac,vi,es and its context. This is precisely what United Needs' BRP solu,on oﬀers. • Real Fme transparency: Anything can be shown, role based access, The inherent accountability and transparency greatly promotes users to act with a high • Full accountability: Who was assigned the task, when, who completed the task, level of ethics and therefore also with respect and in support of the protec,on of human when, what exactly did the person do, in what context was the task done and what rights. informa,on was available. 6/6/14 Conﬁden,ality. All Rights Reserved United Needs UNGC PRINCIPLES Labour: United Need's alignment: Businesses support a precau,onary approach to environmental challenges and more importantly, puxng strategies into ac,on, falls well within the inherent high level of ethical standards, which United Need's BRP approach provides as discussed Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of associa,on and the eﬀec,ve previously in this document. Ac,ng in a responsible manner in general, and regarding the recogni,on of the right to collec,ve bargaining; environment speciﬁcally, is a maler of ethics and therefore it is possible to do business on United Need's BRP pla^orm with business partners and individuals, who actually do business Principle 4: The elimina,on of all forms of forced and compulsory Labour; while promo,ng greater environmental responsibility. As such, the necessary tool to develop and diﬀuse environmentally friendly technologies is readily available from United Needs. Full Principle 5: The eﬀec,ve aboli,on of child Labour; and environmental compliance therefore can only be assured by real-­‐,me in-­‐process capture of all ac,vi,es and its context. This is precisely what United Need's BRP solu,on oﬀers. Principle 6: The elimina,on of discrimina,on in respect of employment and occupa,on. An,-­‐Corrup,on: United Needs' alignment: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corrup,on in all its forms, including extor,on and The ability for businesses to essen,ally organize as they ﬁnd suitable to do business, bribery. associate themselves with other businesses and people around the world in order to establish eﬃcient trades and bargain within a “safe harbor” is all key to United Needs' BRP United Need's alignment: Corrup,on is most likely to happen when there is no process in based solu,on. The inherent trust, transparency and accountability forces the users to place, which captures everything within the process itself, stores it forever and holds everyone behave within acceptable ethical guidelines, including not using forced and compulsory accountable for everything that is happening in the process itself. Lack of transparency and Labour as well as child Labour, with respect for human rights, including non-­‐discrimina,ve accountability, in fact, promotes wrongful behavior, including corrup,on, or reﬂected in rela,onships with employees and their occupa,on. Only within such a framework will it be modern economic theory, greatly increases the risk of moral hazard and the costs associated possible to eliminate all of those unwanted behaviors, and therefore allow businesses and herewith. individuals to safely do business with anyone around the world, simply since it is by deﬁni,on a “safe harbor” to do so. In other words: Full capture of all on-­‐going processes and transac,ons and the inability to alter the facts captured in-­‐process will in eﬀect eliminate corrup,on. This would, of course, require Environment: that all ac,vi,es are handled by a process based system like United Need's BRP solu,on. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precau,onary approach to environmental Summary: challenges; Most of United Needs ac,vi,es are BRPs, in par,cular handling of unforeseen situa,ons like Principle 8: Undertake ini,a,ves to promote greater environmental responsibility; and any crisis or disaster. United Needs' Principle 9: Encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. BRP approach provides the necessary full transparency, accountability and untouchable historical records. Given a set of rules combined with a prac,cal implementa,on of these three concepts, ethics will be a natural result. 6/6/14 Conﬁden,ality. All Rights Reserved United Needs MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS United Need and BRP as they relate to the United Na,ons Millennium Educa,on is necessary to accelerate a country’s ability to grasp those Development Goals opportuni,es and become a real player in the global economy, thereby u,lizing natural resources, produc,on capabili,es, innova,on, trade, etc. to End Poverty and Hunger: increase the wealth. The unbalanced world in which the majority of the world’s resources and United Need’s BRP based pla^orm also provides the ability to post a need for assets are owned by a very small percentage of the world’s popula,on is one knowledge/educa,on and those needs can then be fulﬁlled by individuals, of the major contributors to poverty and hunger. Typically, market errors exist organiza,ons, governments, the UN, etc. in order to help the undereducated in those countries, since there is an obvious consumer demand for products to become more educated and beler their lives. The inherent transparency of (food, clean water, basic consumer goods, educa,on, etc) but a grotesque United Need’s pla^orm thereby enables anyone around the world to provide undersupply to fulﬁll the demand. the knowledge and educa,on directly to those in need. In this case, United Need supplies its BRP based pla^orm, which provides direct and immediate insight in needs related to poverty and hunger and those Gender Equality: needs can be fulﬁlled through the United Need pla^orm by individuals, organiza,ons such as corpora,ons and NGO’s, governments, and the UN United Need’s BRP pla^orm does not discriminate gender, sexuality, religious organiza,on as such. The “direct line of communica,on” and BRP process with belief, race, or anything else. In fact, the EEG fundamental philosophy is that those in need or the organiza,ons working directly related to ending poverty each individual on planet Earth by him or herself is a tremendous resource, and hunger therefore will signiﬁcantly decrease ineﬃciencies and greatly which deserves to have opportuni,es to provide a good life for herself or increase the ability to provide instant help where it is most needed, since himself, the family, the local community, the country and ul,mately, the world. United Need’s pla^orm provides the necessary transparency and accountability throughout the collabora,on process. United Need’s BRP based pla^orm is therefore completely “neutral” and available to anyone, anywhere in the world, for free, and with equal rights and Universal Educa,on: opportunity, regardless of gender. The lack of sharing of knowledge and lack of educa,on in poorer countries results in a signiﬁcant disadvantage in individual, organiza,onal and country speciﬁc par,cipa,on in the global economy and opportuni,es to increase the wealth. 6/6/14 Conﬁden,ality. All Rights Reserved United Needs MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS Child Health: Environmental Sustainability: It is United Need’s opinion that in a world as rich and developed as is the case today, Economic development and growth is paramount to a developing country’s ability to increase at least humanity should be able to come together and solve all problems related to the wealth for their na,on and people, however, this shall not be at the cost of the child health. A child is innocent and only deserves the best possible care and environment. Many opportuni,es exist for developing countries to not make the same opportunity in life. Fundamentally, child health is crucial to a child’s ability to have a mistakes as the developed world has done throughout the industrializa,on and beyond, but chance in life. United Need is a contributor to the promo,on of child health and will rather base their economic growth on smarter thinking and care for the environment, while work diligently to unite the world and use the United Need BRP pla^orm to fulﬁll enabling them to provide products and services, which are compe,,ve in the global needs related to child health issues. economy. Maternal Health: United Need and its BRP based pla^orm shall also be an enabling factor for the development of environmentally sustainable economic growth, which is all about transparency, As is the case with child health, maternal health should be a natural right for women, accountability and trust in rela,onships and the ability to share knowledge and build new so that all issues related to maternity shall be eradicated and suﬃciently taken care of. economic opportuni,es in a smarter and more sophis,cated manner. The United Need BRP pla^orm enables the world to unite and par,cipate in the Global Partnership: contribu,ons to fulﬁll all needs related to maternal health. It is possible through United Need’s pla^orm to directly help women having speciﬁc needs, organiza,ons The United Need BRP pla^orm is all about crea,ng global partnerships between individuals who work and contribute in this par,cular focus area, etc. of any background, heritage, religion, race, gender, etc., between organiza,ons, corpora,ons, NGO’s, non-­‐proﬁts, governments, the UN, and across all of these groupings of Combat HIV/AIDS: rela,onships. Although United Needs itself cannot claim to combat HIV and AIDS, the United Need United Need’s pla^orm makes it possible to forge such partnerships and alliances based on BRP methodology s,ll is a pla^orm, which shall enable the world to come together inherent trust, accountability, removing corrup,on from the equa,on and all based on a and fulﬁll needs related to combaxng HIV and AIDS. As with educa,on in general, HIV pla^orm, which enables anyone to par,cipate in the global economy and thereby create new and AIDS is about informa,on, but also about fulﬁlling medical needs as well as opportuni,es and ul,mately growth in wealth for everyone across the globe through more educa,on in areas of the world, where the market economy itself fails. It is obvious global trade, and through the implementa,on of all of the UN Millennium Goals. that there is an unfortunate huge market demand for HIV/AIDS medicine in certain countries, yet there is a tremendous undersupply of those medicines, simply because those countries and individuals are too poor to pay the market price (in the western world) for the medicine. United Need will make it a goal by itself to provide fulﬁllment of needs related to combaxng HIV and AIDS through the United Need BRP pla^orm, thereby enabling individuals and organiza,ons alike around the globe to directly collaborate and fulﬁll needs related to comba,ng HIV and AIDS. 6/6/14 Conﬁden,ality. All Rights Reserved United Needs MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS Prac,cal applica,ons and approach to the United Need BRP pla^orm to the United Na,ons and the United Na,ons Global Compact We Support | Partners | Advisors The United Na,ons calls for beler solu,ons to handle interna,onal crisis situa,ons and urges its member countries to incorporate its Millennium Development Goals in its own policies and ini,a,ves, thereby contribu,ng to United Needs mission. The same applies to • WE SUPPORT -­‐ United Na,ons Global Compact the members of the UN Global Compact, as they have all pledged to apply the Ten Principles to their organiza,on and develop their own ini,a,ves and strategies to fulﬁll the UN Global • WE SUPPORT -­‐ Clinton Global Ini,a,ve Compact mission as such. United Need is aligned fully with both the Millennium Development Goals as well as the UN Global Compact Ten Principles. • Invizeon Corpora,on Global Partnership: • Seafaring Security Services The UNXP is all about crea,ng global partnerships between individuals of any background, heritage, religion, race, gender, etc., between organiza,ons, corpora,ons, NGO’s, non-­‐ • Slipstream proﬁts, governments, the UN, and across all of these groupings of rela,onships. United Need’s pla^orm makes it possible to forge such partnerships and alliances based on • Gage Interna,onal & Africa inherent trust, accountability, removing corrup,on from the equa,on and all based on a pla^orm, which enables anyone to par,cipate in the global economy and thereby create • Bahamas Minister of Agriculture and Marine Resources new opportuni,es and ul,mately growth in wealth for everyone across the globe through more global trade, and through the implementa,on of all of the United Na,ons Millennium Goals. • Bahamas Agriculture & Marine Science Ins,tute • Inter-­‐American Ins,tute for Coordina,on on Agriculture Contact Informa,on • Mal McKenna -­‐ Communica,ons Director for Bill Clinton United Needs Invizeon Jason Blair David Todd CEO & Founder CEO & Founder • Senator Conrad Burns – re,red U.S. Senator T | 1.253.70.3080 T | 1.406.360.3280 E | jb@unitedneeds.com E | dtodd@invizeon.com • Ambassador John Bolton -­‐ former US-­‐UN Ambassador www.unitedneeds.com www.invizeon.com 6/6/14 Conﬁden,ality. All Rights Reserved United Needs
