CSR REPORT 2014 Report on Corporate Social Responsibility Activities IEditorial Policy IReliability Toppan prepares this corporate social responsibility (CSR) report in the hopes of KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. provides independent assurance for this report. encouraging dialogues with a wide range of people, especially those who have an As a testament to the reliability of the sustainability information presented in the interest or stake in Toppan’s CSR activities. Toppan reports its activities in line with report, Toppan is authorized to attach the following mark. Any report bearing this the seven core subjects set under the International Organization for Standardizamark meets the Sustainability Reporting Assurance and Registration Criteria estabtion (ISO) 26000, an international standard on social responsibility formulated by lished by The Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability multiple global stakeholders. Information (http://www.j-sus.org/). IPeriod Covered This report mainly covers activities in fiscal 2013 (from April 2013 to March 2014), though information on prior and later years is also included in parts. IScope and Boundary of this Report IEye-friendliness and Readability In principle, this report covers the CSR activities of Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (“the This report considers eye-friendliness and readability in accordance with Toppan’s Company”) and Group entities consolidated for accounting purposes. Most of the in-house guidelines. It also incorporates universal-design displays for as many difinformation on personnel applies to personnel within Toppan Printing Co., Ltd., ferent types of people as possible, regardless of individual differences in color perthe parent company. The scope of the environmental performance data on pages ception. The universal design in this report has been reviewed and certified by the 34-41 includes Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. and 18 domestic manufacturing subsidColor Universal Design Organization (CUDO), a nonprofit organization, on entrustiaries subject to the Company’s environmental targets. These subsidiaries share ment by Toppan. important roles in the Company’s environmental conservation efforts. The environmental performance data of NEC Toppan Circuit Solutions, Inc. has been IURLs for Relevant Information ­excluded since October 2013, when all shares of that company were sold. The •CSR information: http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/csr/ environmental performance data of the Toppan Group, including the overseas (If erroneous entries or misprints are found after CSR reports are issued, the related subsidiaries, are reported in CSR Report 2014: Detailed Data. information will be shown here.) •IR information: http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/ir/ ICSR Report 2014: Detailed Data •Corporate governance reports: http://www.tse.or.jp/listing/corpgov/ (in Japanese) A PDF file with detailed and reference data not shown in this report is download•Financial statements: http://disclosure.edinet-fsa.go.jp/ (in Japanese) able from Toppan’s CSR website: http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/csr/. Publication Dates (English version) ISelecting the Information Presented in this Report Previous report: October 2013 In choosing the information for this report, Toppan assesses the “materiality” of Current report: October 2014 the information for society and the Company itself. Toppan considers the following Next report: October 2015 (planned) points in particular: Opinions gleaned from dialogues; information from NPOs, NGOs, CSR-related organizations, and news agencies; responses to its CSR Contact Information report questionnaires; and questionnaire topics from third-party organizations. CSR Promotion Department, Public Relations Division IGuidelines and Standards Considered Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (Tokyo, Japan) •The United Nations Global Compact Email: csr@toppan.co.jp •ISO 26000 •Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 •Environmental Reporting Guidelines (fiscal year 2012 version) from the Ministry of the Environment of Japan The United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary policy initiative for businesses and organizations to enlist their participation in the establishment of a globally recognized practical framework under which every business and organization commits to the vision of sustainable development by implementing responsible, creative leadership initiatives and acting as responsible members of society. Toppan participates in the United Nations Global Compact, supports the 10 principles of the Global Compact in the four areas of human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption, and implements these principles in its own corporate activities. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: B  usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CONTENTS Group Business Outline 2 Executive Message 4 Toppan’s CSR Activities 6 Special Report 1: S upporting Employees with Children 8 Special Report 2: C SR Procurement: Working with Suppliers to Comply with Global CSR Standards 10 CSR Activity Digest 2013 12 Initiatives at Toppan and the Seven Core Subjects under ISO 26000 14 Organizational Governance 15 Human Rights 18 Labor Practices 20 Fair Operating Practices 24 Consumer Issues 28 Community Involvement and Development 32 The Environment Toppan’s Environmental Activities 34 Environmental Management Activities 35 Toppan’s Environmental Burden and Environmental Impact 36 Eco-protection Activities 37 Eco-creativity Activities / Environmental Communication Activities 41 Independent Assurance 42 Independent Assurance Report 43 Group Business Structure 44 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 1 Group Business Outline Corporate Profile Group Profile Corporate name Number of employees The Toppan Group comprises Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (“the Company”) Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (nonconsolidated) and 180 related companies (154 subsidiaries and 26 affiliates) engaged in Head office 8,604 (as of the end of March 2014) manifold businesses in three fields: Information & Communication, Living 1, Kanda Izumi-cho, Chiyoda-ku, Number of employees Environment, and Material Solutions. Tokyo 101-0024, Japan (consolidated) The positioning of the Company and related companies in these fields Phone +81-3-3835-5111 48,751 (as of the end of March 2014) is outlined on page 44. Established Capital (nonconsolidated) January 17, 1900 104.9 billion yen President & Representative Director Shingo Kaneko Business Fields Information & Communication Providing solutions to increase the value of information and effectively deliver information for customers who require smooth communication. Secure Business Marketing Content Business Living Environment Material Solutions Providing a wide range of products and services to create living environUsing printing technologies to develop products related to displays, semiments that offer comfort and peace of mind. conductors, functional products, energy, and more. Display Related Semiconductor Related Packaging Functional Product and Energy Interior Décor Materials Related 2 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 Net Sales Operating Income or Loss Net Income or Loss (billion yen) Q Consolidated Q Nonconsolidated (billion yen) Q Consolidated Q Nonconsolidated (billion yen) Q Consolidated Q Nonconsolidated 2,000 60 32 1,556.4 1,510.4 1,502.3 1,532.0 45 45.0 24 1,500 1,506.7 20.6 19.2 38.2 35.7 18.5 30 31.5 32.0 16 15.1 1,000 11.7 12.4 12.1 885.9 895.5 849.2 819.9 815.7 15 15.3 8 6.6 7.7 3.0 500 4.4 0 0 0.5 0 –15 –7.1 –8 –3.2 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (fiscal year) (fiscal year) (fiscal year) Number of Employees Number of Employees by Business Field (consolidated) Q Consolidated Q Nonconsolidated 50,000 Material Solutions Company-wide 47,650 48,197 47,872 48,878 48,751 8,576 positions 1,035 40,000 30,000 20,000 10,000 8,769 8,633 8,508 8,587 8,604 Information & 0 Living Environment Communication 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 9,156 29,984 (fiscal year) Net Sales by Business Field Capital Expenditure Total Assets & Return on Assets (ROA) (billion yen) (billion yen) (billion yen) (%) Material Solutions 100 2,000 3.0 352.1 (23%) 1,665.6 1,694.3 1,712.3 80 76.8 1,586.8 1,633.0 72.1 1,500 2.0 68.0 65.0 66.8 60 1.2 1.2 1,000 1.0 0.7 0.7 40 0.2 500 0 20 Information & Living Environment Communication 0 0 −1.0 272.5 (18%) 907.3 (59%) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (fiscal year) (fiscal year) Net Sales by Region R&D Expenses Net Assets & Return on Equity (ROE) (billion yen) (billion yen) (billion yen) (%) Asia, excluding Other regions 35 1,000 8.0 Japan 56.1 (4%) 888.4 913.1 874.0 864.0 866.2 193.7 (12%) 28 800 6.0 24.4 23.4 21 21.4 20.6 600 4.0 19.8 2.5 2.7 14 400 1.6 1.6 2.0 0.4 7 200 0 0 0 –2.0 Japan 1,282.1 (84%) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (fiscal year) (fiscal year) Note: T  he number of employees is the number of employees working at the Group. The number of non-regular employees for fiscal 2013 stood at 7,627 on a consolidated basis (the average number of employees throughout the fiscal year, including part-time workers but excluding temporary staff). TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 3 Executive Message Contributing to Fulfilling Lifestyles Movements were mixed in the global economy for fiscal nesses. The second is to create new businesses and new 2013. In the U.S., steady personal consumption kept the markets by developing business models that meet the economy on a recovery track. In Europe, however, lingerever-changing demands of our time using the printing ing uncertainty over the Southern Europe debt crisis thwarted ­technologies we have cultivated since our founding. The hopes for a complete recovery from long-term stagnation. third is to accelerate global business expansion targeting Growth also slowed in China and Southeast Asia. ­sustainable operations by taking advantage of business Japan’s economy moved into a gradual recovery trend. alliances and M&As and by restructuring our sales and The government’s economic policies helped correct the production structures mainly in Asia and other growing drastically elevated yen, while consumer spending and markets. corporate earnings both recovered. Over the longer term, Our business slogan for 2014 is “Full speed ahead— however, pressures such as sharply rising prices for raw Let’s accelerate growth with printing technologies.” We materials and fuel cloud the outlook for the Japanese continue taking on new challenges based on this slogan. economy. By steering growth in the directions mapped out for the In light of this, we have been striving to improve our three management challenges, we are shifting into higher business performance by addressing three management gear to gain momentum for a significant leap forward. challenges. The first challenge is to advance our Groupwide structural reform. Improvements in management ­efficiency will enable us to establish a stronger, sounder To Create Business Opportunities for business structure that will keep us profitable in today’s Faster Growth drastically changing markets and shift our management focus to enhanced value for our corporation and busiParadigm shifts in our business environment will bring opportunities for us to grow faster. We define these changes as “three revolutions:” 1) the energy revolution, the changeover from fossil resources to renewable energy; 2) the packaging revolution, the replacement of glass b ­ ottles and metal cans with new types of packaging across the globe; and 3) the information revolution, the switch from paperbased media to digital media such as the Internet and smartphones. I believe we can exploit the huge opportunities these three revolutions bring by engaging highly diverse human resources and building an environment in which they can fully demonstrate their abilities and skills. At Toppan we do business with companies in every sort of industry. By engaging human resources with greater diversity, we can propose total solutions for the many ­different challenges our client companies face and devise custom-fit solutions to the unique problems individual companies come up against. In fiscal 2013 Toppan became one of the “Diversity Management Selection 100,” a group of companies ­ selected and awarded by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan in recognition of their use of diverse human resources to innovate. We will continue pursuing diversity management in the years to come. 4 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 To Be a Company that Grows Steadily childcare leave and improved the system of reduced workwith Society ing hours for employees with childcare responsibilities. A childrearing support program was launched in fiscal 2012 TOPPAN VISION 21 is positioned as the foundation for all to help working parents cope with the stresses of parentof our corporate activities. This vision consists of a Corpoing and to relieve the anxieties of employees on childcare rate Structure (the Corporate Philosophy, the Corporate leave who are worried about their return to the workplace. Creed, and a set of Conduct Guidelines defining the values In fiscal 2013 we invited a lecturer to hold a seminar in and standards we should respect) and business fields this program. A large number of both female and male based on the Corporate Structure. employees engaged in parenting attended. This indicates In striving to make TOPPAN VISION 21 a reality, I am a growing interest in work-family balance among our convinced that we must accomplish the three management employees. challenges and fulfill our social responsibility as a corporaWe have also been facilitating CSR procurement in tion in order to help solve social issues and drive our growth cooperation with business partners in an effort to fulfill our in step with all of society. corporate social responsibilities not only within the Group, The United Nations Global Compact is an invaluable but throughout the entire supply chain. We revised and guideline for us as we undertake our journey towards this renewed the Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines end. Toppan has been participating in the United Nations in January 2014 to work on newly defined issues that our Global Compact and supporting the 10 principles of the customers and international social standards require comGlobal Compact on human rights, labour, environment, panies to address. The Basic Procurement Policy was and anti-corruption since September 2006. I will continue revised and the CSR Procurement Standards were reorespousing the United Nations Global Compact and shapganized into two categories aligned with the latest global ing our corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities standards: the Basic Procurement Standards and the accordingly. ­Procurement Standards Concerning Human Rights, Labor, The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) the Environment, and Anti-Corruption. Every business part26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility (international ner is asked to comply with the revised guidelines. We, in standard for organizations) was issued in 2010 to provide turn, will collaborate more closely with business partners guidelines with which every type of organization should throughout the entire supply chain to better fulfill our corcomply in order to operate in socially responsible ways. porate social responsibilities. The standard condenses various social issues to be addressed. Convinced that any help towards solving these issues will bring us closer to implementing the United With Our Stakeholders Nations Global Compact, we incorporated ISO 26000 into our CSR management practices in fiscal 2011 and have At Toppan we would like to continue disclosing information been pushing forward with CSR activities by piecing through this CSR report, one of our most valuable tools for together a clear picture of the social issues we should help communicating with our stakeholders. I am eager to hear solve and the social responsibilities we should fulfill. your candid opinions about this report. We will keep up our work towards the creation of fulfilling lifestyles in a sustainable society. We rely on your ongoTowards a Sustainable Society ing support and guidance. July 2014 We support employees with families to help them strike a balance between work and parenting. This support exemShingo Kaneko President & Representative Director plifies our efforts to create an environment in which human Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. resources of great variety can exploit their abilities to the greatest possible extent. We have extended the period of TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 5 Toppan’s CSR Activities Toppan’s Ideal “Corporate Structure” C  orporate Philosophy, Corporate Creed, and TOPPAN VISION 21 sets forth the basic concept and directionConduct Guidelines ality for the continual growth of the Toppan Group in harmony The Corporate Structure is made up of three elements: Toppan’s with society and the global environment. Corporate Philosophy, the Corporate Creed, and the Conduct The vision consists of a “Corporate Structure” and a set Guidelines. These elements specify a complete set of values, of “Business Fields.” The Corporate Structure specifies ideals standards, and guidelines for the operations of the Toppan and important values and concepts for the Group. Group. Toppan believes that endeavors to realize the Corporate Toppan established the Corporate Philosophy, the top Structure will support the sustainable development of the concept underpinning all of Toppan’s corporate activities, to Group and society as a whole. promote continual development as a socially valuable corporation. The Corporate Creed expresses the standards to be kept foremost in mind when performing business operations. Built on the Corporate Philosophy and Corporate Creed, the Conduct Guidelines set out the basic concepts and behavioral norms for Toppan employees both as businesspeople and as members of society. Toppan’s Ideal “Corporate Structure” Corporate Philosophy Corporate Creed Conduct Guidelines Each of us shall To build our customers’ trust though Chapter 1: Basic Principles sincerity, enthusiasm, and creativity in 1. Respecting basic human rights reciprocate our customers’ all our corporate endeavors. 2. H aving high ethical standards continued trust, and acting as a responsible member of society create dedicated products by To strive for total innovation from 3. C omplying with laws and harnessing our vibrant knowledge a global perspective by conducting company rules and conducting marketing and technological fair business operations and technology, development rich in originality. 4. A voiding all links with antisocial and contribute to a fulfilling lifestyle as groups 5. S triving to improve quality a mainstay of information and culture. To conduct fair and open business and providing creations operations while acknowledging our that contribute to customer satisfaction social responsibilities and aspiring for 6. R ecognizing the importance of Established in June 2000 harmony with our global environment. information related to business and managing it appropriately To create a positive working 7. P roactively undertaking conservation of the global environment by maximizing our environment individual talents and strengths 8. E mbracing change and taking as a team. on new challenges 9. B uilding trust from society TOPPAN VISION 21 through social contribution To enhance our corporate activities and appropriate http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/corporateinfo/ vision/corp_image/rinen.html standing and promote the continual disclosure of information development of the Toppan Group 10. B ringing together individual through the exploration of new strengths to fully exploit the integrated strength of the group possibilities. Established in June 2000; revised in November 2010 See page 27 for Chapter 2: Specific Conduct Established in June 2000 Guidelines. 6 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 CSR Activities Dialogues with Stakeholders Corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities are prominent Toppan has recognized categories of stakeholders who are among Toppan’s many endeavors to realize the ideal Corporate either vital for its business operations or potentially impacted Structure the Group envisions. As measures seeking to incorby them: customers (client companies, consumers), busiporate social demands into business operations, CSR activities ness partners, communities, shareholders/investors, and are vital for Toppan’s growth as a corporation in harmony with employees. society and the global environment. To shape CSR activities satisfactory to all stakeholders, The United Nations Global Compact is an invaluable guideToppan attaches great importance to stakeholder dialogues line for the Group as it undertakes CSR activities. In designing and reflects stakeholder opinions in its activities. concrete activities, Toppan also closely refers to the ISO 26000 Along with the regular dialogues with its stakeholders in the Guidance on Social Responsibility, an international standard course of daily business, Toppan has been holding meetings formulated through the consensus of diverse stakeholders with representatives from each stakeholder category and with around the world. This standard typifies demands from society experts and organizations deeply knowledgeable on social at present. issues since fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2011, Toppan began taking ISO 26000 provides guidance on the principles of social part in the ISO 26000 Working Group organized by Global responsibility—what it means and how it applies to organiCompact Network Japan. In fiscal 2013, Toppan entered zations. Any type of organization of any size can use it. This dialogues with experts and NGOs on topics related to the standard encourages organizations to address its seven core supply chain, consumer issues, human rights, and community subjects—organizational governance, human rights, labour involvement. practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development—and emphasizes stakeholder engagement through dialogue. Toppan will promote CSR activities with this guidance in mind and disclose the results via this CSR report in line with the seven core subjects. Toppan’s Stakeholders and the Seven Core Subjects under ISO 26000 Customers (client companies, Employees consumers) TOPPAN Labour practices Corporate Human rights Structure Community The environment involvement and development Organizational governance Fair operating Consumer issues practices Shareholders and Business partners investors Communities Stakeholders Seven core subjects Dialogues TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 7 Special Report Supporting Employees with Children Toppan continues taking a proactive approach to address growing social demands for the creation of structures in which more diverse people, especially women, young people, and the elderly, can play active roles. In fiscal 2013 the Company launched a new “Hagukumi (nurturing) Program” to further facilitate support activities for employee parents to help them fully apply their abilities and skills. Incentives to Support Balance between Numbers of Employees Taking Childcare Leave and Working for Shorter Hours Working and Parenting Employees taking childcare leave Employees working for shorter hours The participation of more diverse people in economic activities 200 is one of the most important challenges under Japan’s recent 167 160 149 growth strategy. Japan understands the need to create an 129 environment in which working parents can engage in both 120 94 94 124 work and childcare without undue stress—especially working 114 114 80 75 mothers. More and more parent employees at Toppan have 63 93 74 72 been signing up for childcare leave or working for reduced 40 48 hours in recent years. 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (fiscal year) Toppan’s Continuous Efforts In fiscal 2012, a total of 14 parents and children joined the Toppan continues making various efforts to create an environHagukumi (nurturing) Art Salon, a therapeutic activity organized ment in which a greater diversity of people can apply their by Toppan in Tokyo for parent employees on childcare leave. abilities to maximum potential. For better balance between Children and parents from each family collaborated in teams work and parenting, the Company introduces employee supto create artworks in four separate sessions. This salon is port systems that surpass legal requirements in Japan. structured as a program to strengthen bonds between parents For parents, for example, Toppan has extended the period and children, relieve the stresses of parenting, and stimulate of childcare leave up to the end of the first March after the interaction among different parents on leave. The participants employee’s child reaches the age of 12 months. This eases also receive a Hagukumi Newsletter with information and difficulties parents face in Japan, where entry to daycare seradvice to help them smoothly return to the workplace. The vices is often impossible midway through the year. The eliginewsletter updates parents on current developments within bility period for reduced working hours for employees with the Company, information on various support systems useful childcare responsibilities is set to continue up to the end of for parents on childcare leave, and messages of encouragethe child’s third year of elementary school (➞P. 21). ment from colleagues. 8 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 New and Improved Hagukumi Program Hagukumi Seminar In fiscal 2013, Toppan upgraded the Hagukumi (nurturing) The Hagukumi Seminar was designed as an activity to make Program and conducted the three activities described below. colleagues throughout the workplace more aware of the imporThis program aims to cope with the stresses employees on tance of work-family balance for working parents. The 131 childcare leave so often feel about returning to the workplace seminar participants in fiscal 2013 included not only working and to relieve the uncertainties of working parents about their parents, but also managers, and coworkers who hope to future careers. The program also provides opportunities for ­balance work and parenting in the future. working parents to share useful skills for attaining work-family The seminar consisted of sundry activities such as a lecture balance and for Company coworkers to enhance understandby an invited lecturer, a panel discussion of participants who ing about the importance of this balance. had experienced life as working parents, and small group ­discussions to think about how employees can improve balance between work and parenting as individuals. Participants Hagukumi Art Salon ITo strengthen bonds between parents rated the event favorably and clearly learned more about the and children issues involved in work-family balance. Participants comHagukumi (nurturing) Program ITo stimulate interaction among employmented that it eased their worries about taking maternity and ees currently on childcare leave ITo cope with anxieties about returning to childcare leave and returning to work after the leave; made work them realize how important it is to think about working styles from personal, subjective viewpoints; and helped them to Hagukumi Seminar understand that instead of fretting over the pressures suborTo learn and enhance understanding about good balance between work and parenting dinates with children face, steps should be taken to sound out throughout the workplace their working aspirations and help them move in the right directions in their careers. Hagukumi Circle To build a network of working parent employees for discussing concerns about work and parenting and sharing tips on work-family balance Hagukumi Art Salon In fiscal 2013, the Company increased the Art Salon venues to three—Tokyo, Osaka, and Fukuoka—and signed up a total of 28 parents and children for art sessions. Feedback from participants was consistently positive: (e.g.) “It was interesting to see my kid so deeply focused”; “Talking with other employees on childcare leave helped me prepare mentally for my upcoming return to work”; “I received a warm message from my boss.” Panel discussion Hagukumi Circle As a pilot activity to develop the Hagukumi Circle, several small groups of working parent employees were asked to gather at lunch to form a network for discussing their everyday concerns and sharing tips on maintaining a balance between work and parenting. The Company used feedback gleaned from the participants of this preliminary circle activity last year to develop a better way to operate the Hagukumi Circle when it starts up on a full scale in fiscal 2014. Hagukumi Art Salon Towards the Future In fiscal 2014, Toppan will continue holding the Hagukumi Art Salon and Hagukumi Seminar and will officially start up the Hagukumi Circle. These activities will ease mental burdens for working parents and further the sharing of knowhow on work-family balance. The Company will also spread enhanced awareness on the importance of work-family balance throughout all of its workplaces. Toppan is determined to create an environment in which diverse human resources can fully apply Hagukumi Newsletters (in Japanese) their abilities and skills in their careers. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 9 Special Report CSR Procurement: Working with Suppliers to Comply with Global CSR Standards When applying CSR procurement at a company, every party throughout the supply chain needs to implement CSR initiatives. The Toppan Group issued a revised set of CSR procurement guidelines in fiscal 2013 incorporating the requirements stipulated under the United Nations Global Compact and the ISO 26000 international standard for organizations on social responsibility. Coinciding with this, Toppan continues engaging business partners in related CSR procurement briefings and dialogues and sending them questionnaires to assess the status of their CSR practices. Toppan’s Ongoing Efforts in CSR Issuing New Guidelines Pursuant to Procurement Global Standards As a corporate initiative, CSR procurement extends to labor The Toppan Group revised its CSR procurement guidelines and environmental management and other elements of and issued a second version in January 2014. ­corporate social responsibility at partner companies. In the The Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines consist of 1990s, overseas companies faced a new wave of social and the Basic Procurement Policy, a conceptual framework to be legislative demands requiring them to extend their CSR activclosely observed by every Toppan employee involved in proities throughout the entire supply chain. The same demands curement operations, and the CSR Procurement Standards, a soon spread to Japan. set of requirements to be satisfied by every business partner. In May 2007, Toppan issued the first version of the Toppan Two major revisions are adopted in the new guidelines. The Group CSR Procurement Guidelines to improve mutual first revision is the addition of an article related to the fosterage ­corporate values in cooperation with collaborating business of mutual cooperation and relationships of trust with business partners. In the years since, every business partner willing to partners in the Basic Procurement Policy to be observed by cooperate with the Group’s CSR procurement initiatives has Toppan employees. So far the Group has provided compliance submitted a memorandum of cooperation and reported its education for employees involved in procurement operations CSR activities in questionnaires. Toppan has checked the and has established and operated the Supplier Hotline, a por­current status of business partner practices with these questal for receiving reports from business partners on rule violationnaires and visited partners to conduct onsite inspections tions or improper conduct by Toppan. With this new article in and face-to-face interviews whenever necessary. place, the Group expects version 2 of the guidelines to renew employee awareness on the need for building mutual cooperation and relationships of trust. We want companies to implement The second revision is a composition change of the CSR CSR initiatives throughout the Procurement Standards to improve their clarity. Specifically, entire supply chain the standards were reorganized into two categories: the Basic requirements requirements requirements & dialogue & dialogue & dialogue Consumers Client companies Toppan Business partners All of the parties above perform CSR practices through a process of “requirements & dialogue” 10 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 Major Revisions to the CSR Procurement Guidelines Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines Version 1 Version 2 Basic Procurement Policy Basic Procurement Policy “We work to foster mutual cooperation and build relationships of trust with business partners” (added) CSR Procurement CSR Procurement Standards Standards 1. B asic Procurement 9) P  rotection of people 1. Basic human rights Standards reporting improper conduct 2. P  ublic order, 1) M aintenance and 10) Disclosure of information compliance with laws, improvement of quality fair business activities 2) Appropriate pricing United Nations 2. Procurement 3. Management and 3) Stable supply Standards Concerning Global Compact disclosure of information 4) Product safety Human Rights, Labor, 4. The environment and 5) Management of information the Environment, and ISO 26000 safety 6) C ompliance with laws and Anti-Corruption 5. Improving quality social norms 1) Human Rights Other conduct 6. Appropriate pricing 7) Fair business activities 2) Labor guidelines 7. Stable supply 8) Protection of and respect for 3) The Environment established by 8. Social contributions intellectual property rights 4) Anti-Corruption suppliers Procurement Standards and the Procurement Standards ConFuture Approach cerning Human Rights, Labor, the Environment, and Anti-CorThe Toppan Group will continue holding briefing sessions for ruption. The former stipulates underlying conditions generally business partners and sending out questionnaires in fiscal 2014 required in all business transactions, such as: product safety; to enhance mutual understanding and review the current CSR management of information; and compliance with laws and practices of business partners. social norms. The latter focuses on the major four issues globWhen questionnaire results come in, the Group also plans ally emphasized in CSR initiatives. Toppan has been particito hold individual dialogues with business partners to facilitate pating in the United Nations Global Compact and supporting the establishment of a reliable supply chain for society at large. the 10 principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption since September 2006. Toppan incorporated the concept of the ISO 26000 international standard for organizations on social responsibility in its CSR management practices in fiscal 2011 and has been pushing forward with CSR activities by piecing together a clear picture of the social issues the Group should help solve and the social responsibilities it should fulfill. The two revisions to the guidelines are further attempts by the Group to closely tie its responses to global demands in CSR procurement to the globalization of Toppan’s business activities overall. Toppan Briefing session for business partners Printing Co., Ltd. was the first company in Japan’s printing industry to establish guidelines clearly stipulating good practices in the realms of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption (➞PP. 18, 26). More Efforts in Fiscal 2013 In addition to the issuance of the Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines Version 2, Toppan held briefing sessions for business partners in operational sites across Japan from January to March in 2014. Over the course of about an hour, the typical length of a session, participants shared views on Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines (Toppan website) http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/csr/policy.html demands from international communities for CSR initiatives throughout the entire supply chain, major CSR issues of special focus, and details on version 2 of the guidelines. Questions and inquiries from business partners were also encouraged. About 1,200 partner companies took part in the sessions, in total. After each session, Toppan conducts questionnaires to review the activities business partners are undertaking in the realms of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 11 CSR Activity Digest 2013 Results in Fiscal 2013 and Future Measures in Line with the Seven Core Subjects under ISO 26000 Seven Core Subjects Action Points and Targets for Fiscal 2013 Main Measures in Fiscal 2013 • Implement e-learning-based, Company-wide basic education on CSR Developing CSR management based on ISO 26000 management at more Group companies Organizational • Implement BCM at the regional sites, Group companies, and other Group Formulating business continuity plans (BCPs) across the Group entities that have yet to formulate BCPs (by formulating a basic plan and governance and facilitating business continuity management (BCM) on an action procedure manual, organizing drills, and conducting related activities) ongoing basis • Organize BCMand BCP-related education and develop human assets to engage in BCM and BCPs Heightening awareness of the importance of respecting basic • Continue organizing various training sessions to nurture businesspeople human rights guided by the concept of respect for people • Facilitate the hiring of human assets endowed with latent talents and Providing an open environment and information for recruitment motivations advantageous for careers in a global business environment • Appoint more female employees to higher positions and leverage female Proactively appointing female employees to higher positions talent; create working environments where employees can strike a balance between working and raising children Human rights •U  se the system for career self-determination (Challenging Job System) as a tool to deploy Working for equal opportunity in individual career development human assets based on individual capabilities and motivation and to appoint at least 20% and helping employees pursue their own career paths of employee applicants to the departments or divisions where they would like to work •A  rrange rotations and training to provide employees opportunities to develop their capabilities • Use the newly introduced Senior Reemployment System as a tool for Supporting second careers for retired employees leveraging the knowledge, experience, and expertise of veteran employees • Develop new job positions for employees with disabilities; strengthen support Promoting the employment of persons with disabilities systems to hire more persons with disabilities • Rearrange working conditions and personnel treatment systems to enhance the Company’s capacity to respond to environmental changes in business; Properly operating personnel treatment systems introduce new systems and schemes and consider support plans for individual career development • Create new ways of working based on job specifications, work styles, and the like by adopting a new personnel treatment system in sales and planning Supporting work-life balance 1) departments ➞ Shortening total working hours • Hold opinion-exchange discussions on ways to encourage employees to take leave, including the creation of more accommodating workplace environments Supporting work-life balance 2) • Consider the introduction of a teleworking system for employees who want to ➞ Creating a working environment where employees can come to the office but are prevented from doing so by childcare obligations strike a balance between working and raising children • Increase opportunities for opinion exchanges between labor and management, including division tripartite conferences, business councils at individual Creating a better working environment through partnerships divisions, and labor-management committees for the creation of a working between labor and management environment amenable to enhanced job satisfaction • Continue holding and gingering up recreational events jointly organized by labor and management Labour practices • Introduce risk assessment on a full scale in a bid to make machines and Ensuring occupational health and safety and reinforcing equipment intrinsically safer countermeasures against fires • Switch to less hazardous cleansing agents at the workplaces that use organic solvents for offset printing and like processes • Install Company-wide task force functions in the Kansai area in Japan • Share information about stockpiled emergency supplies and management Reinforcing countermeasures against disasters ledgers for supplies at the main sites in Japan • Continue organizing initial action drills; perform checks • Offer systematic healthcare guidance for employees with health risks Promoting healthcare and health enhancement associated with lifestyle-related diseases (healthcare guidance on the preemption of lifestyle-related diseases, lifestyle improvement programs) • Continue conducting mental health training and providing employees with Arranging measures for mental healthcare opportunities to consult with counselors • Upgrade practical programs to address business challenges and programs to Developing and fostering human assets nurture leaders; strengthen the fosterage of human assets with the skills and motivations necessary to work in a global business environment The environment See page 35 • Reinforce measures to prevent improper conduct by enhancing the activities of Heightening awareness of laws, regulations, and the Conduct the Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders Guidelines • Implement the Conduct Guidelines in overseas Group companies • Ensure proper subcontract transactions and build proper relationships with Complying with transaction-related laws and regulations Fair operating practices business partners • Establish new CSR Procurement Guidelines with CSR procurement criteria Promoting CSR initiatives in the supply chain based on internationally accepted auditing standards and notify business partners about the new guidelines • Help operational sites visualize and quantify risks in their business process outsourcing (BPO) operations Ensuring consumer safety through the strict prevention of • Upgrade the quality assurance system for businesses related to packaging for quality-related accidents food, medical, and pharmaceutical products • Continue disseminating information on Ver. 3.1 of the Toppan Group’s Standards for the Management of Chemical Components of Raw Materials Consumer issues • Operate the internal carbon footprint of products (CFP) system (monthly progress meetings, management reviews, regular audits) Disclosing environmental information • Foster human assets to engage in CFP operations such as CFP quantification and verification • Instruct 62 tightly secured areas designated for the handling of personal Establishing an information security management structure information on conformance with the revised criteria towards the complete elimination of information-related accidents • Organize education for all employees on the proper handling of personal information and carry out internal audits for all departments across Japan Community involvement Arranging social contribution programs to help solve social • Sponsor the 7th series of Toppan Charity Concerts and development issues • Consider social contribution programs in which Toppan employees take part 12 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 Results in Fiscal 2013 Self Evaluation Action Points, Targets, and Main Measures for Fiscal 2014 • Deepened the understanding of ISO 26000 via e-learning-based, Company• Implement e-learning-based, Company-wide basic education on CSR manageA wide basic education for Toppan and Group company employees ment at more Group companies • Formulated BCPs at all of the main sites in Japan • Review and prepare various BCM procedures and other BCM materials; implement preliminary business continuity measures; organize BCM simulations • Organized BCM simulations and various other drills at the main sites in Japan and various other drills A • Acquired the Business Continuity Advancement Organization (BCAO) Business • Organize BCMand BCP-related education and develop human assets to Continuity Specialist Grade I and II certifications engage in BCM and BCPs •O  rganized education on respect for basic human rights through basic Company-wide • Continue organizing various training sessions to nurture businesspeople guided training and rank-based training; disseminated the principle of respect for basic A by the concept of respect for people human rights through the activities of the Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders • Made provisional offer of employment to 3 Americans at the Boston Career • Promote the hiring of human assets who possess latent talents and motivations Forum held in the U.S. for bilingual job-seekers (e.g., Japanese students A advantageous for careers in a global business environment (including international learning overseas and international students learning in Japan) students learning in Japan) • Take positive actions to appoint more female employees to higher positions, • Attained a 5.7% ratio of females among managerial and supervisory staff A leverage female talent, and create working environments where employees can (as of April 1, 2014) strike a balance between working and raising children • Appointed 244 employee applicants (18.9% of all applicants) to the depart• Make proactive use of the Challenging Job System to appoint at least 20% of A ments or divisions where they wished to work (as of April 2014) employee applicants to the departments or divisions where they would like to work • Introduced a new Senior Reemployment System on April 1, 2013 in line with the • Promote systems to support second careers for retired employees and to offer A amendment to the Law concerning Stabilization of Employment of Older Persons in Japan working options well suited to the motivation of more experienced employees • Attained a 2.09% ratio of employees with disabilities in the total workforce (as of June 1, 2014) • Diligently facilitate the hiring of persons with disabilities by sharing information A • Appointed employees with disabilities to sections that had not previously hired with local public job-placement offices across Japan employees with disabilities and developed new job positions for them • Hold career seminars; devise schemes to contribute to individual career • Reviewed personnel treatment systems for managerial staff at Group development A companies • Consider and implement measures to maintain employee motivation and provide follow-up •C  onvened special labor-management committees to discuss new ways of working • Facilitate appropriate supervision of working hours using the employment in sales and planning departments and updated personnel treatment systems management system based on evolving working styles; adopted a new working system in July 2013 A • Implement measures based on labor-management discussions on ways to • Discussed ways to encourage employees to take leave during opinion encourage employees to take leave, including the creation of more accommoexchanges at labor-management committees for the creation of a working dating workplace environments environment amenable to enhanced job satisfaction • Continue holding the Hagukumi Seminar and Hagukumi Art Salon; organize • Introduced a teleworking system in February 2014 these activities in more areas in Japan • Held the Hagukumi (nurturing) Seminar in December 2013 and Hagukumi Art A • Operate the Hagukumi Circle, a network of employees balancing work and Salon in February and March 2014 childcare • Arranged regular opportunities for opinion exchanges between labor and • Increase opportunities for opinion exchanges between labor and management, management, including division tripartite conferences and labor-management including division tripartite conferences, business councils at individual divisions, committees for the creation of a working environment amenable to enhanced and labor-management committees for the creation of a working environment job satisfaction A amenable to enhanced job satisfaction • Held division-based recreational events jointly organized by labor and • Continue holding and gingering up recreational events jointly organized by labor management and management (including one Company-wide event to be held in October 2014) • Promote safety activities across operational sites based on the analyses of • Reduced the number of occupational accidents by 20% workplace safety awareness surveys • Improved the Anzen Dojo safety training facility at the Kawaguchi Plant in • Enrich rankand job-based safety education with a textbook for foremen Saitama Prefecture; established a dojo at Fukuoka Plant in Fukuoka Prefecture B • Complete the switch from cleansing agents previously used at offset printing • Selected new cleansing agents for offset printers to prepare for gradual workplaces to new agents not restricted under the Ordinance on Prevention of adoption during fiscal 2014 Organic Solvent Poisoning (“Organic Solvent Ordinance”) in Japan •O  rganized drills for the establishment of disaster task forces at the main sites in Japan • Organize startup drills for alternate functions of the Company-wide task force in • Organized a comprehensive disaster-preparedness drill in Akihabara on March the Kansai area in Japan A 11, 2014 (evacuation drill, distribution of stockpiled supplies, communication • Continue organizing initial action drills in Akihabara; hold assembling drills for the drill using the safety confirmation system, walk-home drill) task force crew • Attained a regular medical check-up ratio of 57.3% for the dependents of • Improve the medical check-up ratio by intensively encouraging insured members employees (a 3 point improvement from the ratio in the previous year) of employee families to come in for regular medical check-ups A • Held various meetings to encourage more people to come in for health • Cooperate with the Toppan Group Health Insurance Union to formulate and check-ups for lifestyle-related diseases implement a Data Health Plan •O  perated Art Salon at 17 regional sites across Japan (1 more site than in fiscal 2012) • Continue operating Art Salon • Distributed a new handbook for managerial and supervisory staff to provide A • Arrange mental health check-ups jointly with the regularly scheduled medical guidance on handling mental healthcare for their subordinates check-ups • Educated 141 managerial staff via programs aimed to strengthen fundamental • Upgrade support programs via various channels such as the Toppan Business capabilities; added 7 courses to the training programs organized by divisions School; expand learning opportunities and enrich learning content outside the Tokyo metropolitan district A • Dispatch employees outside the Company to strengthen the fosterage of human • Sent 4 employees to an overseas business school; put 101 employees through assets with the skills and motivations necessary to work in a global business the selective training on globalization environment • Held 77 training sessions for 1,205 Leaders from Toppan and Group companies • Reinforce measures to prevent improper conduct by upgrading training • Examined the content of a Chinese version of the Conduct Guidelines programs for the Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders and undertaking other B relevant activities Casebook, a Q&A style booklet describing practices related to the Conduct Guidelines • Implement the Conduct Guidelines in overseas Group companies • Held training sessions for 1,571 employees mainly in production control • Continue organizing training on compliance with the Subcontract Law of Japan departments at Toppan divisions and Group companies and interviewed A for Toppan and Group company employees and continue interviews to check employees at 17 sites across Japan how subcontract transactions are being handled • Revised the Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines and issued a second version in January 2014 • Apply the Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines to business partners • Held briefing sessions for about 1,200 business partners working with A working with Toppan Group companies Toppan’s procurement and production control departments; sent out questionnaires to review the CSR activities business partners are promoting • Established a set of guidelines for risk analysis on BPO operations and sent •P  repare a manual for applying failure mode and effective analysis (FMEA, a step-by-step the guidelines to divisions across Japan approach for analyzing possible points of malfunction or failure) to product design and • Conducted audits for 5 primary food filling/packing plants based on the revised manufacturing processes; provide guidance on FMEA in general; establish standards for auditing criteria; improved control and maintenance levels for facilities and applying risk assessment procedures and help operational sites use the standards A operational conditions •R  enew the Quality Assurance Guidelines for Food Packaging; establish a set of • Revised the Toppan Group’s Standards for the Management of Chemical guidelines for food defense and carry out audits based on the established guidelines ­Components of Raw Materials from Ver. 3.1 to Ver. 3.2; revised the Green • Establish auditing standards for primary food filling/packing sites; help the sites Procurement Standards at each division to satisfy the Ver. 3.2 standards use the standards during their internal audits •G  ained CFP registration for 5 products, including an in-house newsletter and eco calendar • Underwent a regular CFP audit in November 2013; added 1 new site to the • Apply for CFP registration for 6 products during the course of the year scope of the Company’s CFP system certification A • Organize CFP education for employees in sales departments • Registered 3 employees for engagement in CFP quantification for the Company’s system certification; trained 3 employees for engagement in CFP verification • Completed qualification reviews under the revised criteria for 28 tightly secured • Comply with the various modifications to the laws, regulations, and standards areas scheduled for review in fiscal 2013 related to personal information A • Organize education for all employees on the proper handling of personal • Held 442 training sessions on cyber security for all employees across Japan information and confidential information and carry out internal audits for all •S  urveyed the actual day-to-day security practices of 21,237 employees across Japan departments across Japan • Sponsored the concerts for two days as scheduled and donated nearly • Sponsor the 8th series of Toppan Charity Concerts 2 million yen to the Asia-Pacific Cultural Centre for UNESCO B • Consider new social contribution programs to support literacy and other • Listed up action themes but had yet to formulate a concrete program in which educational initiatives Toppan employees could take part Evaluation criteria: S, Results achieved far surpass the targets; A, Targets achieved; B, Activities fully carried out, but targets unachieved; C, Activities insufficient TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 13 Initiatives at Toppan and the Seven Core Subjects under ISO 26000 Seven Core Subjects Issues For Details Pages Organizational Organizational governance I Corporate Governance P. 15− I CSR Initiatives governance I Risk Management Structure I Business Continuity Management Human rights Issue 1: Due diligence I Respecting Basic Human Rights P. 18− Issue 2: Human rights risk situations I Collective Labor Agreement Issue 3: Avoidance of complicity I Working for Equal Opportunity and Eliminating Discrimination Issue 4: Resolving grievances Issue 5: Discrimination and vulnerable groups Issue 6: Civil and political rights Issue 7: Economic, social and cultural rights Issue 8: Fundamental principles and rights at work Labour practices Issue 1: Employment and employment relationships I Basic Approach Regarding Human Assets P. 20− Issue 2: Conditions of work and social protection I Labor-Management Partnership Issue 3: Social dialogue I Supporting Work-Life Balance Issue 4: Health and safety at work I Occupational Health and Safety Issue 5: H  uman development and training in the I Measures for Mental Healthcare workplace I Developing and Fostering Human Assets The environment Issue 1: Prevention of pollution I Toppan’s Environmental Activities P. 34− Issue 2: Sustainable resource use I Environmental Management Activities Issue 3: Climate change mitigation and adaptation I Toppan’s Environmental Burden and Environmental Impact Issue 4: P  rotection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats I Eco-protection Activities I Eco-creativity Activities I Environmental Communication Activities Fair operating Issue 1: Anti-corruption I Disseminating the Conduct Guidelines P. 24− Issue 2: Responsible political involvement I Toppan Group Helpline practices Issue 3: Fair competition I Compliance Education Issue 4: P  romoting social responsibility in the value I Promoting CSR Procurement chain Issue 5: Respect for property rights Consumer issues Issue 1: F  air marketing, factual and unbiased I Assuring Product Safety and Quality P. 28− information and fair contractual practices I Universal Design Initiatives Issue 2: Protecting consumers’ health and safety I Protecting Personal Information Issue 3: Sustainable consumption I Contributing to Sustainable Consumption Issue 4: C  onsumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution Issue 5: Consumer data protection and privacy Issue 6: Access to essential services Issue 7: Education and awareness Community Issue 1: Community involvement I Community Involvement and Development P. 32− Issue 2: Education and culture I Cooperating with International involvement and Communities to Address Social Issues Issue 3: Employment creation and skills development development Issue 4: Technology development and access Issue 5: Wealth and income creation Issue 6: Health Issue 7: Social investment 14 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 Organizational Governance  oppan has strengthened its governance structure through the establishment of a Management Audit Office, T Points Compliance Department, and Ecology Center under the purview of a Board of Corporate Auditors according to the Companies Act of Japan. Toppan implements governance aimed at maximizing the corporate value of the entire Group under the Related Company Administration Regulations. Corporate Governance C  orporate Auditors, Board of Corporate Auditors, Corporate governance provides the foundation for addressing and Audit Firm the seven core subjects. As of the end of March 2014, Toppan has five corporate audiToppan has strengthened its governance structure through tors, including three external auditors, of whom two are indethe establishment of a Management Audit Office, Compliance pendent officers. Along with their own board meetings, the Department, and Ecology Center under the purview of a Board corporate auditors attend meetings of the Board of Directors of Corporate Auditors according to the Companies Act of and Management Committee and important meetings on risk Japan. Toppan implements governance aimed at maximizing management. They systematically carry out audits for operathe corporate value of the entire Group under the Related tional sites and Group companies in close cooperation with Company Administration Regulations prescribed for the the audit firm and internal audit-related departments of the advancement of fair management for the Group. Company. Through these tasks, they audit and advise the Company from a preventive perspective to ensure the legality T  he Directors, Board of Directors, and of the operations of the directors and departments and smooth Various Meetings and appropriate corporate management in line with company Toppan has 26 directors, including two outside directors, on policies and regulations. They also regularly convene a board its board (as of the end of March 2014). Board meetings are of corporate auditors from related companies to improve the held monthly and whenever a pressing matter requires action effectiveness of the audits by corporate auditors across or deliberation. Especially important management themes are the Group. deliberated beforehand by the Management Committee, a Toppan has had KPMG AZSA LLC verify the propriety of body made up of directors selected by the President & Repthe Company’s accounts through audits to enhance the reliresentative Director. The goal is to lay weight on managerial ability and transparency of the Company’s financial information. efficiency in business decision making. Organizational Governance Corporate Governance Structure Meeting of Shareholders Appointing or dismissing Appointing or dismissing Appointing or dismissing Board of Directors Auditing Auditing Supervising Selecting or dismissing Special Committee (for Advising and counseling defending against takeover bids) Crisis Management Committee President & Representative Director Management Committee Responds to Considers issues prior to emergencies board of directors’ meetings (Board of) Corporate Auditors Directors in charge Auditing Investigates and audits the legality and Auditing Observing Management Audit Office Business divisions appropriateness of operational activities and Promotes, monitors, and verifies the strict Audit firm guiding Group companies observance of business-related laws and Compliance Department Reporting Independently check, evaluate, regulations and the establishment of and make improvements under ethical business practices Corporate Auditors Office the direction of departments Coordinates, supervises, and verifies responsible for laws and Ecology Center Toppan’s environmental activities regulations Guiding Instructing National Conduct Guidelines Assisting Promotion Supervisors Other organizations for control Chief information Safety and Health Committee security manager National Eco-protection Committee TPM National Conference Working together TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 15 Strengthening Audit Functions Remuneration to Directors and Corporate Auditors The Management Audit Office is a body established indeIn fiscal 2013, the total annual remuneration to directors was pendently from the business divisions. Working from legal and 1,127 million yen and the total annual remuneration to corporational viewpoints, the office conducts fair and objective audits rate auditors was 108 million yen. Please refer to the section on the administrative and operational systems and practical on corporate governance, etc. in the securities report (in Japstatus of the Company’s management activities. The office anese) for details on the method used to determine remunerprovides feedback to the relevant departments on problems, ations and remuneration-related information. proposes measures for improvement, and reports the audit results to the President & Representative Director, directors in CSR Initiatives charge of relevant departments, and corporate auditors. The Promotion Mechanism office carried out 26 management and operation audits in Under the President & Representative Director and the Direcfiscal 2013. It also conducted maintenance and operational tor in charge of CSR, the divisions of the head office work in evaluations of internal controls over financial reporting for all collaboration with each other to promote CSR activities. business divisions and main subsidiaries. Each division confirms the materiality of its action points in The Compliance Department in the Legal Affairs Division line with the seven core subjects set under ISO 26000. The spearheads the Company’s initiatives to ensure the strict divisions devise action plans and carry out measures based observance of laws and regulations and to firmly establish on shared information about the issues they are addressing ethical business practices. The department facilitates the and the progress they are making. The head office divisions complete awareness of the Conduct Guidelines, organizes also coordinate and share information with Group companies employee education on compliance with applicable laws, and to advance Group-wide CSR initiatives. implements internal audits on information security (➞PP. 24, 30). The Ecology Center in the Manufacturing Management Organizational Governance Division supervises environmental activities, conducts internal audits at operational sites, and monitors the progress of improvements (➞P. 34). Risk to Be Managed and the Relevant Head Office Divisions in Charge Risk to Be Managed Accidents involving products or Accidents or complaints related to products (Manufacturing product liability Management Div.) Accidents related to main systems (ICT Management Div.) CSR Promotion Structure Occupational accidents, traffic accidents, or other accidents involving employees (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) President & Representative Director Incidents related to notes or accounts receivable (Finance & Accounting Div.) Director in charge of CSR Accidents or disasters related to Legal problems with orders received (Legal Affairs Div.) company operations Leakage of personal information, internal confidential information, etc. (Legal Affairs Div.) CSR promotion departments Accidents or disasters related to fires or explosions (Manufacturing Management Div.) Administration Illegal activities related to the storage of solvents, management of dangerous chemicals, etc. (Manufacturing Management Div.) Legal Affairs Division Damage to the company’s internal computer system due to cyber terrorism, illegal access or use of company information, leakage of Defamation, slander, or other personal information, internal information, etc. (ICT Management Div.) Secretary Office criminal damages Acts of violence against the company (threats, kidnapping, robbery) (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) Unreasonable demands from antisocial organizations, transactions Public Relations Division Relationships with antisocial conducted between business partners and antisocial organizations organizations (Legal Affairs Div.) Corporate Planning Material losses or personal accidents suffered by customers or the company due to earthquakes, wind or water damage, lightning, etc. Division Natural disasters (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) Personnel & Labor Operational shutdowns due to large-scale earthquakes or other unexpected events (Legal Affairs Div.) Relations Division Risk in business management Shareholder derivative lawsuits, hostile takeovers (Legal Affairs Div.) Finance & Accounting Unlawful activities related to Violations of the Subcontract Law of Japan, illegal transactions with Division external contracts business partners (Manufacturing Management Div.) Infringement of intellectual Manufacturing Infringements of patents, trademarks, or copyrights (Legal Affairs Div.) property Management Division Violations of environmental laws or standards, illegal disposal of Environmental problems industrial waste (Manufacturing Management Div.) Business Development Product accidents, environmental problems, fires or natural disasters, & Research Division Risk in overseas business damage to human or physical resources caused by international activities conflicts or terrorism, etc. (Corporate Planning Div.) 16 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 Risk Management Structure Business Continuity Management Toppan manages risk comprehensively to avoid risk and mini­ As a preparation for operational shutdowns after large-scale mize the losses incurred when an event at risk of occurring earthquakes, Toppan institutes business continuity manageactually occurs. ment (BCM) activities under the Basic Plan for CountermeasThe Rules on Risk Management have been established to ures against Disasters. These activities aim to maintain the address matters regarding risk avoidance and the minimization steady provision of products and services to customers by of loss when a potentially damaging event occurs. In accordrestoring business operations as rapidly as possible whenever ance with these rules, the Company has set up a risk manan emergency shutdown occurs. The Toppan Group has introagement structure under which the responsibilities for risk duced its BCM activities at the main operational sites in the management are allotted to specific divisions in the head office Tokyo metropolitan district and implements them throughout based on the types of risk involved. Under this structure, the the whole Group, including regional sites and Group compadirectors in charge of each relevant division are responsible nies, to prepare for the contingency of large-scale earthquakes for taking measures to prevent, avoid, and correct each type throughout Japan. of risk. A new data center with superior earthquake resistance was Toppan reviews risks to be managed once a year and examcompleted in fiscal 2013 to safeguard the Group-wide IT infraines countermeasures to be taken in line with the rules. The structure. Toppan repeated various BCM drills across its operCompany also holds a regular Risk Management Liaison Meetational sites to enhance Group-wide competence for business ing for the persons in charge of risk management in the head continuity. Toppan also invited outside professionals to give office divisions in order to share information on a continuous seminars (133 participants) and held training sessions for new basis and respond to risk practically. employees (272 participants) to improve employee awareness of BCM. The Toppan Group seeks to coexist with communities as Organizational Governance a social benefactor through these ongoing BCM activities. Countermeasures against Disasters To ensure the safety of all Toppan employees and their families and provide aid for affected people in general, the Group has carried out comprehensive disaster-preparedness measures throughout its operational sites under the Basic Plan for Countermeasures against Disasters. Every site operates its own system to promptly confirm employee safety in the event of a wide-scale disaster, organizes safety-confirmation drills, and reserves stockpiles of food and water for commuters who have no means to return to their homes. Toppan has also been preparing countermeasures against disasters to minimize damage to the Group, to carry on providing products and services for customers, and to assist disaster-affected people and areas in cooperation with local communities as a socially responsible corporation. On March 11, 2014 (the third anniversaSeminar by an outside professional Simulation drill (Sagamihara Plant) ry of the Great East Japan Earthquake), Toppan organized a comprehensive dis­ aster-preparedness drill simulating the contingency of a large-scale earthquake in ­Akihabara, where the head office is based. The Group reconfirmed the actions to be taken during an actual emergency, from the initial damage assessment and safety confirmation to the evacuation, walk-home, and distribution of stockpiled supplies. The regular repetition of disaster-preparedness drills will keep every employee on alert and prepared to apply the know-how necessary for dealing with emergency situations quickly and properly. Comprehensive disaster-preparedness drill (Akihabara) Task force operation drill (Kumamoto Plant) TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 17 Human Rights B  ased on the concept of respect for people, Toppan is committed to respecting basic human rights inside and Points outside the Company. Toppan participates in global policy initiatives such as the United Nations Global Compact and engages in dialogues on human rights. In fiscal 2013, Toppan became one of the “Diversity Management Selection 100,” a group of companies selected by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan. Respecting Basic Human Rights Collective Labor Agreement Toppan operates business under the foundational concept of The Toppan Printing Labour Union and the Company’s manrespect for people. The Conduct Guidelines, which set out agement have concluded a collective labor agreement in order behavioral norms for Toppan personnel, call for respecting to stabilize labor-management relations, maintain and improve basic human rights (respecting personal qualities and individworking conditions, and secure the corporate concord. The uality; prohibiting discrimination and harassment; prohibiting agreement sets forth a fundamental policy between labor child labor and forced labor; and so on [➞P. 27]). Based on and management, the rules governing union activities and The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment and labor-management negotiations, and employment conditions the Basic Policy on Biodiversity, Toppan promotes environsuch as wages and working hours. mental conservation initiatives to avoid negative impacts on As a fundamental policy between labor and management, the lives of people living near its operational sites (➞P. 34). Article 1 of the collective labor agreement, the General PrinThe Group has been carrying out education on human rights ciples, stipulates that the Company and union shall contribute in rank-based training for employees to prevent issues from to society through business operations and collectively work arising. To disseminate initiatives for respecting human rights for the benefit of the Company and long-term stability of the throughout the entire supply chain, Toppan sets forth an article employees’ livelihood. Labor and management both uphold on respecting basic human rights in the Toppan Group CSR these as common goals. In addition to clearly stating that the Procurement Guidelines and asks business partners to comunion has all the rights established by law, Article 2 of the ply with this article (➞PP. 10, 26). agreement specifies that the Company shall respect the union’s Toppan has also set up dual hotlines through which employrights to organize and collectively bargain and act. ees and business partners can promptly report inappropriate The Toppan Printing Labour Union is run by members from actions. nine Toppan Group companies. The union and the Company concluded a revised labor agreement in fiscal 2012 to impose Human Rights a uniform set of liability-related clauses (rules governing union activities and labor-management negotiations) on all nine Group companies. Initiatives for Respecting Basic Human Rights Participating in the United Nations Global Compact Toppan participates in the global policy initiative and respects basic human rights in a proactive manner. Respect for people A universal concept highly valued by Toppan Establishing and disseminating Working for equal opportunity Organizing training the Conduct Guidelines and eliminating discrimination and education ( PP. 24, 27) Toppan specifies respect for basic Toppan respects personal Toppan organizes training sessions human rights in the Conduct qualities and individuality, and hires for new employees to educate them Guidelines—its listing of behavioral and treats employees without about respect for basic human rights norms for employees—and disseminates this principle across the Group. discrimination of any kind. in easy-to-understand lessons. Promoting CSR procurement Operating hotlines Contributing to society ( PP. 10, 26) ( PP. 25, 26) ( P. 32) Toppan cites respect for basic Toppan supports people’s livelihood human rights as a guiding principle in Toppan operates dual hotlines through educational cooperation in its CSR procurement guidelines and through which both employees and developing countries and the business partners can report asks business partners to comply donation and supply of money and inappropriate actions. with the guidelines. goods throughout the world. In fiscal 2013, Toppan participated in a working group on due diligence for human rights organized by the Global Compact Network Japan. The Company gathered information and held opinion exchanges with other members on respect for basic human rights. 18 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 Working for Equal Opportunity and options well suited to their knowledge, experience, skills, and Eliminating Discrimination motivation. Seventy-six of 88 employees who retired in fiscal Toppan pursues diversity management to innovate and create 2013 were reemployed and now remain with the Company. value by engaging diverse human assets and nurturing their competence to its full potential. In fiscal 2013, Toppan Printing Employment of Persons with Disabilities Co., Ltd. became one of the “Diversity Management Selection Toppan promotes the hiring of persons with disabilities in 100,” a group of companies selected by the Ministry of Econ­collaboration with a special subsidiary, Tokyo Metropolitan omy, Trade and Industry of Japan. Government (T.M.G.) Prepress Toppan Co., Ltd. The Company offered a greater range of positions for intellectually disabled Positive Action employees in fiscal 2013, including positions in document Toppan promotes positive action to bring out the full potential digitalization. of individual employees, regardless of gender, and assign them to more diverse positions. The Company continues to create Providing an Open Environment for Recruitment positive working environments and appoint female employees Toppan hires persons of both genders and of many nationalto managerial positions based on their skills and motivation. ities, ages, and levels of physical and mental ability through three recruitment channels: the regular hiring of new graduI n-house Staff Recruitment / Self-determination on ates from universities and high schools, mid-career hiring of the Career Path / Second Careers experienced personnel, and hiring of persons with disabilities. Toppan has established the Challenging Job System, a self-­ The Company offers employment opportunities for recruits to directed program to encourage employees to report their choose in accordance with their own aspirations and vocawork experience, official qualifications, medium-to-long-term tional aptitudes through job-specific screenings in Japan and career development plans, and the departments and divisions the recruitment of global personnel all over the world. Toppan Human Rights to which they would like to be transferred. The combined takes part in forums around the world to make contact with effects of the Challenging Job System and an in-house staff more human assets suited to careers in a global business recruitment system nourish a problem-solving, can-do mindenvironment. Toppan also ran internship programs for 111 set, which facilitates the placement of the right person in the students in a series of six-day practical training sessions in right position across the Company. For retired employees in fiscal 2013. their second careers in company life, Toppan offers working Female Managerial and Supervisory Staff Number of Recruits Q Female supervisory staff Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Q Female managerial staff (as of April) 250 Regular Sales, Male 60 80 69 233 recruitment of administration, etc. Female 24 39 42 200 197 new university 176 graduates and Male 105 70 94 161 post-graduates Technical 150 Female 26 30 33 181 150 Regular recruitment of new Male 0 4 1 100 133 124 ­graduates from high schools and colleges of technology Female 11 14 11 50 Total number of regular recruits 226 237 250 47 52 (percent female) (27.0%) (35.0%) (34.4%) 0 37 43 Mid-career recruitment of experiMale 16 18 — 2011 2012 2013 2014 (year) enced personnel Female 8 11 — Employment of Persons with Disabilities 2012 2013 2014 Toppan Becomes One of the Diversity Management Selection 100 Employees 197 221 247 Toppan recently became one of the “Diversity Management Selection 100,” a group of companies Percentage selected by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan. The ministry aims to broaden of total 1.91% 2.13% 2.09% the foundations of human resource diversity by selecting and workforce* recognizing the companies of the Diversity Management *The percentage is calculated based on the ­Selection 100 for their track records in innovation through the total number of regular employees (as of June engagement of diverse human resources. Toppan’s efforts to 1) as a denominator. The total number was promote diversity have been extensive, and the ministry gave ­presented in the Disabled Persons Employhigh marks to the Company’s initiatives to harness the unique ment Report in accordance with Article 8 of capabilities and perspectives of women employees, especially the Law for Employment Promotion, etc. of in the areas of product and service development. the Disabled of Japan. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 19 Labor Practices T  oppan recognizes how deeply it depends on its people and encourages employees to work vigorously and Points earnestly with strong motivation. Toppan’s labor union and management engage in dialogues at business councils and various committees. Their initiatives seek to support work-life balance, promote occupational health and safety, maintain the mental health of employees, and develop and foster human assets. Basic Approach Regarding Human Assets Labor-Management Partnership Toppan values its employees as precious company assets, as As partners with shared ideals, Toppan’s labor union and “human assets,” and recognizes how deeply it depends on management have trust in each other and respect for each them. From this perspective, the Company supports the motiother’s positions. Together they have been working on various vated, vigorous, and earnest work of the Toppan workforce. issues on an equal footing and holding a host of recreational The Company keenly understands the importance of the motiand other activities for employees. Recent examples include vation to take on new challenges, the drive to work vigorously Company-wide and site-specific sports festivals held for large with a healthy body and mind, and an earnest commitment numbers of employees and their families to encourage them to follow through on tasks to completion. When employees to enjoy closer people-to-people interactions. are vigorous, earnest, and have strong motivation, Toppan is Business councils are convened as Company-wide and convinced that they show their true abilities to the full. operational site forums to discuss wide-ranging managerial Toppan strives to improve the abilities of every employee issues. Several special committees are also convened to delibthrough the stages of hiring, appointment, training, and treaterate pertinent issues of the day. Standing committees meet to ment and to bring these abilities together to strengthen the discuss longstanding issues such as working hour reductions, organization as a whole. To do so, Toppan places high priority wages, and health and safety. Individual labor-management on communication in a spirit of mutual trust, career progress committees meet when necessary to discuss specially desigin the directions in which employees envision, clearly defined nated subjects such as the creation of a working environment rewards and penalties, and the establishment of an open and amenable to enhanced job satisfaction. fair working environment. Through these efforts, Toppan will In the committee convened to deliberate working hour invigorate human resources and the organizations they form reductions in fiscal 2013, labor and management discussed and foster talented individuals who can create new engines ways to establish a teleworking system for employees who of further growth for the Company as a whole. want to come to the office but are prevented from doing so Labor Practices by their obligations outside of work. A new teleworking system was introduced in February 2014. Toppan has adopted a union shop system. In principle, all non-managerial employees belong to the labor union as members. Number of Personnel (as of March 31) Management Total Average Average Sum Total Part-time Temporary Directors Supervisors Class Employees Tenure Age Employees Workers Staff Male 26 1,687 1,749 7,363 14.9 41.3 Fiscal 2011 8,508 730 68 Female 0 39 121 1,145 9.2 32.8 Male 25 1,769 1,790 7,417 15.0 41.8 Fiscal 2012 8,587 708 75 Female 0 41 133 1,170 9.6 33.3 Male 26 1,822 1,779 7,395 15.3 42.2 Fiscal 2013 8,604 705 71 Female 0 47 148 1,209 9.9 33.6 Reasons for Leaving*1 Annual Paid Leave Used Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Personal reasons 131 (48) 180 (53) 188 (52)*2 Average paid 8.2 8.1 8.0 leave used (days) Retirement 80 ( 1) 69 ( 2) 88 ( 1) 3 Average ratio* 42.4% 41.9% 41.7% Requested by 0 ( 0) 0 ( 0) 0 ( 0) the company *3 Average ratio = average paid leave used / average paid leave granted Other 84 ( 1) 83 ( 4) 90 ( 3) Employees Taking Maternity or Childcare Leave Total 295 (50) 332 (59) 366 (56) Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Turnover rate 3.4% 3.7% 4.1% Employees taking *1 T he number of female employees who left the company is shown in 58 68 76 maternity leave parentheses. Employees taking *2 Twenty-fix males and two females took advantage of Toppan’s support 114 (2) 114 (3) 124 (4) childcare leave*4 system for employees pursuing second careers. *4 T  he number of male employees who took childcare leave is shown in parentheses. Average Annual Salary Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Total 6,397,624 yen 6,414,340 yen 6,711,582 yen 20 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 Supporting Work-Life Balance Efforts to Foster the Next Generation E  fforts to Shorten Working Hours Toppan has striven to create a working environment in which The special demands of the printing industry have made it a employees can achieve better work-life balance. It does so significant challenge for Toppan to reduce the excessive overby providing systems for childcare and nursing care leave, time hours worked by employees. Toppan has been instituting reduced working hours, higher family allowances for dependCompany-wide measures to eradicate extended overtime work ents, and employee benefits of other forms. Under the rehiring as a means of achieving better work-life balance and mainsystem for employees who resign from the Company to deliver taining employee health. and bring up children, 24 resigning employees have registered Senior management, managers, and employees jointly for future rehiring as of April 2014. undertake various initiatives to improve operating effectiveness Toppan has also made institutional improvements for its by reviewing the ways individuals work and the ways managechildcare leave system. For parents, for example, the Company ment administrates; to equalize overtime hours by adjusting has extended the period of childcare leave up to the first March operations within departments; and to introduce new working 31 after the employee’s child reaches the age of 12 months, systems such as flextime and irregular working schedules. a point in time beyond the requirements of the applicable law At the ongoing business councils and labor-management in Japan. This change eases difficulties parents face in Japan, committees, labor and management exchange opinions and where entry to daycare services is often impossible midway deliberate measures to further shorten overtime working-hours through the year. Meanwhile, the eligibility period for reduced and comply with the revised Labor Standards Act of Japan. working hours for employees with childcare responsibilities is They also analyze the actual overtime practices and review the set to continue up to the end of the child’s third year of eleuse of the newly introduced working systems. The Company mentary school (again surpassing legal requirements in Japan), renewed its work-attendance management system in fiscal even in households where the employee’s spouse has time to 2012 and enabled departments to manage working hours in devote to childcare. In April 2014, child healthcare leave was Labor Practices a more timely and detailed fashion. extended to enable employees to take leave up to the end of Special labor-management committees were convened the child’s third year of elementary school. Among the 10 days in fiscal 2013 to discuss new ways of working in sales and of leave a year, five days can be taken as paid leave. ­planning departments and updated personnel systems based on evolving working styles. As a result, the Company adopted a new working system in sales and planning departments in July 2013. Main Leave Systems / Measures to Support Work-Life Balance and Foster the Next Generation Stock Leave Employees can accumulate up to 50 days of annual paid leave (exercisable within two years from the date the days are granted). Employees are eligible to use their stock leave for medical treatment for themselves or their dependents, healthcare or nursing care for their families, recovery-work in the aftermath of unexpected disasters, and so on. Childcare Leave Both mothers and fathers are eligible for fulltime childcare leave consecutively up until the first March 31 after their child reaches the age of 12 months (twenty male employees have taken childcare leave so far, on a cumulative basis). Employees on leave receive 10% of their regular salaries from the Company (until their child reaches the age of 18 months) and subsidies of 30,000 yen a month from the Toppan Group Fraternal Benefit Society. They can also work for shorter hours (maximum reduction of two hours per day) or select a flextime or irregular working schedule from the date of their return to the job until their child completes the third year of elementary school. The Company subsidizes certain childcare costs and provides childcare-related information through a consultation office. Rehiring of Employees Rehiring is guaranteed for an employee who resigns to deliver and raise a child, provided that the employee has worked for who Leave the Company Toppan for more than three consecutive years up to the date of resignation. A resigned employee who meets this condition to Raise Children will remain eligible for rehiring until May 1 of the year when the child enters elementary school. Nursing Care Leave Employees are entitled to take leave for nursing care. The maximum consecutive leave and maximum reduction in a working day are one year and two hours, respectively, for every family member requiring nursing care. The Toppan Group Fraternal Benefit Society pays a 30,000-yen subsidy per month as assistance during the leave. The Company subsidizes certain nursing care costs and provides nursing care-related information. Leave for Child Employees can take up to 10 days of leave a year, regardless of the number of children they are raising. (Five days can be Healthcare taken as paid leave, either as full days or half-day allotments, as necessary.) Volunteer Leave In principle, employees can take volunteer leave to engage in socially beneficial activities for a maximum of one year. Employees on volunteer leave receive an allowance. Staggered Work-hours An employee can adjust daily working hours upward or downward by up to one hour to avoid rush-hour commutes during pregnancy and by up to two hours for childcare (until his or her child completes the third year of elementary school). Dependent Family For employees with children, the Company pays a monthly allowance of 20,000 yen for each child. This allowance is discontinued Allowance on the first April 1 to arrive after the child’s 18th birthday. (No limit for the number of children is applied.) Partial Subsidization of The Toppan Group Fraternal Benefit Society subsidizes 50% of babysitter expenses (up to 5,000 yen per day) for up to 90 Babysitter Expenses days a year. Other Systems The Toppan Group Health Insurance Union offers a supplementary allowance in addition to a lump-sum allowance for childbearing and childrearing. It also provides free one-year subscriptions to the monthly childrearing magazine Baby and Mommy and runs a consultation office for employees with questions about the health of the body and mind. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 21 Occupational Health and Safety Measures for Mental Healthcare Back in 2010, Toppan formulated a Basic Policy on Health and Labor and management undertake various measures to mainSafety based on a “safety first” theme and clarified the actions tain the health of the employees, the key drivers of Toppan’s to be taken at each operational site towards the complete corporate activities. Several rules have been included in the elimination of occupational accidents. The Company has employment regulations to enable employees to more readily organized rank-based safety training mainly on legal and regreturn from mental healthcare leave. These rules define a clear ulatory compliance and has undertaken various initiatives such set of criteria for deciding when an employee should return to as safety promotion and risk assessment activities led by safety work, measures to prevent the recurrence of leave, and propromotion leaders. Through these efforts, the number of occugrams to support employees once they return to work. Rankpational accidents has been gradually reduced. The safety based training is offered to prevent mental illness or to promptly promotion team at the head office and safety promotion leaddetect and treat mental illness if it develops. The Company ers at operational sites will work together to continue organalso opens counseling rooms, concludes advisory agreements izing safety education and upgrading the intrinsic safety of with mental healthcare specialists, holds regular mental health machines and equipment. check-ups for all employees, and undertakes various other In fiscal 2013, Toppan continued enriching the educational measures. In fiscal 2013 the Company produced and distribcontent of the Anzen Dojo, a safety training facility in Kawauted a new handbook for managerial and supervisory staff to guchi, Saitama Prefecture. The Company also established an encourage them to improve working environments and consult Anzen Dojo website to open the dojo to trainees outside with subordinates wishing to discuss their mental health. ­Toppan. Danger simulators similar to the dojo in Kawaguchi Toppan and a Group company called Institute of the Formwill be introduced at new safety training facilities in Fukuoka ative Art Co., Ltd. jointly operate Art Salon, a workshop to and Osaka Prefectures to improve occupational safety awarerefresh employee minds and bodies through the creative ness among Toppan employees. The Company will also prowork of painting. Art Salon sessions are held all around Japan. Labor Practices mote safety activities based on workplace safety awareness Toppan and the institute also hold the Summer Holiday Art surveys. Salon for Parents and Children, an art-making workshop for employees and their families. Occupational Health and Safety Overview of the Mental Healthcare System 2011 2012 2013 Steps to Prevent Primary Secondary Medical Recurrence: Deaths from Prevention: Prevention: Treatment: Support for returning occupational 0 0 0 Proactive measures Early detection Early recovery employees (fresh starts) accidents Frequency rate*1 0.10 0.05 0.20 Regular mental health check-ups, Contracts with mental healthcare specialists including stress checks Severity rate*2 0.004 0.00 0.002 *1 N umber of occupational accidents requiring Mental health Cooperation with medical and counseling institutions outside Toppan employee leave, per million cumulative ­actual training I In rank-based Guidance and information about • A clear set of criteria working hours (reflects the frequency of for deciding when ­occupational accidents) training consultants outside Toppan an employee on I Incorporation (contracted with the Toppan Group leave should return *2 Number of workdays lost as a consequence into optional Health Insurance Union) • Rules for preventing of occupational accidents, per thousand (group) the recurrence of cumulative actual working hours (reflects the training mental healthcare severity of occupational accidents) leave Programs to support employees returning from mental healthcare leave Counseling rooms Art Salon, an art session for employees Appointment and Steps to allay deployment of a anxiety after person to take resignation Financial assistance charge of mental from the Toppan Group health enhancement Fraternal Benefit Society at every operational and similar sources for fixed periods after site resignation 22 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 Developing and Fostering Human Assets education via the e-learning system. A cumulative total of  he Concept of Human Asset Development and T 87,834 people took part in e-learning programs in fiscal 2013. Fosterage Mindful of how deeply it depends on employees, Toppan fosFostering Human Assets for Global Business ters human assets with ambition and integrity. Toppan would Toppan has been operating a trainee system to provide employlike to contribute to society as a corporation blessed with ees with practical training in day-to-day business activities overhuman assets with excellent communication skills and heightseas since fiscal 2011. Thirty-nine employees have been deployed ened awareness and sensibilities. The Company has set up as trainees under the system, as of the end of fiscal 2013. human asset development platform called the Toppan UniverThree of them worked as Japan Overseas Cooperation Volsity. This in-house virtual university supports life-long learning, unteers for the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). skill improvement, and career enhancement while striving to The selective training on globalization launched in fiscal 2010 foster top leaders. has supported a cumulative total of 435 candidates for overseas assignments so far. Five employees in the advanced-learnVarious Education Systems ing course for the selective training have attended short-term Along with rank-based and department-based training, the open programs at IMD in Lausanne, Switzerland, one of the head office organizes selective training courses planned out world’s top-ranked business schools, since fiscal 2012. to foster leaders of tomorrow. For new employees, Toppan regards the first three years after recruitment as a Company-­ S  trengthening the Environment to Develop Human wide development period. To help new employees acquire Assets necessary skills, Toppan organizes Company-wide training and Toppan has established training centers in Kawaguchi, Saitama on-the-job training (OJT) with help from the immediate supePrefecture and Yugawara, Kanagawa Prefecture to nurture riors of new employees. individuals who will shape Toppan’s future. These centers are Labor Practices Meanwhile, the Toppan Business School (group training) venues for various training sessions and interaction between and the Challenge School (correspondence learning courses) Toppan personnel. The Company runs an intranet to help offer self-development training for employees. A cumulative employees enhance their abilities and skills online. Employees total of 9,359 people trained in these schools in fiscal 2013. visit the intranet to read posts on human asset development Employees also have ready access to basic, Company-wide programs and review the records on their own training. Systematic Human Asset Development Programs “Conduct of High Value” Based on the Corporate Philosophy and Corporate Creed Earning the trust of Strengthening business Fulfilling corporate Strengthening Improving customers foundations social responsibility organization corporate value “Abilities and Skills” for “Conduct of High Value” Knowledge and Ability to identify and Ability to Techniques and Skills in communication information skills formulate tasks accomplish tasks know-how and fostering subordinates Rank-based Training Department-based Training I New division manager training I New employee Company-wide I Selective training for section I Training for employees in I New department manager training training managers in sales departments production control departments I New manager training I Early career planning I Program to strengthen sales I Training for new supervisors in I New supervisor training I OJT brother/sister training departments technology departments I Training for new section managers I Individual department-based training in technology and manufacturing (purchasing, secretary, personnel & departments labor relations, technology & research, etc.) Basic Company-wide Education (e-learning) Globalization Training Training by Divisions Toppan Business School I Basic education on TOPPAN I MBA abroad training I Training in each division and each I Group training VISION 21 I Study abroad program for workplace I e-learning I Basic education on CSR engineers I Dispatching human assets outside I Basic education on the environment I IT training in India Selective Training the Company I Education on profit creation in I Short-term overseas study I Executive business school business I Selective training on globalization Challenge School I Training to nurture industry-leading talent I Basic education on globalization I Program to develop human assets who can create new businesses and markets Operated together with Toppan Mind Wellness Co., Ltd., an education consultation company within the Group entrusted with training projects inside and outside the Company. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 23 Fair Operating Practices  oppan organized training on compliance with the Subcontract Law, the Act Concerning Special Measures for T Points Pass-on of Consumption Tax, and other transaction-related laws and regulations in force in Japan. T  oppan educated employees and audited operations as measures to prevent improper export and import transactions. T  oppan has been monitoring the supply chain to ensure that paper suppliers legally obtain the lumber they use as a raw material for paper production. Disseminating the Conduct Guidelines  issemination Activities by the Conduct Guidelines D In June of the year 2000, the centennial of Toppan Printing Promotion Leaders Co., Ltd., Toppan established the Conduct Guidelines, a set The Leaders formulate action plans tailored to the details of of normal standards of behavior based on the Corporate Phibusiness operations and conditions, staff compositions, and losophy and the spirit of legal compliance. In November 2010, other individual factors at the workplaces where they serve. Toppan completely revised the Conduct Guidelines as a set The Leaders organize Conduct Guideline read-throughs, facilof common principles that all Group companies around the itate discussion using concrete cases, and implement other world are required to observe for the assurance of total Groupactivities to enhance compliance awareness among their wide compliance. ­colleagues. At the Meeting of Conduct Guidelines Promotion SuperviConduct Guidelines Promotion Leader System sors held each October, Supervisors from operational sites Toppan operates a Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leader throughout Japan report their activities and discuss and share system. In this system, every Group site assigns a Conduct outstanding cases and measures. Guidelines Promotion Supervisor (the “Supervisor”) and Leaders (the “Leaders”) for disseminating the Conduct Guidelines Tools to Promote the Conduct Guidelines and ensuring full guideline compliance. Supervisors and LeadToppan gives every employee a Conduct Guidelines Caseers implement ongoing activities directly connected with their book, a Q&A style casebook describing actual situations that daily business operations. Seven hundred and fifty-six Leaders can arise in daily work. The Company uses the casebook for were deployed across the Group in fiscal 2013, including 65 rank-based education and the Leaders use it to disseminate women (8.6% of the Leaders). A cumulative total of 6,051 the guidelines at their workplaces. Toppan also posts regular employees have worked as Leaders since the system was Conduct Guideline Notifications on topics relevant to the launched in 2004. Toppan will continue with measures to guidelines in order to heighten employee awareness and Fair Operating Practices deploy many more Leaders and to resolutely foster and assign call attention to compliance-related issues. The notifications more female Leaders. posted in fiscal 2013 covered topics such as information leakage, unlawful conduct, and accidents and problems related to products and services. Structure to Promote the Conduct Guidelines President & Representative Director Director in charge of Conduct Guidelines Promotion Compliance Department, Legal Affairs Division Divisions in the Company Divisions of the head office Division heads Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisor Senior General Manager Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisors of Legal Affairs Division Person in charge of management: Business Strategy Department GM Person in charge of education: General Affairs Department GM Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders Promotion Leaders Promotion Leaders Conduct Guidelines in sales and planning in administrative in manufacturing Promotion Leaders departments departments departments Sales promotion Managers or supervisors Managers or supervisors Educational leaders managers, etc. from each department from each department Employees Employees 24 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 Toppan Group Helpline Toppan devises ways to enhance the effectiveness of trainWhen an employee discovers a legal violation or improper ing at the sessions through activities such as group discusconduct somewhere in the Toppan Group, he or she is to sions using case methods describing actual incidents and report it to his/her superior for deliberation, in principle. If the accidents. employee’s superior fails to resolve the problem, the employee is encouraged to call the Toppan Group Helpline, the Group’s E  ducation on Compliance with Transaction-related internal reporting system. The helpline is kept open for use Laws and Regulations by all Group employees, including temporary staff and partToppan regularly organizes transaction-related training and time workers. checks and audits how business transactions are being hanThe helpline was used in two cases in fiscal 2013. One of dled in Japan. Both measures are key to preventing improper the incidents reported involved the use of improper procedures export and import transactions and ensuring compliance with to cope with a quality-related accident. Both cases were strictly the Subcontract Law and the Act Concerning Special Measinvestigated and properly handled, and necessary counterures for Pass-on of Consumption Tax. In fiscal 2013, a total measures were taken to prevent recurrence. of 325 employees participated in group sessions focused on export controls under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Compliance Education Act; 1,571 employees were trained on compliance with the Training for Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders Subcontract Law and the Act Concerning Special Measures As in previous years, Toppan held group training for Conduct for Pass-on of Consumption Tax; and as many as 6,120 employGuidelines Promotion Leaders in fiscal 2013. The training was ees took a course on export controls via the e-learning system. scheduled in two phases. In the first, 664 Leaders were trained in 41 sessions across Japan from May to August 2013. In the Briefing on Compliance second, 541 Leaders were trained in 36 sessions from NovemToppan was not involved in any serious accidents or violations Fair Operating Practices ber 2013 to March 2014. of laws or regulations in the course of business in fiscal 2013. Toppan Group Helpline Communicator When the problem remains unresolved Any Group employee Reporting and consultation Reporting on Superior progress and results, follow-up communication Internal reporting (emails or sealed documents sent Training for Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders (Kumamoto Plant) with an employee’s name) Approach to Intellectual Property Receiver Protection and management of intellectual property is a crucial issue President & Representative Director for Toppan, a company operating in the three fields of Information & or Senior Corporate Auditor Communication, Living Environment, and Material Solutions. The Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. ­Company devotes strict attention to measures to prevent the infringement of copyrights, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights Instructions Reporting of third parties while obtaining patents for its own technologies and business models. Along with special training for employees, planning departments regularly hold training sessions for business partners. Participants in these Department responsible for sessions acquire basic knowledge of laws on intellectual property rights investigation and countermeasures by reviewing actual cases involving problems in design work and the like. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 25 Promoting CSR Procurement Verifying the Legality of Lumber as Paper Material The Toppan Group implements CSR initiatives in cooperation Toppan promotes the sustainable use of forest resources by and collaboration with business partners throughout the entire monitoring paper suppliers (business partners) to ensure that supply chain. The Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines the lumber they use for paper production is legally obtained. are a set of principles the Group observes to drive this Toppan surveyed 50 sites of 45 business partners around endeavor. These guidelines consist of the Basic Procurement the world in fiscal 2013 and confirmed that all of the procured Policy, a conceptual framework to be closely observed by every lumber was obtained legally. Toppan provided the results from Toppan employee involved in procurement operations, and these inspections to the CDP Forest program, an initiative to the CSR Procurement Standards, a set of requirements to be collect information on corporate practices concerning the sussatisfied by every business partner. In January 2014 the Group tainable use of forests and timber products conducted by CDP, revised them into guidelines stipulating human rights, labor, an organization through which companies can disclose their the environment, and anti-corruption, the four issues globally environmental information to global investors. emphasized in CSR initiatives. Toppan also held briefing sessions for business partners and conducted questionnaires to Promoting Compliance in Procurement Departments review the status of their measures to address corporate social The Toppan Group regularly checks whether its procurement responsibility (➞PP. 10, 18). departments operate properly in accordance with the Basic Turning to the environment, the Toppan Group promotes Procurement Policy in their transactions with business partCSR procurement in line with the Standards for the Manageners. The Group asked 15 business partners to fill out quesment of Chemical Components of Raw Materials and the tionnaires in fiscal 2013 and used the results to improve Paper Procurement Guidelines for the Sustainable Use of ­compliance in procurement operations. ­Forest Resources. The Group has also established the Supplier Hotline, a portal for receiving reports from business partners, on its website. Fair Operating Practices Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines Basic Procurement Policy I We fairly and impartially offer opportunities to all business partners and I We pursue QCD (Quality, Cost, Delivery) in order to meet the needs of the potential business partners. market. I We comply with domestic and overseas laws and regulations and conduct I We work to foster mutual cooperation and build relationships of trust with fair business transactions based on corporate ethics. business partners. I We strictly control the information obtained through procurement activities. I We promote CSR initiatives throughout the entire supply chain. IW  e work to conserve the environment and reduce impact on the environment. CSR Procurement Standards 1. Basic Procurement Standards 2) Labor 1) Maintenance and improvement of quality (1) Prohibition of forced labor 2) Appropriate pricing (2) Prohibition of child labor 3) Stable supply (3) Non-discrimination 4) Product safety (4) Prohibition of harassment 5) Management of information (5) Respect for workers’ rights 6) Compliance with laws and social norms (6) Ensuring occupational health and safety 7) Fair business activities (7) The payment of appropriate wages 8) Protection of and respect for intellectual property rights (8) Management of appropriate working hours 9) Protection of people reporting improper conduct (9) Consideration for job security and fulfillment of the obligations of an 10) Disclosure of information employer 2. Procurement Standards Concerning Human Rights, Labor, 3) The Environment the Environment, and Anti-Corruption Business partners should comply with local environment-related laws and 1) Human Rights regulations and work to prevent pollution of the atmosphere, water, and Business partners should respect the human rights of all people related soil. They should also continuously measure and assess the use and to their business activities. They should also ensure that their activities discharge of resources and work to reduce impacts on the environment. do not infringe human rights directly or indirectly. 4) Anti-Corruption Business partners should prohibit and prevent conduct such as bribery, corruption, inappropriate provision or receipt of profits, extortion, and misappropriation. 26 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 Conduct Guidelines and Information Management Policy Conduct Guidelines Here are the specific conduct guidelines presented after Chapter 1 of the Conduct Guidelines (described on page 6). Chapter 2: Specific Conduct Guidelines Chapter 2 defines the specific conduct practices that we should undertake based on the Basic Principles provided in Chapter 1. Basic Principle 1: Respecting basic human rights Basic Principle 4: Avoiding all links with antisocial groups 1. Recognizing the diverse values of individuals and respecting personal 1. Prohibition of any dealings with antisocial groups qualities and individuality 2. Prohibition of involvement in antisocial activities 2. Prohibition of discrimination of any kind 3. Prohibition of provision of unjust benefits 3. Prohibition of sexual and power harassment Basic Principle 5: S  triving to improve quality and providing creations Basic Principle 2: H  aving high ethical standards and acting as that contribute to customer satisfaction a responsible member of society 1. Making our best efforts for the customer and building a relationship of trust In the conduct of business 2. Striving to improve quality in every process 1. Acting with pride as a member of the Toppan Group 3. Fully ensuring the safety and security of products and services 2. Prohibition of tacit approval of illegal conduct and rule violations 4. Prohibition of the infringement of the intellectual property rights of others 3. Respect for foreign cultures and customs Basic Principle 6: R  ecognizing the importance of information related In our private lives to business and managing it appropriately 4. Prohibition of conduct that causes distress to other people 1. Protecting information regarding customers 5. Prohibition of drink-driving 2. Protecting the company’s confidential information 6. Prohibition of the possession and use of illegal drugs 3. Appropriate handling of personal information 7. Prohibition of gambling 4. Striving for the appropriate management of information and records Basic Principle 3: C  omplying with laws and company rules and Basic Principle 7: P roactively undertaking conservation of the global conducting fair business operations environment Legal compliance 1. Striving to reduce the environmental burden of business activities 1. Prohibition of collusion and cartels 2. Promoting businesses with consideration for the environment 2. Prohibition of improper conduct in dealings with business partner companies 3. Prohibition of improper conduct against competitors Basic Principle 8: Embracing change and taking on new challenges 4. Prohibition of false transactions 1. Making proposals that embrace change to customers 5. Respecting business partners’ standpoints and building appropriate rela2. Advancing technical development that meets the needs of customers Fair Operating Practices tionships with customers 3. Having an awareness of problems and striving to improve the status quo 6. Prohibition of bribery and inappropriate entertainment practices 4. Striving to enhance one’s knowledge, skills and techniques 7. Prohibition of illegal political contributions or donations 5. Securing and using intellectual property 8. Prohibition of insider trading Basic Principle 9: B  uilding trust from society through social contribution 9. Prohibition of illicit import and export transactions activities and appropriate disclosure of information 10. Prohibition of child labor and forced labor 11. Compliance with international rules and local laws in overseas business 1. Proactively participating in the company’s activities to contribute to society and local communities Compliance with company rules 2. Contributing to the development and passing on of skills and culture 12. Maintaining discipline and order in the workplace 3. Disclosing information appropriately and enhancing the transparency of 13. Prohibition of other work without the company’s permission business activities 14. Prohibition of conduct that causes a conflict of interests with the company 15. Prohibition of receipt or provision for personal gain or rebate Basic Principle 10: B  ringing together individual strengths to fully 16. Appropriate management of assets entrusted to the company by customers exploit the integrated strength of the group 17. Appropriate management and use of company assets 1. Striving to create a lively and vibrant workplace 18. Prohibition of prejudicial treatment of persons that have reported problems 2. Striving to create a safe and clean workplace via the appropriate procedure 3. Taking pride in the Toppan Brand and striving to cultivate it 19. Fulfilling duties with integrity 4. Group companies working together to maximize integrated strength 20. Reporting promptly and appropriately Established in June 2000 Revised in November 2010 Toppan Group Basic Policy on Information Security As a group of companies operating in the information communication industry, each of us at the Toppan Group carries out Group-wide information security management in the recognition that the management of information necessary for business is a significant managerial challenge for us as a means to reciprocate our customers’ trust and promote the ongoing growth of the Toppan Group. 1. W  e manage information necessary for our business appropriately in obser4. W e are deeply aware of the risks to the information assets we handle, such vance of our in-house rules, the law, and the principles of social order. as illegal access, loss, damage, falsification/manipulation, and leakage of 2. We collect information for appropriate purposes using appropriate information, and take necessary and reasonable safety measures against methods. these risks. We deal with and rectify any problems that occur promptly and 3. We safely manage the information entrusted to us by customers in order in an appropriate manner. to reciprocate our customers’ trust. 5. We establish, operate, maintain, and continuously improve information security management systems. Established on April 1, 2001 Revised on August 1, 2011 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 27 Consumer Issues T  oppan received two awards for its universal design (UD) initiatives in fiscal 2013. Points Toppan works to continue acquiring information security management system (ISMS) certifications in order to further secure personal information. A Toppan-made calendar became Japan’s first calendar to acquire Carbon Offset certification. Assuring Product Safety and Quality C  ertified Approval System for Manufacturing in Food Quality assurance for products at Toppan is a concern for every Packaging department, not only the departments directly responsible for Food packaging requires exacting quality assurance for safety production. The departments involved in marketing, R&D, planand sanitation. Toppan has adopted a certified approval sysning, design, sales, and delivery all contribute to quality. This tem to ensure that the operational sites of Toppan and partis why Toppan describes quality assurance in production as a ner companies can manufacture containers and packages total activity (“total quality assurance”) and strives to improve only after receiving the required ratings in audits. The audits product quality and manage product safety. are conducted based on the Quality Assurance Guidelines for Food Packaging using a checklist. Toppan carried out 17 Product Safety audits at 17 operational sites inside and outside the Company Toppan has established a Basic Stance on Product Safety in fiscal 2013. Management and Basic Guidelines on Product Safety Management to secure the safety management of the products it Management of Chemical Substances in Products manufactures. The latter provides guidelines for the following Toppan intensively promotes product safety management in measures: the establishment of a structure to secure product all manufacturing processes, from raw material procurement safety by identifying and evaluating the risk of improper use to product shipment, by controlling various chemical subor other product-related mishaps and complying with laws stances whose use is prohibited or restricted. While adhering and regulations relevant to products manufactured by each to green procurement standards prescribed by client compadivision; information collection and provision and actual measnies, the Group has established a set of Green Procurement ures in the case of product-related accidents or problems; and Standards attuned to the features of products manufactured product recall procedures. at plants in the business fields of Material Solutions, Living Every Toppan site continues improving its quality manageEnvironment, and Information & Communication. Toppan manConsumer Issues ment system (ISO 9001) to bolster product safety manageages chemical substances in products throughout the entire ment. One hundred and eighty-six employees took part in supply chain. training sessions for internal auditors at operational sites in fiscal 2013. Basic Stance on Product Safety Audits for the Food Filling/ Management Packing Businesses We promote product safety Audit Points management throughout • Agreement with customers the Group by securing safety and • Quality assurance system • Management of equipment and improving the quality of our products inspection devices based on the Basic Principles of • Management of safety and sanitation Conduct Guidelines and • Steps to prevent the admixture of the principles of corporate social different products responsibility as a protector of • Steps to prevent the admixture of foreign substances user safety and health. • Steps to prevent the outflow of defective products • Steps to prevent contamination Audit for a food filling/packing site • Traceability • Security • Education and training • Maintenance of systems and frameworks Operational Sites Audited Food filling/packing businesses • 5 operational sites at manufacturing subsidiaries • 12 operational sites at production business partners Training session for internal auditors 28 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 Universal Design Initiatives to push up the wipes and make them easier to pull out when Universal design (UD) is one of the prime corporate social they start to run short. responsibilities for Toppan, a company that designs and proIn fiscal 2013, Toppan won the 37th Kinoshita Prize sponduces packaging and communication tools consumers see sored by the Japan Packaging Institute in recognition of an and use every day. outstanding achievement in R&D for packaging. The prizewinToppan strives to help realize the fulfilling lifestyles enunning packaging was “Sosogi Jozu,” a stand-up pouch develciated in the Corporate Philosophy by providing people with oped using a proprietary bag-making technology to make attractive, easier-to-use products and services. In keeping with refilling easier. Unilever Japan KK has adopted Sosogi Jozu the Toppan Declaration on Universal Design and Toppan’s Seven for refill bags for its hair care products. Its “LUX” brand earned Principles on Universal Design, the Company promotes UD the chief’s award from the Bureau of Manufacturing Industries initiatives that assign greater weight to sensory values and under the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan customization while emphasizing functions such as underat the Japan Packaging Competition sponsored by the Japan standability and usability. Federation of Printing Industries. The wide spout of Sosogi http://www.toppan.co.jp/ud/ (in Japanese) Jozu opens automatically when torn at the top, for easier refill pouring. Examples of Universal Design In the field of Information & Communication, Toppan assigns In the Living Environment field, Toppan has been applying high value to diversity awareness, enhanced user-friendliness, its unique research and development abilities to devise UD and continuity. Departments in this field offer UD proposals to proposals that enhance the inherent brand values of client client companies to help them design manuals and commuproducts. nication tools that are easier-to-use, superior in quality, and In fiscal 2013, Toppan redesigned the container for “moony accessible to more people. Their proposals are total solutions baby wipes” in collaboration with Unicharm Corporation, the for continuous usage covering the whole process from analConsumer Issues manufacturer of the product. This new container has multiple yses of existing problems and the development and implefinger grips to allow users to hold the container with one hand. mentation of in-house training programs to specialist support The container also has a special pushup button at the bottom for the editing, design, and production of tools and manuals. Toppan’s Seven Principles on Universal Design 1. D  esign products and services that are more responsive to people with different physical abilities and perceptions. 2. F  acilitate communication using multiple channels for communication, including visual, aural, and tactile channels. 3. M  ake products easier to use by making them easier to understand. 4. M  ake products that are easier to move, easier to approach, and require less strength (remove the physical burdens). Unicharm moony baby wipes Unilever Japan LUX 5. D  esign products that are safe to use procedurally, functionally, structurally, materially, and environmentally. 6. P  rovide products at a reasonable price and in the amounts required by society. 7. E  ngage in design that appeals to the senses with consideration for comfort, enjoyment, and beauty. Established in 2001 Revised in April 2010 The pushup button at the bottom pushes up The wider spout opens automatically when torn the wipes and makes them easier to pull out at the top, for easier refill pouring. when they start to run short. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 29 Protecting Personal Information Tightly Controlled High-security Service Toppan treats all personal information entrusted to the ComThe Gift Card ASP Service is a real-time balance management pany safely and securely in order to protect the interests and service jointly operated by Fujitsu FIP Corporation and Toppan rights of individuals, to reciprocate the trust of customers, and for the settlement of gift card transactions. In August 2013 to cope with the growth of more-personalized communication this service became the first payment service in Japan to services. acquire a rating of AAAis, the highest rating for information security. S  trictly Managing the Handling of Personal Information  ublishing In-house Educational Tools for Use P Personal information entrusted to Toppan by customers is ­Outside the Company never handled outside tightly secured areas that have passed The Close Calls on the Job series has long been used as a qualification reviews based on stringent security criteria. key in-house educational tool at Toppan’s workplaces across ­Toppan operates 58 qualified areas across Japan as of March Japan. Edited under the supervision of professionals, this 31, 2014. series was published by PHP Institute, Inc. in December 2013 More of these areas are working to acquire information as a handbook exclusively for corporate customers. The book security management system (ISMS) certifications in addition compilation of the series covers topical themes such as preto PrivacyMark accreditation. Toppan’s tightly secured areas cautions for the use of smartphones and social media. at the Higashinihon Division acquired the ISMS certification in This book presents examples of misunderstandings and fiscal 2013. mistakes in actual situations when workers are misled into thinking “It’s too late to ask” or “I can just wing it!” Materials are presented in the form of questions and answers accompanied by options and explanations. The book sells outside Consumer Issues Toppan and remains in use as an in-house educational tool across Toppan Group companies in Japan. Number of Domestic Sites with Tightly Secured Areas Designated for the Handling of Personal Information (as of March 31, 2014) Kansai (14 areas) Hokkaido (3 areas) Chugoku & Shikoku Tohoku (4 areas) (1 area) Kyushu (2 areas) Kanto (32 areas) An easy-to-understand introduction to information security (in Japanese; published by PHP Institute, Inc. with editorial support from Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.) Chubu (2 areas) Tightly Secured Areas at Toppan Group Companies with ISO/IEC 27001:2005 Certification (as of March 31, 2014) IInformation and Communication Division (IT Solutions, IT Solution Department, Toppan Idea Center; Service Integration Department, IT Service Division, Toppan System Solutions Co., Ltd.), Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. IInformation and Communication Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.; Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd.; Toppan Joho Kako Co., Ltd. IOji Security Room, Data Center, Toppan System Solutions Co., Ltd. IKyushu, Chugoku and Shikoku Team and ISMS Promotion Committee, Information Security Management, Nishinihon Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. IHigashinihon Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. 30 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 Contributing to Sustainable Consumption Carbon Offsetting Based on the Carbon Footprint of Toppan produces a host of environmentally friendly products Products  designed to contribute to a sustainable society. The carbon footprint of products (CFP) is a method to disclose In the field of flexible packaging materials, Toppan worked CO2-equivalent greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated together with Toyobo Co., Ltd. to develop a mechanically with a product or service throughout its entire life cycle, from ­recycled PET film for laminated packaging materials in 2012. raw-material procurement to disposal and recycling. The CFP This film is composed of more recycled resin than almost any is expressed as a single number anyone can understand. In other recycled PET film ever made: 80%. CO2 emissions in the fiscal 2012 Toppan acquired the CFP system certification in film production stages up to final manufacturing can be two fields: publication and commercial printed materials (interreduced by about 24% compared with conventional petrolemediate goods) and printed materials for advertisement and um-based PET films. business. A new material composed of this mechanically recycled In fiscal 2013, Toppan participated in the Pilot Project for PET film and a biomass polyethylene (PE) film developed by the “Carbon Offset Products Making Use of the Carbon Toppan in 2011 was adopted for powder detergent packaging ­ Footprint” Program of 2013 operated by the Ministry of in September 2013. The biomass PE film is partially composed ­Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan. This project aims to of a raw material derived from sugarcane and has a biomass establish a framework under which participating enterprises ratio of up to 50% (by weight). The packaging material made offset the GHG emissions of their products or services with from these two films retains the physical properties of existing credits equivalent to their CFPs (“carbon offsets”) and label packaging materials in terms of shock resistance, tensile their products with the Carbon Offset mark. Toppan calculated strength, laminating strength, and so on. the CFP of the Toppan ecollable Calendar, offset that amount, and acquired the Carbon Offset certification. The Toppan ecollable Calendar was the first calendar in Japan to acquire this Consumer Issues certification. Toppan will offer the CFP registration and disclosure service to client companies as a means of disseminating more products with CFP labels. Powder detergent packaging made from ­mechanically recycled PET film and biomass Toppan ecollable Calendar polyethylene (PE) film TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 31 Community Involvement and Development T  oppan Group domestic and overseas sites have been engaging in diverse community contribution activities Points based on dialogue with neighboring communities. Toppan sponsored the 7th Toppan Charity Concert series to help enhance literacy in developing countries. Community Contribution and Involvement Fostering Future Generations and Contributing to The Toppan Group has supported the communities in which Education  it operates by addressing local issues and contributing to susMany operational sites at the Toppan Group organize programs tainable local development as a community member. Its to foster the children and young people who one day will be domestic and overseas sites have engaged in contribution sustaining society and communities. Japanese sites arrange activities forged through constant dialogues with neighboring plant tours, work experience programs, internships, and other communities. Their dialogue is sustained through manifold similar activities. activities, including involvement in organizations that bring An operational site in Asaka City, Saitama Prefecture held together the opinions of community members. a plant tour as a general study activity for local elementary school students to enrich their education. The tour formed Dialogues with Communities part of a special class designed to get the children to think Toppan sites participate in the activities of local resident assoabout issues of the global environment and how they can ciations and other community organizations. The sites have contribute to environmental conversation. shaped business activities and community contribution activities by referring to the opinions sounded out from their comForming Cooperative Relationships in Emergencies munities. Meetings and conferences are also held at the sites Toppan and local communities have been taking joint steps to to inform neighborhoods of production operations and enviminimize damage caused by large-scale disasters. ronmental initiatives, to answer questions from community Under an agreement signed by an operational site in members, and to elicit opinions. ­Fukushima Ward, Osaka City (Osaka Prefecture) with neighIn fiscal 2013, an operational site in Sakado City, Saitama boring communities, the site will open part of its premises as Prefecture invited some 370 visitors from neighboring coma tsunami evacuation building, a temporary shelter for local munities into its premises for a plant tour organized jointly with residents, if a large-scale disaster involving a tsunami strikes Community Involvement and Development resident associations. Participants shared an enriching expethe surrounding area. The site also organized disaster drills rience with Toppan personnel by touring the plant, seeing the with 149 participants in fiscal 2013. facilities and products manufactured, receiving reports on environmental efforts, and taking part in a bookmaking workshop program. Awards for Blood Donation Drives Toppan had the honor of receiving the “Promoting Blood Donations Award” from the Emperor Showa Memorial Fund for Blood Programme at the “49th National Awards Ceremony for the Promotion of Blood Donation” (sponsored by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan and the Japanese Red Cross Society) held on July 5, 2013. The Emperor Showa Memorial Fund for Blood Programme was founded by the Japanese Red Cross Society with money donated from the Emperor ­Showa. Each year the fund bestows the “Promoting Blood Donations Award” to commend the outstanding achievements of individuals and groups in disPlant tour for neighboring communities Plant tour for elementary school students seminating the blood donation philosophy and in (in Saitama) (in Saitama) developing activities to promote blood donation. Toppan has undertaken Company-wide blood donation drives across its operational sites in Japan for 45 years, since 1967. This activity was highly lauded as a cooperative effort for the stable supply of blood products for blood transfusion. The 2013 award was presented by the Crown Prince of Japan, the Honorary Vice-President of the Japanese Red Cross Society. Roundtable conference with community Class for elementary school students invited members (in Niigata) to the site (in Aichi) 32 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 Tie-up Activities with Local Cultural Events Cooperating with International Toppan has proactively engaged in activities to pass on local Communities to Address Social Issues traditional culture to coming generations in the communities Toppan announced its participation in the United Nations neighboring its operational sites. Global Compact in September 2006 and pledged support for An operational site in Taito City, Tokyo works to strengthen its principles. Convinced anew that cooperative solutions to interaction with the Taito community and to pass down the global issues are vital for its community contribution activities, local culture and traditions. Each year portable shrines are the Company launched the Toppan Charity Concert series in displayed in the site’s lobby before local residents parade them the next year, fiscal 2007. This series aims to support global through the streets in a seasonal festival. An operational site initiatives to raise literacy rates in developing countries. Literin Higashi-Omi City, Shiga Prefecture, meanwhile, takes part acy is the ability to read, write, and calculate with proficiency in the traditional Higashi-Omi Giant Kite (Odako) Festival. The sufficient to function well in daily life. site encourages employees to submit kite designs and then The first two of the eight Millennium Development Goals holds workplace votes to select winning designs. Giant kites (MDGs) seek to eradicate extreme poverty and hunger and fashioned from the winning designs are flown during the festival. achieve universal primary education. To realize the MDGs, a set of common goals of the international community, Toppan Initiatives at Overseas Sites regards literacy as an essential skill enabling people in develCommunity contribution activities are also conducted at overoping countries to stand on their own feet. The annual concert seas sites. series is a fundraising mechanism to support literacy. At a site in Thailand, 35 employees visited a welfare facility Toppan sponsored the 7th Toppan Charity Concert series for the elderly on a mission “to fill hearts with love.” During in fiscal 2013 and donated 1,939,000 yen to the Asia-Pacific the visit they sang songs, played games, and lunched with Cultural Centre for UNESCO (ACCU). The funds are now being residents. The site also donated daily necessities to the welfare used for literacy education and classes on maternal and child Community Involvement and Development facility. health for mothers raising young children in Cambodia. Work experience program (in Chiba) Toppan kite at the Giant Kite Festival Literacy class in Cambodia ©ACCU (in Shiga) Local portable shrine exhibition (in Tokyo) Visit to a welfare facility for the elderly A mother and her child learning together in the (in Thailand) literacy class ©ACCU TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 33 The Environment  he Toppan Group has established a set of medium-and-long-term environmental targets for fiscal 2020 and T Points presses ahead with activities in four areas: Environmental Management, Eco-protection, Eco-creativity, and Environmental Communication. The Group has calculated its entire value chain greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3 emissions) and identified which activity categories represent larger sources of emission. Toppan’s Environmental Activities The Toppan Group Declaration Four Environmental Activity Areas on the Global Environment The Toppan Group promotes environmental initiatives based As responsible members of international society, on The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment, we who work within the Toppan Group strive to realize a sustainable society a basic philosophy for the environmental conservation activities through forward looking corporate activities with consideration of the Group. for the conservation of the global environment. Toppan’s environmental activities are divided into four areas— Basic Principles Environmental Management, Eco-protection, Eco-creativity, 1. We observe all laws, regulations and in-company rules relating to the and Environmental Communication. The Group enacted a set environment. of five bylaws to strengthen the Eco-protection Activities per2. For the future of the Earth, we strive for the effective utilization of limited formed to minimize environmental burden associated with the resources and the reduction of all types of environmental burden. 3. W ith foresight, we promote the development and widespread use of Group’s corporate operations: the Bylaw on Global Warming products that show consideration for the environment, and contribMitigation, the Bylaw on the Building of a Recycling-oriented ute to the environmental activities of customers. Society, the Bylaw on Chemical Substance Management, the 4. We engage in communication related to the environment with a wide Bylaw on Pollution Control, and the Bylaw on Biodiversity. The range of peoples both inside and outside the company, and strive for mutual understanding. Toppan Group has taken steps to conserve the global envi5. We also take a proactive approach to environmental conservation in ronment in each of the areas based on the five bylaws. corporate activities in international society. Established in April 1992 Revised in April 2009 The Environment Calculating Scope 3 Emissions More and more businesses around the world nowadays are quantifying and managing their value Scope 1-3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions chain greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated with every stage of operation from raw material procurement to the distribution and disposal of products (scope 3), in addition to direct emissions Other (scope 1) and indirect emissions associated with purchased electricity consumption (scope 2). categories* The Toppan Group has calculated its scope 3 emissions in fiscal 2012 and 2013 to identify the categories of corporate activity that represent larger sources of GHG emissions and to establish Category priority targets in its emission reduction strategy. This calculation shows that raw material consump12 tion in category 1 (manufacturing of products Toppan has purchased), categories 4 and 9 (transportation and distribution of these products), category 12 (end-of-life treatment of products Toppan has Category 9 sold), and other categories collectively accounts for the largest share of Toppan’s GHG emissions. The Group will continue monitoring and evaluating GHG emissions across its value chain and Category work to reduce environmental burden incurred throughout the life cycle and production process of 4 every product. Scope 3 Scope 2 Scope 3 4,396 kilotons 4,186 IExtraction of raw materials kilotons I Consumption of electricity supplied by entities I End-of-life treatment of outside the reporting company sold products and goods I Consumption of heating and cooling supplied by entities Category outside the reporting company 1 Scope 1 The reporting Users of products Suppliers, etc. company itself and goods IProduction of raw I Use of sold products materials, etc. and goods I Fuel combustion Scope 2 I Emissions from industrial processes 445 413 kilotons kilotons I Transportation and Scope 1 I Transportation and 220 I Employee commuting distribution of sold 232 distribution of raw kilotons I Sales activities, products and goods kilotons materials, etc. Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 business travel *Categories 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8 34 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 Environmental Management Activities agement system audits for 48 systems and carried out internal Operating Environmental Management Systems environmental audits at 69 operational sites in fiscal 2013. The Toppan Group operates established environmental manNecessary procedures were taken to correct the deficiencies agement systems (EMSs) based on its environmental manpointed out during the audits. agement rules. Sixty-nine Group domestic sites undertake environmental Improving Environmental Literacy activities to achieve the targets set under the Eco-protection The Toppan Group implements various measures to improve Activity Plan. The Ecology Center collects environmental perthe environmental literacy of its employees based on social formance data as the organization responsible for supervising trends related to the environment, priority topics for year-bythe Group’s environmental activities. The center then evaluates year environmental activities, and other environment-related and verifies the data and reports the results to the Board of issues. Directors and other management bodies. Points of improveToppan arranged Group-wide e-learning programs in fiscal ment for the continuous upgrading of environmental manage2013, along with sessions for optional training, rank-based ment are proposed and implemented throughout the entire training, and internal auditor training. The Group focused Group. closely on rank-based education by organizing e-learning proThe environmental audit follows a three-stage screening grams for managerial staff and training sessions for employees process: a management system audit by an ISO 14001 regin manufacturing and technology departments. Briefing istrar, an internal audit by the Ecology Center, and another ­sessions on chemical substance control were also held at 23 internal audit at the individual site. Toppan underwent mansites to improve the reliability of control measures. The Environment Medium-and-long-term Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2020 1. Mitigation of global warming 2. A  ction for building a 3. C  onservation of the atmospheric IReduce CO2 emissions by 11% recycling-oriented society environment compared to the fiscal 2008 level IReduce final landfill waste disposal IReduce VOC emissions into the (751 kilotons by 87% compared to the fiscal atmosphere by 70% compared to 669 kilotons: –82 kilotons) 2008 level the fiscal 2008 level (1,584 tons (7,326 tons 206 tons: –1,378 tons) 2,198 tons: –5,128 tons) Values, Results, and Evaluation of Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2013 and Environmental Target Values for Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2013 Environmental Management Environmental Targets Target Achievement Target Values for Indicators Results Evaluation Values Rates Fiscal 2014 IReduce CO2 emissions ICO2 emissions 688 kilotons 632 kilotons 108.1% S 620 kilotons 1. M  itigation of global warming ICO2 emissions per 0.75 tons/ 0.72 tons/ 0.70 tons/ 103.9% A unit of sales million yen million yen million yen IReduce final landfill waste IFinal landfill waste 2. A  ction for 455 tons 483 tons 93.8% B 375 tons disposal disposal building a recyclingIWaste generation per IReduce waste generation 0.735 tons/ 0.731 tons/ oriented society unit of production 100.5% A — per unit of production value million yen million yen value IReduce VOC emissions into IVOC emissions into 4,762 tons 4,238 tons 111.0% S 4,527 tons the atmosphere the atmosphere 3. C  onservation of the atmospheric IVOC emissions into environment the atmosphere per 0.0128 tons/ 0.0121 tons/ 105.5% S — unit of production million yen million yen value Evaluation criteria: S, Results achieved far surpass the targets (achievement rate [%] 105); A, Targets achieved (100 achievement rate [%] 105); B, Activities fully carried out, but targets unachieved (70 achievement rate [%] 100); C, Activities insufficient (achievement rate [%] 70) Achievement rates: 200 – (values actually achieved / target values) × 100 [%] TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 35 Toppan’s Environmental Burden and Types of Environmental Impact by Business Field Environmental Impact 100% Other Other The Toppan Group applies the LIME* life-cycle assessment Other 80% Photochemical method to consolidate INPUT and OUTPUT data on environoxidants Environmental impact mental burden associated with business activities into a single 60% index of environmental impact. Global Global warming warming Global This assessment provides a holistic view of the environ40% warming mental impact of all business activities at the Group and serves 20% as a benchmark for establishing medium-and-long-term enviResource Resource Resource ronmental targets and checking the effectiveness of environ0% consumption consumption consumption mental measures. Toppan has managed to reduce its environInformation & Living Material Communication Environment Solutions mental impact every year. In fiscal 2013, the Group attained a Note: In the Living Environment field, the chart shows a significant impact 30% reduction compared to the fiscal 2006 level. from photochemical oxidants, pollutants formed by reactions between *Life-cycle Impact assessment Method based on Endpoint modeling (LIME): sunlight and VOCs released into the atmosphere. In the Material A version of the damage-oriented environmental impact assessment Solutions field, the chart shows the comparatively high global warm­method adjusted for application in Japan based on the environmental ing effects from energy consumption in clean rooms and other facilbackground domestically. Damage derived from impact categories is quanities with high energy-loads. The Toppan Group includes these inditified for each part of the environment to be protected (e.g., human health, cators among its medium-and-long-term environmental targets and biodiversity). Once the damage is quantified, the environmental impacts of has taken steps to reduce environmental impact of these types. multiple factors are integrated into a single index. The Environment Major Types of Environmental Burden by Business Field in Japan (INPUT/OUTPUT data) INPUT Material Input Total Energy Consumption Total Water Consumption Total PRTR Handling Information & Information & Information & Information & Communication Communication Communication Communication 760,166 (56.0%) 3,729 (25.9%) 915 (12.0%) 865 (16.4%) Living Environment Living Environment Living Environment Living Environment 557,764 (41.1%) 4,386 (30.4%) 1,755 (23.0%) 2,060 (39.1%) Material Solutions Material Solutions Material Solutions Material Solutions 38,340 (2.8%) 5,645 (39.2%) 4,589 (60.2%) 2,341 (44.4%) Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites 0 (0%) 657 (4.6%) 367 (4.8%) 2 (0.0%) Total 1,356,270 (Unit: tons) Total 14,417 (Unit: 1,000 GJ) Total 7,627 (Unit: 1,000 m 3 ) Total 5,269 (Unit: tons) OUTPUT Total Waste Discharge CO 2 Emissions Total Effluent Discharge Total PRTR Release Information & Information & Information & Information & Communication Communication Communication Communication 128,191 (50.1%) 160,651 (25.4%) 547 (8.6%) 51 (20.8%) Living Environment Living Environment Living Environment Living Environment 93,919 (36.7%) 212,744 (33.6%) 1,292 (20.4%) 171 (70.1%) Material Solutions Material Solutions Material Solutions Material Solutions 30,443 (11.9%) 232,456 (36.8%) 4,146 (65.4%) 22 (8.8%) Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites 3,338 (1.3%) 26,554 (4.2%) 355 (5.6%) 0 (0.2%) Total 255,891 (Unit: tons) Total 632,404 (Unit: t-CO 2) Total 6,340 (Unit: 1,000 m 3 ) Total 243 (Unit: tons) Notes: I Energy consumption associated with fuel consumption is calculated using the conversion factor specified in the year 2000 amendment of the Act on the Rational Use of Energy of Japan. The primary energy input associated with electricity consumption is calculated uniformly as 0.00983 GJ/kWh. Some of the material inputs are calculated from estimated values based on production values. I “Waste” in this report includes industrial waste of no value and waste materials of value sold or transferred as resources (both generated in association with business activities). I Total energy consumption is the quantity of electricity and fuels consumed. I Total values may not exactly match the sum totals of individual values, as decimals are rounded up or down. 36 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 Eco-protection Activities kilotons for the year. The Itabashi Plant of Toppan Printing Mitigating Global Warming and Saving Energy Co., Ltd. and the Kawaguchi Plant of Toppan Communication The Toppan Group has been reducing the total emissions of ­Products Co., Ltd. both received awards at the “Kanto Efficient carbon dioxide (CO2) to help mitigate global warming. Electricity Use Awards” sponsored by the Kanto Branch of the The Group continued engaging in diverse activities throughJapan Electric Association: the former received a special award out Japan in fiscal 2013 to cope with the power-supply shortconferred by the chief of the Kanto Bureau of Economy, Trade ages after the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011. The and Industry; the latter received the top award for outstanding nationwide demand-monitoring system introduced a year performance. earlier continued operating as a tool for controlling peak power demand in summer and winter. The electricity consumption Improving Transport Efficiency in Logistics data compiled for each site via this system enables the Group Toppan Logistics Co., Ltd., the logistics specialist for the to review power contracts and encourage energy-saving ­Toppan Group, is working with shippers from Toppan Group efforts on a site-by-site basis. companies to reduce the energy consumption per unit of The Toppan Group also installed heat-radiation-prevention ­transport volume by company vehicles and the total volume materials for piping, painted heat-shield coatings on foldedof CO2 emissions from transport. plate roofs and other buildings, and replaced older utility facilEnergy consumption per unit of transport volume in fiscal ities (installed more than 15 years ago) with high-efficiency 2013 was 58.2 kL/million ton-kilometers, 1.3% higher than the alternatives. volume recorded in fiscal 2012. The energy consumption per The Group is switching from mercury-vapor lamps and unit of transport volume for the five years from fiscal 2009 to ­fluorescent lights to LED lights gradually across operational fiscal 2013 was reduced by an average of 3.1% per year, sites. All fluorescent lights were replaced by LED lights at the surpassing the targeted average reduction of 1%. CO2 head office in fiscal 2013. In September the Group installed ­emissions were 34,886 tons, or 28.4% lower than the fiscal The Environment solar panels capable of generating 88 kW of electricity at the 2012 level. Toppan Technical Research Institute’s Experiment Center. Toppan Logistics will work to accomplish the targets for As a result of these efforts, CO2 emissions in fiscal 2013 fiscal 2014 by optimizing transportation conditions and further were reduced to 632 kilotons, below the targeted limit of 688 improving transportation efficiency. CO2 Emissions (1,000 t-CO 2) Q CO 2 emissions CO 2 emissions (t-CO 2 /million yen) per unit of sales 1,500 1.00 1,200 0.75 0.76 0.80 0.71 0.72 900 0.60 751 695 679 600 632 0.40 300 0.20 0 0 2008 2011 2012 2013 (fiscal year) Solar panels (Experiment Center, Toppan Technical Research Institute) Note: CO2 emissions are calculated by the method specified in the Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Businesses (2003) from the Ministry of the Environment (MOE) of Japan. The CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption, however, are calculated uniformly as 0.378 t-CO2/MWh. CO2 emissions in fiscal 2013 amounted to 806,900 t-CO2 when calculated using the effective emission factor from another MOE method specified in the Ministerial Ordinance Concerning the Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities of Specified Dischargers (the latest amendment on March 31, 2010). All fluorescent lights at the head office replaced with LED lights TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 37 Building a Recycling-oriented Society efforts, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. received the Award for ExcelIn a drive to use limited resources more effectively, the Toppan lence from Chiyoda City in Tokyo at the “FY 2014 Awards for Group works to reduce the discharge of waste, increase Outstanding Waste Administrators for Large-scale Commerthe recycling rate, and apply appropriate waste t­reatment cial Buildings.” methods. Waste paper derived from operational sites primarily in the Preventing Pollution Information & Communication and Living Environment fields The Eco-protection Promotion Committee at each Group site makes up the largest portion (75.4%) of the total waste dissets in-house control standards more stringently than the regcharged at Group sites. This is followed by waste plastics from ulatory standards require. By complying with these standards, plants in the Living Environment field and waste acids such as the Toppan Group works to reduce environmental burden and waste etchant from plants in the Material Solutions field. The prevent pollution. Group has striven to increase the material recycling rate by To prevent atmospheric pollution, the Group controls boilprocessing waste paper into recycled paper, by separating ers and other plant facilities responsible for air pollutants by waste plastics and processing composite plastic into pellets, managing operations under appropriate combustion condiand by implementing other recycling methods. Waste acids, tions. In fiscal 2013 the Group continued enhancing efficiency meanwhile, have been processed internally with chemical in effluent-gas treatment by precisely controlling the plant treatment. A change in the method for treating particulates facilities subject to the requirements stipulated under the Air discharged from incinerators resulted in a 100 ton increase in Pollution Control Act of Japan. VOC and toluene emissions the final landfill waste disposal in fiscal 2013, compared with into the atmosphere in fiscal 2013 were both reduced comthe year before. To reduce the landfill disposal, the Group pared with the fiscal 2012 levels. began reusing these particulates as a humidity control agent To prevent water pollution, the Group has installed wastefor solid fuels in February 2014. water treatment facilities designed to cope with specific water The Environment The waste volume, separation conditions, and other waste consumption and pollutant conditions at individual sites. profiles for each office were reported at periodic meetings of Wastewater recycling systems have been installed at Material the Health and Safety & Fireand Disaster-preparedness Solutions plants that discharge effluents in significant amounts. Committees held at offices throughout fiscal 2013. The By recovering and reusing wastewater via these systems, the reported data is provided as feedback to workplaces in order plants have been working to reduce the levels of water conto heighten awareness among employees. Through these sumption and effluent discharge. Total Waste Discharge and Final Landfill Waste Disposal VOC and Toluene Emissions into the Atmosphere* (1,000 tons) Q Total waste discharge Q Final landfill waste disposal (1,000 tons) (tons) VOCs Toluene 350 2.5 10,000 313.8 280 2.0 267.6 265.1 255.9 7,500 7,326 1.6 210 1.5 5,000 4,888 4,530 4,238 140 1.0 0.6 2,500 70 0.5 0.5 0.4 362 317 281 221 0 0 0 2008 2011 2012 2013 (fiscal year) 2008 2011 2012 2013 (fiscal year) Recycling Rate and Material Recycling Rate *Emissions into the atmosphere are calculated in conformance with the (%) Recycling rate (recycling / total waste discharge) standards established by the Japan Federation of Printing Industries (JFPI) Material recycling rate (material recycling / total waste discharge) and the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Associ100 ation (JEITA). 98.8 99.4 99.6 99.5 95 93.0 92.7 92.5 91.5 90 85 80 0 2008 2011 2012 2013 (fiscal year) 38 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 The Toppan Group has also been striving to prevent groundone production site exceeded the regulatory standards set water pollution by checking facilities subject to the requireunder the Noise Regulation Act. The Toppan Group took immements stipulated by the revised Water Pollution Control Law diate corrective measures for every case, including steps to of Japan and taking other preventive measures based on the inspect facilities and revise the methods for facility control. regulatory regime. Since implementing these corrective measures, the Group has reviewed control procedures and taken necessary actions to Controlling Chemical Substances reliably prevent recurrences. As a preventive action against The Toppan Group has striven to reduce the consumption of environmental pollution, the Group holds regular drills to cope chemical substances to mitigate the impacts of these subwith potential emergencies and accidents during production stances on the environment. For chemical substances desigoperations. Emergency-preparedness procedures are reviewed nated under the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) whenever the results of the drills call for them. law of Japan, the Group continues reducing their consumption In fiscal 2013, the Toppan Group introduced new control and introducing safer substitutes by setting priorities in terms standards to promptly detect malfunctioning equipment or of both the type and range of application. These measures abnormalities in production processes and take required corhelped the Group achieve a year-on-year reduction of 21.6% rective measures. The Group has been advancing trend manin the handling amount of chemical substances designated agement based on the new standards using an in-house under the PRTR law, surpassing the target for fiscal 2013. ­environmental database to ensure that none of the regulatory Group production sites have also been appropriately limits are exceeded. managing chemical substances based on established control Communities around Toppan plants filed four complaints procedures. and inquiries at four sites in fiscal 2013. Three of them involved inconveniences to community residents related to noise. The Approach to Environmental Compliance Group has reviewed operation rules and either installed The Environment In fiscal 2013 in Japan, one production site recorded VOC ­sound-insulation facilities or assessed plans to install them. emission levels exceeding the regulatory standards set under The facilities g ­ enerating noise are more strictly maintained and the Air Pollution Control Act. Four production sites, meanwhile, inspected to prevent noise-related problems. The Toppan recorded excessive levels of pH, BOD, or n-hexane extractaGroup will continue enhancing the quality of its environmental ble substances relative to the regulatory standards set for management through earnest dialogue with residents in surwater contaminants under the Sewerage Act. Regarding noise, rounding communities. Chemical Substances Designated Purification of Soil and Groundwater Pollution under the PRTR Law*1 Operational Site Detail Current Progress*2 (tons) Total Total Total Groundwater pollution by handling transfer release Itabashi Plant hexavalent chromium and Continuously monitored 10,000 (Itabashi City, Tokyo) toluene Niigata Plant Soil pollution by fluorine and its 7,228 Continuously monitored 7,500 6,720 (Shibata City, Niigata) compounds 5,269 Groundwater pollution by VOCs Asaka Plant Monitoring completed: Standard 5,000 (voluntary investigation of well (Niiza City, Saitama) values continuously met water on the plant premises) Toppan Technical Research 2,500 2,010 2,111 Soil pollution by fluorine and Continuously monitored after 1,891 Institute (Kita-Katsushika fluorine compounds remediation District, Saitama) 346 300 243 0 *2 As of March 2014 2011 2012 2013 (fiscal year) *1 D  ioxins are excluded because of a difference in the counting unit. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 39 Promoting the Conservation of Biodiversity IBiodiversity Conservation outside Operational Sites IBiodiversity Conservation at Operational Sites The Saitama Ecosystem Conservation Society and the Asaka The Fukaya Plant in Saitama Prefecture has promoted biodiPlant in Saitama Prefecture pooled their forces in a project to versity conservation within its premises in collaboration with make a mini-aquarium and observe creatures living in Yanase the Environmental NPO “SHU” since fiscal 2012. In fiscal 2013 River upstream of the plant. Participants collected aquatic the NPO and plant worked together in the summer to enlarge organisms to inhabit the mini-aquarium and learned how to conserved forest areas in the 3rd phase of a wildlife-support distinguish species and how the organisms living in a water project, “Paradise for Wild Birds.” Participants spotted acorn habitat can serve as a measure of water quality. Toppan seedlings and budding orchids, tangible effects of the program, employees, meanwhile, planted trees and toured a waste incinin forest areas developed in fiscal 2012. They collaborated eration plant at Umi-no-Mori in Tokyo. The Umi-no-Mori sea again in the winter in the 4th phase to clean up the birdhouses forest is a living example of a recycling-oriented zone where installed in fiscal 2012. Great Tits had nested in about 80% of planting activities are transforming a waste island into a beauthe birdhouses, creating a wonderful opportunity to view bird tiful forest. The employees took part in a planting festival sponnests in their natural state. sored by Tokyo Metropolitan Government to plant saplings of local species that tolerate salty wind and bear blossoms and IImproving Land-use Practices at Operational Sites fruits attractive to birds. The plant tour spurred participants to Since fiscal 2010, a cumulative total of 13 operational sites rethink the problems of urban waste. have applied the land-use assessment method* to monitor organisms within their premises and to assess the degree to *Based on a set of Guidelines for Sustainable Business Site Management® which their land-use methods contribute to biodiversity. established by the Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) The Environment Making signs for Paradise for Wild Birds Creature watching at Yanase River Planting trees at Umi-no-Mori (Sea Forest) in Tokyo Birdhouses for wild birds, with employees and Making a mini-aquarium at Yanase River Incineration plant tour their families joining in 40 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 Eco-creativity Activities Environmental Communication Activities D  eveloping and Approving Environmentally Friendly Presenting at Eco-Products 2013 Products At the Eco-Products 2013 fair in December 2013, Toppan In fiscal 2013 Toppan replaced Toppan’s 14 Environmental proposed new environmental solutions based on its own Points (in-house criteria for approving eco-friendly products ­“ecollable” concept oriented towards a sustainable society. By set under ISO 14021) by establishing Toppan Standards for combing “ecology,” “collaboration,” and “able,” the Company Environmentally Friendly Products, a new set of criteria covintends to show that eco-tasks unachievable by any one actor ering five stages of the product life cycle. A total of 94 products can be achieved through the collaborative actions of governwere registered as “environmentally friendly products” as of ments, companies, organizations, consumers, and other the end of March 2014. stakeholders. These entities may work together for the develToppan will approve and register “exceptional environmentally opment of new environmental technologies and the creation friendly products” that are recognized as eco-friendly by thirdof new society-wide schemes to resolve environmental chalparty organizations or that have undergone life cycle assessment lenges. Toppan presented environmental solutions such as for quantification of environmental burden across the life cycle. packaging materials for lithium-ion batteries, the eco-friendly Cartocan, and smart community initiatives. These products Environment-related Businesses at Group Companies and initiatives exemplify the endeavors Toppan has realized Like Toppan itself, the companies of the Toppan Group through collaboration with client companies, organizations, develop, produce, and market eco-friendly products in line governments, and other entities in development, sales, and with standards they formulate themselves in consideration of operation. social demands. In the “ecollable” booth, the Company set up a display on The total sales of environment-related businesses—includpackaging production processes using recycled resins and ing, most notably, sales of environmentally friendly products rolled films that visitors could touch. Staff from companies and The Environment satisfying the in-house criteria of the Toppan Group—stood at governments collaborating with Toppan publicly discussed 244.6 billion yen in fiscal 2013. viable strategies for creating new society-wide eco-schemes. Toppan Standards for Environmentally Friendly Products Toppan Standards for Environmentally Friendly Products Life Cycle Stage Large Categories Small Categories Raw material Reduced use of hazardous substances Reduced use of hazardous substances and volatile solvents (excluding banned substances) procurement Use of waste paper Use of recycled materials Use of recycled plastics Use of materials with lower Reduced consumption of energy and water environmental burden Resource-saving efforts Reduced use of materials in production Use of lumber from forest-thinning operations, use of forest-certified paper, use of tree-free paper Use of sustainable resources Alternatives to petroleum-based materials and mineral resources Effective use of biomass resources Production Reduced energy consumption in Reduced energy consumption through changes in product design and production production processes (excluding reduction through changes in equipment) Use of recyclable energy Use of green electricity Implementation of carbon offset Same as left Reduced water consumption in Reduced water consumption through changes in product design and production processes production (excluding reduction through changes in equipment) Reduced generation of waste in Waste reduction (excluding reuse of waste inside plants) production Distribution Improvement in transport efficiency Product design for improved loading ratio Optimization of transportation Selection of more environmentally friendly transportation Use Reduced release of chemical Reduction of chemical substances potentially released from products substances during use Extension of product life Prolonged product life through improvement in durability and enhancement of functions Reduced environmental burden Reduced consumption of energy and water during use during use Disposal & recycling Improvement in reusability Reuse Easy separation and disassembly for reuse Improvement in recyclability Recycling Easy separation and disassembly for recycling Recyclability through existing recycling routes (excluding waste paper collection routes) Environmentally friendly disposal Reduced emissions of hazardous gas during disposal Use of recyclable materials that can be degraded and returned to nature (biodegradability, Use of biodegradable materials photodegradability, etc.) Proof of environmental Visualization of environmental burden Carbon footprint of products (CFP), life-cycle assessment (LCA), water footprint (WF) friendliness Labeling with environmental logos Examples: Eco Mark, Forest Thinning Mark, etc. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 41 Independent Assurance As seen in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines The environmental performance data disclosed in this CSR revised in May 2013, companies nowadays are required to report had to be rearranged for better alignment with organiassess the impacts throughout their value chains along with zational restructuring. Overall, the data aggregation seems to the environmental and social impacts associated with the direct have been completed without any major disruptions. For data business operations of their own groups. Companies are also on social performance, we believe that it will be an essential required to take appropriate measures to address their impacts challenge for the Company to expand the boundaries of reportin proportion to the influences they confer and to disclose ing from Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. alone to more companies their policies, actions, performance, and other relevant facts. within the Group. When reviewing material issues for the entire Toppan has revised the Toppan Group CSR Procurement Group in the future, we recommend that the Toppan Group Guidelines and newly disclosed greenhouse gas emissions identify the spheres in which impacts occur for each material across its entire value chain (scope 3 emissions). This seems issue and redefine the organizations to be covered in reporting. to be a key step for meeting the social requirements described above. In coming reports we expect the Company to disclose more detailed information on its efforts to address the impacts Shinichiro Akasaka throughout its value chain and the results it achieves. KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Indicators in this Report Assured by an Independent Assurance Provider Pages Indicators Assured by an Independent Assurance Provider Number of female managerial and supervisory staff Number of employees with disabilities; percentage of employees with disabilities 19 Human Rights Number of retired employees; number of reemployed employees Number of Recruits Number of Employees Reasons for Leaving 20 Average Annual Salary Annual Paid Leave Used Employees Taking Maternity or Childcare Leave 21 Number of employees who have resigned from the Company and registered to join the rehiring system for Labor Practices employees who resign from the Company for the delivery and upbringing of children 22 Occupational Health and Safety Number of employees who participated in the Toppan Business School Number of employees who participated in basic, Company-wide education (via e-learning programs) 23 Number of employees who were deployed overseas under the trainee system to acquire practical training in overseas business Number of employees who participated in selective training on globalization 24 Number of Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders; ratio of female Leaders Number of employees who participated in training sessions for Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders Number of employees who participated in training sessions on compliance with the Subcontract Law and the 25 Fair Operating Practices Act Concerning Special Measures for Pass-on of Consumption Tax in Japan Number of employees who participated in training (in group sessions or via the e-learning system) on export controls under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act in Japan 26 Number of business partners surveyed to verify the legality of lumber used for paper production Number of employees who participated in training sessions for internal auditors 28 Consumer Issues Results of audits conducted based on the Quality Assurance Guidelines for Food Packaging using the quality audit checklist 34 Toppan’s Environmental Activities Greenhouse gas emissions in fiscal 2012 and 2013 35 Environmental Management Environmental target values and results for fiscal 2013 Activities 36 Toppan’s Environmental Burden and Major Types of Environmental Burden by Business Field in Japan (INPUT/OUTPUT data) Environmental Impact 37 CO2 Emissions Total Waste Discharge and Final Landfill Waste Disposal 38 Recycling Rate and Material Recycling Rate VOC and Toluene Emissions into the Atmosphere Eco-protection Activities Number of production sites that recorded noise or chemical-substance levels exceeding applicable regulatory standards 39 Number of complaints and inquiries from communities around Toppan sites Chemical Substances Designated under the PRTR Law Purification of Soil and Groundwater Pollution 41 Number of approved and registered environmentally friendly products; total sales of environment-related Eco-creativity Activities businesses Some data in the CSR Report 2014: Detailed Data posted on the Toppan website are also assured by the assurance provider. 42 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 Independent Assurance Report TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 43 Group Business Structure Customers Toppan Group Structure Manufacturing Companies Manufacturing and Sales Sales Companies Companies Information & Communication 59% Toppan Communication Products Froebel-Kan Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Toppan Forms Co., Ltd. Total Media Development Institute Toppan Graphic Communications Tosho Printing Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. 2 other companies Toppan Travel Service Corp. 8 other companies Toppan Printing Co. (America), Tokyo Shoseki Co., Ltd. Toppan Forms Central Products Inc. 24 other companies Co., Ltd. Toppan Printing Co., (H.K.) Ltd. 11 other companies ∗Toppan M&I Co., Ltd. 13 other companies 8 other companies T.F. Co., Ltd. ∗Zhejiang Matsuoka Printing 9 other companies Toppan Leefung Pte. Ltd. Co., Ltd. Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (Manufacturing and sales company) 24 other companies ∗Data Products Toppan Forms 1 other company Ltd. 7 other companies Manufacturing Companies Manufacturing and Sales Companies Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd. Toppan TDK Label Co., Ltd. Living Environment 18% Toppan Plastic Co., Ltd. Toppan Containers Co., Ltd. Toppan Packs Co., Ltd. Toppan Prosprint Co., Ltd. 5 other companies 1 other company Toppan Yau Yue Paper Products ∗Toyo Ink SC Holdings Co., Ltd. Ltd. 1 other company 2 other companies P.T. Indonesia Toppan Printing 10 other companies Manufacturing Companies Manufacturing and Sales Sales Companies Companies Toppan Material Products Toppan Cosmo, Inc. Co., Ltd. Tamapoly Co., Ltd. Material Solutions 23% Toppan Electronics (Taiwan) Toppan Decor Products Inc. Toppan CFI (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. 5 other companies 1 other company Toppan Photomasks, Inc. Toppan Interamerica Inc. 10 other companies ∗Advanced Mask Technology Center GmbH & Co. KG 4 other companies Products Materials Service Notes: INo symbol: subsidiaries—154 companies *: affiliates—26 companies (as of the end of March 2014) IThe composition ratios given under each business field are percentages of overall net sales contributed. (“Net Sales by Business Field” are shown on page 3.) IToppan Forms Co., Ltd., Tosho Printing Co., Ltd., and Toyo Ink SC Holdings Co., Ltd. are listed on the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. IToppan operational sites span 13 countries and one region. 44 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2014 http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/ © TOPPAN 2014.10 K I Printed in Japan
