Report on activities supporting the UN “Global Compact” initiative and Corporate Social Responsibility (CRS) carried out within the framework of the “Approved Partner” Programme in 2013 Introduction The Mission of the Approved Partner Programme is to promote modern management methods and reliability and responsibility in business as significant principles in the creation and functioning of civic society as well as related education, in particular through the dissemination of good examples of reliable operation of companies involved in social environment initiatives and caring for the natural environment (www.solidnypartner.pl ). The main objectives of the Programme also include dissemination of economic, legal and other knowledge about the economic market and modern methods of corporate management, paying special attention to the standards observed and followed in the European Union. The “Approved Partner” Programme is the initiative of the Reliable Business Association and the European Education and Consulting Centre (until end of 2004 – Business Promotion Centre) introduced in 1995 in Wielkopolska. At the time it was the only programme of this type in Poland. It is important to add that The Delegation of the European Commission in Poland and The President of the National Bank of Poland (NBP) extended honorary patronage to the Programme. A multi-step company verification system combined with ongoing monitoring of company reliability are among the main values of the new version of the Programme implemented in 1999, which makes it distinct among other similar initiatives. The verification procedures are systematic based on verification requests submitted by companies and the documents, which are assessed in line with the principles stipulated in the Programme regulations. The assessment checks how reliably a company conducts its business, whether it pays its liabilities on time, whether it is solvent, whether it observes legal and administrative regulations and the principles of fair competition, whether the methods used internally and externally are friendly, what the quality of its goods and services is, how involved it is in the issues of the social environment and how it cares for the natural environment. In the period under discussion systematic marketing activities connected with the Programme were carried out, including ongoing monitoring and verification of the companies participating in the Programme. The documentation defined in the Programme regulations submitted by the company was collated and prepared for analysis by the Licence Bureau of the “Approved Partner” Programme (maintained by the Centre for European Education and Consultancy) and the Verification Committee (composed of representatives of the Association) assessed the companies seeking the award or extension of the right to use the “Approved Partner” logo and honorary title in their marketing activities. Activities supporting the “Global Compact” initiative and Corporate Social Responsibility (CRS) Systematic support (media coverage, Internet, e-mail campaigns and dissemination of information at conferences and meetings) was continued in 2013. It aimed to popularize knowledge and help in the implementation of the UN “Global Compact” initiative and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Representatives of the organizers of the “Approved Partner” Programme took part in the following activities: Since October 2009 till October 2013 Michał Wieczorek, Deputy President of the Reliable Business Association, has taken part in the work of the expert group assisting the Corporate Social Responsibility Unit at the Ministry of Economy, headed by Deputy Minister of Economy. The Unit promotes CSR and creates conditions for its development in Poland. The Unit was appointed by virtue of a regulation of the Prime Minister issued on 8 May 2009. It is composed of representatives of many ministries and central offices as well as voluntary partners. January – December 2013 promotional campaign in cooperation with specialized agencies, including mail shots with information about the “Approved Partner” Programme, “Global Compact”, CSR and solidnypartner.pl website and sent to Polish companies, accompanied by a telemarketing campaigns. January – December 2013 – promotional campaign of solidnypartner.eu website in cooperation with specialized agencies, including mail shots. It promotes laureates of the “Approved Partner” Programme (which is celebrating its eighteenth anniversary this year) and other companies offering top quality goods and services. One of the main aims of the programme and the website is creation of the “zone of greater safety in business”, which is a value particularly important for prospective customers during the “crisis of confidence”. January December 2013 actions in favour of local society Michał Wieczorek, Deputy President of the Reliable Business Association, has taken part in the work of the Poznań City Council Revitalization Committee. Some statistics on the involvement in the “Approved Partner” Programme in 2013: 5 companies (of which 2 medium and 3 small). The percentage of women managers in these companies in the period covered by the report was as follows: medium companies – 11%-65% (no change compared to 2012), small companies – 0%-50% (no change compared to 2012), There is no information on discriminatory practices regarding remuneration of women. Involvement in activities protecting the natural and social environment Natural environment In 2013 the companies participating in the “Approved Partner” Programme continued or started the following ecological activities: collection of post-production waste, ion exchange treatment of electroplating wastes, hazardous waste reduction, reduction of gas and dust emission programmes prepared by companies (and approved by the county government), use of ecological raw materials in production, Freon recovery, use of low emission fuels, continued activities to reduce detrimental effects of production to the environment: upgrading and reconstruction of production assets, i.e. exchange of insulation on heat networks and assembly of condensation neutralizers in boiler houses, participation in local programmes carried out in schools, aimed to make the children aware why it is important to protect the natural environment collection of used packaging, waste paper, cells, etc. (assistance in organization and transport). The above activities have been carried out for a number of years by: “Xcomp” Sp. z o.o. sp. k., Szczecin, ANDRE ABRASIVE ARTICLES”, Koło and others. Modern management methods compatible with international standards (mainly ISO 9001, in some cases ISO 14001 and HACCP) were implemented in over 60% of the companies participating in the Programme. About 12% of the companies in this group implemented Integrated Management Systems (Quality, Environment, H&S), among them: „Xcomp” Sp. z o.o. sp. k., Szczecin,, Zakład Wytwarzania Artykułów Ściernych ANDRE ABRASIVE ARTICLES, Koło, operation of the wholesale market in Poznań in line with the ISO 9001 and HACCP management systems (“Wielkopolska Gildia Rolno-Ogrodnicza” S.A., Poznań). Social environment In 2013 the companies participating in the „Approved Partner” Programme were involved in the following social activities: assistance in repairs of public buildings, support to day care centres, social welfare centres, management of youth sports teams, secondment of company employees to work for the social environment, assistance in the provision of hardware for school computer suites, assistance extended to public libraries in counties and towns and to district community centres (e.g. ZUI „NOVUM” Sp. z o.o. – Łomża, „Xcomp” Sp. z o.o. sp. k. – Szczecin, „ANDRE ABRASIVE ARTICLES” – Koło, Korporacja Brokerów Ubezpieczeniowych „Protektor” – Poznań, and others), participation in the “Entrepreneurship Development Programme” under the auspices of the Szczecin University of Technology and the Mayor of Szczecin, supporting the All-Poland Piano Competition organized by I Music Liberal Arts High School in Szczecin (“Xcomp” Sp. z o.o. sp.k., Szczecin), cooperation with appropriate institutions in the field of training courses and work placements for the unemployed (e.g. permanent cooperation between the Wielkopolska Gildia Rolno-Ogrodnicza S.A. – Poznań and the County Labour Offices, which refer unemployed to basic courses in flower arranging), cooperation with the County Labour Office and Family Support Centre – employment of disabled persons and creation of jobs for them (“ANDRE ABRASIVE ARTICLES” – Koło), tangible donations (products) to schools, kindergartens, social care centres; also financial help extended to natural persons (e.g. to help treat children with chronic medical conditions) and legal persons (foundations, associations, etc.), sponsorship of different events for children, including cultural and sports events, charity and social campaigns (e.g. co-organization of the Novum Jazz Festival and the Young Jazz Performers New Hope for Jazz festival; sponsorship of the Chamber Philharmonic in Łomża and the North Mazovian Museum in Łomża, regular school marathons – ZUI “NOVUM” Sp. z o.o., Łomża). Creation of new jobs – in 2013 as many as 2 jobs were created in the companies participating in the “Approved Partner” Programme. It should be emphasized that accomplishment of the different activities connected with the “Approved Partner” Programme and dissemination of information about the principles of the “Global Compact” and “CSR” were financed from very limited funds contributed by the Programme participants. Outstanding companies participating in the “Approved Partner” Programme in 2013 and in the previous years WIELKOPOLSKA GILDIA ROLNO-OGRODNICZA“ S.A. – Poznań – a founding member of the Reliable Business Club “Approved Partner” Prizes for participation in the programme since 1997 and acting in accordance with the principles of reliability and responsibility in business have been awarded to:  the company “WIELKOPOLSKA GILDIA ROLNO-OGRODNICZA” S.A. – Platinum Certificate “Approved Partner”  the Chairman of the Board, Mr. Grzegorz Hempowicz – an honorary title – “Approved Partner” Brand Ambassador Zakład Usług Informatycznych “NOVUM” Sp. z o.o. – Łomża Prizes for participation in the programme since 2002 and acting in accordance with the principles of reliability and responsibility in business have been awarded to:  the company Zakład Usług Informatycznych “NOVUM” Sp. z o.o. – Gold Certificate “Approved Partner”  the Chairman of the Board, Mr. Przemysław Balewski – an honorary title – “Approved Partner” Brand Ambassador ANDRE ABRASIVE ARTICLES Sp. z o.o. Sp.k. – Koło Prizes for participation in the programme since 2003 and acting in accordance with the principles of reliability and responsibility in business have been awarded to:  the company ANDRE ABRASIVE ARTICLES Sp. z o.o. Sp.k. – Gold Certificate “Approved Partner”  the Chairman of the Board, Mr. Robert Andre – an honorary title – “Approved Partner” Brand Ambassador Xcomp Sp. z o.o. Sp.k. – Szczecin Prizes for participation in the programme since 2003 and acting in accordance with the principles of reliability and responsibility in business have been awarded to:  the company Xcomp Sp. z o.o. Sp.k. – Gold Certificate “Approved Partner”  the Chairman of the Board, Mr. Tomasz Dynarski – an honorary title – “Approved Partner” Brand Ambassador Korporacja Brokerów Ubezpieczeniowych “Protektor” Biuro Zachodnie Sp. z o.o. – Poznań Prizes for participation in the programme since 2008 and acting in accordance with the principles of reliability and responsibility in business have been awarded to:  the company Korporacja Brokerów Ubezpieczeniowych “Protektor” Biuro Zachodnie Sp. z o.o. – Silver Certificate “Approved Partner”  the Chairman of the Board, Mr. Mirosław Trzeciak – an honorary title – “Approved Partner” Brand Ambassador Prepared by Michał Wieczorek
