2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report Building Your Tomorrow Today 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Head Office·Changwon Factory 22, Doosan Volvo-ro (Gwigok-dong), Seongsan-gu, Changwon, South Gyeongsang Province TEL. +82-55-513-6114 Seoul Office 456, Gangnam-daero, Gangnam-gu, Seoul TEL. +82-2-513-6991~2 TM MIX Paper from www.doosanheavy.com responsible sources www.fsc.org FSCTM C011053 This report was printed with soy-based ink on the environmentally-friendly recycled paper. About This Report Report Overview Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction published the Sustainability Report for the first time in 2012. In 2013, we have come to publish the 2012 Integrated Report which incorporates an annual report and a sustainability report in consideration of the efficiency of reporting. Through the integrated reporting, we have become able to establish more concrete and detailed plans regarding the company’s value and vision in connection with its business operation. We anticipate that this integrated report will provide our financial and non-financial performances to stakeholders in a transparent manner. This report covers economic activities, CSR activities and achievements of all of our Korean business units. It covers our activities from January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012 with additional information drawn from our efforts up to June 2013 highlighting some of our especially meaningful activities or results. Quantitative data includes the past three years (2010~2012) and allows a time series analysis. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction aims to publish annual integrated reports to share our meaningful activities with all of our partners and stakeholders. Core Reporting Principles The CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) performance data were created following the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative)’s GRI 3.1 guidelines and using the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). The content and guidelines of the draft integrated reporting framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), which is currently under review, were used for reference. Assurance The 2012 Integrated Report was checked for CSR data and content by the Business Institute for Sustainable Development. Detailed information about the assurance process can be found in an independent assurance report. Additional Information ‌Address 22, Doosan Volvo-ro (Gwigok-dong), Seongsan-gu, This report is published in Korean and English and can be downloaded from the homepage of the Doosan Heavy Changwon, South Gyeongsang Province Industries & Construction in a PDF file. Phone +82-55-278-3621 (CSR Team) Homepage http://www.doosanheavy.com Doosan Way Contents CEO Message 2 Special Story Global CSR Doosan Credo 4 •Creating Value for the World-Doosan Vina 47 Corporate Profile 6 •Business Overview 8 The Doosan Way Proud Global Doosan 51 •Financial Achievements 10 CSR Report CSR at Doosan CSR Pillar 1. Empowering People •Management Strategy 12 •CSR Strategies and Implementation System 14 •Dimension 1. Creative Organizational Culture 56 •Stakeholder Engagement 18 •Dimension 2. Safe Working Environment 70 •Identifying Material Issues 19 •Corporate Governance and Ethical Management 20 CSR Pillar 2. Creating Operational Synergy •Risk Management 24 •Dimension 3. World Leading Technological Developments 80 •Highlights 2012 26 •Dimension 4. Green Management 92 Special Story Future Business CSR Pillar 3. Building Partnership •Creating Shared Value for the World 29 •Dimension 5. Shared Growth 104 •Dimension 6. Social Responsibility 110 Annual Report Business Results Beyond Technology Appendix •EPC Business Group 34 •CSR Achievements 118 •Power Business Group 35 •Independent Assurance Report 122 •Nuclear Power Plant Business Group 36 •GRI Index & ISO26000 Index 124 •Water Business Group 37 •Awards and Memberships 127 •Casting & Forging Business Group 38 •Thanks to you 128 •Consolidated Financial Statements 39 •Management’s Discussion & Analysis 43 •Independent Auditors’ Report 44 •Independent Auditors’ Review Report on Internal Accounting Control System 45 CEO Message Driven by our vision to be a global leader in power and water, we are Doosan Way At Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, we have been engaged in a wide range of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities over the years. This integrated report is our first to combine financial reporting previously provided by our annual report with sustainability reporting from our CSR activities working to create a better future for all by delivering power and water with covering seven areas, including governance, human rights, labor, the environment, fair business, customers, and local communities. technologies that create greater value for the world. The year 2012 was a particularly meaningful year for us. As we marked our 50th anniversary, we also unveiled the “Doosan Way”, the philosophy and culture that drive us to be a leading innovator of products and services that improve the quality of life for people and communities around the world as we aspire to be a “Proud Global Doosan.” We strive to practice the values of the Doosan Way in both business and our daily lives. Grounded in our people-centric philosophy of corporate growth through personal growth, we are now implementing a variety of employee welfare and benefit programs to promote work-life balance. We are running capability-building programs based on our job capability development roadmap to foster professionals in each business field as well as the next generation of leaders. In addition to prohibiting discrimination based on gender, race, education, or age, we are expanding hiring of women, local staff, high school graduates, interns, and disabled persons. We are also building on seven consecutive years of strike-free collective bargaining and a commitment to shared growth to foster a forward-looking labor-management culture. In 2012, we continued to achieve sustainable growth, surpassing revenues of KRW 10 trillion despite the ongoing global economic downturn. This performance is the culmination of our ongoing efforts to enhance our global top-tier quality products and technical competitiveness as well as growing synergy with our global subsidiaries achieved through the optimization of our global operations. It is also a result of our active involvement in stakeholder-based CSR activities aimed specifically at sustainable growth. As part of our commitment to social responsibility, we are working to secure world-class transparency in governance as we practice ethical management. We are building innovative win-win relationships with our suppliers through financial and technical assistance as we strive to foster true partnerships. We are striving to create a healthy and pleasant environment by reducing greenhouse gases and managing pollutants. We are also actively involved in a broad range of initiatives to fulfill our commitment to corporate citizenship. In addition to establishing a CSR fund, we are supporting the education of tomorrow's engineers and scientists, children and youth from disadvantaged families, and migrant women as well as conducting community service and free medical clinics. We are also committed to making a difference around the world through medical, educational, and environmental initiatives in Vietnam, India, and other countries. In 2013, we plan to establish a corporate-wide CSR committee tasked with systematically carrying out our CSR initiatives. The committee will be composed of five sub-committees focusing on human resources, ethical management, shared growth, environment, health, and safety (EHS), and community, each of which will be responsible for formulating, reviewing, and implementing CSR projects in their specific areas. Thank you again for your interest in and support of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. We are committed to actively communicating our CSR activities and achievements with you and all our stakeholders in the days ahead as we dedicate ourselves to becoming a respected global leader in the fields of power and water. Thank you. Geewon Park Chairman & Chief Executive Officer Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 2 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 3 Doosan Way Doosan Credo Our customers are the reason Doosan exists. The true measure of Doosan’s success is our customers’ satisfaction and respect. Our goal is to always deliver superior value than our competitors. We achieve this by understanding our customers’ needs Our Vision and meeting or exceeding their expectations. We aspire to be a Proud Global Doosan -a leading innovator of products and services that improve the quality of life for people and communities around the world. We will achieve this by living the Doosan Credo. Guided by our Credo, we will drive our second 100 years of growth. Embracing world-class technology and innovation is vital to our survival. Tomorrow drives today at Doosan; we always look to the future instead of the past. Core Values We strive to understand, and stay ahead of, change. Doosan’s people are our greatest asset and the key to our future. We continuously seek to improve our business model, products, services and methods. They are at the heart of all our achievements. We celebrate and properly reward successful risk-taking, Our continued and distinguished success will only be possible while also respecting valuable attempts that fail. through developing and cultivating our talent. Doosan applauds the spirit of challenge over complacency. Our people possess great capacity, willingness and drive Our future success will be driven by seeking breakthrough ideas, knowledge, technologies and to contribute to the Company. They are relentless in enhancing their skills and capabilities. resources regardless of their origin, either internal or external. They embrace our Core Values and demonstrate these beliefs and principles in their daily behaviors. Profit measures our success and drives our growth. Our profit must exceed our capital cost Cultivating people is our highest priority and a shared responsibility. and be sufficient to fuel our continuous growth and investment. Attracting and recruiting the right talent, who understand and embrace our values, will be the foundation for developing our people. Our people understand how the work they do contributes to Doosan’s profit. We believe people develop and grow through performance at work We recognize that long-term success is built by respecting the rights of our suppliers, and we give them the authority and responsibility that best match their capabilities. distributors and partners to earn fair profits. Through experience, people develop to their maximum potential. Fair and immediate feedback and recognition are offered Creating a socially responsible enterprise is our duty to society. as we believe this is central to self-development. Our people are given the opportunity to develop their strengths We see business and society as a close partnership and an opportunity for mutual growth. and address areas for improvement. As a result, Doosan people are proud of who they are Doosan will be proactive in this partnership, and respected as business professionals. contributing the time and resources required for success. Our goal is to develop and grow alongside society, as a trusted and trustworthy partner. Integrity and transparency are fundamental Doosan strengths. Wherever we operate, we do so transparently and lawfully. We make profit by creating value through fair and transparent activities. We aim to contribute to the development of talent in society. We acknowledge our mistakes and keep our promises. We never compromise our principles. Our community service activities promote both corporate and social development. Inhwa best expresses who we are and provides us with a unique competitive edge. We provide clean and safe working environments. We define Inhwa as teamwork in the truest sense of the word, Doosan maintains all our facilities to the highest possible standards. grounded upon fairness and camaraderie. This is the basis for superior productivity as well as being our responsibility to our people, their By carefully following these virtues we have created One Doosan; a collective strength built on the contribution of a wide diversity of individuals. families, our customers and shareholders. Inhwa means we maximize our organizational strength and potential Environmental protection is our duty and obligation through true teamwork built on defined, transparent rules of fair play. to every community where Doosan does business. Selfish rivalries between individuals or departments have no place at Doosan We know this ultimately results in greater value creation. and discrimination of any kind is not tolerated. Inhwa means each individual contributes to the success of their colleagues and team, resulting in both excellent team and individual performances. Inhwa also means we are open; Doosan welcomes proactive ideas and constructive criticism from everyone, regardless of seniority or position. Our unique practice of Inhwa extends beyond the internal organization and embraces the entire Doosan community from our families to our shareholders, affiliates and partners. 4 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 5 COMPANY PROFILE Doosan Way Corporate Profile Corporate Overview Global Management Founded on September 20, 1962, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has localized and exported a wide range Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has pursued technology development and market expansion through of products and solutions, ranging from basic industrial materials such as cast and forged products, to major multinational M&As and strategic alliances with the world’s leading companies, thereby boosting its price and industrial facilities for power plants such as nuclear, thermal plants, seawater desalination plants, environmental quality competitiveness. The company has expanded its partnerships to include not only Asia, but also Europe and equipment and material handling equipment, thereby contributing to the national economy. Headquartered in the Americas and currently has 24 overseas companies and branch offices and 15 subsidiaries around the globe. Its Changwon, the company has grown into a global company comprising 38 subsidiaries operating the same subsidiaries include Doosan Vina in Vietnam, Doosan E&S in the USA and Doosan Power Systems with business businesses across the world including Korea, Europe, Asia and Americas. Business divisions at Doosan Heavy presence in the UK, Czech Republic and Germany. Industries & Construction consist of “Power” that manufactures power plants such as nuclear and thermal plants; “Water” that produces seawater desalination plants and water treatment equipment; “Industry” that manufactures and delivers material handling equipment and environmental equipment; “Castings & Forgings” that supplies equipment and materials for shipbuilding as well as core industrial materials for power generation/steelmaking/ chemical engineering/cement plants; and “Construction” that deals with civil engineering and construction projects. The year 2012 also witnessed continued delay in economic recovery from the global economic downturn, protracting the slowdown in related markets. Amid such difficult circumstances, in the short term, the company plans to DPS (LENTIJES) concentrate on enhancing internal business fundamentals by strengthening risk management, continuing activities DPS (Babcock) DPS (Skoda Power) to boost profitability, and maximizing capabilities and business management infrastructure. At the same time, it will Doosan IMGB Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Doosan E&S proactively explore and foster new growth engines to ensure mid-to long-term growth to realize substantive growth. Doosan HF Controls Doosan HydroTechnology Overview DPSI Doosan Vina Company Name Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Date of Establishment September 20, 1962 Doosan HPL CEO and COO Geewon Park, Keysun Han Power plant facilities, Desalination/Water treatment, Industrial facilities, Major Business Areas DPS (Latin America) Casting &Forging, Construction, Wholesale and Retail Korea: Changwon Headquarters, Seoul Office Places of Business Overseas: Overseas companies & branches (24), subsidiaries (15) Total Assets 13.5244 trillion won Total Capital 529.3 billion won Total Sales 9.6272 trillion won Operating Income 594.8 billion won Employees 8,715 Sales by region (Unit: million won) Credit rating A+ Category 2010 2011 2012 World-Class Products of Korea 2,907,251 2,554,840 2,437,251 America 47,846 71,797 52,528 Doosan Heavy Industries and Asia 1,654,518 1,455,150 1,723,719 Construction Middle East 1,635,161 3,136,427 4,219,728 Europe 1,651,070 1,565,324 1,517,902 1.Seawater desalination plant (2001) Organizational Chart Others 423,186 349,957 332,742 2.Large vessels crankshaft (2003) Consolidated adjustment (390,163) (637,989) (656,686) 3.Tool & die steel (2004) CEO Amount after consolidation 7,928,869 8,495,506 9,627,184 4.Heat recovery boiler (2004) 5.Work roll for cold rolling mill (2004) 6.Hydraulic turbine cast steel for hydroelectric power (2007) Corporate Finance Division Corporate R&D Institute World-Class Products 7.Stern frame casting steel (2007) The Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy has been selecting “World Class Products” since 2001 to enhance the 8.Rotor shaft for thermal low-pressure turbines (2010) COO quality of export products and expand future export drivers. Criteria include a global market share of 5% or above 9.Nuclear reactor for commercial nuclear power plant (2011) and global ranking of 5th or higher, with global markets exceeding $50 million in total annually, twice the size of the 10.Oil-fired thermal power plant boiler (2011) domestic market, or total exports of $5 million or more annually. From 2001 to 2012, a total of 13 Doosan Heavy 11.Turbine generator rotor shaft (2011) Industries & Construction products have been selected as World-Class Products, which is clear proof of the 12.Steam generator for commercial nuclear power plant (2012) Nuclear BG EPC BG Boiler BG Turbine/Generator BG Water BG Casting & Forging BG Management Division company’s outstanding technological capabilities and leadership. 13.Super-large forged backup roll for plate rolling mill (2012) * BG : Business Group As of April 2013 6 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 7 Business Overview Doosan Way Corporate Profile Power Casting & Forging Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction provides turnkey-basis power solutions for various power plants, including Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction possesses internationally competitive casting & forging facilities and related coal-fired plants, combined cycle power plants and nuclear power plants, ranging from power plant design to production technologies. The company manufactures essential cast and forged products for power generation, equipment supply, construction and post-project services. The company also manufactures and supplies a wide range steelmaking, and shipbuilding. In addition, it has also expanded its business areas by securing an overseas production of power generation equipment from materials to finished products. It provides power plant solutions as an EPC base through acquisition of IMGB in Romania. In particular, it has made facility investment for key products such as (Engineering, Procurement & Construction) contractor that offers solutions incorporating not only capabilities in backup rolls for plate mills and shells for nuclear power generation/industrial purposes. As the issue of CO2 emissions engineering and special construction required for power plant projects, but also expertise in power plant operation reduction is drawing international attention, the company is developing core materials for high-efficiency power and management. As an EPC contractor, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction handles all areas of plant plants, doing its utmost to create better value for customers. construction, ranging from engineering such as design to financing, equipment production, construction and postproject maintenance services, while striving to improve equipment supply and plant performance. Construction The company is Korea’s only company that specializes in nuclear power plant equipment, possessing the nation’s topDoosan Heavy Industries & Construction has improved its construction technology capabilities to enhance its bid notch technology in the area. In the coal-fired plant segment, it is building large capacity power plants at home and competitiveness. The company is engaged in civil engineering projects aimed at promoting development of national abroad based on its extensive experience and cutting-edge technology, while expanding domestic and international land and creating a comfortable and convenient living environment, such as by building roads, subways, and tunnel market shares for combined-cycle power generation. Meanwhile, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction projects, as well as conducting construction projects to improve the quality of life based on its highly developed manufactures not only boilers, turbines and generators installed in power plants, but also finished products such as construction technology. In addition, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has performed the entire process of reactors and steam generators which are core equipment for nuclear power plants. It is committed to improving the various material handling systems involving design, manufacturing and installation since 1973. The company is performance of power plants to reduce emissions of environmentally harmful pollutants and extend the lifecycle of recognized as a market leader with its outstanding technology and the latest production equipment. Based on its power generation facilities. accumulated experience and technological expertise, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction supplies best products such as continuous ship unloaders to power plants and steel mills. As a result of such efforts, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction supplies main nuclear power equipment for such overseas projects as the Rabigh project in Saudi Arabia, the Mongduong project in Vietnam, the Raipur project in India Green Energy and nuclear power plant projects in the UAE. The company will continue to enhance its bid competitiveness by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is developing technologies to make the planet cleaner and greener. These expanding areas of business in countries with business presence and advancing into new overseas markets through include development of power-generation systems that do not require fossil fuels such as wind power generation market diversification. and fuel cells; Ultra-Super Critical Pulverized Coal Thermal Power Plant (USC PC TPP) and Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) plants, as well as eco-friendly energy technologies such as carbon capture & storage (CCS) Water technology. In 2009, the company completed development of its own offshore power-generation system called WinDS3000™, which is Asia’s first 3MW-class wind power system. It also became the first company to receive an Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is the world’s No.1 company in the seawater desalination industry, which international certification for 3MW-class offshore power generation system in Korea. As indicated by the efforts is recognized at home and abroad. It is the world’s only company that holds all three key desalination above, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s commitment to green energy will continue into the future. technologies of multi-stage flash (MSF), multi-effect distillation (MED), and reverse osmosis (RO). The company is a global leader, accounting for 24% of the world’s seawater desalination market and supplying 6.5 million tons of freshwater to 21 million people daily in the Middle East. Based on its achievements in the seawater desalination sector, the company plans to advance into the water treatment market, which will contribute to generation of new revenues. 8 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 9 Financial Achievements Doosan Way Corporate Profile Business Achievements Distribution of Economic Value Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction seeks a virtuous cycle by securing product competitiveness and improving Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction generated a total of 9.044 trillion won in economic value through business profitability through ongoing technology development in its various business areas. In 2012, the company’s sales and activities in 2012 and distributed it to stakeholders, including employees, shareholders, governments, partners and operating profits improved, compared to that of the previous year, but in terms of orders, it failed to reach its target local communities. order intake due to the global economic downturn and ever-intensifying competition among companies. Despite difficult global economic conditions, however, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction received new orders for large(Unit: million won) scale power generation and desalination projects in major markets such as the Middle East, India and Southeast Asia, Category Stakeholders Description 2012 laying the groundwork for overseas sales growth in the power generation and industrial sectors. Its annual sales are Value Creation 9,044,068 also reaching 10 trillion won, continuing its solid growth momentum. For 2013, the company plans to achieve more Employees Salaries, benefits, retirement benefits 1,184,938 than 10 trillion won in order intake, a 79% increase from the previous year. In 2013, it is forecasted that the company’s Governments Taxes & public utilities’ charges, corporation tax (19,792) net income will improve significantly thanks to increase in gain on valuation of investments using the equity method of Partner Companies Cost of sales, selling, general & administrative expenses 7,632,789 Value Allocation accounting. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will build upon the foundations of these financial achievements Local communities Donations 13,609 to meet the high expectations of all of its shareholders, investors, employees and stakeholders. Investors Dividends (Estimated dividends & interim dividend) 284,666 Reinvestment Retained earnings (Net incomedividends) (52,142) Distributed Economic Value 9,044,068 Sales by BG (Unit: million won) Division 2010 2011 2012 Power 5,736,363 6,379,717 7,911,288 Water 434,510 813,234 946,594 Industrial 206,392 171,109 162,482 Casting & Forging 732,139 743,595 653,524 Construction 1,203,067 1,018,674 602,092 Employees Retail & Wholesale 6,562 7,167 7,890 (Unit: million won) Consolidated adjustment Amount after consolidation (390,164) 7,928,869 (637,990) 8,495,506 (656,686) 9,627,184 1,184,938 Market shares Partner Companies Local communities Division Category 2010 2011 2012 Remarks Power Nuclear Power Thermal Boiler 100% 51% 100% 100% 27.9% •Korea: ‌Based on major equipment at KEPCO 7,632,789 13,609 Generation & KHNP Turbine 6% 8% 22.9% •Overseas: MacCoys Database Facilities Hydro Power Water Desalination Facilities-Overseas 100% 100% 80% •Based on Middle East, GCC Material Handling Equipment-Korea 17% 36.1% Industrial Material Handling Equipment -Overseas 4.4% Cast Products 33.0% 26.3% 21.1% Forged Products 36.8% 36.7% 45.4% Casting & Crank Shaft 95.2% 95.4% 96.2% •‌Compared to accessible market size in Korea Forging Mold & Tool Steel 56.0% 56.7% 57.8% Governments Investors Work Roll 69.5% 68.5% 68.5% Construction Market Share 1.7% 0.27% 0.48% •‌Based on data of Construction Association of Korea 1. ‌In the case of turbines, there have been no new orders in Korea since the orders received in 2008. In the case of overseas subsidiaries, the figures refer to (19,792) 284,666 market shares accounted for by turbines used in power plants (excluding 50MW-class). Production Status Reinvestment Business Group Category 2010 2011 2012 Korea 1,531,292 M/H 1,644,041 M/H 1,628,345 M/H (52,142) Power Boilers, Turbines, etc. Overseas 1,000,890 M/H 1,267,654 M/H 1,744,212 M/H Total 2,532,182 M/H 2,911,695 M/H 3,372,557 M/H Korea 146,338 tons 153,065tons 138,013tons Casting& Cast & Forged products, Overseas 45,168 tons 52,863tons 50,664tons Forging Mold & Tool steel Total 191,506 tons 205,298tons 188,677tons 10 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 11 Management Strategy CSR at Doosan Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is making an all-out effort to enhance the value of the Earth as the home Strategic Management Processes to humankind, by supplying electricity and water, which are essential elements for humans to lead a civilized life, and developing technologies that protect the environment. To this end, the company has pursued business that The strategic management processes of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction follow the steps of establishment of maximizes the value for stockholders and customer satisfaction. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has pursued strategy, review of progress and evaluation of outcome at corporate and Business Group (BG) level, respectively. By specific strategic plans since 2007 with the vision of becoming the ‘Global Leader in Power & Water.’ The company satisfying this process every year, it conducts self-evaluations on the appropriateness and efficiency of developed selected top priority tasks such as Enhancement of Business Portfolio, Leadership in Technology Capabilities and strategies, as well as utilizing the results when establishing the strategy for the following year. Doosan Heavy Enhancement of Business System to achieve this vision. Enhancement of Business Portfolio refers to a strategy Industries & Construction establishes a LRP (Long-Range Plan) at corporate level every ten years for the entire aimed at building a product portfolio mainly centering on high value-added products and diversifying markets, while organization and a LRP every five years for the BGs. These overall plans are drawn up in detail to provide the basis for Leadership in Technology Capabilities refers to a strategy to realize technological self-reliance and secure technology company-wide and BG AOPs (Annual Operation Plans) to ensure that practical applications aligned with their mid to enabling the company to compete with global top-tier companies by obtaining original technologies of the existing long-term strategies. core businesses. Enhancement of Business System refers to a strategy to utilize resources efficiently and maximize performance of global operations by optimizing operation of overseas subsidiaries and production bases. In order In addition, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is always prepared to take advantage when the market grows and to achieve the vision of becoming the “Global Leader in Power & Water”, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction stay one step ahead of its competition to become the global leader. To this end, it has been operating Core will continue to make ceaseless efforts to secure global top-tier level product and technology competitiveness by Competitiveness Sessions and New Business/Technology Committee meetings to raise the competitiveness of its obtaining fundamental competitiveness and securing growth momentum through diversification of its business technology, business activities and effectively manage its R&D investment portfolio. The MBO(Management by portfolio. Objectives)process involves assigning annual business targets to each managing executive and the QBR(Quarterly Business Review) is held to assist with identifying major problems and developing effective counter-plans. The process involves establishing strategies based on future forecasts and not just looking at past performance reviews. Global Leader in Power & Water After setting the MBO performance goals, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction reviews the performance evaluation targeting of all executives including CEO in the fourth quarter. This vision expresses Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s commitment to become the global market •Strategy Planning/Review/Evaluation Process leader of the power and water industry. The company will establish its position as a global leader in all areas encompassing technology, cost competitiveness, quality assurance, revenue and profitability, human resources development and corporate culture. At the same time, it intends to take the lead in setting global market trends. 1 Quarter > 2 Quarter > 3 Quarter > 4 Quarter Marketing / Sales strategy meeting > Pre-LRP > LRP > AOP Mid-to long-term market Mid-to long-term Develop a Mid-to Elaborate on Develop overview and develop a overview of change in the long-term detailed priority corresponding sales management business strategic tasks Global Leader Power & Water strategy environment and develop strategy, financial for the following a key discussion agenda goals, and year •‌ Become a member of the Global Top Tier companies in all •Making the power for LRP investment plan Session for Enhancement of 1H New Business/Technology 2H New Business/Technology relevant business activities and water business its flagship activities Fundamental Competitiveness > Committee > Committee Develop a picture of the Check the progress of the Check the progress of the ultimate goal and its fundamental fundamental method of attainment to competitiveness initiative competitiveness initiative enable strengthening of and management of the and management of the its fundamental R&D and investment R&D and investment competitiveness portfolio portfolio Enhance Business Portfolio Enhance Technological Capability Enhance Business Systems > Develop the MBO > 1st QBR > 2nd QBR > MBO Evaluation Achieving technological self-reliance Achieving efficient utilization Develop year-to-date Identify potential Identify potential Evaluate the outcomes of by securing original technologies 사업 포트폴리오 Building product 고도화centering portfolio 사업 포트폴리오 고도화 사업 포트폴리오 of resources 고도화 and maximizing strategic initiative goals obstacles to its strategic obstacles to its strategic the established initiative on high-value-added products and for core businesses and securing performance of global operations Review and initiative goal initiative goal goals technology that allows the company achievements and achievements and Evaluation diversifying the target markets by optimizing operation of overseas to compete with global top-tier develop potential develop potential subsidiaries and production bases counter-measures counter-measures companies 12 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 13 CSR Strategies and Implementation System CSR at Doosan In order to implement its CSR activities in a more systematic manner, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction •CSR Committee established its CSR strategies for 2013. In an effort to achieve the vision of “Proud Global Doosan,” the company selected five CSR fields of activity and developed assessment tools. In addition, CSR team was formed in April 2013 COO to maintain a company-wide consensus and unified approach to corporate social responsibility. Its primary role is to Advisory Group implement CSR strategies, communicate the objectives and results and operate the CSR committee. Coordinator Strategy Operational Excellence Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction selected Human Resources, Ethics Management, Shared Growth, EHS and Community as the five fields of CSR and is in the process of connecting the CSR activities and strategies within the CSR Legal Technology Planning company. The CSR committee shares global trends, sets and discusses the direction for company-wide CSR activities. The CSR committee, which consists of the COO as the chairperson and the executives in charge of each field, meets annually. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction intends to proactively promote its CSR strategies to achieve Human Ethics Shared company-wide consensus and create corporate value. Resources Management Growth EHS Community Audit/ Shared Social HR (Domestic) Safety & health internal control Growth Contribution Aspiration Proud Global Doosan Global HR IR/GS Energy Quality BG Purchasing Innovation (Overseas) (Governance) environment (customer) Doosan Way Doosan Way Labor CSR Goal Fortune’s Most Admired Global Company in 2020 (Engineering and Construction) •CSR Assessment Tool CSR Mission Supporting Responsible and Sustainable Growth To ensure constant monitoring of the current status of its CSR activities and to identify areas of improvement in Growth of People Growth of Business capabilities, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction developed the CSR Assessment Tool (CSR AT) and plans to CSR Pillars implement it from 2013. The CSR AT will outline the Global Standards of CSR and be able to diagnose and evaluate Developing People Reliable Operation Responsible Engagement the current state of the CSR activities and issues in the five fields at all corporate levels. The ultimate goal of the CSR AT is to address CSR issues and achieve constant improvements in all CSR activities. CSR Dimension Human Resource Ethics Management Shared Growth EHS Community •‌Making fair operations •‌Establishing proactive, habitual scientific safety •‌Strengthening activities for management system improving customer satisfaction •‌Enhancing talent •Developing and •‌Developing a global management •‌Developing an ethics operating a sustainable •‌Strengthening stakeholder CSR Priorities class of healthcare •‌Developing management system supply network participation program a “Great Workplace” •‌Strengthening the overall •‌Developing a strategic social •‌Advancement to competitiveness of a scientific green contribution system ies Dia corporate partners management system vit g rovement A nosis Imp Developing and promoting a company-wide Enabler Promoting company-wide system Strengthening CSR communication cti CSR system Demand of Society Global CSR Initiative : ISO26000 / UN Global Compact / GRI s ue Iden ss tification of I Com m u ni ty EHS 14 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 15 CSR at Doosan CSR Strategic Tasks In 2012, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction shared the achievements of its CSR activities by respective fields and selected strategic tasks and specific action plans for future planning. Division Goals Activities & Achievements in 2012 Page Division Goals Activities & Achievements in 2012 Page •Integrate the EHS management systems at Changwon plant •Promote a flexible working system •Overall implementation of flexible working system for Water BG 61 •Reinforced EHS preliminary reviewing process 95 and construction sites. •Integrate the EHS management systems of overseas •Educated EHS experts at overseas workplaces 48 •Fostered experts per sector, and established a job rotation system reflecting employees’ construction sites •Establish a strategic job rotation system 58 personal desires •Operate the Health Care Program, and monitor it •Standardized the work safety observation processes per manufacturing process •Expanded healthcare services 75 •Secure safety for overseas workers •Dispatched medical team to overseas construction sites •Expand the communication channels for executives and •Operated a grievance committee and meetings for executives and employees 59 employees •Reinforce monitoring system of green energy •Established strategy to reduce greenhouse gases, and made use of the selected items 100 •Expand local hiring •The number of local people hired is 11,289 57 •Expand operational organization of green management •Dispatched environmental experts to Vietnam, Romania and India 95 Human Resources EHS •Offer more opportunities for contracted workers to become •‌Continuously changed the status of contracted workers •Increased the number of executives and employees who participate in environmental cleanup 57 •Reinforce ecology protection activities 102 permanent employees with good capacities to permanent employees activities •Reduced the emission of greenhouse gases by 9% year on year •‌Create culture that respects the rights of allexecutives and •Held training programs on preventing sexual harassment, and provided relevant consultation •Establish a strategy to mitigate greenhouse gases 101 58 •The amount of reduced greenhouse gases was increased by 40%. employees services •Reinforce the system for controlling harmful chemicals •Established a preventative program against outflow accidents caused by harmful chemicals 97 •Operated programs to help employees develop a variety of capacities such as management/ professional expertise •‌Reinforce implementation of the roadmap on capacity •‌Established and maintained a technical training program that is linked to the career •Participate in the disclosure of environmental information 67 •Participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 102 development development plan both domestically and internationally •‌Introduced a system to cultivate next generation leaders •Expanded training opportunities for employees and workers at overseas sites •Develop environment-friendly technology, and expand •Increased the number of tasks on environment-friendly technology development, and 84~85 investment in such technologies expanded the size of the investment. •Establish a monitoring system & evaluation tool against ethics •Established and utilized the Internal Control Assessment System (DICAS) 23 management •Strengthen CSR information disclosure activities •Published the Integrated Report 19 Ethics •Reinforce the implementation of ethics management •Asked for the signing of ethics management pledge 22 •Enhance the VOC response system •Expanded information provision and sharing activities 90 Management •Provided education on ethical management to the newcomers, experienced hires and •Secured personnel for enhancement of expertise on quality and operate the Quality Academy •Expand the scope of ethics education 22 •Implement continuous quality enhancement activities •Operated a power plant designed to prevent occurrence of quality-related problems & 67 procurement teams establish a data monitoring system •‌Received the chief citation from the Fair Trade Commission in 2012, expanded fair trade •Implement the fair trade Compliance Program (CP) 109 •Establish Green Purchase system •Established Green Purchase Process connected among systems 102 related educations •Provide advance notice of quantity •Implemented advance notice of quantity for 116 articles 107 Community •Foster talents in local communities & provide support for •‌Received a commendation from Minister of Health & Welfare at the 2012 Korea Sharing underprivileged people Awards (for Happiness Sharing) 112 •Strengthen local community-based CSR activities •Early admission of students who took part in Doosan’s local talent development program (56 •Help the partners implement ethical management activities •Asked partners for cooperation on the ethical code 22 •Strengthen global CSR activities students) & the nation’s largest numbers of prize-winners at the 4th Science Olympiad Shared Growth •Increased productivity and enhanced competitiveness •Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s Community Volunteer Corps received a •Expand programs for helping partners reinforce their •Provided customized support in relation with the EHS to partners commendation from the Gyeongsangnam-do Governor in 2012 competitiveness •Encourage employees’ volunteer activities 114 •Created a shared growth fund worth KRW 64.8 billion, provided directdirect financial •‌Increased in numbers of employees involved in volunteer activities and increased in volunteer •Expand financial support 107 assistance amounting to KRW 4.8 billion, recommended a financing amounting to KRW 15.2 work hours per employee •Support joint overseas market expansion billion for partner companies • Implement sharing of benefits •Supported participation by the partners in overseas exhibitions •Establish a CSR monitoring system •Operated a CSR management system and accumulated volunteer work mileage points 114 16 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 17 Stakeholder Engagement Identifying Material Issues CSR at Doosan Communication with Stakeholders Step 4. Materiality Chart Most important and pressing issues were identified based on the concerns of stakeholders and business impact. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction makes available a wide range of communication channels which are offered Material Issues Matrix to implement a CSR management system that is based on open communication and trust with our major stakeholders. High Ⅲ Ⅱ Ⅰ Stakeholder Shareholders Customers Employees Partner Local Government & Competitors companies community Related institutions •Maximization of •Product quality •Work satisfaction •Shared growth •‌Stable supply of •Product quality •Comprehensive Issues Establishment of company-wide ethical management Enhancement of Smart Office activities corporate value •Delivery periods & welfare •Establishment power/water •Delivery date & cooperation Establishment of Green Management System Support for enhancing competitiveness of partner companies •Transparency & prices enhancement of dialogue •Corporate social Price •Win-Win strategy Improvement of personnel safety &healthcare of business •Balance between channels responsibility Expanding development of eco-friendly products & services management work and life Advancement of employee capacity building Enhancement of external communication Business Impact Expansion of employee communication channels Enhancement of responsibility for products & services Communication Channels Impartial employment and Enhancing transparency of personnel management Economic achievements Advancement of climate change response system •IR sessions •Road shows •Industrial Safety & •Win-Win •Councils & •Overseas •‌Quarterly IR •Conferences •Technology Health Committee Call Center associations seminars reports Spread of CSR culture Advancement of eco-friendly production system •Overseas NDR presentations •Labor•Volunteer •Attend exhibitions •Press release Establishment of CSR governance system CSR risk management •VOC Management Service Group •Visit business Council sites Identifying Material Issues Materiality Assessment Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction identifies issue priorities in accordance with a systematic and strategic CSR management system and proactively responds to expectations and demands of stakeholders. The company conducted Social Concern Step1 Step2 Step3 Step4 Step5 Low Low High Issue Concern of Business Materiality Report a five-step Materiality Assessment for this Integrated Report. The assessment identified issues in which stakeholders Identification Stakeholders Impact Chart Framework show high level of concern, as well as issues that have potentially high impact on business. Step 5. Report Framework Step1. Issue Identification Approximately 2,000 domestic and international articles related to CSR were classified into 31 issue categories for materiality Issues identified through the Materiality Assessment have been reported in the Integrated Report. assessment. •Media analysis Priority Ⅰ Doosan Way Priority Ⅱ Press releases issued by Korean and foreign media agencies over the past year from January to December 2012 were analyzed to Corporate governance & Ethics management Establishment of company-wide ethical management • • Advancement of employee capacity building determine positive and negative issues in four areas of general topics, economy, society and the environment to categorize major issues. Stakeholder Engagement CSR strategies and implementation system • Expansion ‌ of employee communication channels & Support for enhancing competitiveness of partner companies • Enhancement of satisfaction •Global standard and guideline analysis Major issues required by the UN Global Compact, ISO 26000, GRI, DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index) were studied in order to Enhancement of Smart Office activities • Beyond Technology • Impartial ‌ employment & enhancing transparency of Achievements by business groups personnel management analyze global standards and guidelines as well as major initiatives. Improvement of personnel safety & healthcare • • Advancement of climate change response system •Analysis of leading companies CSR Dimensions Establishment of Green Management System • • Advancement of eco-friendly production system Case studies of leading companies that had published integrated reports were analyzed to examine issues in four categories, including 1. Creative Organizational Culture general integrated reporting issues, business strategy & connectivity of information, stakeholder directivity, and reporting methodology. Expanding development of eco-friendly products & services • 2. Safe Working Environment • Spread of CSR culture 3. Global Best Technological Enhancement of external communication • • Establishment of CSR governance system Developments Step2. 3 Concern of Stakeholders/Business Impact 4. Green Management • CSR risk management In order to identify major issues that may have an impact on CSR, issues with a high level of stakeholder interest and business impact Enhancement of responsibility for products & services • 5. Shared growth were selected. Stakeholder interest was analyzed based on media exposure, global standard analysis and integrated reports published 6. Social Responsibility Economic achievements • by leading companies, while business impact was determined by reviewing strategic connections, financial impact, risk and reputations that have important effects on management. 18 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 19 Corporate Governance CSR at Doosan Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is maximizing shareholder value Operation of the Board of Directors (2010~2012) Classification 2010 2011 2012 and corporate value based on its transparent corporate governance led by Meetings convened 11 11 11 the board of directors. Proposals voted 22 29 38 Board member attendance rate (%) 86.1 83.3 85.2 Board of Directors Outside director attendance rate (%) 86.7 82.3 89.8 The board of directors at Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is composed of two inside directors and four outside Key Activities of the Board of Directors in 2012 directors for a total of six directors on the board. Directors are selected during the shareholders’ meeting in accordance No. of members with relevant laws, articles of incorporation and regulations of the board of directors. Outside directors account for Approval/ attending the meeting Order of Meeting Proposals more than half of the members of the board of directors, maintaining independence of the board. Doosan Heavy Disapproval Inside Outside directors directors Industries & Construction enhances the board’s overall level of expertise by recommending candidates with expertise Approval of the convening of 49th Financial Statements & Annual Report and three other in different fields as directors, and maintains an audit committee, an internal transaction committee, and an outside 1st 2012.2.16 Approved 7/7 7/8 proposals & three other proposals/ 4 cases director candidate nominating committee under the board of directors in order to facilitate efficient decision-making. Approval of convocation and subject matters of the 49th annual shareholders’ meeting and four 2nd 2012.3.8 Approved 5/7 8/8 other proposals/ 5 cases Board of Directors (As of March 2013) 3rd 2012.3.30 Appointment of board chairman & convener and five other proposals/ 6 cases Approved 3/3 3/4 Classification Name Position Role 4th 2012.4.26 Delegation of authority on bond issuance for 2012 to CEO and one other proposal/ 2 cases Approved 3/3 4/4 Inside Geewon Park Chairman & CEO, Chairman, Board of Directors 5th 2012.5.24 Appointment of executives and four other proposals/ 5 cases Approved 2/3 3/4 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO 6th 2012.6.28 Revision of regulations on management of advisers and four other proposals/ 5 cases Approved 2/3 4/4 directors Key-sun Han President & COO, COO 7th 2012.7.26 Establishment of compliance standards and two other proposals/ 3 cases Approved 2/3 4/4 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 8th 2012.8.23 Relocation of the Dubai R&D Center to Dammam, Saudi Arabia (Koba) Approved 3/3 4/4 Outside Hyoung-Joo Kim Professor of Computer Engineering, Member, Internal Transaction Committee Conclusion of the project stock transaction contract for the West Suwon-Osan-Pyeongtaek 9th 2012.9.21 Approved 2/3 3/4 directors Seoul National University Member, Audit Committee Expressway, and one other proposal/ 2 cases Chairman, Outside Director Candidate Nominating Committee 10th 2012.11.13 Establishment of Doosan Enpure Limited and two other proposals/ 3 cases Approved 2/3 3/4 Dong-Min Cha Lawyer, Law Firm Kim & Chang Chairman, Internal Transaction Committee 11th 2012.12.14 Parent company guarantee following the borrowing by PS S.A. and one other proposal/ 2 cases Approved 2/3 4/4 Member, Outside Director Candidate Nominating Committee Kyung-soon Song Representative expert, Korea Expert Member, Internal Transaction Committee Consulting Group Chairman, Audit Committee Evaluation and Compensation Bok-Hyeon Baik Professor of Business Administration, Member, Audit Committee Seoul National University Member, Outside Director Candidate Nominating Committee Compensation for inside and outside directors is issued based on the parameters approved during the shareholders’ meeting. Executives are granted stock options to encourage their proactive participation and cooperation in achieving Committees under the Board of Directors the company’s short-term and mid-to-long term management plans. Committee Members Major roles Outside Director Candidate Three outside directors -Recommend outside director candidates Governance Structure Rating Nominating Committee Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has operated a transparent management system on an ongoing basis. Audit Committee Three outside directors -Audit accounting & finances Accordingly, the company was rated “Good +” in the Governance Structure Assessment Rating conducted by the -Evaluate the operation of the internal accounting management system -Approve appointment of outside auditors, etc. Korean Corporate Governance Service from 2006 to 2010. It was rated B+ and A in 2011 and 2012, respectively. In 2013, Internal Transaction Three outside directors -Deliberate and approve any internal transactions between the company was rated A+ and received the grand prize in the ESG Assessment Awards. In 2013, Doosan Heavy Committee subsidiaries worth 5 billion won or more Industries & Construction received the grand prize in the 9th Management Transparency Awards jointly awarded by five major business associations, which served as an opportunity to recognize the company’s efforts to promote sound governance structure and management of integrity and transparency at home and abroad. Shareholders Operation of the Board of Directors Shareholder Overview Doosan Heavy Industries The board of directors is the supreme decision-making body for the company’s management and monitors and votes & Construction Individuals and others 15.9% 21.5% on major management issues to maximize shareholder value and corporate value. The board of directors reviews and Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction issued a total of 107,856,267 shares of common stocks as of December 31, votes on issues related to laws and company by-laws, issues delegated to the board by the shareholders’ meeting, as 2012. The largest shareholder is Doosan Corp., holding 41.23% of the total stocks as of December 2012. An overview of Institutional investors well as major issues on the basic management and operation of the company. It also monitors directors’ performance the business management status is presented during the annual shareholders’ meeting, with the business report 8.2% of their duties. Decisions made by the board of directors are based on the presence of the majority of the board and concurrently disclosed to the Financial Supervisory Service and the Korea Exchange to ensure maximum transparency. Foreign approval by vote of the majority of the board. Directors who have special interest in the issue are restricted from Quarterly and annual business results as well as medium-term management plans are posted on the company’s investors exercising their votes. Eleven meetings of the board were held in 2012 to address a total of 38 agenda items related to homepage, and shareholders’ needs and expectations are carefully identified through conferences and road shows to 13.2% be reflected in management activities. Shareholders can participate in decision-making during the annual Doosan Corp. major management activities. The board of directors deals with agenda items on the economy, society, and the 41.2% environment. Information on the current board of directors and its operation is available on the company homepage. shareholders’ meeting. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has introduced the written ballot system to protect the rights and interests of minority shareholders in decision-making. 20 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 21 Ethics Management CSR at Doosan Ethics Management System Internal Audit System The company operates an internal reporting mechanism as a channel for internal and external communication designed Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction implements transparent management to ensure sustainable growth of the to report violation of ethical management and internal irregularities to the Audit Team. It also operates a system that company. In an effort to boost corporate competitiveness and put corporate social responsibility into action, the receives suggestions on improving wrong practices or policies in terms of ethical management of the staff lodged by company has established a Code of Ethics based on the “Doosan Way” to be used as the value standards for all staff employees and personnel of partner companies. If an incident involving money of 5 million won or more takes place, the members in carrying out their business tasks. It also shares “guidelines on staff responsibilities and on dealing with department concerned is obligated to identity the details of the incident and report them to the personnel in charge of companies with conflicting interests” with staff and stakeholders, striving to promote sound and transparent audit. Reporting can be made directly or indirectly to the audit team via telephone, e-mail or homepage. transactions. Internal Control System Amid rising demand for reinforcing internal accounting and internal control internally and externally, Doosan Heavy Code of Ethics Industries & Construction has established an internal control system to enhance transparency of information and 1. ‌The company and its staff will make the greatest effort to provide good products improve confidence of the public. The internal control system refers to a system that defines task execution processes with reasonable prices to satisfy our customers and evaluates actual implementation according to the established procedures to ensure sound and stable operation of 2.The company and its staff seek to achieve shared profit with any partner and entity the company. 3.The company and its staff work in good faith, complying with the laws and respecting good social practices 4.The company treats all staff fairly and equally based on ability and achievement To this end, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has set up the internal control team under the CFO to evaluate 5.The staffs carry out their tasks with passion and supreme effort appropriate design and operation of control structure and, based on the results, making improvements on an ongoing 6.The staffs take a leading role in work innovation through expert and professional knowledge basis. The company has also defined control activities, involving not only internal control for the internal accounting management system, which is a legal requirement, but also efficiency of operation and compliance categories for risk factor management, while establishing the foundation for continuous monitoring. The assessment is managed by the internal control system of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction called the “Doosan Internal Control Assessment Ethics Management Activities System (DICAS)” and assessment is conducted five times a year. After completion of assessment by teams, the Ethics Management Training assessment results goes through implementation review by the internal control team and is finally reported to internal In an effort to raise the staff’s awareness of ethical management, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction held nine and external stakeholders. Its appropriateness is evaluated through the audit by an external accounting firm. Ethics management training in 2012 training sessions in 2012 to introduce and train the company’s staff on its ethical management policy, including new Classification No. of staff employees, experienced employees, and employees of affiliates. The company also offered ethical management Furthermore, recognizing the importance of securing reliability and transparency of financial information of overseas Training for new employees 295 subsidiaries subject to consolidated financial statements, in addition to its own information, Doosan Heavy Industries training for the purchasing organization on two occasions. In 2012, a total of 646 employees, including new Training for employees with experience 268 employees, experienced employees and purchasing personnel, received ethics management training. In 2013, the and Construction has improved the operation and processes of the internal control system for its subsidiaries including Training for purchasing organization 83 company plans to further expand the scope of ethics management training to include partner companies and offer DPS, DPSI and Doosan Vina. The company conducts review and evaluation activities, which were conducted irregularly, Total 646 training for 4,800 administrative staff and 155 partner companies by dividing training venues into Seoul, Changwon, twice or four times a year, depending on matters, to support system improvement and listen to opinions on them. domestic and overseas construction sites. DICAS (Doosan Internal Control Assessment System) Ethics Management Pledge Every new employee joining Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is obligated to sign an ethical management Establishment of the foundation for continuous pledge, and ethical management practices are further strengthened by creating a system where all employees above monitoring system the position of team leader are required to complete conflict of interest statements. In 2012, the company sent letters requesting support for ethical management practices to 2,000 partner companies ahead of the summer vacation Establishment of disclosure controls & season and Chuseok holiday in order to prevent irregularities and corruption. procedures Cyber Reporting Center Reflection of Doosan Group policy (Ten principles of internal control) Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has opened a cyber-reporting center on its homepage to receive suggestions on improving the ethical management system in connection with the Code of Ethics or information on unfair Establishment of Operation & transactions committed by employees or other companies. The company evaluates each piece of information for Compliance Critical Risk Management internal control verification, improving business practices or addressing unethical practices according to relevant laws and regulations. The identity of the person or group submitting the report, as well as its contents, is kept strictly Internal accounting management system Cyber Reporting Center confidential to prevent any disadvantages or discrimination against the person or group. 22 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 23 Risk Management CSR at Doosan Risk management at Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction can be divided into the project risk management activities Types of Risks conducted by respective business divisions, and a company-wide risk management system that deals with the rapidly changing business management environment carried out at the company level. Given the nature of Doosan Heavy Location Risks ‌ Industries & Construction, there is a high ratio of metallic raw materials in the production cost, with large amounts of nonPhysical risks such as risks relating to the geographical area, soil conditions and infrastructure and political, social, and ferrous metals used to provide thermal proofing, and corrosion and wear resistance. There is a greater importance placed environmental risks in the country in which the project is being conducted. on overseas exports. Thus the company’s business activities are heavily influenced by fluctuations in global metal prices Financial Risks and foreign exchange rates. Company-wide risk management focuses on closely monitoring these fluctuations in foreign Contract guarantee conditions, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, liquidity, credit issues of the owner, etc. exchange rates and raw material prices and applying the emergency contingency plans prepared for different scenarios. Contract & Negotiation Financial Risk Management A.Contractual risks: Liquidated damages for delay, performance guarantees, non-compliance, etc. B.Project requirement risks: overdemanding about quality, delay in approval, etc. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is exposed to various financial risks, such as market, credit and liquidity. The purpose of financial risk management of the company is to enhance efficiency of financial management and improve Planning Risks the financial structure to create stable and continuous management performance. A.Cost estimation risks: Increase in raw material costs, design errors, omission from work scope, etc. B.Schedule risks: Scheduling problems caused by insufficient production period, suspension of work (due to labor strikes, delivery errors, etc.) Financial risk management activities, such as identification, evaluation and hedge, are mostly performed by treasury Execution Risks department under close cooperation of the relevant departments. The company focuses on minimizing the effect of A.Project integration risks: Poor coordination and problem-solving skills, poor organizational communication, poor collaboration financial risk through regular monitoring. between the developer and the contractor, etc. B.Design risks: Errors caused by lack of design experience, etc. C.Purchase/production risks: Quality problems caused by selecting low-price suppliers, production errors, etc. D.Construction risk: Occurrence of safety accidents. Non-Financial Risk Management E.Commissioning (test)/performance risks: Poor problem-solving skills during pilot operation, poor defect repair skills, etc. Implementers of the five categories manage the non-financial risks of the respective categories in accordance with the Lessons Learned(LL) System CSR vision and strategy. As part of its risk management activities, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has established the Lessons Learned (LL) System to prevent reccurrence of problems that took place in the past. Through the LL System, which is Five categories Areas of Risk Management created based on the strong commitment of the management, employees can share not only case studies of risk Human Resource Protection of human rights, prevention of discrimination, compliance with labor laws, etc. management failure, but also diverse case studies, internal/external expertise, newly acquired knowledge, role model Prevention of irregularities, management of business transparency, monitoring of compliance with Ethics Management cases in the company and, knowledge management activities carried out by the organization, thereby promoting laws, etc. Shared Growth Risk management for supply networks of partner companies, fair trading compliance, etc. effective risk management. EHS Response to climate change, water resource management, emergency management, etc. Customer management (satisfaction survey, etc.), support for local communities, external reputation Quality Gates Community management. Four major risks that highly affect the project performance of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction include financial risks, contract and negotiation risks, planning risks and execution risks, which account for 70% of the total performance volatility. The company has introduced the Quality Gates (QG) to conduct intensive management of the Project Risk Management Composition of the QG four risks and improve performance. The QG is a strategic risk assessment and management guideline and a phased Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is normally engaged in large-scale projects that are carried out over an extended decision-making tool for projects. By operating the QG, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has established periods of time, so the company also carries out project-oriented non-financial risk management activities. Risk management objective criteria for project assessment, as well as the risk tracking management system for pre-project stages. It is Marketing Stage activities for projects are conducted by the project management teams under the respective business division. also used to share knowledge and experience on risk management within the organization and improve accuracy of ·Selection of projects to bid on cost estimation. ·Development of bidding documents ·Contract and negotiations Risk Management Process Virtuous cycle process of the QG > 1 Risk Management > 2 Risk > 3theQualitative risk analysisPriorities placed on Operation Stage possibility of occurrence and the impact the Defining of decisionCollection of the Continuous Planning > > > > > Identification risk may have on the company Standardization and making matters and existing documents Integration of improvement ·Preparation for project major project and benchmarking knowhow customization of items User feedback through reflection of > workflows data subject to risk review feedback ·Execution of project ·Settlement of final account 6 Risk Monitoring & 5 Risk Response 4 Quantitative risk managementControl > Planning > probability analysis 24 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 25 Highlights of 2012 1 Announcement of the “Doosan Way” Our Story, Our Vision The “Doosan Way” was announced this year outlining the intrinsic business, cultural 5 Diversification from Traditional Power Generation Activities Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been diversifying its operations into areas and operational philosophy of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, which aims to such as servicing power generation facilities and wind power generation with great success. continuously produce “Leading global products.” The Doosan Way is composed of nine In March 2012, it secured the construction contract to boost performance at a thermoelectric core values Doosan People, Cultivating People, Integrity & Transparency, Inhwa, Customers, power plant in Bandel, India and also secured a long term maintenance contract of Yangju Technology & Innovation, Profits, Corporate Social Responsibility and Safe Environment cogeneration plant’s gas turbines in July. In addition, it also secured orders to supply critical power which collectively add up to form the “Doosan Credo”. This credo has provided the standard of generation equipment such as a 350MW circulating fluidized bed boiler and turbine generator for governance that has has served as the foundation of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s the Yeosu Thermal Power Plant No.1. Another significant achievement in 2012 was the successful steady growth over the past hundred years and will continue to play a significant role in the next test run of a locally designed total integrated control system at the Taean Thermal Power Plant No.1 hundred years. To support the Doosan Credo, workshops were held in May 2012 for executives, a technology that was until now monopolized by foreign companies. In wind power generation, it team leaders, technical personnel, site supervisors and team members and intense discussions installed and successfully test run a 3MW offshore wind turbine system in Jeju-do and secured the were held on these subject matters. contract for a 24MW offshore wind farm to be built in the Incheon area. 2 The 50th Anniversary of Company and the Next 100 Years Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction celebrated its 50th anniversary of its founding 6 Supplying Critical Nuclear Facility Equipment such as AP 1000 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been able to retain its market leading in 1962. Over the years not only did the company attain national leadership in the power position as the premier supplier of critical nuclear facility equipment for over 30 years even generation sector, but it has also become a global leader in the field of seawater desalination in the face of a shrinking market during this period. In July 2012, it secured the order to supply and key equipment for nuclear power plants. To commemmorate its 50th anniversary, the company the AP1000 steam generator to be installed in China’s Haiyang Nuclear Power Plant. It was also the published a book tracing its origins and past achievements and held ceremonies and events such supplier of the first AP1000 type to be shipped to an AP1000 nuclear reactor in Sanmen, China in as the We Doo Power Relay and Doosan Family Concert. The company will continue to consolidate 2011. As a result of the success achieved in changing the construction for Hanwool (Uljin) Steam its position as a global leader by developing leading core technologies and exploring new growth Generators No. 3 and 4 and winning a contract for the Hanbit 3 Nuclear Reactor (Yeonggwang) drivers. coolant repair work in June 2012, the company successfully established the foundation for nuclear power service expansion in the global market. 3 Achieving Record Results For the past two years, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been successful in 7 Enhancing Global Business Competitiveness including Acquisition of Enpure securing over KRW 10 trillion in contracts each year and the realized sales of these contracts Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction strengthened its business capacity by taking over has produced a revenue amounting to KRW 9.7 trillion in 2012 the highest in corporate history Enpure a British water treatment company. By doing so, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction and over five times the results of 2001 when Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction was first now has access to a world-class preconditioning process. This helped to significantly and privatized. The company showed a significant rise in sales, recording a growth rate of 13% in 2012 innovatively increase the company’s water treatment competiveness. In addition, the company after recording a growth rate of 7% in 2011. founded DPSI (Doosan Power Systems India) by merging with Indian corporate bodies and organizations to improve its performance capability in India. Last but not least, Skoda Power had its name changed to Doosan Skoda Power on December 11, 2012, three years after its takeover, to strengthen its brand value. 4 Winning of Three-Stage Desalination Contract in Yanbu of Saudi Arabia 8 Accelerating CSR Efforts Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has expanded its CSR activities such as Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been the global number one contractor for publishing the first Sustainability Report and pursuing harmony between the economy, the seawater desalination for the past three years and this position was reinforced in November, 2012 environment and society. By developing GEMS (Green Energy Management System) it was able by securing the contract for the “Yanbu Three-Stage Seawater Desalination Plant” valued at KRW to manage energy consumption and it obtained EHS management system certifications for all 1.1 trillion in Saudi Arabia. It also supplied evaporator units to Marafiq MED Plant and Ras Al Khair domestic operations. The company fulfilled its policy of offering “open” employment opportunities Plant No.5. to all those with the necessary skills and accelerated this process through the operation of “Doosan Classes” pursued in cooperation with local colleges and specialized high schools. It donated a seawater desalination plant in An Bihn Island, Vietnam and carried out various activities to foster, sponsor and promote corporate social responsibilities. Its activities concerning shared growth with 27 partner companies with which the company signed MOUs on sharing achievements were widely recognized at home and abroad, and led to Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction being awarded the “Shared Growth Industry Award” in October 2012. 26 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 27 Creating Shared Value for the World Special Story Future Business Special -Special IssueStory Special Issue Future Future -두산비나 Sustainability Business “A time of harmony from a time of change The history of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction mirrors the progress of the South Korean economic development of achieving rapid success based on talented people, know-how and technology. It made priority investments into outstanding workmanship as well as fostering talented people, a historical Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction practice that is now adopted in the Doosan Way philosophy. Furthermore, it has endeavored to improve global quality of life by being an innovative leader in the supply of power and water sector related products and services, a practice reinforced by proceeding with the “Proud Global Doosan” ideology. In 2012, despite difficult economic times, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction achieved record revenues of KRW 9.7 trillion by optimizing its operations and maximizing the synergies of its domestic and overseas subsidiaries resulting in improved competitiveness of its products and technology elevating Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction as a global top tier corporation. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction believes social problems can be solved when harmony is attained between what a corporation can do and what society needs and by maximizing synergies. In the case of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, by providing light and water to regional areas and local communities, it creates added value and shares economic and social benefits with the communities. In addition, by fostering and developing green energy businesses such as wind power generation, carbon capture and storage technologies it ensures continuous growth and great prosperity for the future. Economic Value Social Value •Increase sales Creating •Supplementing scarce •Improve competitiveness Shared resources •Reduce costs •CO2 reduction Value •Improve corporate image • Increasing energy efficiency 29 Special Story Future Business Light of Happiness In the first instance, by raising the efficiency of the existing thermal power systems, we successfully developed a top tier level of eco-friendly, high-efficiency, and large-capacity 1000MW Ultra Super Critical power generating system by applying During the 1970s when the power-generation industry was still in its infancy, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction our own technology. With the system, the company was able to reduce CO2 emissions as well as gain recognition for its was successful in constantly developing relevant technologies to eventually build large power-generation facilities and cutting-edge technology. In 2011, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction also entered into the first national IGCC became the national leader in setting new industry standards. In addition, by expanding its operations into foreign (Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle) partnership with Korea Western Power. We are still working hard on the design markets, it increased its competitiveness and thus, further enhancing its ability to supply the benefits of light all across and construction of major equipment, installation and test-running of the processes. IGCC is still in its infancy has only the globe. been utilized on a demo-scale. However, it offers great promise as it has the advantage of 30%-50% pollutant emission rate compared to that of existing coal fired thermal power plants and is able to capture CO2 emissions, as well as minimize Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s journey to secure source technology and constant efforts for capability the emission of pollutants such as sulfur oxides. improvement had a definitive role in its ability to deliver light to where it was needed. In 1994, it successfully built the first Korean standard thermal power plant by constructing, supplying and installing all the primary equipment at the Secondly, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will be applying to additional CO2 capture and CCS technology. CCS Boryeong Thermal Power Plant No.3. In 2009, it built the most advanced 180MW large gas turbine generation unit at will be necessary technology for all thermal power plants as the trend of growing environment regulation continues into the Yeongwol Combined Cycle Power Plant. Even in the nuclear power field, from the supply of Korean standard nuclear the future. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been applying CCS technology since 2006 and it secured the power equipment to the exporting of nuclear power facilities to the UAE, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has original technology with DPS. been one of the world’s top suppliers of nuclear power generation equipment for the past 30 years. Furthermore, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has significantly increased its capabilities by securing source Finally, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is striving to fulfill demands for the supply of energy whilst minimizing technologies through several successful M&As. For example, in 2006, it secured boiler technology by acquiring Mitsui resource consumption and expanding the business into new and renewable energy technology, such as wind-power Babcock in the United Kingdom and in 2009, it secured steam turbine technology by acquiring Skoda Power in the generation systems. Development of its wind-power generation system was completed within three years after starting Czech Republic. In 2011, by acquiring Lentjes in Germany, it ultimately secured technologies for the three areas boilers, the technological development as a national scale project in 2006. In addition, its system became the first certified power turbine generators and eco-friendly technologies, such as circulating fluidized bed(CFB) boilers and Flue Gas plant system in Asia when it secured the contract to develop a 3MW wind power system ‘WinDS3000TM’ on Jeju Island. Desulfurization (FGD). Through these technologies, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has set a very sound and Furthermore, fuel cell technology which produces electricity, heat, and water by combining hydrogen and oxygen is one of solid foundation in its pursuit to become a global leader in the power-generation sector. the green energies that Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is focusing on as it believes this type of energy will play a significant role in its future goals and strategies. Finally, to enhance its global competitiveness, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction expanded its global manufacturing operations. For example, Doosan Vina, a manufacturing facility similar to its Changwon factory was built in Vietnam in 2007 to serve as the operational base for global tenders. In order to enhance competitiveness in India Water of Life Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction acquired Chennai Works, a local boiler manufacturer, in 2011. This and other Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been supplying valuable water across the global village since it started its efforts allowed Doosan to win a 1.5 trillion-won contract for the Bulk order II coal power project in the Kudgi and Lara seawater desalination business activities in 1978. As the global leader in seawater desalination technology, Doosan’s regions in 2012. plants constructed in the Middle East alone provide over 21 million people with 6.5 million tons of fresh water. Securing excellent technologies to provide electric power for the benefit of others is not just a business activity but the Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s secret to its success in the water business was its unwavering commitment core foundation of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s vision. To ensure Doosan Heavy Industries & to the business and continuous technological development. In the Middle East, with the turnkey order for design to Construction continues to be the global best power generator and supplier to regional and local communities, the construction of the Shoaiba project using the MSF method gaining wide recognition from neighboring countries, this company seeks to continuously increase its global competitiveness through technological improvements. generated additional business from Kuwait, Oman and Qatar, generating successful results across the region. However, not satisfied with these results alone, Doosan increased its sales activities in the Reverse Osmosis (RO) market and was successful in designing and developing the world’s first MSF and RO hybrid system. Doosan secured the contract for the Green Energy Yanbu MED project and with its expanded range of services, it was able to increase its activities in this market. Since the mid-2000s, interest in clean energy technology has increased primarily due to the consolidation of regulations Currently, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is the only company in the world with source technology for all three on greenhouse gas emissions as well as depletion of fossil fuels. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction accepts and types of desalination technologies Multi-Stage Flash (MSF), Multi-Effect Desalination (MED) and Reverse Osmosis understands that it cannot secure future growth if it does not address these issues and develop relevant and appropriate (RO). Utilizing these technologies, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction was able to create new hybrid methods and countermeasures. As a result, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has invested in energy technologies such as USC recently implemented a hybrid system successfully at the Fujairah project. high-efficiency thermal power, IGCC, coal/gas combined power, wind power and CCS (Carbon Capture & Storage) as a source of future growth. 30 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 31 Business Results Beyond Technology The technology applied in this project was perfect for the Middle East region, where the summer and winter electricity consumption differs greatly. The characteristics of the local environment in which the steam supply differs by season • EPC Business Group • Consolidated Financial Statements was taken into account to devise the most optimal technology for the region. As a result, Doosan Heavy Industries • Power Business Group • Management’s Discussion and Analysis & Construction became the market leader in the seawater desalination sector. In addition, Doosan Heavy Industries • Nuclear Power Plant Business Group • Independent Auditors’ Report & Construction wrote a new chapter in the seawater desalination business by being the first ever to attempt • Water Business Group • Independent Auditors’ Review Report on Internal Accounting Control System and successfully accomplish the shipping of a fully assembled evaporator to the Al Taweelah Project in the UAE, • Casting & Forging Business Group demonstrating to the world the business synergy that can be created by constantly taking on challenges. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, as the world market leader in water technology, has successfully carried out 27 projects in the Middle East and to further increase its understanding of the market trends and technologies of the water business, it currently operates four Water R&D centers globally, including the ones in Saudi Arabia and the United States. In addition, it was able to secure the pretreatment technology, which is required for the RO desalination process, through the acquisition of Enpure, a UK-based water treatment company. The water market is projected to be valued over US$10 billion by 2015 and Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will continue to be proactive in this field with long term investments and continuous technological developments to achieve its goal of becoming a total water solution provider. Using light, water and green energy to create future value According to “State of the Future” report issued by the UN, future climate change will be picking up speed, and water resources will be on the brink of being exhausted. The issue of energy supply has been highlighted again with approximately 20 percent of the world’s population not having access to electricity and about 78 million people not benefiting from water resources. By 2050, the population is projected to increase by a further two billion people, adding significantly to the demands on electric power and exerting more pressure on the already strained water resources making it difficult to provide the required water supply. State of the Future suggested solutions like increased energy efficiency, use of new and renewable energy and development of seawater desalination technology. In preparation for this increase in demand, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction believes that light, water and new energy technology will be the fundamental solution for relieving these worldwide issues which are closely linked to the livelihood of humankind. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s corporate goals and the requirements and needs of communities are all interlinked. Doosan believes that by helping solve the fundamental social issues around the world with the provision of indispensable technology and services to mankind, it can gain customers’ trust and thus secure the foundations for future growth. These are the shared values upheld by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction in its corporate objectives. The company aims to continuously develop cutting-edge technology to serve customers’ needs by providing them with necessary services in a timely manner and by doing so, confer benefits to the global community while also striving to become an enterprise that grows together with its customers. 32 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 33 EPC Business Group Power Business Group ◦ ‌Global top-tier EPC Player ◦ C‌ onstruction of Thailand’s largest ◦ ‌Successfully manufactures ◦ ‌Wins a project to construct -‌ ‌Providing the total service from thermal power plant, Gheco One Korea’s largest 270MW gas 24MW inland wind farm receiving orders to design, -‌700MW super-critical coal-fired turbines Eight ‌ units of 3MW wind Annual Report engineering, material and equipment procurement, thermal power plant turbines (WinDS3000TM) at installation, construction and Yeoungheung Thermal Power post-project maintenance services Plant, Incheon (Rabigh thermoelectric power station) 2012 Review 2012 Review Based on its extensive experience in power generation and top-tier technology, the EPC Business Group offers total In 2012, despite unstable global economic conditions, the Power Business Group won a 1.5 trillion won coal-fired service in plant construction as an EPC (Engineering, Procurement, and Construction) contractor from plant design to thermal power plant project (Bulk Order II) from India. The production capacity of the subsidiary Doosan Power construction, pilot operation and post-project maintenance services. In 2012, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Systems India was increased, leading to the establishing of a local production system in India. Furthermore, the pursued the vision of becoming “the Global Premier Partner in EPC”, with the aim to create synergistic effects based on company established the services business implementation system and organization in India, paving the way for its accumulated experience and core technology capabilities. Under the vision, the company not only took concrete performing the services business in the Indian market. As for domestic achievements, the company won an order of actions to strengthen its capabilities by setting up a new construction technology unit, but also actively publicized Yeosu Unit 1 thermal power plant (Korea) circulating fluidized bed boiler and turbine/generators, as well as signed achievements of the EPC Business Group in a global environment to boost brand perception. Through such efforts, the a contract of long-term maintenance for the gas turbines of the cogeneration plant in Yangju, Gyeonggi-do, Korea. company produced outstanding achievements despite unstable global economic conditions evidenced by the In addition, the Power Business Group clinched a deal for the Yeongheung onshore wind farm project and thus, completion of Thailand’s largest thermal power plant, Gheco One. It is a 700MW super-critical coal-fired thermal power secured the position as a key supplier supply for Korea’s onshore market, laying the foundation for expansion of plant, the largest of its kind in Thailand, and is also an eco-friendly power plant that has adopted a high-efficiency future businesses. Meanwhile, the Power Business Group strived to enhance core equipment technology to ensure power generation method, equipped with seawater desulphurization and dust-collection facilities, using less fuel, yet sustainable growth. Responding to the demands of the market, the Business Group developed low-emission coal boosting power generation efficiency. As such, the EPC Business Group has steadily elevated its project execution burners for boilers, as well as new models. In addition, the Business Group developed core component capabilities to the next level and expanded business and boosted profitability by offering the total service from technologies in phases to improve the efficiency of steam turbines, while promoting technology development for equipment production to construction and ensuring solid project management. securing new models. The Power Business Group’s efforts to enhance its fundamental competitiveness and maintain product competitiveness as a global top-tier player will continue in 2013 as well. 2013 Outlook As it is forecasted that diversification by region will intensify in 2013, the EPC Business Group plans to employ a pre2013 Outlook emptive management strategy to further boost profitability. In addition, as the world’s leading companies are In early 2013, Doosan Heavy Industries and Construction revamped its organizational structure to strengthen its boiler, competitively entering the market, we will maintain our competitiveness by equipping ourselves with the world’s turbine and generator equipment business by subdividing the Power Business Group into the Boiler Business Group and best technology and business efficiency. To this end, we will maximize our potential for winning orders, conducting Turbine/Generator Business Group. Despite market contraction and intensifying competition amid the prolonged global market surveys to advance into new regions such as the Americas and Africa and launching full-fledged sales economic downturn, the Boiler BG and the Turbine/Generator BG will strive to secure fundamental technological activities, thereby accelerating our bid to enter new markets. Meanwhile, we will lay the foundation for improving competitiveness at an early date to maintain its standing as a world-leading maker of top-tier power generation project profitability not only through risk control during the low-growth period, but also establishment of a fieldequipment. To this end, Doosan has established equipment-oriented R&D organizations affiliated with Boiler BG and oriented organizational culture that can drive growth during the economic recovery phase in the future. In addition Turbine/Generator BG, separately. Led by the newly established R&D organization, the Boiler BG will strengthen its model to strengthening the existing core capabilities of the EPC Business Group, we will further enhance our execution line-up, to include boilers using low-grade, high moisture coal, boilers using low-volatile matter coal, and high-efficiency, capabilities by building a procurement and fair management system. Furthermore, we will advance into not only the large-capacity boilers, while securing cost competitiveness on an ongoing basis by developing innovative technologies combined-cycle power plant (CCPP) market, but also the medium and small-sized plant market and establish cost and enhancing its global operations. The Turbine/Generator BG plans to develop generic/element technologies ensuring prediction models and develop plant performance optimization system to continue to boost our project top-tier efficiency and enhance the steam turbine model line-up by developing the Last Stage Blades (LSB), while striving competitiveness. The EPC Business Group will do its utmost to firmly establish itself as a global power in 2013 by to secure cost competitiveness through design optimization and expansion of global sourcing. Furthermore, both drawing a big picture of the global market and implementing detailed strategies differentiated by market. We will business groups will strengthen their sales/marketing activities as a means of expanding the market to ensure the growth continue to make unsparing efforts to achieve our vision of becoming “the Global Premier Partner in EPC”, which of the equipment business. As part of the effort, we will seek customized sales by operating key account managers (KAM), was envisaged in 2012, with the aim being to secure competitiveness as the world’s top-tier player. while making inroads into new markets by partnering with companies that already have a business presence by region. Meanwhile, in order to secure sustainable growth engines, we will expand service business capabilities such as equipment performance enhancement (Renovation and Modernization : R&M) and Long Term Service(LTS), while paving the way for the growth of new renewable energy business by winning greater numbers of contracts for wind power generation projects in the domestic market and successfully conducting the Taean IGCC project. 34 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 35 Nuclear Power Plant Business Group Water Business Group ◦ ‌Finished delivery of key equipment for the AP1000 reactor vessel and steam generator to China ◦ Won a contract for the Yanbu Phase 3 Seawater Desalination plant project ◦ ‌First 3rd generation WEC-type nuclear power plant -Worth 1.1 trillion won Annual Report 2012 Review 2012 Review In 2012, the Nuclear Power Plant Business Group completed shipment of reactor vessels and steam generators, which The water industry is a high-technology, knowledge-intensive industry requiring not only engineering skills for product are the core components for the AP1000 to be installed at nuclear power plants in Shanmen and Haiyang, China. The production, manufacturing, construction, and maintenance, repair technologies, but also a series of capabilities related AP1000 is the first Generation III reactor model designed by Westinghouse of USA with an advanced technology to to the business such as financing and contract management. As of December 2012, the company won contracts for a target the global nuclear power plant market. The shipment of the AP1000 reactor vessels and steam generators is total of 27 seawater desalination projects in the Middle East region. By successfully completing these projects, the expected to serve as a springboard to further boost our unrivalled position in the third-generation nuclear power plant company provided the capability to produce 6.5 million tons of fresh water which is supplied to 21 million people on a market. In addition, we successfully won contracts for steam generator replacement at Hanwool (UlJin) Nuclear Power daily basis. In order to gain more momentum and further expand our dominance in the Middle East, we established an Plant Units 3 and 4 and RCP (Reactor Coolant Pump) maintenance and repair project for Hanbit (YeongGwang) Nuclear R&D center in Saudi Arabia to provide products and services tailored to local needs. As a result, we successfully landed a Power Plant Unit 3, thereby broadening the base in the nuclear power plant services market. Meanwhile, the Nuclear contract to construct the 1.1 trillion won Yanbu Phase 3 seawater desalination plant, which will serve as a springboard to Power Plant Business Group’s steam generator for commercial nuclear power plants was selected by the Ministry of receive additional orders from Saudi Arabia and the Kuwait. Revenues of the Water BG continued to grow, with our Knowledge Economy (currently the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) as one of the 2012 World Class Products, recording 927.3 billion won in 2012, up from 806.6 billion won in 2011. The company continues to rank No.1 in terms of which means the BG possesses two World Class Products, along with the nuclear reactor vessel for commercial power accumulated market share in the MSF (Multi-Stage Flash distillation) market and is constantly pursuing technology plants selected in 2011. We are striving to become global No.1 in design/manufacturing of nuclear power plant development and pushing ahead with projects based on MED (Multi-Effect Distillation) and RO (Reverse Osmosis components and, at the same time, to become the nation’s leading player in nuclear power plant services, nuclear filtration) technologies. Following the winning of Saudi Arabia’s Yanbu MED project and the Marafiq MED project in 2011, power instrumentation and control (I&C), and nuclear fuel handling-related equipment manufacturing. the company completed the Yanbu MED project in Saudi Arabia in 2012, becoming a leader in the MED market as well. 2013 Outlook 2013 Outlook After the Fukushima accident, the nuclear power market seemed to fall into a slowdown. The market expected a visible Major water-industry agencies around the world are predicting the formation of a seven trillion-won global desalination movement for development of new nuclear power plants across Europe and the Middle East. In response to the market by 2013, with the water treatment industry growing to 207 trillion won by 2013. It is also forecasted that movement, the Nuclear Power Plant Business Group plans to further strengthen systematic, customer-tailored sales capabilities to offer overall water solutions including desalination facilities, as well as maintenance/repair and water activities by reflecting the demands of countries wishing to construct nuclear power plants, such as by providing treatment solutions, will become a vital factor in the market competition. The Water Business Group will proactively localization in an effort to additionally export Korean-type nuclear power plants. In addition, we will accelerate our bid utilize its capabilities and experiences, securing technology and price competitiveness with an aim of obtaining top-tier for the services business segment, further expanding our involvement in the nuclear power components service and level competitiveness of the RO technology, while enhancing value chains by strengthening internal capabilities and replacement market. We also plan to review ways to join the nuclear markets of the future such as transportation/ actively carrying out sales activities. storage containers for spent fuel and nuclear decommissioning. Furthermore, in order to strengthen our core Not complacent with being complacent with the existing seawater desalination business, the Water Business Group is competitiveness, we will acquire an advanced and scientific production system by applying the work station production growing into a total solution provider in the water business, onethat provides water treatment, Operation and method. Meanwhile, we will carry out intensive pre-emptive quality assurance activities for major nuclear power Maintenance services(O&M). Water treatment technology refers to technology that transforms used sewage/waste products to secure “zero defects” quality for nuclear power equipment. We will further enhance our already global topwater into reusable water to suit different needs. One example being seawater desalination, this is one of the major ways tier manufacturing competitiveness, ceaselessly striving to become a global champion in manufacturing major nuclear to secure alternative water resources. The sewage treatment market is the very area on which the Water Business Group power equipment. is focusing. In order to ensure seamless advancement into new areas of business and achieve technological independence, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction acquired Enpure of the United Kingdom, a water treatment company with top-tier level pre-treatment technologies and an extensive track record of success in the water treatment sector. Buoyed by the new acquisition, the company is striving to further boost its capabilities in water treatment and pretreatment engineering. As mentioned above, the Water BG will continue to create profits in new areas of business by entering the water treatment and O&M market which is available across the world, unlike the seawater desalination business which is only focused on the Middle East. 36 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 37 Casting & Forging Business Group Consolidated Financial Statement Consolidated Statements of Financial Position (In million of won) ◦ Supply core materials of world-class level 2012 2011 2010 Assets I.Current assets 5,718,607 5,263,651 8,639,190 Annual Report 1.Cash and cash equivalents 1,134,431 783,253 1,517,606 2.Short-term investments 27,249 75,744 266,054 3.Trade receivables 1,161,330 1,026,095 2,236,046 4.Due from customers for contract work 1,564,567 1,607,583 1,962,834 5.Other receivables 139,602 202,869 268,220 6.Prepayments 581,022 709,070 796,459 7.Prepaid expenses 53,361 39,249 99,138 8.Short-term loans 86,941 9,739 569,877 9.Derivative assets 233,348 121,042 105,929 10.Firm commitment assets 87,348 130,968 108,577 11.Inventories 556,354 457,467 591,863 12.Non-current assets held for sale 22,571 13,226 2012 Review 13.Other current assets 70,483 100,572 103,361 II.Non-current assets 7,805,807 8,325,518 8,337,952 With abundant experience and global top-tier technology in cast and forged materials, a total of eight products of the 71,104 58,727 41,003 1.Long-term financial instruments Casting and Forging Business Group, including crankshaft, work roll for cold rolling mills, mold steel in 2011 and super 2.Long-term investments in securities 43,341 96,539 301,234 3.Investments in equity-accounted investees 3,367,822 3,825,563 2,871,335 large forged backup roll for plate rolling mill in 2012, were selected as World Class Products in an acknowledgement of 4.Long-term loans 9,890 102,497 64,065 the global competitiveness of the products. The casting & forging BG succeeded in localizing key large-scale casting 5.Property, plant and equipment 2,674,298 2,689,591 3,521,807 and forging products that form the core of a wide number of major industries including power generation, shipbuilding 6.Intangible assets 1,210,836 1,157,877 1,070,352 7.Investment property 13,175 10,052 127,420 and steel, and supplied the world with high-quality products manufactured utilizing batch production facilities and 8.Derivative assets 180,424 135,443 158,498 technical capabilities. In addition, we completed the installation and establishment of vertical boring machines, which 9.Firm commitment assets 43,526 125,869 66,777 10.Deferred tax assets 26,616 19,763 11,843 are equipment for processing reactor shells. This enabled a total package system in which the Casting and Forging 11,.Guarantee deposits 161,733 69,890 99,469 Business Group can provide total solutions from manufacturing of nuclear power materials to processing, further 12.Other non-current assets 3,042 33,707 4,149 Total assets 13,524,414 13,589,169 16,977,142 boosting its competitiveness in the materials industry. In order to secure global top-tier core capabilities to continue Liabilities the growth momentum, the Casting and Forging BG carried out a wide range of quality stabilization activities, while I.Current liabilities 5,284,400 6,076,132 8,754,106 1.Trade payables 868,869 668,027 1,303,545 securing ultra-large/first-article product processing capabilities to enhance manufacturing competitiveness, thereby 2.Short-term borrowings 1,017,320 1,699,680 2,206,457 strengthening its core capabilities in the materials industry on an ongoing basis. Furthermore, in an effort to achieve 3.Other payables 381,769 414,524 376,052 4.Advanced receipts 85,028 113,602 1,115,202 business advancement, we explored new customers to broaden our areas of business and supplied products in a 5.Due to customers for contract work 1,858,636 2,067,923 1,846,656 stable manner through facility stabilization, thereby leading the global castings and forgings market. 6.Withholdings 11,957 9,651 106,563 7.Accrued expenses 198,563 339,826 295,700 8.Income tax payable 14,581 60,288 96,977 2013 Outlook 9.Current portion of long-term debt 390,097 385,655 973,680 The growth potential and scale of the castings and forgings market are determined by trends of leading frontline 10.Derivative liabilities 229,427 213,382 178,839 11.Firm commitment liabilities 205,165 45,981 52,048 industries such as power generation, shipbuilding, steelmaking and automobiles. As competition in the castings and 12.Other provisions 27,651 142,368 forgings market has intensified due to the global economic downturn, we will enhance our cost competitiveness, based 13.Other current liabilities 22,988 29,942 60,019 II.Non-current liabilities 3,730,435 2,716,109 3,046,832 on our top-tier technology in the existing business areas, by pursuing mid-to long-term technology development and 1.Debentures 1,216,358 958,587 1,335,385 securing critical technology elements to secure a superior position in the market. In addition, in order to seek new 2.Long-term borrowings 1,357,773 528,467 477,937 3.Long-term other payables 27,557 42,592 47,296 business opportunities, we will accelerate R&D activities on high-specification products and secure strategic customers 4.Employee benefits 307,263 256,818 204,319 to secure new growth engines. We will also achieve thorough quality improvement by each process to satisfy the 5.Deposits received 211,557 170,943 178,863 6.Derivative liabilities 165,870 255,085 218,964 world’s top-tier level quality needs. Furthermore, the Casting and Forging BG is making facility investments for 7.Firm commitment liabilities 141,688 55,277 62,934 electrode slag remelting, which is a core process in the ultra super critical rotor manufacturing to respond to the 8.Deferred tax liabilities 56,595 210,641 232,994 9.Provisions 172,491 140,998 256,638 increased demand for high-efficiency power stations amid global trends placing priority on reducing CO2 emissions. 10.Other non-current liabilities 73,283 96,701 31,502 Meanwhile, in addition to enhance our technology competitiveness, we will make multifaceted efforts to expand our Total liabilities 9,014,835 8,792,241 11,800,938 overseas sales network and broaden sales activities to enhance our sales capabilities. As indicated above, the Casting Equity I.Equity attributable to owners of the Controlling Company 4,505,923 4,770,595 4,796,151 and Forging BG will lead the global castings and forgings market through productivity enhancement, development of 1.Share capital 529,282 529,217 529,082 materials technology meeting customers’ needs, and sales activities tailored to customers’ needs. 2.Capital surplus 874,943 883,637 956,958 3.Other capital adjustments (195,639) (197,870) (134,427) 4.Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (216,959) 2,321 (26,988) 5.Retained earnings 3,514,296 3,553,290 3,471,526 II.Non-controlling interests 3,656 26,333 380,053 Total equity 4,509,579 4,796,928 5,176,204 Total equity and liabilities 13,524,414 13,589,169 16,977,142 38 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 39 Consolidated Statements of Income Consolidated Statements of Change in Equity (In million of won) (In million of won) 2012 2011 2010 Controlling Interests Accumulated I.Revenue 9,627,184 8,495,506 7,928,868 Share Other capital other Retained Non-controlling Capital Surplus Total equity Annual Report 8,240,845 7,250,464 6,582,510 Capital adjustment comprehensive earnings interests II.Cost of sales income(loss) III.Gross profit 1,386,339 1,245,042 1,346,358 Balance at January 1, 2010 528,699 938,455 (197,016) (247,564) 2,280,574 1,114,353 4,417,501 791,500 718,885 794,553 Annual dividend (44,879) (4,636) (49,515) Selling and administrative expenses Profit (loss) for the year 1,251,584 110,916 1,362,500 IV.Results from operating activities 594,839 526,157 551,805 Defined benefit plan actuarial losses (15,753) (1,626) (17,379) 889,471 442,471 423,377 Share-based compensation 383 4,934 530 5,847 Finance income Acquisition of treasury stock Finance costs 1,143,414 677,472 640,348 Changes in retained earnings arising (300,740) 504,914 (91,198) from equity method investments Share of profit (loss) of equity accounted investees Net change in unrealized fair value of 9,463 3,799 13,262 Other income 50,678 100,096 41,017 available-for-sale financial assets Changes in unrealized gain on Other expenses 103,294 35,706 77,056 valuation of equity method 7,013 83 7,097 V.Profit (loss) before income tax (12,460) 860,460 207,597 investments Effective portion of changes in fair Income tax expense (benefit) (27,192) 119,276 125,665 value of cash flow hedges 25,886 4,177 30,063 VI.Profit from continuing operations 14,732 741,184 81,932 Foreign currency translation (37,686) 30 (37,656) differences for foreign operations VII.Loss from discontinued operations (479,489) 1,280,568 Changes in interests of subsidiaries 13,569 30,752 (62,689) (18,368) VIII.Profit for the year 14,732 261,695 1,362,500 Changes in the scope of consolidation 31,307 215,900 (784,355) (537,148) Changes in IX.Profit (loss) attributable to : Equity Others 38,045 274,781 1,251,584 Balance at December 31, 2010 529,082 956,958 (134,427) (26,988) 3,471,526 380,053 5,176,204 Owners of the Controlling Company Balance at January 1, 2011 529,082 956,958 (134,427) (26,988) 3,471,526 380,053 5,176,204 Non-controlling interests (23,313) (13,086) 110,916 Annual dividend (67,376) (67,376) X.Earnings per share Profit (loss) for the year 274,781 (13,086) 261,695 Defined benefit plan actuarial losses (50,740) (50,740) Basic earnings per share (won) Continuing operations 427 8,382 977 Share-based compensation 135 1,689 2,222 4,046 Basic earnings per share (won) 427 3,063 13,937 Acquisition of treasury stock (50,000) (50,000) Changes in retained earnings arising Diluted earnings per share (won) Continuing operations 427 8,381 976 (74,901) (74,901) from equity method investments Diluted earnings per share (won) 427 3,062 13,929 Net change in unrealized fair value of 26,156 26,156 available-for-sale financial assets Changes in unrealized gain on valuation of equity method 114,042 114,042 investments Effective portion of changes in fair Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) value of cash flow hedges 14,268 14,268 (In million of won) Foreign currency translation (56,067) (1,539) (57,606) differences for foreign operations 2012 2011 2010 Changes in interests of subsidiaries Profit for the year 14,732 261,695 1,362,500 Changes in Changes in the scope of consolidation (76,708) (15,695) (69,090) (339,095) (500,588) Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year (228,808) (123,745) 429,818 Equity Others 1,698 30 1,728 Balance at December 31, 2011 529,217 883,637 (197,870) 2,321 3,553,290 26,333 4,796,928 Net change in unrealized fair value of available-for-sale 529,217 883,637 (197,870) 2,321 3,553,290 26,333 4,796,928 (37,392) 34,885 17,630 Balance at January 1, 2012 financial assets Annual dividend (66,773) (101) (66,874) Changes in unrealized gain (loss) on valuation of equity Profit (loss) for the year 38,045 (23,313) 14,732 (125,903) 114,042 7,097 Defined benefit plan actuarial losses (9,030) (9,030) method investments Share-based compensation 65 1,562 2,193 3,820 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges (90,478) 18,823 38,542 Acquisition of treasury stock Foreign currency translation differences for foreign Changes in retained earnings arising (1,236) (1,236) 2,817 (57,606) (37,656) from equity method investments operations Net change in unrealized fair value of (28,343) (28,343) Actuarial gains and losses (11,818) (67,030) (17,379) available-for-sale financial assets Changes in unrealized gain on Actuarial gains and losses of associates (1,236) (74,901) valuation of equity method (125,903) (125,903) Changes in the scope of consolidation (94,965) 434,432 investments Effective portion of changes in fair (67,114) (67,114) Income tax on other comprehensive loss 35,202 3,007 (12,848) value of cash flow hedges Foreign currency translation Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year (214,076) 137,950 1,792,318 differences for foreign operations 2,080 737 2,817 Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to: Changes in interests of subsidiaries Owners of the Controlling Company (191,501) 178,449 1,456,407 Changes in Changes in the scope of consolidation Equity Others (10,256) 38 (10,218) Non-controlling interests (22,575) (40,499) 335,911 Balance at December 31, 2012 529,282 874,943 (195,639) (216,959) 3,514,296 3,656 4,509,579 40 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 41 Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Achieving Record Revenues (In million of won) In 2012, the company won orders for large-scale projects in key markets, including India’s Lara coal-fired thermal power Revenues (Unit: 1 billion won) 2012 2011 2010 plant and Saudi Arabia’s Yanbu Phase 3 seawater desalination plant and achieved record sales of 9,627 billion won, I.Net cash provided by operating activities 367,801 13,527 652,223 despite global economic downturn and intense overseas competition in winning orders. This is attributable to the fact 9,627 Annual Report 1.Cash generated from operating activities 677,515 229,263 1,008,520 that briskly receiving orders over the past few years resulted in increased revenues. The revenues rose by 13%, 8,496 7,929 2.Interest received 24,332 25,112 30,959 compared to the previous year (8,496 billion won), which is a phenomenal growth of a five-fold increase, compared to 3.Interest paid (228,809) (161,106) (322,002) late 2000 when we were privatized and our revenues stood at around 2 trillion won. 4.Dividend received 4,989 12,166 6,426 5.Income taxes paid (110,226) (91,908) (71,680) Strengthening the Fundamental Competitiveness II.Net cash used in investing activities (379,886) (1,239,502) (1,328,448) It is forecasted that the global economy will show prolonged low-growth trends averaging 3% of growth over the three to 1.Net decrease (increase) in short-term investment instruments 48,264 50,761 (26,668) five years from now, leading to scaled-down market sizes and ever-intensifying competition. In the short term, it is 2.Net decrease (increase) in short-term loans 18,040 (4,738) (263,971) necessary to strengthen fundamental competitiveness of our technology and cost for us to overcome the heated 2010 2011 2012 3.Decrease in guarantee deposits 46 49,198 34,861 competition and become a global leader at the time of market recovery in the future. We will enhance competitiveness 4.Increase in guarantee deposits (70,398) (38,300) (32,685) by business groups and secure a large number of top-tier quality products to achieve organic growth. 5.Collection of long-term loans 2,513 2,703 Gross Profit (Unit: 1 billion won) 6.Increase in long-term loans (393) (96,200) (9,659) Building the “One Global Leadership” System 7.Acquisition of long-term financial instruments (15,444) (16,910) (20,575) At Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, the company conducted an organizational reshuffle, reorganizing the 1,386 1,346 8.‌Proceeds from sale of long-term investment in securities 2,571 22,400 Power Business Group and Doosan Power Systems into the Boiler Business Group and Turbine/Generator Business 1,245 9.Acquisition of long-term investment in securities (24,497) (3,119) (16,679) Group and enhancing the professionalism and expertise of the domestic and international marketing and sales 10.‌Proceeds from sale of investments in equity-accounted organizations. To this end, the “One Global Leadership” system by product line was established at Doosan Heavy investees 1,897 3,971 Industries & Construction, key supplier of boilers and turbines/generator products and its subsidiary Doosan Power 11.‌Acquisition of investments in equity-accounted investees (6,862) (218,850) (277,460) Systems, in a bid to maximize synergistic effects in executing business, while maintaining respective independence. As 12.Proceeds from sale of investments in subsidiaries (610,333) (252,778) for the marketing organization, we have enhanced regional expertise and Proactive Marketing (PAM) activities and 13.Acquisition of sale of investments in subsidiaries (51,354) (109,175) allowed each Business Group to conduct their own sales activities, thereby creating a platform for further boosting 14.Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (200,269) (261,174) (270,755) order competitiveness. 2010 2011 2012 15.‌Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 17,759 3,625 2,589 16.Acquisition of sale of investment property (10,054) Financial Review 17.Proceeds from sale of investment property 12,408 3,347 In 2012, our revenues stood at 9,627 billion won. By business group, as work got underway in full swing on such largeOperating Income (Unit: 1 billion won) 18.Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 998 1,600 12,616 scale projects such as the Rabigh and Mong Duong projects, revenues of the Power Business Group rose by 29.3% or 595 19.Acquisition of intangible assets (149,701) (82,926) (97,991) 1,280 billion won and the those of Water Business Group rose by 18.8% or 145.3 billion won, compared to the previous 552 526 20.Net increase (decrease) in investing activities (85) year. III.Net cash provided by financing activities 370,765 511,663 176,552 1.Net increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings (649,459) 281,615 284,605 Operating income amounted to 594.8 billion won, an increase of 13.1% or 68.7 billion won from a year ago. By business 2.Repayment of current portion of long-term debt (394,110) (510,000) (954,250) group, thanks to the Power Business Group and Water Business Group’s ongoing effort to reduce cost, their operating 3.Proceeds from securitization debt 360,000 income rose by 84.9% and 7.7%, respectively, compared to the previous year. However, we also experienced 4.Repayment of securitization debt (50,000) difficulties with decreased operating income of the Casting and Forging Business Group following the slowdown in the 5.Proceeds from issuance of debentures 547,165 653,940 677,048 shipbuilding industry. We are doing our utmost to overcome unfavorable conditions, such as scaled-down markets 6.Repayment of debentures (15,592) following the global financial crisis, and supporting all our business groups to achieve another take-off in the coming 2010 2011 2012 7.Proceeds from long-term borrowings 944,344 228,321 113,187 years. 8.Repayment of long-term borrowings (10,840) (26,068) (192,613) 9.Stock option exercised 539 1,265 3,682 10.Dividends paid (66,874) (67,376) (49,515) 11.Acquisition of treasury stock (50,000) 12.Net increase (decrease) in financial activities (34) IV.Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held (7,503) (20,040) (52,690) V.Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 351,177 (734,352) (552,363) VI.Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 783,254 1,517,605 2,069,969 VII.Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 1,134,431 783,253 1,517,606 42 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 43 Independent Auditors’ Report Independent Auditors’ Review Report on Internal Accounting Control System The Board of Directors and Shareholders To the President of Doosan Heavy Industries and Construction Co., Ltd.: Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd.: We have reviewed the Report on the Operations of Internal Accounting Control System (“IACS”) of Doosan Heavy We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial position of Doosan Heavy Industries & Industries and Construction Co., Ltd. (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2012. The Company's management is Annual Report Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 and the related consolidated responsible for designing and maintaining effective IACS and for its assessment of the effectiveness of IACS. Our statements of income, comprehensive income (loss), changes in equity and cash flows for the years then ended. responsibility is to review management's assessment and issue a report based on our review. In the report of Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in management’s assessment of IACS, the Company’s management stated: “Based on the assessment on the operations accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on of the IACS, the Company’s IACS has been effectively designed and is operating as of December 31, 2012, in all material these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. respects, in accordance with the IACS Framework issued by the Internal Accounting Control System Operation We did not audit the financial statements of four subsidiaries and two associates. The financial statements of the four Committee.” subsidiaries reflect total assets constituting 19.82% and total revenues constituting 19.86% as of and for the year ended We conducted our review in accordance with IACS Review Standards, issued by the Korean Institute of Certified 2012 (2011: 17.40% and 18.00%) of the related consolidated totals before eliminating intra-group transactions. The Public Accountants. Those Standards require that we plan and perform the review to obtain assurance of a level less Group’s investment in the two associates at December 31, 2012 was 2,930,833 million won (2011: 2,847,677 million than that of an audit as to whether Report on the Operations of Internal Accounting Control System is free of material Won) and the Group’s equity in profits of the associates was 205,324 million won (2011: 181,438 million Won). The misstatement. Our review consists principally of obtaining an understanding of the Company’s IACS, inquiries of financial statements of the four subsidiaries and the two associates were audited by other auditors whose reports company personnel about the details of the report, and tracing to related documents we considered necessary in the were furnished to us, and our opinion, insofar as it relates to the amounts included for the four subsidiaries and the two circumstances. We have not performed an audit and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion. associates, is based solely on the reports of the other auditors. A company's IACS is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the Republic of Korea. Those and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with Korean International Financial standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated Reporting Standards. Because of its inherent limitations, however, IACS may not prevent or detect misstatements. financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial deteriorate. statement presentation. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that the Report on the Operations of Internal Accounting Control basis for our opinion. System as of December 31, 2012 is not prepared in all material respects, in accordance with IACS Framework issued by In our opinion, based on our audits and the reports of other auditors, the consolidated financial statements referred to the Internal Accounting Control System Operation Committee. above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Group as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 and This report applies to the Company’s IACS in existence as of December 31, 2012. We did not review the Company’s IACS its financial performance and its cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with Korean International Financial subsequent to December 31, 2012. This report has been prepared for Korean regulatory purposes, pursuant to the Reporting Standards. External Audit Law, and may not be appropriate for other purposes or for other users. Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to the following: Seoul, Korea The procedures and practices utilized in the Republic of Korea to audit such consolidated financial statements may March 6, 2013 differ from those generally accepted and applied in other countries. Accordingly, this report and the accompanying consolidated financial statements are for use by those knowledgeable about Korean auditing standards and their application in practice. Seoul, Korea March 6, 2013 44 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 45 Creating Value for the World Global CSR Special Story Global CSR Step up from local community to global society Doosan Vina Doosan Vina (Doosan Heavy Industries Vietnam) is the only manufacturer of the mega infrastructure type powergenerating units operating in Vietnam today. The Company was established in February, 2007, covers 1,100,000 m2 and is located in the Dung Quat Economic Zone on the east coast of Vietnam. Doosan Vina is a Vietnamese corporation owned by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction and Doosan Engineering & Construction (E&C). As one of the overseas production bases of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, and at the same time a local subsidiary of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, an investment of about USD 300 million was made to enable the production of Special Story Global CSR boilers for power plants, Heat Recovery Steam Generators (HRSG), and seawater desalination evaporators, transporting, loading and unloading equipment, and chemical engineering equipment at the site. Efforts for a production increase and accumulation of technology are constantly being made at Doosan Vina, which effectively helped it to expand its reach in the global market and record business growth each year. Since opening, labor skill and technology at Doosan Vina has been continuously developed to improve quality and expand the company's market share. A key strategy is the active recruitment of local talent, constant consultation on course requirements with Vietnamese universities and ongoing and continuous training of employees so that the company's localization goals can be soon achieved. Through these and our extensive CSR program strong links to the local community have been established and as Doosan Vina continues to grow they plan to hire additional staff reaching a total of 3,000 local employees in the near future. The goal for 2015 is to reach production capacity of $200 million by 2015, becoming one of the largest enterprises in Vietnam. Visions Doosan Vina aims to continue developing, attaining a sophisticated business system that is one of the strongest and most rapidly growing affiliates of the Doosan Group. Business System Acceleration •Global Capacity Optimization through ▶ •Self-Production+Limited Local Outsourcing Overseas localized production point •Local vendor focused/ Transaction-based •Global Sourcing/ Partnership-based purchase purchase •Manufacturing capability maximized for vision 2015 •Manufacturing capability consolidation to reach prime cost competition •Building Global business implementation capacity 47 History of Doosan Vina 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 •‌Investment certificate was •Groundbreaking Ceremony (Feb. 2007) •‌CPE factory commenced operation •Factory operation(Jan. 2009) •General completion ceremony •Boiler first-time shipment (Sep. 2009) •Won an order for Mong Duong power station in Vietnam (Dec. 2010) issued (Nov. 2006) •Construction permit approved (Apr. 2007) (Aug 1. 2008) •CPE first-time shipment (May 15. 2009) •HRSG first-time shipment (Nov. 2009) •Partnership with localization of power generating (Dec. 2010) •Reclamation for the site needed to construct the company’s own •Entire plant constructed (Mar. 2009) •‌Port construction finished •Fresh water evaporator first-time shipment port commenced (Jul 2007) (Oct 31. 2008) •MHE first-time shipment (Apr. 2009) (Nov. 2009) •Initial pile driven(May. 2007) (May. 2009) •Employee Apartment (Dec. 2009) Special Story Global CSR Major financial achievements of Doosan Vina CSR at Doosan Vina Total assets (unit: USD) Sales (unit: USD) In 2012, Doosan Vina recorded two hundred million dollars in sales, with a total of 3,500 employees, including its Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has made contributions to boost the diplomatic relations between Korea and Vietnam 193,352,928 direct hires, partners and other human resources. The goods produced at Doosan Vina have been shipped to 80 by engaging in a variety of social contribution activities in Vietnam through its local production site in Vietnam. Doosan Vina has 372,050,822 overseas markets and accounts for nearly 50% of the exports in Quang Ngai province where Doosan Vina is currently engaged in the CSR activities with the focus on Quang Ngai province where the company has been located since 2009, and for the located. past four years, it has engaged in medical volunteer services and made donations for desalination facilities installation, 278,660,373 amounting to US$3 million in total. The many social contribution activities carried out by Doosan Vina also served as a 71,067,795 momentum for invigorating the local economy, an achievement for which Doosan Vina received the “CSR Grand Prize” from Products from Doosan Vina Vietnam’s Ministry of Planning and Investment, as well as “Best Volunteer of the Month” award for the overseas volunteer section in 2011. Product Product Description 2011 2012 2011 2012 CSR in Doosan Vina One of the core roles of a coal-fired electrical power plant is to generate electricity BOILER by combusting the fossil fuels such as coals, followed by creating steam of high temperature and high pressure. ‘Fostering talent and promoting self-reliance’ One of the core facilities of a combined cycle power plant is to produce steam of “A company that contributes to the growth of the local society HRSG high temperature and high pressure after collecting the heat energy emitted from and is respected by the local people” running the gas turbine. RMQC/RTGC : Container shipping/unloading/moving facility Supporting those living in poverty Qualified Employees Volunteer Group-Oriented MHS Steel Structure : Thermoelectric power plant boiler/turbine steel structure and steel and the minorities of society Development Activities structure for Plant equipment •Expanding support for the local community •Supporting development of employees •Establishing a volunteer group Medical services Support with scholarships Participation by all employees ‌Supporting restoration of distressed areas Support ‌ with educational tools, Chipping in for contributions monthly ‌Improving residential environments equipment and books Work in conjunction with the provincial government Evaporalor One of the core facilities of a desalination plant is to produce steam by heating the seawater, followed by concentrating the steam to produce drinking water. (unit: USD) Costs involved Details of activities Major achievements in execution This is an airtight container that has fluid inside, which is of a pressure higher than •Donated RO facilities to Anh Binh Island and Ly Son District Donation of desalination CPE the air pressure. Examples include pressure vessels, tanks and heat exchangers, facilities Two RO facilities(produces 200 tons of drinking water daily) 1,000,000 Improved economic conditions, as well as contribute to the protection of the land which are needed in oil refinery plants, gas processing plants and power plants. Medical services •8,200 residents on Ly Son island as well as in the vicinity of Quang Ngai (consultation & treatment) Medical subjects: Internal medicine, Surgery, and Dentistry •‌Provided surgery for cleft lip and palate patients: 53 persons 512,000 (including 10 for whom surgery was jointly pursued with the MBC) The EHS management system of Doosan Vina Medical services (surgeries) They were invited to Korea and they also received the surgery locally • Surgeries for cataract patients: 19 persons Through the ISO14001 and OHSAS 18001 system, the entire EHS process,from the product planning to research, Donation of medical •Donated cataract surgery instruments & rehabilitation physiotherapy equipment 120,000 instruments manufacturing and services, is managed. In addition, to improve the entire EHS system, Doosan Vina seeks to enhance Donation of nutrients for •Donated essential nutrients for children who suffered from nutritional deficiencies its management capacity by hiring domestic EHS specialists. 185,200 children in Quang Ngai province. Supporting the youth in Vietnam • Sponsored the first Park Ji-Sung Charity Soccer Cup in 2011. 1,000,000 by sponsoring soccer Improving the environments of • Improved the learning environment of the primary schools in the vicinity of the 15,000 primary schools company Scholarship to excellent college • Delivered scholarships to students from excellent universities in Vietnam 200,000 students Supporting the Quang Nam • Jointly with KOICA, implemented the Q Health Program Central General Hospital with its Supported the advancement and be stable in the medical services 2,500,000 operations Planning to implement the program for five years TOTAL 5,532,200 48 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 49 Proud Global Doosan •Providing An Binh Island with seawater desalination equipment The Doosan Way Our story, Our vision. Doosan Vina signed an MOU to make a donation of seawater desalination equipment to Quang Ngai and An Binh islands in August 2011, and held the groundbreaking ceremony for the seawater desalination on An Binh Island in May 2012. With no indigenous sources of water and no electricity, the residents of the remote An Binh Island have relied on rain for water for centuries and have never even dreamed about having electrical power. However Doosan Vina’s world-leading desalination technology has allowed over 500 residents in more than a hundred households to drinking the cleanest water in all of Vietnam, finally fulfilling the dream of fresh water that had gone unfulfilled for centuries. The Vietnamese government regards Doosan’s donation of the An Binh Island plant not only as providing vital support for improving economic conditions but as a key project that is closely linked to Vietnam’s territorial and national security issues. The An Binh plant is regarded by the government of Vietnam as one of the best 50 examples of a foreign company carrying out social responsibility activities in the country. •Medical Services Since 2009, Doosan Vina and Chung-Ang University are working closely together to give a medical service such as pediatrics, internal medicine, dental clinic, and geriatric disease to local residents in Quang Ngai province in Vietnam. They are engaged in medical service activities, regularly inviting Cleft Palate and Cardiology patients in the Quang Ngai province in Vietnam to Korea for free surgeries. Doosan Vina and the medical center at Chung-Ang University engage in medical services by dispatching a medical service group to Quang Ngai province every summer in addition to the surgery supports, resulting in about 8,200 local residents receiving medical benefits and surgery for cleft lip and cataract counting 72 people. Besides that, the company makes a huge donation such as cataract surgery device, rehab device and physical treatment equipment, and all kind of medicines and vitamins to local hospitals in Quang Ngai province. Moreover, in 2012, the company makes a consortium of KOICA/Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction/Doosan Vina named as ‘Q Health Program’ which is hospital total consulting pledged to provide US$5 million in support for 5 years to Quang Nam hospital in Quang Nam. •Scholarships Doosan Vina has also been actively engaging in Scholarship projects. Every year Doosan Vina has been providing funding and establishing scholarships for Vietnam's top public engineering colleges since 2008, and has contributed scholarships as a part of the financial aid project for the Korean language department of overseas colleges’ to four colleges where the Korean language department is opened, including the Humanities and Social Sciences college of Ho Chi Minh University. It also has delivered US$200,000 worth of scholarships to the students at nine colleges across the country. •Activities of the Social Volunteer Corps involving local employees in Vietnam The officers and employees of Doosan Vina organized a social volunteer corps to make contributions toward raising the quality of life of the local people in Vietnam. The Doosan Vina Social Volunteer Corps where all the officers and employees of the company are participating has been actively engaging in contribution activities, including renovating housing of the local residents and supporting restoration of distressed areas, along with the renovating activities of the nearby primary school’s facilities and donating books. 50 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report Building a strong competitive edge and advanced processes and systems The Doosan Way is our unique way of doing business and the philosophy and culture that will guide us to become a “Proud Global Doosan”. In order to lay the In order to achieve the Doosan Way and continually foster the growth of Doosan people, it's essential to secure a strong, fundamental competitive edge in products and technologies foundation for an even greater legacy in the future, we have identified and reinforced the corporate values that have served as the primary drivers of the Doosan unaffected by market circumstance or competition. At the same time, it's also essential to foster talent by taking an advanced, scientific approach to our work processes and systems. At Group's unprecedented success over the past 100 years and are now instilling them as the Doosan Way in our 40,000-strong global family. As part of a global business Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, our core approach to internalizing the Doosan Way centers on internalizing these principles both in the core operations of each organizational group active on the world stage, our growth cannot be sustained if our people's thinking and conduct are based upon different sets of values. Only by embracing a common set of corporate values that span the diversity of our nationalities and backgrounds will we be able to continue growing and become a truly global leader. A unit as well as in individual and team conduct. corporation finds deeper meaning and value to its existence when each and every employee finds meaning in their lives and continues to grow within the organization. Internalizing the Doosan Way in our operations requires us to strengthen our ability to execute existing technical development projects and innovation initiatives as well as transform the This is the path the Doosan Way pursues. way we work and do business to bring it in harmony with the Doosan Way. Toward this end, we have launched a pilot agenda initiative to give leaders and staff the opportunity to frankly evaluate work processes, build a clear consensus on the issues and areas in existing processes that need change, and successfully put them into practice. Doosan Way Workshop foster open communication and consensus Doosan Way Between May 7 and 9, 2012, the Doosan Group held a three-day Doosan Way Workshop for leaders from across the entire Doosan Group, including CEOs from all Doosan subsidiaries as Internalizing the Doosan Way in individual and team conduct is being done through two major initiatives: “Proud You & I” and “Team Vision Workshop II”. The former initiative aims to well as business group and division heads. This global gathering of Doosan leaders was an opportunity to come together to understand and foster consensus for the Doosan Way and foster an organizational culture that encourages the practice of Doosan traits in daily life and taking a genuine interest in others. We encourage our people to identify and praise these take the first step toward its successful dissemination across the group. traits in each other as well as model them in their own lives. The latter initiative aims to formulate team-specific codes of conduct for putting the Credo into practice in the course of daily work. We aim to build on these team codes of conduct to create a company-wide code of conduct that each employee will practice in the workplace. In his opening speech at the workshop, Doosan Group Chairman Yongmaan Park stressed, “Over the next few years, instilling the Doosan Way through all our efforts must be our top priority. This is not something that will happen through the efforts of a few. It will require a tremendous sense of calling, responsibility, and unity from each leader gathered here.”This Doosan Way Time & WHY Campaign was just the first of 77 workshops held in Korea and overseas in 2012, including workshops for executives in June, team leaders in August and September, and team members and Beginning in May 2012, the Doosan family rapidly formed an understanding and consensus about the core values of the Doosan Credo and the essential traits of Doosan people through technical staff during the remainder of the year. the Doosan Way Workshops. In 2013, we launched a variety of efforts to internalize the Doosan Way in both work and conduct. The “Doosan Way Time” meeting and “WHY” campaign are the two primary initiatives launched to accelerate the internalization process. One of the unique aspects of the Doosan Way Workshops was the use of discussion and participation to foster understanding and consensus. The “Chat with the CEO” session in particular was a truly open forum with its amphitheater-style circular seating setup reminiscent of a Greek agora, allowing participants to freely exchange and listen to opinions on the The Doosan Way Time is a meeting held at the executive or team level at regular intervals depending on the organizational situation that provides a forum for discussion or sharing success Doosan Way. In addition to the workshops, a number of townhall meetings were held to communicate and solicit feedback from as many employees as possible. Chairman Yongmaan stories that link the Doosan Way and work. The success stories shared at the meetings range from small but meaningful individual work accomplishments to major orders, technical Park and Vice Chairman Geewon Park visited a number of Doosan worksites both in Korea and abroad for these townhall meetings, including ones held at the Ras Al Khair and Rabigh 2 developments, and other significant organizational achievements. project sites in Saudi Arabia in March 2013. The Why campaign is designed to establish an environment for open communication and prevent breaks in communication caused by rigid organizational cultures as well as the inefficiencies that arise from those breaks. The campaign encourages a three-stage communication method—think, explain, and ask “why”. By encouraging people to work through and The Components of the Doosan Way implement work objectives and communication methods together, the campaign aims to transform communications across the entire range of work processes encompassing work The Doosan Way consists of four core components. First is the ‘the Doosan Credo’, which reflects the core values Doosan aspires to. Next is ‘Doosan People’, who practice those values instructions, meetings, information sharing and requests, reporting, and feedback. each and every day. The final two are ‘Strong Competitive Edge’, followed by ‘Advanced Processes and Systems’. The Credo is a charter that reflects Doosan's core values, the standard by which all business activities and decision-making is conducted. Doosan People live the Credo and share six distinctive traits. They have limitless aspirations. They cultivate people with genuine care. They practice Inhwa or teamwork. They seek open communication. They have tenacity and drive. And they prioritize and focus on the things that matter most. A foundation that supports and fosters individual growth is essential to achieve the Doosan Way and ensure the ongoing cultivation of Doosan people. The cornerstones of this foundation for growth are a strong competitive edge and advanced processes and systems. 52 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 53 CSR Pillar 1 Empowering People Developing the world's first integrated monitoring and control system for thermal power plants Dimension 1. Creative Organizational Culture The Doosan Way turns the “impossible” into a “world first” Dimension 2. Safe working environment Late spring, 2007 At the time, it was extremely rare to find a case where domestically-developed instrumentation and control technology was in use in power plant control systems in Korea, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction puts people first in all the stages of its management. In order to help its employees show their full a situation that led to significant operating inconveniences and inefficiencies. Motivated by concerns about decades of continuing technical dependence, the Korean potential and help them work in safer environments, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction spares no efforts at all. Doosan Heavy Industries government had announced a national project to develop core technologies in the field of power generation. One of the projects was to develop an integrated monitoring & Construction pledges to do its utmost to provide them with “the best and the most favorable workplace” by ensuring an impartial corporate and control system for thermal power plants. This was unlikely to be an opportunity that would come again since it would be virtually impossible to adopt an unproven culture, and a safe and productive working environment. new solution no matter how exceptional in an area so fundamental to the national infrastructure as power plants. Although our researchers had no prior experience in replacing the entire control system used in Korea's standard 500 MW thermal power plant design, they did have one pointed question: “Why does the equipment we build need to be operated with control systems from overseas firms?” Spurred by a conviction that the task was definitely achievable and a realization that this would likely be CSR Report our last and best shot, we set out to develop the world's first single-platform integrated monitoring and control system. While the challenge appeared slightly ill-advised and unfeasible at the outset with a development team of just 12, we rose above the intense competition to win the project tender. Although we had achieved our initial objective, there was no model that we could benchmark, and we lacked both the personnel and budget needed for development. We also had to overcome other obstacles, ranging from a lack of confidence in our capabilities by our own project partners, to pessimism and presumptions about our prospects for success by others. October 4, 2011 Having weathered the challenges, the day we would unveil the prototype of Korea's and the world's first integrated monitoring and control system for thermal power plants finally arrived. However, we weren't finished yet. At the request of client Korea Western Power, we set a target of completing the removal of the existing control system as well as the installation and commissioning of the new system in just 63 days, a full week earlier than the already challenging original 70-day schedule. Trimming a week from the project schedule meant there was zero room for error. Beyond meticulous preparation, it would require close communication and collaboration with the client. Above that, it would require proactive teamwork and the full support of the EPC, Boiler, and Turbine Generator business groups. Ultimately, we were able to complete the project in just 60 days, beating our target by three days. November 27, 2012 All the time and hard work we had poured into achieving technical independence in control systems for Korea's power plant industry finally brought us to the final stage of verification. On this day, client Korea Western Power's words of praise for us included “Doosan is the only company capable of building power plants and flawlessly passing verification in all respects” and “The performance exceeds our expectations.” This successful localization of an integrated monitoring and control system for thermal power plants is also the world's first to provide a single-platform solution capable of fully supporting the functionality of all the traditionally independent systems used to control boiler, turbine, generator, and other key plant systems. Over the past 2,000-some days as we progressed from a blank sheet through a step-by-step process, the growth that has followed is a feat that was hard not only for others to believe, but ourselves as well. And in our story, we find the Doosan Way at work, from the pursuit of world-class technology and innovation by understanding customer needs and delivering value that is superior to our competitors, to risk-taking that mitigates risk through reliability verification, to tenacity and drive that utilize all possible resources, regardless of their origin, either internal or external to solve fundamental issues. Today, our integrated monitoring and control system is handling operations at Taean Thermal Power Plant Unit 1, a plant we originally supplied equipment to some two decades ago. It's been extremely satisfying and gratifying to play a part in ushering in an era where the facilities we build are operated by our control systems. Jung Hae-won, Staff R&PD Manager, Corporate R&D Institute 54 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 55 CSR Dimension 1 Creative Organizational Culture Our People Staff and Employees [Approach] The total number of employees in all the Korean and overseas locations of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Turnover rate (unit : %) Based on our belief that “People are our greatest asset and essential to achieving our dreams,” Doosan Heavy Industries and Construction has adopted the 2G strategy, which is 20,004 people. Among these, the number of employees in Korean locations is 8,715 and among them the number Voluntary turnover rate Total retirement rate is based on a virtuous cycle linking the “Growth of business” with the “Growth of people.” As it became evident how important the support of individual employees’ growth of permanent employees is 7,270. The number of employees locally hired by overseas subsidiaries and corporations 3.5 is for the growth of business, we have made ceaseless, focused efforts since 2011 to build an organizational culture where individuals and the company can grow together by 3.4 is 11,289. The average number of years worked for the company is 10.8 years, which is relatively longer than other 3.3 striking a healthy balance between work and life. companies in the industry. The turnover rate in 2012 stood at 1.1%, which is considerably lower than 19.4%, the 3.0 Elimination of inefficiencies turnover rate of the entire manufacturing sector, serving as evidence of employees’ satisfaction with the company. 2G Strategy There are 554 female employees in Korean locations, which accounts for 6.4% of the workforce, with male employees 2.5 2.4 2.2 outnumbering female employees due to the nature of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s main business. The 2.0 company, nevertheless, is continuously endeavoring to create a work environment and atmosphere that promotes a 1.9 Creating business opportunities e good work and life balance to recruit more female employees. The company also hires some contract employees due tur ruc through cultivation of people 1.5 Sh ast to the necessities of operating in an order-based industry, yet the company is giving opportunities for experienced Inv orter nfr CSR Report est wo s/i em contract employees with excellent capabilities to be converted into permanent employees on an ongoing basis. We 2G ing rki 1.1 Growth Growth tim ng h yst in s plan to further expand the process to convert contract employees to permanent employees in the future, and to hire 1.0 of People of Business Im e in ou nt pro ref rs, S me 2010 2011 2012 res elf est ved hm -de inv employees based on their competencies and capabilities. con ed ity cen en vel and ctiv t op Exp du tra tio me pro na nt/ ved tw pro Creating Jobs ork Im Higher self-esteem of employees, expanded Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction prohibits discrimination based on educational background, age, gender, race Cultivating talents through the investment in development of individuals’ capabilities growth of business or any other personal characteristics for hiring, employment, promotion, pay and benefits. In particular, when recruiting Enhancing sense of ownership, securing core talents employees, the company does not require applicants to enter personal details of their families, as well as their Improvement of personal satisfaction Improvement of the company’s competitiveness academic grades, providing equal and impartial job opportunities based on competencies of applicants. Regarding Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s new employee recruitment system, the internship program is [2012 Results] [2013 Plan] characterized by a 90% conversion rate of interns into full-time employees, which is significantly higher than 60-70% of other companies. This is attributable to the company’s systematic four-week internship program where interns improve •‌Cultivation of experts by field and establishment of a systematic job rotation system •Establishment of a systematic resource plan to secure and cultivate talents their problem-solving skills by conducting projects to help them directly or indirectly learn business activities that are reflecting individuals’ wishes •‌Operation of a variety of competency development programs such as management •‌Implementation of functional competencies evaluation system and reflection difficult to experience in university curriculums. After the internship is completed, interns are hired as new employees programs and functional competency programs into development plan of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction after undergoing final interviews. The company’s internship program has •Offered more training opportunities to overseas site workers and overseas assignees •‌Enhancement of back-up plans to systematically cultivate next-generation leaders dually positive effects in that it allows the company to secure talents in advance, while interns can acquire actual New Employee Hiring Experienced Employee •Converted contract workers to permanent employees working experience and cultivate loyalty to the company, thereby reducing early turnover rate. Process Hiring Process •‌Re-establishment of the global HR governance system to achieve Global One Doosan •‌Established and operated training programs for technical staff in alignment In addition, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has signed MOUs on industry-academia partnership for talent with career path Document Document •‌Expansion of management programs to all employees and development/ cultivation and recruitment with meister high schools and specialized high schools such as Sudo Electric Technical High screening screening •Operation of training programs designed to embed the Doosan Way implementation of functional competency programs for all functions School, Busan Automotive High School and Changwon Mechanical Technical High School and opened the “Doosan •Shifted to a function-oriented structure to cultivate experts •More contract workers converted to permanent employees Class” that offers customized education for high school seniors to provide technical education in 14 areas including •‌Introduction of a system for developing functional competencies based on the functional competency development roadmap welding, processing and quality, as well as on-the-job training during vacations. The company hires certain numbers of Doosan Doosan Comprehensive Comprehensive •Full-fledged operation of the flexible work system at Water BG high school graduates who have completed the “Doosan Class” curriculum offered at technical high schools every year. Aptitude Test (DCAT) Aptitude Test (DCAT) •Introduction of a systematic system to cultivate next-generation leaders Over the past two years, it has hired 62 such high school graduates. Meanwhile, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has also signed MOUs on industry-academia cooperation with junior colleges such as the Changwon [Key Indicators] Campus of Korea Polytechnic College VII, Changwon Moonsung University, Yeungjin College, and Inha Technical First-round First-round College to secure technical talents early and foster them, thereby contributing to the development of regional interview interview education and talent cultivation. •‌Number of annual new •‌Return rate •Voluntary turnover rate •Overseas personnel from maternity leave Second-round Second-round recruitments 2012 Employment overview interview interview Technical IndustryAcademy Disabled National Female 9 son s Office positions 11,28 per Year Internship 503 100% 1.1% s (New/Experienced) positions partnership employees Merit recipients employees son per 2010 352/225 126 8 1 15 39 Third-round 2011 426/173 122 15 79 2 9 61 interview 2012 271/135 97 7 90 5 11 28 56 2012Doosan 2012 DoosanHeavy HeavyIndustries IntegratedReport ConstructionIntegrated Industries&&Construction Report 57 Respect for Human Rights Work & Life Balance Respect for the Rights of Employees After the business transfer was decided, the business transfer was notified to the union pursuant to the labormanagement collective agreement and efforts were made to sufficiently negotiate working terms of employees Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction creates a work environment in accordance with the company policy based on concerned with the union. More specifically, briefing sessions for employees by sub-organizational units under the the entire cycle of hiring, employment and maintenance to help employees work in a continuously stable environment. HRSG and office/technical positions were held and agreement was reached after labor-management negotiations on The company complies with all internal and external regulations governing human rights and working conditions, nine occasions. strictly prohibiting child labor and forced labor in all business locations as per Labor Standards Act and the International Labor Organization (ILO) policies. The education standard for new employees is the junior college level and high school graduate employees are hired only after graduation to prevent the occurrence of child labor. In addition, collective Benefits agreements prevent employees from excessive or forced labor, and arbitrary transfers are also forbidden to make sure that employees are not moved or given work against their will, thereby protecting the rights of our employees. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction offers a wide range of benefit programs to ensure convenience for employees. Furthermore, we make sure that employees establish their short-term, mid-term and long-term career plans and In order to support both the workplace and the home, the company has established nursing rooms and rest areas for communicate on them with their bosses on a regular basis to allow job rotation fully reflecting individual employees’ pregnant employees at its Seoul and Changwon locations. In 2012, we opened the “Future Tree Childcare Center” in wishes, thereby helping them to realize their vision. We also implemented the “Why Campaign” and built a culture of Seoul and Changwon to reduce employees’ burden of childcare. At the same time, the company provides support to CSR Report open communication where employees are encouraged to explain the purpose and key points of their work and freely employees’ children so that they can receive a wide range of education curriculum, receiving favorable responses from communicate regarding areas they do not understand. This is designed to respect rights of employees by preventing employees. unilateral, one-way communication. In addition, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is striving to respect the various rights of employees institutionally Meanwhile, Doosan Group launched company support for backpacking trips in 1995 to help employees build a global and culturally. As part of these efforts, we provide institutional support to form a proper organizational culture and mindset by experiencing different cultures around the world and motivate them to learn foreign languages. In 2012, as respect human rights of employees by conducting sexual harassment awareness education among all employees in many as 244 employees were given opportunities for backpacking trips to experience foreign cultures and refresh themselves. So far, a total of 1,129 employees have enjoyed the backpacking trip benefit. In addition, the company Future Tree Day care center accordance with the Act on Equal Employment and Support for Work-Family Reconciliation and offering grievance counseling services. introduced a retirement pension system to provide retirees with later-life stability and currently all employees are subscribed to the pension scheme. Top employees who are slated for retirement are also given opportunities to sign up for up to three additional years of work. Furthermore, the company seeks to handle grievances in a smooth manner by offering communication channels such as meetings and a grievance handling committee that listens to grievances of Labor-Management Partnership employees and effectively handles them. In 2012, the management and labor union at Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction successfully concluded collective Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction allows employees to use summer vacations for two consecutive weeks and negotiations without any disputes for seven consecutive years. The negotiation period was also reduced realistically, year-end vacation for a week to encourage them to spend time with families through travel and leisure activities and reaffirming trust between labor and management. In addition, a labor-management partnership was declared in a have time to refresh themselves for better work productivity. This initiative has entered the establishment phase, ceremony in 2012 which was attended by the CEO, 20 executives and 2,000 employees. At the ceremony, labor and earning great satisfaction among employees. Meanwhile, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction offers a total funeral management pledged to make proactive efforts to establish a future-oriented labor-management culture of service package for the bereaved involving funeral directors, funeral home supplies, and hearses for funeral services Children of staff at the English Summer Camp partnership based on trust and respect and become a company that fully fulfills its social responsibility in accordance for immediate family members of employees including dispatched employees. This system, which is one of the with the labor-management partnership declaration. company’s unique employee benefit policy, helps employees conduct funeral services without any procedural burden, receiving very positive feedback from employees. In addition, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has formed a labor-management council which holds regular meetings quarterly and ad hoc meetings to promote welfare of employees, handle grievances, improve the EHS and In addition, given the fact that 800 employees, who comprise more than 10% of the company’s total workforce in Korea, other work environments and promote the health of workers. The labor-management council holds candid work at overseas worksites, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction launched the “Family DOO” program that consultations on formally proposed agenda items, working to promote shared interests of labor and management. The supports families of employees deployed overseas and their families in 2011 for the first time in Korea. In 2012, the council is attended by ten members each from labor and management. In 2012, the labor-management council company offered a wide range of programs, including English camps for children of employees deployed overseas, accepted 162 cases and handled them during regular or ad hoc meetings. invitations to family members to overseas worksites, life consulting and counseling services and family volunteer Labor-Management Partnership Declaration service corps activities, which were attended by 2,576 employees and their families. In February 2013, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction decided to transfer its heat recovery steam generator (HRSG) business worth 571.6 billion won to Doosan Engineering and Construction in the form of investment in kind to In particular, 74 employees in 2012 participated in the “Family to Site” program, through which families of employees secure its business competitiveness. Concerning the business transfer, comprehensive succession of labor relations, are invited to overseas worksites to spend holidays together with employees. The program institutionally supports pay & benefits and other working conditions were reaffirmed to prevent the occurrence of any disadvantages to employees in not only spending valuable quality time with their families at overseas worksites, but also offers great employees concerned. opportunities to their children to experience foreign cultures, thereby reducing stress caused by working overseas and consolidating bonds among family members. 58 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 59 Meanwhile, we make continuous efforts to provide an optimal working environment. As part of these efforts, we offer a [A case study of the flexible work system] call service 24 hours a day for the first time in Korea to enable employees to communicate with their families in the event of emergencies in order to give employees working overseas peace of mind and a sense of stability. <Water BG implements the flexible work system> In addition, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction offers a real estate consulting service and legal counseling service for employees who are transferred to different business locations in Korea. By doing so, the company aims to minimize Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has introduced a flexible work system to help employees pursue a good difficulties and inconveniences experienced by employees due to changes in the work environment and help them balance between work and life. The flexible work system was adopted in 2012 for the 359 Water BG employees adapt to a new environment in a more convenient and safer manner. We collect diverse opinions and update the in the Seoul office. The 41 units were allowed to select working hours of either 8a.m.-5p.m. or 10a.m.~7p.m. system on a regular basis to establish policy that places the top priority on safety and convenience of employees. to flexibly adjust their time to come to and leave office. The system earned a high satisfaction rate of 92%. It earned a particularly positive response from units that have a lot of communication and contact with overseas In addition the company provides real estate consulting services and legal aid for employees who frequently relocate worksites in that it can facilitate speedy and convenient communication by reducing time difference from the Shuttle bus for Seoul-Changwon round trip 4-times a day overseas worksites and measures can be taken early when problems occur at overseas worksites. On the other between job locations within Korea to help them better adjust to new working environments and minimize the impact of their relocation. Telepresence systems in locations in Korea and abroad minimize the need for business trip for short hand, a number of employees expressed opinions that the flexible work system is helpful in terms of improving conferences for employees working in Korea as well as the United Kingdom and the Czech Republic as well as improve the quality of life in that morning hours can be invested in childcare and self-development. As indicated above, CSR Report face-to-face communication that boost overall work efficiency. Shuttle buses running between Seoul and Changwon based on the degree of employee satisfaction and opinions, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction pursues provides a door-to-door service for employees in either location. These and other measures are a part of Doosan Heavy a harmonious balance between work and life by adopting the flexible work system and the concentrated work Industries & Constructions’ efforts to put the safety and convenience of its employees first, and feedback from systems in order to boost work efficiency and seek work and life balance. employees are used to continuously upgrade and augment these measures. 1st Major benefits Reducing potential risks through close Benefits Description Business aspect communication between the worksite and the 2nd Leisure Summer vacation, Year-end vacation, Refreshment vacation, Congratulations/Condolences Possible to take measures early when headquarters Telepresence facilities installed in Seoul, Changwon, England, and Czech Republic leave, Support for overseas backpacking trips, Condominiums, Club activities, etc. construction/commissioning-related 26% Housing and finances Housing and dormitories for employees who do not own housing or are single, low-rate problems occur at the worksite loans 18% Reinforcing technical support for Childcare Dormitory for the Seoul region (for children of employees who attend colleges in Seoul), clarification-requiring issues company childcare facilities, scholarships and financial support 8% Transportation Commuting bus, Transportation stipend given to work locations adjacent to subway stations Eliminating or improving contract-related risks Total funeral service A total funeral service package is provided for the bereaved 3% Reinforcing external Education and Training centers and technology education centers, Educational institutions at home and networks Reinforcing support for onself-development abroad, Universities, Corporate training, Cyber education programs, Company welfare censite management such as 15% ter, Doosan Academy budget/materials Medical and health Financial support for surgeries, Physical examinations, Group insurance and saving insur16% Others ance, Company clinic and physical therapy facility, Flu and H1N1 vaccinations, Healthcare Reinforcing efficiency of 2% program schedule management Counseling Real estate advice, Grievance counseling service 12% Personal life aspect Others Long service awards, Uniforms, Gifts (Lunar New Year’s Day, Chuseok, foundation day), Sports festival by department, Learning aid books for children of employees, English camps 2nd for children of employees, Shuttle bus service, Doosan Festival, Doosan family theater, Pleasant commuting due to avoidance of rush hours Work & life balance by using Cultural festival, Concerts, etc. the morning hours for home 17% activities such as childcare 33% 1st Pursuing personal hobbies and self-development activities in the morning hours Securing personal time such as for visits to hospitals on 37% weekdays and car repairs 11% Others March 10, 2012. General Manager Park Do-won and his family: Family to Site In front of dormitory in Changwon 2% Program-At the Sphinx in Egypt 60 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 61 Big Opportunity Human Resource Development Next, the Professional College aims to cultivate experts with core competitiveness and consists of five programs, including the Foundation Program, the Expert Program, the Faculty Program, the Global Program, and the Essential At Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, we believe that sustainable results can only be achieved through the right Program. It also offers a systematic curriculum by position. Its major curriculum consists of training programs that suit people and their growth. Therefore, human resource development comes before any other investment and providing the development goals by position, including the Business Products & Introduction (BPI) that aims to offer basic unsparing support to human resources is a key obligation of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. This means that knowledge on the company’s products and businesses, the Before the Job Training (BJT) that helps employees acquire all employees are entitled to human resource development and at the same time they are the key players who have the a basic understanding of the company’s value chains, and various academies that aim to improve the professional responsibility for developing their skills and talents. Reflecting this belief, the company’s human resource development capabilities of all functions by position, such as the Procurement Academy, the PM Academy, and the Quality Academy. philosophy is based on “growth of all employees,” not “selection and concentration” which centers on fostering a few In an effort to facilitate smooth communication between business majors and engineering majors, the company leaders. In order to internalize the philosophy, we have set the strategy directions as internalization and dissemination conducts the Engineering for Commercial program for business major employees to help them acquire basic of the traits required of Doosan People, expansion of opportunities for development of all employees, and realization of knowledge on engineering, and plans to offer the Economics for Engineers program to engineering major employees to Learning Center in Changwon, Seoul human resource development through practical work experience. help them obtain basic knowledge on economics. In order to internalize and disseminate the traits required of Doosan People, the company conducts leadership In addition, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction offers programs designed to improve global capabilities such as programs designed to implement the Doosan Way not only in Korea, but also at overseas business locations. In Intensive English courses, as well as education on information security, fair trade, EHS and IP to make it possible to CSR Report addition, a systematic training program by function and positions in consideration of individual development roadmaps create value through integrity and transparency, the values emphasized by the Doosan Way. is offered on an ongoing basis to expand opportunities for development of all employees. In an effort to develop In order to ensure that employees receive education in a comfortable and pleasant environment, Doosan Heavy human resources through practical work experience, the company has reinforced OJT (On the Job Training) and learning Industries & Construction opened a learning center in Seoul, while remodeling the existing learning center in Changwon, activities, laying the groundwork for employees to grow into experts with core competitiveness. improving the value and quality of the education environment. In addition, we created an environment to realize the socalled “paperless education,” allowing employees to easily review the education content anywhere, anytime through Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s training program is comprised of the “Leadership College” and tablet PCs. The paperless education not only boosts the educational effects, but also reduces waste generated by “Professional College.” The company has developed and implemented systematic education programs by position, printed education materials, thereby contributing to the creation of an advanced and scientific education environment. offered in accordance with the growth phase of individual employees. Paperless education The Leadership College has the goal of cultivating leaders who have internalized the Doosan Way and consists of four programs, including the Orientation Program, the Anchor Program, the Build-up Program, and the Business Management Program. The curriculum consists of training programs devised to fulfill the objectives of each position, Professional College ranging from various incubation programs, such as orientation programs for new hires and basic functional Foundation Faculty competency development programs for BGs, the STEPS program which aims at improving strategic problem-solving Expert Program Global Program Essential Program Program Program capabilities, as well as BIG School I, II, III, Doosan’s internal MBA program, which are designed to improve employees’ Expatriate Leadership business management capabilities. In addition, the company plans to offer various “Build-up” programs to address the development needs identified for the employees through the DCM assessment. Executive Change Champion Leadership College Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Programs DLI Programs Slated for development Team leader Orientation Anchor Build-up Program Biz. Management Program Sexual Harassment awareness education Program Program Deputy Building Priority Top Team Seminar General Manager Part Leader InTeam Leader Executive InExternally recruited Master Master Master Master Master Master Master Master Executive New execuSTEPS D.Talent In-Hwa Openness Innovation Execution Focus Manager/ tive Expatriate Candidate BIG School -BIG III Executive GM executive Advanced Expatriate Course Installation/Construction Academy Financial Risk Managing Resource Foreign Languages Online Course Intensive. English Things that can only be seen when you take interest Functional Basis Academy Master Coach School Team New team Mgt. &Valuation Maximzation MOT & New Marketing/Sales Academy Manufacturing Academy Commissioning Academy Product Information security leader leader Procurement Academy How to cheers up Engineering Academy Global Business Development Manager Project Management Quality Academy Faculty Academy Doosan Way Online Course SCM Strategy PM Academy Managment Strategic Decision-Making Insight Program sight Program Insight Program sight Program Proactive Marketing(PAM) Deputy BPI BJT New Comer Induction CFO School EHS School Expert Expert Expert Expert Expert Expert Expert HR School /General Fair trade BIG School -BIG II STEPS Advanced Manager Assistant EHS DCM PI/ERP STEPS BIG School -BIG I IP New Manager Manager MOT&New manager Essentia Corporate Business People & Product Finance Strategy Organizations Development Active Communication Business Simulation EntryEFC EFE Smart Goal Setting Assistant Basic Basic Basic Basic Basic Basic Basic A-Team Building Level Reporting A to Z Manager Junior STEPS Biz. Skills & Communication Breakthrough Work Smarter Staff Knowing DHI Incubating Junior Accounting Basics Insight Program Entry Level Problem New Hire Orienta1) BPI : Business&Products Introduction, 2) BJT : Before the job Training, 3)EFC : Engineering for Commercial, 4) Economics for Engineer, Staff Business Essential tion Solving 5)PI/ERP : Process Innovation/Enterprise Resources Planning, 6)IP : Intellectual Property, 7)DCM : Doosan Competency Model 62 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 63 Rewards Education cost for technical staff In case of technical employees, the company pays attention to upholding their honor, improving their environment Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction conducts a DCM assessment (capability assessment) and an MBO and strengthening their capabilities, which has been pursued by implementing Technical Staff Personnel System in assessment (performance assessment) based on the traits required of Doosan People. Compensation is determined 41.3 2o11. As a result, the technical positions were aligned with that of the office staff, which helped to instill pride among by competency and performance with a salary and reward system determined through annual competency and 39.5 the technical staff. performance evaluations. A standardized performance evaluation process is also applied to technical personnel through performance evaluation, competency evaluation and attitude evaluation. In 2012, the company revamped 21.1 Technical Staff Training Programs consists of three main courses, which are Leadership & Management the performance-based compensation system for technical staff, raising performance-based pay by 30% following the Programs(Technology Management School), Functional Competency Programs, and the Doosan Plant Technical Colsurpassing of the operating income target. lege. First, the Leadership & Management Programs(Technology Management School) are composed of leadership •Cost per person 2010 2011 2012 development for production sites, production/technology management, and development of problem solving skills. The evaluation process is conducted in a fast and accurate manner through the computerization system. It is This course was initially offered to a small select number of employees, but now it is open to all employees. Second the translated into different languages and the same evaluation standards based on Doosan’s philosophy are applied to HR evaluation session in 2012 Education hours for technical staff Functional Competency Program consists of subjects like welding, manufacturing, and quality, which are subjects that all locations to ensure impartial evaluation. Prior to evaluation, a one-on-one meeting is held between the assessor 14.5 cover over 65% of technical staff. This course is focused on strengthening the fundamental competitiveness of the comand assessee to discuss the individual’s performance, competency and development plan results, thereby preventing pany and motivating employees to pursue technical development. Finally, Doosan Plant Technical College, a course any unilateral evaluation. After the evaluation, a one-on-one meeting is held between the assessor and assessee to CSR Report 12.3 11.6 offered in connection with a local state university, aims at employees’ self-development and meeting growth needs to provide appropriate feedback and establish and implement a development plan reflecting the results. This is designed help technical staff acquire a degree. The company offers appropriate training programs to employees at the right time, to ensure that the evaluation does not end as a one-time event, but is reflected and linked to the development so that they can grow to become responsible qualified employees at the workplace. process. Moreover, in order to prevent making judgements of people by evaluation results and their rank/grade, the company sought to improve the evaluation process by adopting a no-scoring policy and this resulted in a stronger alignment between employee evaluation and development. •‌Time per person (hrs.) 2010 2011 2012 Technical Staff Training Program As such, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction adopted a compensation system based on competencies of Technology Management Doosan Plant individuals by reflecting results of evaluations that are performed in a fair and transparent fashion and guarantees the Functional Competency Programs School Technical College best compensation package in Korea to top employees, securing compensation competitiveness in the industry. The company plans to maintain the nation’s top compensation package to attract top talents. Promotions are carried out Engineering Degree Technology once a year and the company operates an impartial and objective promotion process. Under the process, candidates Meister Course Associate High school diploma Management 2 year are selected based on individual competency assessment, performance evaluations, and other scores for aptitude in School(III) 4 year course degree foreign languages and accounting. And then, in-depth discussions are held at the sessions and the decision is made Selective Course course •‌Plant demo-control on who the final candidates are for promotions. Technology /Business management •Manufacturing & Design Technology Management •Office Management School(II) General Course •‌University Technology •Beginner Welding/ : Local state university Management •Intermediate Manufacturing/ •‌‌Major •Advanced Quality School(I) : Mechanical engineering 64 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 65 Smart Office Smart Office The Current Status of the Smart Office Initiative Smart Office Activity Framework and Key Case Studies Since 2011, Doosan Heavy Industries and Construction has been carrying out Smart Office activities that aim to pursue individual and corporate growth through “work & life balance.” Smart Office activities refer to activities that eliminate Action Initiative Description inefficiencies in work processes, and the saved work hours are instead invested in the employee’s personal development Individual work capability and rest, enhancing work efficiency and improving employee satisfaction. This ultimately boosts the fundamental Capability development •Establish & implement work capability development roadmap competitiveness of the company. advancement Excellence of organizational •‌Establish & implement ways to promote work advancement from Process/System/Organization perspectives to capability promote organizational capability excellence Midto-long-term Smart Office roadmap Elimination of inefficiency •Eliminate waste of three types of inefficiency, including rework, customary work execution, & low-value work issues Phase Ⅰ PhaseⅡ Improvement of the Phase Ⅲ ways work is done Establishment Achieving visible outcomes •Share & utilize know-how on individuals’ tasks through Smart Work of implementation Securing competitiveness Smart Work by implementing improvement tasks of QCD system Improvement of 2011 2012 2013 After 2014 policy/personnel Reestablishment of policies/ •Perform work efficiently by improving policies, internal regulations, & personnel system CSR Report regulations/ systems (Materialization operation A flag for smart workers (Introductory (Dissemination (Stabilization phase) phase) phase) phase) Improvement of Establishment of IT •Improve IT infrastructure to overcome time/spatial limitations infrastructure •Introduction of Telepresence & VDI, support for mobile working working environment/ •Improve work environment to enhance employee satisfaction Work space infrastructure •Build space for creative work & relaxation at the Technology Research Institute •‌Understand the purpose and •‌Disseminate positive percep•‌Establish an atmosphere of •‌Establish S/O activities as direction of S/O activities tions by securing success voluntary participation Capability Advancement daily routines to secure QCD Strategic stories •‌Improve employee satisfaccompetitiveness •Individual work capability development plans tion by expanding & applying Departing from the traditional capability transfer method, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction evaluates work-capability levels of exemplary case studies individuals and establishes/operates a systematic capability development road map, thereby helping its employees improve their •‌Identify three areas of ineffi•‌Disseminate S/O implemen•‌Improve work efficiency by •‌Explore improvement levers capabilities as soon as possible. The company focuses on establishing/implementing systematic capability cultivation programs that ciency through major function tation methodology on a expanding & applying good & implement tasks to achieve groups & establish the direccompany-wide level case studies QCD competitiveness goals are linked with work based on individually customized road maps, while regularly offering feedback on implementation results to boost Major tions for improvement ‌•‌Explore & share good case execution power. Meanwhile, more emphasis is placed on the importance of work capability development, as it is a practical means of implemen•‌Establish S/O activity implestudies tation tasks mentation system “fostering talents” based on the Doosan Way. •Excellence of organizational capability Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has formulated plans on advancing organizational capability from the perspectives of process, system and organization. Currently, initiatives such as Doosan Procurement Excellence (DPE), EPC-Works, and Doosan Quality Smart Office Implementation Framework Excellence (DQE) are under way. Improvement of the way work is done Three types of inefficiency at Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction have been identified through work diagnosis •Elimination of inefficiency issues utilizing a tool called “ABA (Activity Based Analysis)” by major functions. At the same time, employee satisfaction Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is eliminating three types of inefficiencies, which include rework, customary work surveys have been conducted to identify major causes of employee dissatisfaction. In order to address issues execution and low-value work through bottom-up, voluntary activities to eradicate inefficiency. The company is rectifying identified, four axes have been established under which seven activities are carried out to boost personal satisfaction inefficiency in individuals’ work by simplifying the document review process through utilization of Excel functions, while exploring and enhance corporate competitiveness. In the implementation process, a system led by the business is in place to and improving inefficiency issues between organizations to enhance inter-organizational collaboration. secure execution power, while achievements are monitored by conducting employee satisfaction surveys and defining competitiveness indexes. •Smart Work Smart Work is designed to perform tasks in an easier, faster and more accurate manner. It refers to sharing individuals’ work know-how by posting it on the internal portal bulletin. Successful implementations are selected for recognition and reward each month. •Improvement of policy/personnel operation With regard to matters related to policies, internal regulations and personnel system that require company-wide approach among bottom-up issues, the Operational Excellence Division takes the lead in making improvements in the areas concerned. 66 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 67 Core-time working A working system designed to increase employees’ level of immersion by allowing them to concentrate on Stakeholder Interview system their work during the designated time A working system designed to enhance work collaboration between the headquarters and on-site locations BCG Partner Do-won Kim Flexible working system by operating working groups that start work at 8a.m. and 10a.m., respectively, in consideration of working hours of overseas construction sites. Modification of approval According to OECD statistics, Korea’s average working hours are longer than those of advanced countries by 30-40%, yet its labor Approval standards are modified to reduce waiting time for work report and approval. authority productivity per hour is still found to be lacking, reaching merely about 50% of that of advanced countries. This indicates that A system designed to ensure efficient team operation and lay the groundwork for fostering development of junior Korea’s economic development still relies on the diligence of its people. Doosan Heavy Industries and Construction would not Part leader system personnel. Under the system, official position, evaluation and approval authority is given to the part leader. have been an exception. However, improvements relating to creative productivity has become the trend of the time and employees have come to prefer companies where balance between work and life is ensured and personal capabilities and •Improvement of Working environment/Infrastructure performance of the organization grow together. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is working on providing a creative workplace and improving its IT infrastructure to provide an efficient working environment at their site. The company is also working on an ideal system buildup that can work with any device Against this backdrop, Doosan Heavy Industries and Construction has introduced Smart Office, and employee perceptions and anywhere at anytime by VDI (Virtual Desktop Infrastructure) and creating a space for knowledge sharing and discussions at the CSR Report satisfaction regarding the initiative are found to be very positive. Most employees are well aware of the purpose of such activities Corporate R&D Institute. and, most of all, they are proud of the authenticity of the top management’s commitment to change and the leadership’s attitude to take the initiative. Smart Office activities carry significance in two aspects. First, from the perspective of the company, they Smart Office Communication enhance competitiveness. Second, from the perspective of employees, they promote balance between work and life. •Building consensus & common understanding of Smart Office Explain Smart Office activities by organizing on-board sessions, the Operational Excellence Academy, and agent workshops, while When the company boosts competitiveness and employees have greater satisfaction and loyalty toward the company, it listening to employees’ opinions on Smart Office activities to reflect them in the corporate policy. ultimately leads to greater social contribution through sustainable growth, which is a fundamental goal of CSR. In essence, CSR aims to support society by companies achieving sustainable growth to create jobs and returning the wealth created to society. •Nominate / Award Excellent Cases From this perspective, Smart Office activities are designed to create a virtuous cycle of CSR. I anticipate that the Smart Office Best agent is selected each month and is awarded a prize to encourage implementation of Smart Office activities. Employees’ opinions activities of Doosan Heavy Industries and Construction will result in an enhanced work environment, improved employee and ideas on Smart Office activities are shared through the internal Web portal community and good ideas are selected and awarded satisfaction and, more importantly, fundamental corporate competitiveness, which will be unprecedented in Korea in the next few prizes. Sessions designed to share good case studies are organized by business units. Support will be given to help other organizations years. benchmark case studies of exemplary organizations. [A case study on Smart Work] <Mr. Kim becomes a spearhead of data management with Excel programming> Assistant Manager Kim Jang-hwan, Instrumentation Control Design Team, EPC P/E Center Anyone would have experience with the Excel program, starting with Excel sheets filled with data for hours on the computer monitor. The Instrumentation Control Team, in particular, has to manage thousands or tens of thousands of pieces of data. It is extremely important for the team to properly manage changing data, as the power station control system is created based on the data. However, when data go through modification several times, the drawings are colored with numerous highlighter colors and one or two errors may occur. In addition, as shortening delivery time has become one of the key elements of competitiveness of EPC projects and initial processes and later-stage processes have been increasingly combined, the amount of data whose content has been altered has become greater. A few employees who were fed up with the existing way of doing business where altered data had been managed manually came to believe that they can achieve work efficiency by reducing the time consumed in data management through computerization and spend more time in higher-value added tasks. We came up with an idea of importing CAD drawings into Excel by using location coordinates. The idea conceived the VBA Program Smart Navigator that compares data of each drawing on Excel and records the changed content and history on new sheets. Although it was not easy to study and apply computer programming languages which were new to us, we mobilized all available resources to find the solution, sometimes searching on the Internet and purchasing relevant study materials. Computerization of data management work has helped employees focus more on the major tasks of the team and fully mobilize their capabilities in control system design. 68 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 69 CSR Dimension 2 Safe Working Environment [Approach] [2013 Plan] Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is committed to activities that enhance work environment safety, health and emergency management: By being proactive, taking 1) Safety preventive measures and assessing the risks, we ensure the safety of our staff at both our domestic and overseas sites. Our healthcare program is now expanded to include • Identify those workplaces that are poor in EHS or at peak capacity and work closely with support activities and increased EHS patrol. psychological and emotional care and this care extends to our overseas sites and partner companies, as well as our employees. To encourage preventive management, we • ‌Train specialized EHS officers for overseas deployment and the development of Web Tools to allow EHS data to be stored and shared amongst EHS staff on construction sites provide emergency training to both the plants and other departments to minimize the occurrence of large-scale accidents and other various risks. and overseas production facilities. • Enhance EHS competencies of managers at domestic constructions sites and overseas facilities to receive IOSH training. • Promote inter-BG communication to raise EHS competency. (~’10) 2) Health (’11~’13) • ‌ Reorganized EHS group • ‌Strengthen the individual employee’s health by performing regular general and thorough check-ups, analyzing them and tailoring treatments based on their specific preand (Feb 2007) CSR Report •‌Complied with the basic rules and • ‌‌EHS diagnosis consulting established a scientific and preemppost-conditions. and project implementation tive EHS system (’14~’16) • Implement a healthcare program that includes detection and treatment of mental and stress-related conditions. (2007-2008) •Developed overseas site EHS system •Started Overseas system TFT • ‌Fulfill social responsibility through (September, 2009) •‌Expanded the EHS system to EHS evaluation including all • Systematic follow-up of high-risk groups with chronic illnesses (brain, musculoskeletal, cardiovascular etc) Overseas Production Sites partner companies • The development and implementation of health-promotion programs for partner companies. • ‌Improve corporate transparency through disclosure of EHS performance 3) Security • Establish a response system that is tailored to the different Country Risks to proactively support the employees. Injury Rates Today • Identify risk and establish countermeasure prior to conducting project in high-risk areas. • ‌Continuously update all emergency contact details and maintenance organizations whenever changes occur, as well as update the Evacuation Plan and conduct periodic training. Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 [Key Indicators] (Weak Safety culture) (Reactive) (Dependent) (Independent) (Interdependent) •‌Improvement of safety •‌EHS management •‌Found ideal balance •‌Worker capable of •‌EHS creates business occurs only when an •‌Zero accident record in •‌Number of medical •‌Number of healthcare •‌Monitoring performance management system between safety and identifying risks and profits seriously needed accident/ loss occurs business profit preventing accidents by •‌Workers help one foreign construction service in overseas program for partner of overseas construction •‌Strict control by superhimself sites construction sites companies site risks another and carry out t lan visor work together MP ies L es pan s 33 4ca JB se tim 41 m 40 mil lion 8 co [2012 Results] 1) Safety • Enforced job safety standards across all production and operation processes. [Stakeholder Interview] • Took advantage of video technology to identify, monitor and remove risk factors. Hyun Hee Lee, Head of Department, Risk Management DNV Business Assurance Korea • Established procedures to ensure all new partner companies are introduced to EHS and raised their competency level. • Raised competency level of overseas construction personnel in their EHS Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is an exemplary example of a safe and hygienic corporation with a superbly proactive S&H management • Standardized safety work processes (process standardization of steel structure installation and commissioning). system that is a safety model benchmarked by many companies operating in the same field, as well as related companies and groups. This is the 2) Health result of having an integrated and unified management system for both domestic and overseas sites and full participation by the organization from top • Implemented employee healthcare program for employees of partner companies working at Doosan's business sites. management all the way down to the field workers, internally as well as with partner companies. In addition, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction • Promoted activities aimed at preventing cerebral and cardiovascular diseases – low salt diets, non smoking campaigns and aquaerobics makes all out efforts to not just simply implement and conduct safety supervision and short term corrections, but to take a corrective action through • ‌Expanded healthcare support services, distribution of three types of information booklets and notification services for off-site the Root Cause Analysis (RCA) of incidents and implement a strategic and systematic management process through preventive action. /traveling employees. • Supported medical service for dispatched employees to overseas construction sites Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction recognizes more than any other company that outstanding EHS outcomes are the global no.1 competitiveness. It has instilled safety and health management as a primary motivator of organizational management as well as establishing an anticipative system through sustainable corrective actions. The competiveness of the safety and health management system of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is significant in the development of energy to support outward growth as well as the expansion of the various divisions. 70 2012 Doosan 2012 Heavy Industries Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated & Construction Integrated Report Report 71 Safety Management Safety Management System Strengthening the Safety Management Per Work Process Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction believes that ensuring employee safety is a fundamental social responsibility Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s approach to occupational safety management is already in place in the Accident Status – not only for the protection of those under their care, but also an essential requirement for corporate competitiveness. company’s manufacturing processes. Through this process, the company will be able to identify what risks exist in the To this end, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction makes all efforts and commitments to build, manage and work process and prevent accidents from occurring. Accidents 1.Partners included constantly advance a scientific safety management system as part of its core business operations to ensure the safety Accident rate1(%) of all its employees and employees of partner companies. In particular, all potentially dangerous factors should be 0.21% 16 identified, and any aspect that can hinder or hamper safety should be evaluated to draw up preventive and responsive Project contracts Production Shipment 12 action plans, provide comprehensive training to all employees and be continuously monitored to ensure that such events are minimized. In addition, all safety issues should be addressed and constantly improved by actively modifying Process Design/ Create 9 Manufacture Painting/ 0.15% order specifications/ Shipping 0.16% plans and activities to proactively respond to changing situations affected by various factors. In June 2013, the materials construct tools product packaging management of the company made a public announcement to reaffirm their strong commitment to EHS policy reinforcement. CSR Report •Hold EHS session (On-site EHS issue) Create safety 2010 2011 2012 •‌Hold Business Performance Review Meeting Apply responses •‌Development of people focused safety actions Work Identify and TMB and Improve (Discuss EHS Agenda) standards by risk level, Conduct •‌Operation of advanced/scientific safety analysis and evaluate risk on-site additional •‌Safety Committee to be convened by each to all work manage training department 6 Review ‌ and improve 1 management system EHS Process EHS plan factors operation risk factors process high-risk issues process Set up a Goal/Plan •Work together with supervisor in high-risk processes 5 •Conduct employee MSLT PATROL Monitor Occupational Health and Safety Management Policy •Perform Job Safety Analysis (JSA) safety level Safety 2 •Assessing all harmful risk factors via •Test high-risk devices before e the 4M method workplace and risks Management Identify and •Assessing risk factors relating to PSM •Early safety review at time of EHS assess of facilities which are prone to explosions/ investment •Start patrol during accident-prone safety fires •Identifying major risk factors Proactive Safety Activities hours 4 hazards (Grade A ~ C) Conduct Since 2007, the accident rate has decreased owing to the continual strengthening of patrol services and the company •Conduct EHS leadership and mindset training 3 Establish plans to continue with such patrol services to ensure that active safety measures are in place at the work site. improvement programs for executives/plant countermeasures for Systematic and effective patrol services were conducted, particularly focusing on high-risk factors by taking into managers the problems •Conduct worker TBM •‌Set up countermeasures for the risk factors consideration the characteristics of each work site, and such inspections were made to be visible to the employees. •Provide safety training to newly employed •‌Set up detailed safety measures based on the workers 4M The safety process can be built by establishing standard production processes and analyzing such production •Follow EHS Golden Safety Rules •‌Set up a standard safety work procedure processes can help to develop continuous revisions and raise (“level up”) the standards. Future Vision Inspection operations, risk evaluation Inspection Process Doosan Heavy Industries& Construction seeks to build a leading global EHS system with the goal of proactively Task analysis addressing the key issues and implementing processes to meet their mid to long-term EHS objectives. High-risk Risk assessment Fostering growth All employees participate in EHS process management Safety Standards A systematic education and training process will Voluntary efforts for EHS compliance to be made by Program enhance EHS competency and make it consistent all employees from manager to site workers across every tier of the organization. Preventive measures Innovative/Scientific System Energy / Environmental Process Management Education and training As the system becomes ingrained in DHI, this will Standard business processes set up for the Energy A Senior management supervision enable the operation of the P-D-C-A Cycle and Environment part, providing the basis for MSLT* by each Implementation environment-friendly management B Plant manager supervision level of risk EHS competitiveness acquired Proactive EHS Regulations C Section manager supervision New risk analysis Strict EHS compliance firmly Encourages early compliance without *MSLT: Management Safety Leadership Tour established at the workplace Build a leading domestic or international regulations to global EHS System establish a global EHS system A global EHS Leader that fulfills social responsibilities and respects people 72 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 73 Employee Healthcare Program Responsibility For Daily Worker Safety Health Management System •Agenda-daily “action list” (heating plate, elevated tasks, electrical installation) Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is dedicated to closely monitoring the safety of workers and their activities on In order to provide a healthy workplace, Doosan Heavy Industries& Construction has implemented a systematic and Pre check a daily basis. In addition, the company seeks to encourage each worker to be responsible for the safety of his/her scientific total healthcare program that consists of welfare centers and fitness centers to improve the fitness meeting fellow colleagues, promote proactive and preventive risk assessment activities and take advantage of video footage to and well-being of its employees. Both employees and partner companies all undergo a health check and assessments be able to identify and remove risks from the workplace. are performed using the data obtained to determine if the employees suffer from any illness and ensure a productive and healthy life for the employees. Safety Management at Domestic/Overseas Construction Sites and Overseas •‌Results of identifying Safety Manager •‌Operate a systematic and scientific Daily Cycle Manufacturing Sites potentially harmful causes •‌Conduct survey of healthcare Health Care Program •‌Operate mental health manageSafety check Safety satisfaction ment process for patients suffering feedback check Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is reinforcing its safety management at its domestic and overseas manufactur•‌Analyze the number of health from chronic illness and stress ing sites. In order to strengthen preemptive action, the company sends professionals to support sites identified as being examination participants 5.‌Review the 1.‌Set up a •‌Identify deficient areas improvements Goal/ Plan CSR Report •‌Reporting findings weak in safety management and support the set up of the EHS system to enable preemptive action at the work sites. The and address them made of checking process •‌Check twice daily company has also started professional training to improve the EHS level and planned training activities for construction managers, all of which look to be in good shape. In 2012, certified total of 77 employees completed the IOSH interna•‌Manage a musculoskeletal condition Health management committee 4.‌Operate a 2.‌Conduct tional certification program and 7 certifications were acquired in the Middle East region and 1 in the Asian region. Management •‌Hold anti-smoking classes and provide customized health low salt diet in company cafeterias health care checks •Total/General/Special Health checks •‌Develop/manage a system for battling program workplace depression and stress •‌Operate health improvement programs such as aquarobics classes Rabigh JBL M •‌Pay particular attention to those with 3. ‌Assess health risks Ain Sokhna Ras Al Khai Arab Emirates cardiovascular or musculoskeletal issues Egypt Jedda RO and provide customized treatments Yanbu Saudi Arabia Raipur India •‌Systematic analysis and evaluation based on Mong-Duong2 health check results Vietnam •‌Identify people diagnosed with health problem and musculoskeletal problem International certificate: IOSH Record for accident-free overseas work sites * IOSH : Institution of Occupational Safety and Health, Safety and health manager certification issued by a U.K.(Unit: 10 thousand hour) based international certification agency Implementation of a Comprehensive Healthcare Program Saudi Arabia, Rabigh : 3,000 Arab Emirates, JBL M : 4,000 Saudi Arabia, Ras Al Khair : 400 India, Raipur : 1,000 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction conducts annual comprehensive health examinations and subsidizes costs for Saudi Arabia, Jedda RO : 300 Vietnam, Mong-Duong 2 : 500 any unforeseen illness requiring surgery (up to 15 million won). The company has set up an in-house clinic providing Saudi Arabia, Yanbu : 150 Egypt, Ain Sokhna : 300 physiotherapy and medical services and operate a comprehensive health care program for disease management, as well as accident prevention education programs. The health care program also identifies low, moderate and high risk groups to chronic illnesses by regularly measuring blood pressure and testing for diabetes, as well as prescribe personalized treatment programs that improve health including movement (aquarobics, physical fitness test, exercise prescription) and diet (consultation to improve eating habits, anti-smoking programs). Partner Companies Safety Management Activities Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is supporting its establishment of safety and health activity procedures to improve the level of safety management systems of suppliers. The ‘Corporate partner EHS Setup Process Manual’ was Operating Healthcare and Welfare Centers create to establish systematic processes, and a safety management framework was established in 2012 for 54 partner The Health Care Center with 8 personnel (2 doctors, 3 nurses, 2 physical therapists, 1 exercise therapist) will provide companies. Safety management as well as vehicle control systems for third-party nationals and temporary workers treatment and disease management from the minor to chronic diseases (brain, cardiovascular / musculoskeletal / help improve safety standards for visiting personnel. Partnership programs provide support for setting up 4M risk noise-induced hearing loss). In addition, it takes the lead in promoting health and welfare of employees, their families, assessment training and EHS systems. and employees of partner companies by building a corporate welfare center with sports facilities, such as a pool and Safety standards for visiting personnel gym as well as vaccination programs for the seasonal flu and swine flu for disease prevention. 74 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 75 Emergency State Management Overseas Workers Health Management Plan Emergency Management Systems Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction operates comprehensive people and facility management programs for Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction implemented an emergency management system to minimize life and maintaining the health of wellness of employees working overseas. property damage in the event of an emergency, such as natural disasters (typhoon, flood, earthquake, etc.), epidemics, fires or environmental accidents and ensure rapid recovery. The information is organized by disaster type with a People management Facility management detailed action plan to assist facility management address the specific and relevant issues. Before departure While in-country Medical emergency Health Intra Alarm Stages of Emergency Management System •Inoculations •‌ First aid and AED training •‌International SOS support •‌ First aid or medical center Classification Description Activity Current •Hepatitis A vaccine •‌Verify at-risk individuals for medical emergencies •‌Inspection of food facility Collect important contact details activities •Safety guide during TBM abroad sanitation as well as drinking • ‌A natural disaster is expected follow•Insurance and general water supply Circulate the information at company-wide level Level 1 ing the issuance of a warning for a Reinforce cooperation between related departments •‌Prior filtering of high-risk •‌Medical checkups for •‌Emergency recovery ✚ •‌Establish medical facilities Inspect the premises and take precautionary steps groups before deployment employees below the age process through a site health review Warning typhoon, storm, flood or heavy rain CSR Report •‌Verify whether personnel of 35 •‌Support structure for conducted by a professional from a public source Check potentially hazardous areas Future has received a medical •Medical traffic light major regional hospitals agency Take preventive measures and promote personal hygiene improve checkup •‌Neurological / cardiac •‌Provide support for •‌Carry out in-depth assessment -ments •‌Strengthen health-related disorder management medical consultation with of the sanitary and safety • ‌A natural disaster is expected followOperate the emergency disaster management office training •Emergency hotline specialists standards of caterers, health•Consultation with an M.D. care suppliers and water ing a public warning of a typhoon, Alert maintenance/repair personnel of damage •Provide first aid kit supply companies Level 2 storm, flood or heavy rain, or minor Disaster preventive activities Alert damage has occurred Operate environmental crisis management system • Minor internal spillage of pollutants Enact pollution prevention activities Support for overseas operations • Minor fire Alert the internal fire officer and commence dousing activity In 2012, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction provided healthcare support and medical dispatch to its employees Direct all EHS personnel to enter into emergency work mode working in overseas operations such as Mundra, Cireon, MD, Rebigh, and four other construction sites. In addition, Assess and report damages • ‌Major damaged occurred following a hygiene, sanitation, on-site dining and drinking water inspections were carried out to all overseas operations. ‌Where possible, repair and restore damages and assist innatural disaster, such as at typhoon, jured personnel storm, flood or heavy rain Establish a response plan to repair/restore affected areas Level 3 • ‌External spillage of pollutants and ‌Enact activities to minimize or stop further pollutant spillages Emergency spreading to outskirts of company Monitor anyone suffering from diseases and food poisoning Healthcare Booklet ‌Take preventive measures and close off the affected kitchen/ • ‌Outbreak of infectious disease or food poisoning eating area Alert the internal fire officer and commence dousing activity • ‌Major Fire Contact the fire department for assistance Request for aid from related agencies Emergency Response Exercise Onsite medical support. Overseas on-site restaurant sanitation inspection, checking the drinking water Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, in preparation for emergencies, has developed a scenario for the risk response system to enable appropriate responses in the event of such emergencies. To this end, a crisis response Traveling Employee Alarm Service Provision of health information organization was formed to coordinate emergency measures to ensure the safety of workers as its highest priority, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction strives to provide health information to encourage employees to utilize inminimize damages and provide training for evacuation and expedite recovery processes. Travel itinerary house health promotion schemes. In 2012, three types of healthcare booklets were produced and distributed. In addition, immunization information is distributed to all employees traveling overseas as well as notification service for Messaging Service any requirements for inoculation. Vaccination Health Promotion Activities for Partner Companies Expense Reimbursement Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is committed to improving the health of employees of partner companies by * A notification service for employees for promoting and encouraging the participation in health promotion programs. In 2012, there were 41 employees from inoculation against typhoid partner companies who were provided with individually tailored health programs. 76 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 77 CSR Pillar 2 Creating Operational Synergy Emergency training and plan Date Drill Drill Details Explosion caused by September 2012 damage to a electric How to extinguish initial fire and remove electric devices, combustibles etc. Dimension 3. World Leading Technological Developments How to minimize the secondary pollution caused by fire-fighting furnace Dimension 4. Green Management ‌How to extinguish initial fire and remove flammables and dangerous Explosion of electric materials October, 2012 furnace ‌How to report the situation, notify appropriate personnel and treat any Whenever Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction considers a product for its consumers, it always considers how such a product will make a injured personnel positive impact or have a positive influence on the people and the environment before it is produced. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction How to cope with blackout caused by an earthquake believes that only when the consideration of the surrounding elements is incorporated into its management activities and combined with state154kV power substation November, 2012 ‌How to report the situation, supply emergency power and restore the blackout of-the-art technology will there be synergies created to generate great outcomes. The future is not set and we have the ability, using current site ‌How to evacuate the electric furnace operator and workers in the technology, to control our destinies toward shaping a beautiful environment and prosperous society. Spillage from an electric December, 2012 offices and vicinity furnace How to install safety fence at dangerous sites and give first aid CSR Report ‌How to warn and notify hydrogen spillage accident and cope with the Fire/explosion at a situation May, 2013 generator testing facility ‌How to report the fire, notify appropriate personnel and extinguish initial fire Fire/explosion at a gas How to cope with initial fire and contact fire station (119). July, 2013 turbine testing facility How to extinguish fire using in-house resources Fire at a hazardous How to evacuate and direct people to safe zones October, 2013 material storage facility ‌How to direct the fire services and assist them to put out the fires (cold storage) including providing of any useful information High temperature asphalt How to report oil (asphalt) spillage and notify the accident October, 2013 spillage from compound How to cope with potential consequential hazards of spillages facility malfunction ‌How to assist fire services to put out the fires and provide any information that assist in this process and first aid training to any October, 2013 Fire at a balancing plant injured personnel ‌How to extinguish initial fire and take countermeasures when the situation cannot be controlled Risk monitoring performance (unit: cases) Enhance Risk Monitoring And Response System To Overseas Sites Personal Safety 130 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction established the Evacuation emergencies procedure for their overseas sites using the potential natural disasters and security risk information to pre-identify potential risks. In 2012, the security Political Stability 51 risks of every country for its 67 overseas subsidiaries/branches (political, personal safety, disease, natural disaster Natural Disaster 68 risk analysis, information and travel information) were analyzed and a risk management manual was updated. Tour information 78 Provide Risk Information to Overseas employees Disease 7 Filtering process for dangerous locations Checking risk areas Requesting travel approval Israeli Crisis and Security Support for the Libyan Project Overseas Emergency Response Manual Update Notifying to EHS HQ Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction improved the monitoring processes to check the location of overseas employees residing in or traveling to overseas locations in real time. Identified areas open to risk and provide personal Confirming by EHS HQ safety. The company also strives to establish a risk assessment plan and to conduct periodic safety training to the overseas employees. Develop and manage a risk filtering process system to identify dangerous/high risk countries/ Ticketing areas for the sake of ensuring the safety of employees assigned overseas or those going on an overseas business trip. 78 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 79 CSR Dimension 3 World Leading Technological Developments [Approach] [Key Indicators] Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction places the R&D centers of each division at the forefront of every process to both drive and direct development of technology with the customer at the heart of every decision. To this end, a Product & Technology COE (Center of Excellence) was built to create a Global R&D system. Becoming a leader requires not only the ability to improve and enhance existing businesses, but also creation of innovative new products that will become future growth engines and maximize the value of · Revenues from technical · Number of new technology · Investment into new developments developments developments technology. VISION Creating Value in Power & Water Technologies 228.5 ion wo n 45 123.5 lion wo n bill bil Attain Beyond Top Tier Top Tier CSR Report · Number of registered · Customer's Requests · Fault rate patents Handling Leadtime ay s 2012 2017 2020~ 75 21 .9d 0.59 % Raising the level of our technology to go beyond the top tier Raising the level of our technology to become Top Tier level level and strengthening our business pipeline Enhancing technology •‌Raising the level of our technology and competitiveness to ‌ •Accelerate technical development to become Beyond Top Tier competitiveness become a Top Tier player •New technology introduction [Stakeholder’s Interview] of existing business •Building the Tech. Platform for the entire business portfolio •‌Identifying and strengthening competitiveness of new businesses and •Improving readiness and accelerating technical development of new businesses Mr. Yang Su Lim, Team Manager, Equipment Management TFT, Safety & Quality Group, KOMIPO Identifying and creating future technology •Anticipate and implement emerging & game changing technology new growth engines •‌Pursuing technology innovation to build and commercialize existing businesses into future business opportunities. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been able to win many projects over the years owing to its high technical expertise. However, in order Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction continues to improve and strengthen management practices to enhance quality controls and reduce quality failures. To this end a to survive in this era of fierce competition, our customers are increasingly demanding even greater standards. Thus, Doosan Heavy Industries & Quality Academy was formed to increase the expertise of the quality management organization. Construction must continuously develop innovative new products and technology to maintain high customer satisfaction. Currently, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s customer service emphasizes fulfillment of customer needs, as well as providing products and technology well ahead of our competition to reach the highest level of customer satisfaction. It is important that we provide excellent technology and quality assurance, as well as acquire a customer-centric supply network but in the field [2012 Results] [2013 Plan] of heavy industries, this level of excellence can only be achieved by focusing on not just the final product but the smallest component as well. Thus, ensuring that a stringent •Improved the steam turbine capacity •‌Develop the expertise to reduce the operating time of coal-fired boilers and careful selection of suppliers is carried out is critical. In case certain suppliers require further development of their technology, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction •Developed a Korean-made nuclear coolant pump •Form a research database on the effect of water causticity on materials considers it their corporate responsibility to assist, train and coach these suppliers to raise their technological expertise and achieve shared growth. Through constant quality •‌Developed the IMCS (Integrated Monitoring Control System) for thermal •‌Discover a replacement for the Steam Generator power. Installed and tested the IMCS at the Tae-An Thermal Power Plant #1 and •‌Create an overall design for the 300MW IGCC plant management with a focus on shared growth, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction hopes to become the world’s leading corporation. received their approval •‌Commercialization of USC thermal power •Developed low temperature casting for Ocean Plant •‌Develop a nuclear steam generator heat transfer pipe •Internalized RO preprocessing design technology •Develop a 10 MIGD high volume seawater desalination facility •Operated the Quality Academy to strengthen quality expertise of workers •‌Develop a work roll thermal roughing mill forge •‌Built a data monitoring system to identify and minimize quality issues of its •‌Develop a system with early risk detection and strengthen weaknesses from a operations customer viewpoint. •‌Improve the transparency of quality failure costs, create plans and set targets for reduction of quality failures •‌Improve the quality level of overseas sites and subsidiaries with relevant support 80 2012 Doosan 2012 Heavy Industries Doosan Heavy & Construction Industries & Construction Integrated Integrated Report Report 81 81 Enhancing Technological Competitiveness Building a Global R&D Operation System Optimal Technology Development Process Identifying and analyzing existing and potential new business areas, markets and customers allows Doosan Heavy Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s current R&D vision is to establish a Global R&D system by 2020 through the Industries & Construction to develop new business opportunities, outlining the direction and strategies in the medium creation and maximization of business synergies. To this end, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction redefined the and long term, leading to an optimum product development processes. Currently, a bi-annual meeting of the companyrole of its Global CTO (currently Head of the Technology Research Institute). In order to provide a basis for production wide and BG new business committee takes place to evaluate the progress of existing tasks and discover new business competitiveness in the market, the Global CTO is assigned with a concrete mission to contribute toward the growth of opportunities. the company by taking the lead in introducing future technologies to the market. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is working together with its global subsidiary DPS(Doosan Power System) to strengthen the overseas To ensure every new product meets the needs of the business divisions and their respective visions, the PLM (Product R&D function by making the best use of its qualified employees and adopting advanced technology. Through the Line Management) organization was formed to set and prioritize tasks for a quick response to front line divisions, Global R&D operation system, the Global CTO seeks to integrate the total R&D pipeline and manage the technology leverage National Projects to identify opportunities for commercialization, and improve the products and services for portfolio effectively to ensure continuous technological development and maximize inter-division business synergy. the market. •‌Boosting the BG’s technological competency and their All technological development is pursued in compliance with the regulatory rules, with the BG PLM teams in charge of CSR Report Aligning the Tech competitiveness COE Organization •‌Building a Product COE and Tech COE cooperation product and technology development work related to existing businesses, whilst the R&D Center is in charge of the model •‌Research preemptive innovation and convergence development of new products/technology which are identified as new growth engines The New Business/Technology technology. Committee evaluates and reviews the results of the projects and has this reflected into future development plans. The overall technological developments and results are managed online via DRMS (Doosan R&D Management System) and the final evaluation is recorded in a commercialization report and final report. GLOBAL R&D Process CTO •‌Project suggestion and planning •‌R&D budget LRP1/AOP2 review Extending Global •‌Review meeting and check •‌Commercialization department •‌Activate Enhancing Enablers •‌Detailed project implementation ‌Project progress, target and investigation recommendations commercialization TFT Reach plan Stage achievement check -Target achievement check •‌ ‌Commercialization WBS3 costs •‌To achieve top technological competitiveness as a global •‌Operating and adopting a Global R&D integrated project (Development/ QPR4 report effectiveness report Risk response plan top tier player, set up large R&D centers in locations with management system Initiate) access to high level technology and skilled personnel ‌•‌Promoting business efficiency by expanding the Global •‌Integrate the knowledge and technology of the overseas R&D Center subsidiaries thus maximizing synergy. The Role of Technology COE Project Planning/ Project Transfer and The role of Technology COE is to focus on and provide leadership in the development of technology of heavy industrial equipment and Process Implementation Select Implementation/ Check Approval Complete Commercialization Plan Check by adopting an integrated approach to the agenda items and roadmap, develop new innovative business strategies and technologies. Using the information acquired from development and the subsequent results, the Technology COE aims to empower the BGs to apply, enhance and maximize business synergy to boost technological competency and competitiveness. Gate Building an Enabling System (Decision •‌Further  development work or Gate •‌Post Project Planning check to decide •‌Decision to continue or discontinue making) commercialization Global R&D Management System proceed or not to proceed project Stage •‌Process  held biannually •‌Process held biannually ‌•‌Process held biannually In order to consolidate the company’s global R&D Centers, an integrated management system was set up and adopted (first and second half of the year) (first and second half of the year) (first and second half of the year) Global R&D Management System Road Map at the company. Firstly, by adopting a tool for managing common projects, a sense of unity was promoted among the R&D members. Secondly, by sharing a list of the projects executed and the project deliverables across the Centralized Project Use Resources Improve R&D organization, overlapping investments were prevented and resources managed more efficiently. Finally, by launching a Management 1. LRP : Long Range Plan /2. AOP : Annual Operation Plan /3. WBS : Work Breakdown Structure /4. QPR : Quarterly Progress Review Efficiently COE Synergy communication board to post the schedule of various works in progress, a forum was provided for exchanging ideas and sharing the schedule of technology developments. 82 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 83 R&D Investment and Outcomes R&D Investment Amount R&D Investment IP (Intellectual Property) Portfolio 74% ▲ In the existing business areas, the BG PLM teams are in charge of investments made in technological development of existing business areas, particularly improving the product performance and commercialize them for practical use, whilst the Technology R&D Center is focused on directing their technological development investments into work To strengthen the IP portfolio of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, including that of its overseas subsidiaries, the company established a supporting organization. Both internal and competitors’ IP are analyzed to enhance the strategy, develop a system, and carry out R&D from which to determine and select related carried out with technology partners to develop new products and new businesses. processes. ‘12 ‘13 ‘14 One particular accomplishment to take note of is the development of nuclear/thermal power plant technology, nuclear instrumentation & control system and nuclear reactor cooling pumps, which were all previously imported from overseas. Investments were made in successfully developing the technology and products locally. A system was Phase1 Phase2 Phase3 designed to continually track, monitor and evaluate the performance of the products for five years after the development. To ensure the existing business area was able to develop technology steadily, a portion of the total Analyze the IP status of subsidiaries Duplicate Global IP System to Integrated global IP management investment fund was allocated to maintaining existing business. In 2012, to increase research and development, 123.5 CSR Report and set up network to run an subsidiaries and establish IP billion won was invested, and to determine the effectiveness of this investment, the results will again be tracked and integrated IP operation system strategy team •‌Develop the Global IP management system evaluated for a period of five years. Whilst maintaining competitiveness of existing products, R&D investment will be •‌ DHI to enhance Global IP strategy/portfolio, • ‌DHI to build communication channels with •Align IP strategies with that of subsidiaries implement patented technology, and process increased in 2013 to further promote the development of technology for new business opportunities identified through subsidiaries •‌DHI to develop global operation strategy for legal action and licensing the mega trend analysis. Global IP •Subsidiary IP analysis •‌Subsidiaries’ IP Management Group: Develop/ •Analyze new technology and major market •‌Subsidiary: Each company to develop their own manage IPs R&D Investment Amount •Enhance strategy of subsidiaries’ IP portfolio IP management strategy •‌Enhance Global IP process Year Development Amount (billion won) • ‌Develop categories for subsidiary IP operating •‌Set up an IP management group and designate •‌Develop and operate a patent sub committee 2010 71.0 systems dedicated personnel at subsidiaries •‌Develop and operate an IP Stage Gate system • ‌Integrated management of patent systems and •Obtain IP management competency 2011 70.8 agents •Strengthen Global IP infrastructure 2012 123.5 •Discover/ manage IP agents •‌Develop optimal compensation/award regulations for subsidiaries Research & Development Results Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction participates in numerous state projects and thus, has a strong cooperation Patents Owned by Company in Korea & Overseas Accumulated Number of Patents (Korea and overseas) process in place with the government and state-run organizations (for example, with KEPCO). At the present time, Year Applications Registered 250 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is participating in 29 state projects, including wind power and nuclear reactor 2010 121 72 231 cooling pump projects, and has completed 10 overseas technology cooperation projects together with various 2011 130 84 partners. In 2012, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction completed 45 technology development projects which 2012 109 75 when commercialized generated 228.5 billion won of orders with a revenue value of 281.4 billion won and resulted in 156 125 10.6 billion won of production cost reductions. Patent Status for New Business Technology Year Applications Registered 72 In addition, to ensure the continuous development of technology, constant effort will be made to increase patent 2010 30 18 applications and registrations, especially in new business technology fields, as acquiring patents is of critical 2011 64 41 0 importance. By using new business technology patent analysis, we made all efforts to reduce conflict risk and secure 2012 41 25 2010 2011 2012 core patents, as well as strengthen our patent portfolio in 2012, and in doing so raise our level of patent competitiveness beyond the domestic heavy industry competitors. 84 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 85 Plant I&C (Instrumentation & Control) Development Green Growth and Future Technology Development Plant I&C is an essential system needed to ensure that plants are operated effectively, efficiently and optimally. In order to fulfill its social responsibility as a company that provides electricity and water, which are the very foundation of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction recognizes that control systems and operator environments are society, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has reflected green energy development in its technology development critical to a plant and are focusing on the research and development of high value adding businesses in this policy and strategy from the IGCC Technology the nation's first technology that produces electricity by converting coal into field. In 2012, the thermal power plant I&C system development project was carried out, leading to DCS product gas to CCS Technology. development and demonstration. This enabled the company to acquire top-tier products and significantly Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is in the process of developing CCS low carbon, green growth technology, which is increased the company’s competitiveness in securing new orders. a technology involving the collecting and storing of carbon dioxide. It also signed an agreement on IGCC technology Development of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Plant I&C development with Korea Electric Power Research Institute (KEPRI) and Korea Western Power Company and is in the process of pushing forward technical development and building a demo-scale plant. Development of DCS for 500MW Thermal power plant •‌Development period: Aug. 2007~Jul. 2011 Whist carrying forward development of new products to expand into new markets with technology we are also continuing ’07 (Approximately four years) ~ simple improvement of existing products at the same time. The field of green growth technology in Doosan Heavy •‌Developed the world’s first single platform-type BTG integrated Industries & Construction can be divided into three areas: CO2 free technology; raising efficiency and CO2 reduction CSR Report ’10 control system technology; and collecting and storing CO2 technology. We are playing a leading role in developing technologies related to all three of these fields. Product manufacturing and FAT for project site ’11 •‌Development & Review period: Jul. 2011~Aug. 2012 (Approximately Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s Technology Development Areas Based on CO2 Based Technology Trends one year) Development pursued by DHIC •‌Partnership with Korea Electric Power Research Institute(KEPRI) and Korea Western Power Company CO2 Reduction Science CO2 Free CCT Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle(IGCC) Renewables Demonstration of Tae-An Thermal Power Plant No. 1 Future Tech IGFC1 Renewable energy ’12 •‌Construction period: 2012.9.29~ 2012.11.27 (60 days) •‌Construction period reduced by 10% compared to previous domestic projects Pulverized coal combustion Demo. Level Wave force IGCC HSC Commercial Bio Sunlight 1. Final Acceptance Test Solar 2. Other power plant control system change project(2011.5) USC Geotherma Waste Current power SC Wind power Small hydro power Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Plant I&C PICPFBC2 ICFBC CFBC New energy Fuel cell Plant I&C Overview Product Component and Function Fluidized bed technology PFBC MEA6 EOR4 GenⅢ Hydrogen E 1. IGFC : integrated gasification fuel cell MDEA7 EGR AㆍPFBC3 GenⅢ+ 2. PICFBC : pressurized internal circulating fluidized bed coal A 1 A System Operator Environment New-Sor. ECBM5 3. A PFBC : advanced pressurized fluidized-bed combustion PCC. GenⅣ •‌EWS (Engineering Workstation Software) 4. EOR : enhanced oil recovery Capture & Nuclear power(energy) •HMI (Human Machine Interface) Oxy Fuel Marine storage Storage 5. ECBM : enhanced coal bed methane recovery •Historian Server, Console Recovery technology Storing Technology CCS 6. MEA : monoethanolamine 7. MDEA : methyldiethanolamine B Control System (DCS)2 •‌Equipment (boiler, steam turbine) operation control data solution Green technology development status Green technology development investment •‌The power platform model can also be used as a B solution for water, oil and gas industries -MCFC: Molten Carbonate Fuel Cell Technology Renewable energy -3MW offshore wind power generation system Development 48.7 -Superconducting electric power generation technology Project C Wire & Cable CO2 free Investment •‌Connective tools for onsite control system -‌Korea centric facility product technology APR1400 and I&C 26 technology cost technology (billion won) 30.9 Nuclear power generation -‌Manufacturing new generation nuclear technology of APR+: Number of 22.5 C D Measuring instruments (Sensors) Advanced Power Reactor core instruments Projects •‌Plant environment measurements D E (temperature, pressure) Efficiency E enhancing/ Pulverized coal combustion -USC(Ultra Super Critical) generation technology 18 15 E Actuator CO2 reduction technology -HSC(High Super Critical) generation technology •‌Plant equipment controls(valve, pump) technology 2010 2011 2012 Turbine E 1.Operator Interface System CO2 capture IGCC technology -IGCC (Integrated Coal Gasification Combined Cycle) Boiler 2.Distributed Control System & storage CO2 capture and storage -PCC (Post Combustion Capture) technology Generator technology -Oxygen Fuel Combustion 86 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 87 Quality Management for Customer Satisfaction Quality Assurance System Product Liability Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s quality policies focus on guaranteeing customers the required performance Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction makes an effort to manufacture products that can give customers the best in the fields of power and water business and providing satisfactory engineering, production, construction work and satisfaction in terms of performance, maintenance and service. It also makes all-out efforts to deliver high-quality work services to customers. To this end, it is operating a structured quality assurance system that manages everything from in the production of its products, construction and project execution to ensure no failures occur, nor any need for postbidding to the post-shipment follow-up services. delivery follow-up services. Since 2012, the company has adopted a corporate-wide quality innovation program called The quality assurance system consists of a quality assurance manual, work procedures and various instruction DQE(Doosan Quality Excellence) in order to reinforce the quality of its products. To achieve the company’s vision in manuals that the organization and all the employees must abide by and in doing so, the company has received some regards to quality assurance, the company’s mission is defined as selection of customer satisfaction oriented values 50 different types of certificates from international certification authorities. Its quality assurance system is evaluated by from the perspective of customer satisfaction and quality competitiveness. To fulfill these values, the company domestic and overseas customers, as well as regulators as perfectly satisfying global standards. introduced ‘10 themes for improving a way of work’ to bring a positive change to work practices and ‘12 action guides Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will always maintain the world’s best quality by constantly verifying and for improving behavior’ to bring about change in the employees’ behaviors. Furthermore, it laid the groundwork for improving the system’s effectiveness and performance. quality reinforcement on a company-wide basis by suggesting goals for quality assurance. CSR Report Technology Support Service Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction promotes customer satisfaction through a support system that helps to promptly respond back to customer complaints and requests relating to products and services. By continually evaluating the business process for cause analysis, measuring improvements, designing changes and reviewing work Provide World class quality for customer value creation processes from installation to operation, the company is able to address customer complaints and claims effectively. In addition, by providing prompt feedback, secondary claims caused by processing delays or insufficient correction Problem occurrence rate Customer Satisfaction Perspective Quality Competitiveness Perspective are prevented. To this end, customer response teams were set up to promptly arrive at sites to address customer Nuclear energy 0.13% Judge quality by customer perspective Transparent open for quality issues dissatisfaction. In particular, a TFT composed of customer supporters and solution experts was formed to support Duty •‌Assess quality of products from a customers’ perspective and •‌Announce quality issues and build a process and a culture of ensure any and all promises are kept sharing customers in the winter/summer peak periods for electric power supply. Total 0.59% Power 0.50% Quality control for customer’s outcome Voluntary quality control derived from responsibility Responsibility •‌Customer-centered quality management for the long term •‌ Voluntary quality management based on ownership and Customer Support Status Values satisfaction of customers responsibility Index (numbers) 2010 2011 2012 pursued Proactive Quality Controls Prompt on-site service delivery 13 12 72 Early detecting and action Prevention •‌Performing quality assurance activities even before customers’ Customer-prompted technology consulting 153 126 107 •‌ Early detection/action for minimizing quality failures requests are received EPC Technology consulting 4 10 16 0.63% Rapid response and action Through prevention of recurrence Visits to client sites by executives 2 8 62 Water Response •‌Prompt and accurate response to customers’ requests and claims •‌Thorough analysis to determine causes of failures and applying 0.80% this in the process/system/organization Providing Information for Customer Satisfaction Casting & Forge 0.11% Before any changes are made to quality manuals and work procedures, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction informs Status Review of Quality Certificate Acquisition *‌Total problem occurrence rate is derived by calculating the arithmetic all interested parties such as customers, regulators, certificate authorities and stakeholders of the changes and obtains mean of each area Certificate Body Certificate Type Number their approvals prior to those changes being made. Production : MN, SN, EN KEPIC(Korea Electric Power Industry Code 7 To ensure the information of all current and new technology is understood, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Construction : MN, SN, EN, MH ASME(The American Society of Mechanical Engineers) Nuclear N, NPT, NS, N3, NA, Site NA, Site NPT 7 organizes periodic road shows and new business/product presentations to allow customer consultations and Q&A. ASME Non-Nuclear U, U2, S, A, PP, H, R 7 In addition, to sustain long-term relationships with its customers, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction participates in ISO(International Organization for Standardization) 9001: 3834-2, 14001 3 domestic conferences and events abroad as well as providing research and reports that demonstrates Doosan Heavy PED(Pressure Equipment Directive) H, H1, Module 2 Industries & Construction’s competence. Others OHSAS, Shipping Registers etc 25 Total 51 Providing information and sharing activities (Unit: cases) *Website for checking the acquisition of certificates : http://qam.doosanheavy.com:8090/html/hj_qam.asp 2010 2011 2012 Technology support visits and client education seminars 13 31 22 Presentations in domestic and overseas conferences 9 16 17 Road Show and new product presentations 47 51 40 88 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 89 Voice of Customer (VOC) Customer Satisfaction Survey Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is providing its customer support service through its Internet website. Doosan Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is implementing customer satisfaction surveys periodically by different areas Customer's Requests Handling Leadtime Heavy Industries & Construction collects technical service requests and implements Q&A through the Electric Power and based on the results, the company identifies the top priority improvement tasks required and organizes plans to 11.61 Group Customer Service Centre (EPG CSC), online “Contact us” and “MOT(Moment of Truth)”. In addition, it can check address each one. It also conducts a customer satisfaction survey every three years targeted at its clients in the power 2013 (Goal) the current state of receipts and handling status, making it possible to monitor the present condition of response to sector and based on the responses, builds a company-wide service innovation system. One outstanding example is the days customers’ requests. “RMS System” which monitors the operating data of power plants in real time and prevents problems from occurring Customer Service ‘12 action guides for improving behavior’ through advance notification. *The survey is conducted every three years because it takes, on average, three years for a project to be completed ▶ 12.9 2012 given the nature of the business. Duty Prevention days VOC home page status • Understand customer's expectation, then act • First time right Loyal Customer Ratio CSR Report • Think in customer’s shoes • Don’t give/take the defects 1step (2007) 2step (2010) • Found quality issue, open it • Clear problem prior to customer’s request Negative(at risk) Negative(at risk) customers customers 3.3% 0.5% Responsibility Reaction Positive(friendly) customers • Work by quality procedure • Clear problem whether right or wrong 27.9% Positive(friendly) customers • Check myself what I did • Don’t repeat colleagues’ mistakes 63.6% Neutral customers • ‌Don’t hide, never lie to customer • Keep the promise with customer 35.9% Neutral Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction replies back to customers’ questions and service requests via its home page customers “Contact us “and such queries are directed to designated personnel to ensure a 100% response rate. 68.8% “Contact us” VOC status Index Number of Queries Respondents who gave affirmative replies to all the questions relating to one’s impression Recruitment Information 2667 Positive(friendly) customers of the company. These are customers who are satisfied with the company’s products and IR 28 are willing to use the products and services continuously. PR 53 Customers who are neither positive nor negative toward the company’s products and Neutral customers Product and service (Nuclear) 63 services. Product and service (Heat generated power) Respondents who gave negative replies to all the questions relating to one’s impression 338 Product and service (Water) of the company. These are customers who have a negative perception of the company’s 117 Negative(at risk) customers Product and service (Casting & Forging) products in general and who have no intention of using the products and services 59 “EPG CSC” VOC status Product and service (Construction) continuously 262 Numbers of Product and service (Others) 193 processed 86 cases 77 Product and service (Related Sites) 28 Numbers of Other 479 requests Total 4287 In 2012, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction addressed 98 out of 108 cases (processing rate of approximately 90 percent) of VOC received by EPG CSC. Furthermore, it operates an onsite management system that can address the 14 16 slightest of problems and its current status thus, enabling prompt responses and ensuring that every request or 4 4 4 4 complaint is followed through to satisfaction. The company is endeavoring to effectively support customer service by Technology Service Equipment Data setting a target for Customer's Requests Handling Leadtime each year. support diagnosis request 90 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 91 CSR Dimension 4 Green Management System [Approach] [Key Indicators] Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction operates a EHS-based green management system and endeavors to effectively respond to climate changes and industrial waste issues by actively recycling resources. In addition, the company is promoting its green management in systematic way by sending green management professionals to its overseas manufacturing sites. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is ready to move forward to emerge as a “Global top tier player in the Energy & Environment field” by establishing and •Emission quantity of •Emission reduction of implementing a mid-to-long-term green management roadmap. greenhouse gases •‌Use of water resources greenhouse gases 1,403 Mid-to-Long-Term Roadmap ns nCO2 kto nCO2 Vision Global Top Tier Player in Energy & Environment 300 kto 8 kto CSR CSR Report Establishment of an advanced and scientific people/nature-oriented green management system/ Mission Supporting sustainable growth as a leading solution provider to create synergy in the field of energy/environment Strategic Energy/Environment system Improving the energy environment •‌Number of environmental Proactive Risk Management •‌Emission of water waste •‌Amount of water recycled Target and process integration with green technology law violations 76 ,838 25 ,462 s s ton ton Core Value Team Work/Net Work Management Excellence Entrepreneurs Paradigm Shift Value Creation Customer Satisfaction Be the knowledge leader 0 Adopt advanced and scientific systems and processes Green Technology Standardization Strategic in regulation and legal developments Initiatives Establish an internal risk management system Fostering Global energy/environment experts Green Production System [Stakeholder Interview] •‌Establish a data and information collection system for all new Sue Howells, Co-Chief Operating Officer, Global Operations, CDP and major developments in domestic and international laws and •‌Set up a structured system for the Energy /Environment manual •‌Conduct survey and acquire advanced technologies regulations •Integrated management of Energy/Environment information •Accumulate and supply company technology •Identify all internal risks and establish counter measures •Set up/improve indexes for the Energy/ Environment sector •‌Standardize technology to be suited to DHIC needs The number of investors requesting companies to disclose environmental data through CDP has consistently increased so that this year there are • ‌Utilize Emergency response plans to promote internal stability •Extend the activities across the value chain •Energy/Environment hierarchy (3R) Initiatives and integration investors representing US$87 trillion, that’s more than half the world’s invested capital and they are asking for corporate disclosures through CDP. •Develop a career path for the Energy/Environment industry •‌M anage and reduce greenhouse gas emissions Pursued •‌Strengthen external networks (government, private organiza•‌Develop a competency enhancement roadmap for the Energy/ •‌Reduce the cost of Energy/Environment These investors recognize that CDP helps to minimize risk and identify the cost savings and financial opportunities are created by measuring, tion, communities and local residents) Environment sector •‌Reflect in new business projects, and M&A processes •Participation in the emission trade initiative managing and reducing impacts on the environment and natural resources. Over 4,100 companies globally now use CDP as a platform for •Investigation specialization (process, law, result creation) •‌Environment friendly design/purchase/supply network/ •Respond to the results of the ESG findings clean production delivering transparency and greater accountability to shareholders, customers and other stakeholders. •Create list on Energy/Environment and analyze the impact •Increase social contribution using EHS as a focus Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is one of the few companies that have participated in CDP since it was first launched in Korea in 2008, and we greatly appreciate Doosan’s effort for environmental disclosure. We believe that companies cannot manage what they do not measure, and disclosure is the first step towards better environmental management and action to create sustainable economies. By participating in CDP, Doosan has taken an important first step. CDP encourages Doosan to [2012 Results] [2013 Plan] continue its environmental management efforts and to improve its CDP scores in order to achieve long-term business resilience. •Environment improvements to the casting process •‌Revising the EHS checklist and quantifying the EHS assessment result •Improvement and implementation of energy efficient projects •Implement the ESCO (Energy Service Company) project •‌Integrated the EHS management system at Changwon Plant and construction •‌Pursue acquisition of awards/certification to promote image as a company sites practicing green management •Operated a variety of programs to improve environmental competency 92 2012 Doosan 2012 Heavy Industries Doosan Heavy & Construction Industries & Construction Integrated Integrated Report Report 93 93 Environmental Management System Environmental Management System Green Management Organization Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction strives to minimize environmental impact resulting from its business To ensure the promotion of green management at its overseas manufacturing sites, such as Vietnam, Romania and activities based on the EHS Management System. To this end, the environment management activities are India, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has dispatched EHS experts to these regions to support the effective focused on identifying issues and constantly seeking improvements. In addition, an organization composed of operation of the system. professionals have been set up to systematically manage the environmental management system. Organization Chart Promotion of Sustainable Green Management COO Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction defines Green System Management as a method that addresses all EHS environmental issues resulting from all levels of operation, from the use of resources to output as well as identifying Environment Health & Strategy Planning Team and implementing practical solutions. Thus, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is able to minimize environmental CSR Report effects by identifying environmental issues during the production process and their primary causes, simulating EHS Management Team resulting impacts and implementing methods to monitor and control these causes. Energy Environment Team Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has developed an environment material management system to meet their BG EHS Team mid-to-long term goals by registering and managing all their hazardous materials in a system that registers the order, tracks its movement from its delivery to use and automatically measures its waste/emissions as well as a system that identifies potential hazards and has preventive measures in place to eliminate or minimize such dangers EHS Pre-screening Process ‌•Low carbon green management •‌Enhance efficiency of energy consumption facilities Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is actively prevents serious environmental accidents caused by direct or and minimize the environment cost indirect risk factors, from the stage of raw material production to supply, by identifying in advance environmental •‌Developing and operating process for managing hazardous materials impact and conducting risk assessments. To achieve this, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has invested in the EHS process system to perform pre-assessments when facilities expansion projects are pursued to ensure legal risks and environmental hazards are examined and harmful elements are removed. 1.‌Establishing a plan •‌Comprehending all environmental effects •Improving the and evaluating such effects 6.‌ percentage of •‌Understanding the laws and other legal Government Licensing Assessment of 2.‌Recognizing Daily reporting waste water requirements environmental environmental recycling rate •‌Understanding all the hazardous management effects Approval processes that could potentially harm the successes Green environment Management If fixes are required Atmosphere/Water Quality EHS Preliminary Execution Plant/ Normal •‌Analyzing waste water on a 5.‌ 3.‌ Environment facility Installation/ Inspection and order Test Operation Department Operation Monitoring Evaluating •‌E valuating environmental effects change/closure request (Approval) regular basis environmental environmental •‌I dentifying significant •‌Measuring water/air effects effects environmental effects pollution level 4.‌ •‌Investigating land pollution Managing levels environmental Documentation •‌Monitoring the surrounding effects EHS Department Examination Facility check monitoring environment Review Self-test •‌Develop a energy management and evaluation system •‌Energy efficiency improvement activities (ESCO activities) •‌Acquisition of eco-friendly company certificates/licenses •‌Participate in the emission trading scheme pilot project •‌Implementing social services focused on energy and the environment •‌Develop and operate a green management organization •‌Develop a green production line 94 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 95 Resources Utilization and Management Managing Environmentally Hazardous Materials Raw materials management Process of Monitoring Hazardous Materials Approximately 95% of the raw materials used in the steelmaking process of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has installed a strict monitoring system from purchase to disposal of raw are scrap metal and there has been increased efforts to recycle waste metals, waste mold, waste oil and metal chips. materials in order to minimize the use of hazardous chemicals that are harmful to people and the environment and As a result of these efforts, the recycling rate of recovered scrap metal reached 39.3% in 2012 and will continue to eliminate outflow accidents. An automatic recognition system has been set up to identify hazardous materials during the increase. procurement process, while material information is collected through the use of MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheet).The (Units: Tons) process has been set up to track any usage of such hazardous materials throughout the entire production process to allow Usage of Raw materials prompt implementation of corrective measures. Index Recycled metal Quantity of Steel (Main & Sub) 2010 249,305 95,262 220,032 System of Monitoring Hazardous Materials 2011 266,016 102,852 233,671 2012 237,298 93,301 218,185 Separately classifying Order hazardous materials product Automatic identification CSR Report Green Resources Management Purchase Item of hazardous substances Systematically classifying Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has ambitions of promoting a culture of effective waste management by hazardous materials Organizing/monitoring all adopting the practice of separate waste collection at its plants. By making such separation processes a part of its Tracking hazardous materials materials to eliminate losses Making improvements Register MSDS document standard operations, the company hopes to ingrain the habit of recycling, as well as be a role model to others in the Documents automatically produced before storage industry. Usage/Storage In Stock After the separation of the wastes, equipment such as rotating forklifts and dump trucks are used to handle the waste collectively in batches. In addition, the recycling process is continuously being improved by outsourcing the work to specialized recycling companies. Waste Treatment (Units: Tons) Prevention System for Hazardous Materials Index 2010 2011 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction installed preventive processes with accompanying user manuals for each Total Treatment Total 72,264 75,275 67,838 Special Purpose 5,598 5,266 4,559 storage/handling facilities, a waste collection system and wastewater treatment facilities s to ensure and prevent General 66,666 70,008 63,279 accidental leakage of hazardous materials. Landfills Total 14,534 14,257 13,330 Special Purpose 4,435 3,931 3,283 Environmentally harzardous materials monitoring process General 10,098 10,325 10,047 Incineration Total 2,044 2,196 2,045 Storage/ Securing the Handling Special Purpose 469 567 639 Controller Handling facility facility instructions General 1,574 1,561 1,406 Recycling Total 55,686 58,888 52,462 Special Purpose 692 767 637 General 54,993 68,120 51,825 Collection Discharge/ Collection facility collection facility process for leaks Water Resources Management Waste water Waste water disposal plant Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction recognizes that water is an important resource in business management. To disposal plant inflow reduce water use in their sites and offices, adjustments in the water pressures were made and water-saving devices were installed. By lowering the water pressure in toilets resulted in an annual savings of 3,000 tons of water. In the future, steps will be taken for utilizing rainwater for landscaping and cleaning, separating high water-consumption Preventive Measures for Hazardous Material Leakages processes and reuse the final processing water. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has established a system to identify all possible discharge and leaks of hazardous materials and have solutions in place to minimize the impacts in the event of occurrence. At the Changwon Water usage (Units: Tons) plant, an oil fence was built at the final dewatering outlet to prevent hazardous materials from mixing with the Index 2010 2011 2012 environment. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is continuously making all efforts to come up with methods to Water Usage 1,280,634 1,469,199 1,400,744 Groundwater supply 4,702 3,748 2,910 prevent leakages such as oil skimmers and grease interceptors. 96 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 97 Environmental Pollutant Management Responding to Climate Change Air Pollutants Strategies to Respond to Climate Change Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is managing its air pollutants in strict ways to satisfy their own standard (40% Many countries limit emissions or impose carbon tax to strengthen regulations to curb greenhouse gas emissions. TMS facility dust discharge concentration Discharge concentration (㎎/㎥) of permitted emission standard) which is already over the legal standard. The company is keeping their eye on 137 of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has established a mid-to-long-term strategic roadmap for a new organization air discharge and control facilities for air pollutant management. The company is also focus on facility which is more dedicated to promoting a positive response to climate change in phase specific goals. Doosan Heavy Industries & •Legal requirement level 20 than 15 years as a target management required to keep their air pollutant management. In 2012, Doosan Heavy Construction plans to reduce green house gases by 7.6% by 2020 (emission target of 403,000 tCO2). To reach their Industries & Construction identified 50 issues, immediately corrected them and educated the field workers on methods greenhouse gas reduction goals, the company actively promotes activities that improve per-unit energy consumption of investigation and how to manage the processes to ensure such effects are minimized. such as improving consumption structure, fuel switching and introducing of new and renewable energy in the future. Furthermore, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction conducts regular cleaning of all facilities using various cleaning Strategic Roadmap for Climate Change •Current level 8 vehicles and vacuums to minimize dust scattering of outdoor working areas of the plants. It also invested KRW 360 As-Is Current limit 5.4 4.2 4.1 million for the implementation of wave barriers inside the storage rooms, paving of floors, grease arrestor and automatic washing facility installations. This year, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is planning to invest an CSR Report Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 additional KRW 650 million for expansion of these control measures. Enact Green Law Target Management System Carbon Emission Trading System 2010 2011 2012 2010 2012 2015 2020 Water Pollutants New technology Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is building a management system to minimize the damage from water pollutant emissions. The weekly average of 10 hours of physical and chemical treatment methods such as flocculation Current limit Renewable energy sedimentation filtration are performed on an average of 500 tons a day (the maximum processing capacity of 1,590 tons / day). The water from the final processing stage is managed to be within the 40% legal limit for 17 check items and in 21 locations there is 24-hour monitoring with a remote alarm system in place, all combined to function as an Efficiency improvement and using early action carbon effective water pollution accident prevention program. credits -7.6% 2020 target (over 2020 BAU emissions) Water Pollutant Emissions Index COD SS N-H Cr Zn Pb Fe T-N T-P '12 '13 '14 '15 '16 '17 '18 '19 '20 Target 2010 13.61 2.56 0.38 0.014 0.102 0.051 0.361 4.38 0 2011 11.67 1.72 0.44 0.077 0.217 0.052 0.242 11.44 0.015 2012 14.89 2.67 0.67 0.030 0.061 0.044 0.081 10.08 0.455 Organization Dedicated to Responding to Climate Change Wastewater and Handling Costs Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has organized a team dedicated to climate change with a defined role and Organization Chart Index 2010 2011 2012 corresponding tasks. Status reports on BG-level initiatives are made to the BG Operating Committee on a monthly Wastewater (tons) 281,618 276,145 202,598 basis, while corporate-wide initiatives that require decision-making are raised to the Company-wide Operating Wastewater recycled (tons) 12,000 8,760 CEO Committee. In addition, to encourage more strong response to climate changes, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has the emissions reduction performance included in the employees’ MBO. COO Soil contaminants Role in the Organization and Operating Methods Index The role and responsibility Company-wide Operating Doosan Heavy Industries &Construction conducts daily and annual environmental inspections in compliance with the Energy Environment Team Respond to the government policy and manage company-wide emission reduction Committee Soil Environment Act. In 2012, 16 pollution tests for BTEX (benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, xylene) and TPH (total Checks and determines the direction of the overall work in progress, identifies constraints BG Operating Committee petroleum based hydrocarbons) around oil storage tanks and piping areas showed all were below the legal guidelines. and provides solutions Collection and refinement of improvement ideas All operational facilities are managed by a daily check-list, whilst closed facilities are inspected once a year. Outdoor Operation Team Implement the energy efficiency improvement activities Company-wide Project BG Project workshops and main drainage areas are also inspected daily. All outdoor storage of chemicals and hazardous wastes Improve the effectiveness of performance monitoring BG Operation Committee Heads of BG, Planning Executive, are subject to a thorough daily check and its findings are evaluated during EHS reviews. Operational Excellence Executive Energy Environment Team BG Operations Department Led by BG Operational Excellence TFT Operation Team Production Manager 98 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 99 Green Energy Monitoring System Outcome of Greenhouse Gas Reduction Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has operated Green Energy Management System (GEMS) to respond to climate Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is making energy saving a way of life and complying with the new law for change effectively. The system automatically measures and transmits via wired and wireless transmission devices the minimum and maximum internal temperature standards for its offices and factories. Practices of reducing the power amount of electrical and thermal equipment usage. The company uses GEMS to collect data such as the amount of loads during peak hours such as turning off high energy dependent equipment (e.g. furnaces), its outdoor advertising greenhouse gas emissions by each site, plant and equipment, and the analysis of results is then utilized in greenhouse and even increasing the recovery rate of waste heat energy have been adopted at the company. In 2012, through its gas reduction planning. proactive greenhouse gas reduction activities, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction reduced 8,368 tons of carbon dioxide and saved KRW 1.69 billion in energy costs. Green Energy Monitoring System Diagram Energy Consumption Flow Meter Index Unit 2010 2011 2012 Electricity MWh/year 340,080 358,981 345,082 LNG KNm3/year 46,506 47,829 45,428 CSR Report Electric Facility Monitoring B-B ㎘ 1,909 536 Panel Bio fuel. ㎘ 9,618 9,730 7,865 Powerline Cable/wireless Analysis Communication Cable/Radio Transmission Facility Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions Data Collection (unit :1000tCO2) Project 2010 2011 2012 Greenhouse gas emissions 9%▼ Watt Meter Direct emissions (fuel) 153 135 123 Thermal Facility Indirect emissions (electricity) 164 172 160 Mobile combustion 1 2 1 Process emissions 17 19 16 Greenhouse gas emissions (Total) 317 328 300 Action to Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions Greenhouse gas reduction Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has organized an Energy Efficiency Enhancing TFT to invest in energy Greenhouse gas reductions 2011 2012 40%▲ reduction processes and technologies, leading to maximum energy efficiency. Since its establishment, Doosan Heavy Project Reductions Cost savings Reductions Cost savings Industries & Construction has continuously addressed energy reduction to a point where it is no longer possible to attain (tCO2) (100million won) (tCO2) (100million won) further reduction from simply exchanging old equipment. To attain greater efficiency, it has had to implement strategic Thermal equipment improvements 628 109 0.5 measures for energy efficiency through process innovations and quality improvements. The goal of Doosan Heavy Improving operational methods 1,980 2.1 7,882 15.5 Introduction of high-efficiency Industries & Construction is to reduce approximately KRW 3 billion worth of energy use per year through improved 2,205 4.0 33 0.1 equipment operational methods. In 2013, through ESCO (Energy Service Company) activities, it has set a goal to save KRW 8 billion. Combustion optimization 1,143 4.0 344 1.3 Energy Reduction Strategy Total 5,956 10.4 8,368 16.9 Approach Method Initiatives Immediate execution through Level 1 : •Optimize furnace inner pressure and fuel efficiency 1 materialization of plan •Adopting inverter system to cooling water pump Immediately execution (ROI: less than one year) •Heating furnace combustion Analyze detailed investment in •Enhancing air system Level 2 : 2 each level of economic feasibility •Recuperate burner High feasibility (ROI: 2~4 years) •High density oxygen combustion •Crane generative braking power system Promotion of work stability, Level 3 : 3 possibility analysis execution •Electric degassing pump Low feasibility (ROI: less than four years) Exclude technologies with low Level 4 : 4 returns on investment and •Preheating the feeding iron and steel scrap to electric furnace Low impact difficult to operate 100 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 101 CSR Pillar 3 Building Partnership Participation in External Projects Concerning Climate Change Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been participating in the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) since 2009. The Dimension 5. Shared Growth CDP is a project carried out to assess the level of corporate response to climate change and to identify impacts and analyze the investments risks to the business from climate change. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has actively Dimension 6. Social Contribution responded to the climate change as a global issue and has participated in the CDP on a voluntary basis from 2012 and has been selected by the Korean government as the best company in the machinery sector in terms of the Climate As trees grow well on lands with favorable soil condition, in order for Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction to grow, the environment around Change Competitiveness index. it needs to be healthy and eco-friendly. The ultimate goal of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is to not only achieve close relations with its partners in the production and manufacturing processes, but to also establish closer ties with the regional communities and business stakeholders. Green Procurement Plaque awarded for selection as a Climate Competitiveness 'Best Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, in their commitment to social responsibility, signed a voluntary agreement Company' with the government to expand their purchasing of green and environmentally-friendly goods for production and CSR Report construction. The green procurement guidelines have been established since 2011. By doing so, it enables the implementation of an ERP system and GEMS in conjunction with automatic monitoring that can provide information to improve processes. In addition, the process is being developed to enable selecting and purchasing of eco-friendly products from the beginning to improve operating results. Green procurement process Proposal Investment Review Investment Proposal Department Preliminary Preservation Goods Received/ Purchase Request Execution Evaluation Consultation Inspection Department Preservation Plan Result Management Central Purchasing Order Team * ‌Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction eco-friendly products: Eco-mark certified products, energy saving Good Recycled Mark certified products and those goods with a reduction in hazardous substances and those that reduce waste. Green Procurement Performance Review 2011 2011 2012 Purchases (million won) 2,644 3,157 2,649 Biodiversity Conservation Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction recognizes that the tidal wetlands in Masan Bay is a protected area and is committed to the preservation of the marine environment by continuously pushing for coastal and underwater cleanup Participants of environmental clean-up activities. To reduce the impact on the outlet, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction try to clean up their workplace and mountain of non-point source (twigs, weeds, sediments, etc). 20%▲ Masan Bay Environmental Clean-up Activities Collected (ton) 2008 10 2009 15 2010 20 2011 30 2012 30 Number of participants 100 80 100 150 180 (people) 102 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 103 CSR Dimension 5 Shared Growth [Approach] [Key Indicators] In order to strengthen their global competitiveness, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is working on their shared growth motto virtuous cycle partnership with partner companies and supporting their partner companies with various ways. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction runs various programs to ensure essential competitiveness via supporting and strengthening of manufacturing competitiveness of partner companies, providing financial assistance to partner companies with essential skills but under financial duress, sharing experiences from both local and abroad sources, regular communication channels and promoting differentiation programs to develop beneficial and satisfactory relationships. •‌Competitiveness •Shared Growth Fund •‌Loans to Partners •CHAMP Program Enhancement 7,888 on on s 183.1 son 64.8 ies on w 141 pan billi on w per com billi Virtuous CSR Report Partner Doosan Cycle companies “Virtuous Partnership Leading to Shared Growth” Structure [Stakeholder Interview] Interview with Mr. Kyung Hyo Jeoung, Chairman of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Corporate Partners Council and Kum Woo Industrial Machinery Co. Ltd. Kum Woo Industrial Machinery has been working with the Power BG of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction since 2000 and has been growing together continuously for the past 13 years. Our company has been a supplier for power plant, sea water desalination plant and steel structure businesses. Every time we view an industrial site we had a part in building, it fills us with pride. [2012 Results] [2013 Plan] •Tailoring competency-building programs for partners Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s corporate partner cooperative program can be characterized as supporting effective virtuous cycle •‌Competitiveness and productivity growth support given to 141 companies features at its core. To this end, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s activities focus on laying the foundations to enable their corporate partners to improve their from seven areas. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction supported 17 •‌Additional raising of Shared Growth Fund and expanding the funding partner companies in LM(Lean Manufacturing) area & 11 partner companies in manufacturing processes, competitiveness and increase production, such as through productivity improvement (LM: Lean Manufacturing), design improvements (DTC: Design to •Increasing the rate of cash payments to subcontractors DTC(Design To Cost) area Cost) and quality improvement initiatives. In addition, financial support is provided through its shared growth fund to those corporate partners with exceptional technical skills •‌Strengthening activities to ensure fair trading and enhancing compliance to •‌Trained the total number 7,888 of man-days personnel from 116 companies but who are underfunded or experiencing financial difficulties. prevent illegal insider trading to complete the Consortium for HRD(Human Resource Development) Ability •‌Improving a sense of shared growth by enhancing communication with In 2011, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction was instrumental in organizing some 200 corporate partners to form the Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s Corporate Magnified Program(CHAMP) subcontractors •‌Promoted the benefit sharing project and successfully implemented the benefit Partners Association and in doing so, was able to vastly enhance communication with the member companies. sharing system into 20 companies It is our hope that our corporate partners will try their utmost to boost quality and meet production deadlines to create the foundations for shared growth together with Doosan •‌Raised 64.8 billion won for the shared growth fund and directly allocated 4.8 billion won Heavy Industries & Construction, which in turn will enhance the overall competitive capabilities of our company that will allow us to win more contracts and provide more opportunities to grow and develop together as part of a virtuous cycle of partnership and cooperation. •‌Recommended network loans of 152 billion won, supporting 183 billion won in total to corporate partners •‌Worked together with and supported 14 partner companies to attend overseas exhibitions (Power Gen) and trade conferences 104 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 105 Shared Growth Philosophy •Agreement of Contract for Benefit Sharing System Implementation In June 2012, Doosan Heavy industries & Construction signed an agreement for the benefit sharing system with the The “virtuous cycle partnership” is a shared growth philosophy developed by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction -a Ministry of Knowledge Economy (Current Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy). According to the agreement, Doosan system that promotes the idea of extending their business management practices to include suppliers with the goal of Heavy Industries & Construction must devise together with its partner companies some mutually-beneficial joint increasing the efficiency of the entire process of production and thus further strengthening the relationship. To this end in initiatives and signing a contract from early on. If the partners are able to successfully accomplish the initiatives, Doosan 2010 a task force under the supervision of the COO was formed to outline the road map, action plan and responsibilities for Heavy Industries & Construction shares the benefits through numerous ways, such as giving cash compensation, the operation of the CP (Compliance Program). The result of this vigorous effort to promote the process of accompanied signing a long-term contract, and increasing the orders. In 2012, there were 20 companies that agreed to participate growth was recognized and in September 2012, the President of Korea presented Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction in the benefit sharing system. In 2013, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction intends to continuously promote the with the industrial service award. In addition, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction received a satisfaction grade by benefit sharing system at a wider level. Commission on Shared Growth for Large and Small Companies in 2012 shared growth index evaluation. Financial Support Organization Chart CEO •Shared Growth Fund / Network Loans CSR Report Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction provides financial support to its partner companies to help them with Shared Growth Fund COO stabilization of their businesses. An agreement for cooperation with the Export-Import Bank was made in February of 64.8billion Won Shared Growth Executive 2012 and in June of the same year, an agreement was signed with the Industrial Bank of Korea to provide its affiliates with financial support amounting to 30.8 billion won, leading to a win-win situation for both sides. This amount will Shared Growth Team build on the 34 billion won that was already committed in 2011 with Korea Development Bank, making the funding a total of 64.8 billion won. With the shared growth funds available at lower than market rates, Doosan Heavy Industries & Nuclear BG EPC BG Boiler BG Turbine/‌ Water BG Casting BG Central Construction partners can have access to fund capital expenditures and operations easier and with more flexibility. In Generator BG Procurement •‌Procurement •Procurement •‌Procurement •‌Procurement • ‌Procurement •‌Procurement •‌Procurement addition, In December 2009, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction and Industrial Bank of Korea made an agreement Executive Executive Executive Executive Executive Executive Executive •‌Outsourcing •Quality •‌Outsourcing •‌Outsourcing Executive •‌Outsourcing of Cooperative Corporate Loan by which partner companies can get a loan up to maximum 80% of contract amount Management Management Management Management •Production/ Management with pre-paid type. This agreement helps the company to help all the partner companies that need funding for Executive Executive Executive Executive Supply ExecuExecutive •‌Quality Manage•‌Quality Manage•‌Quality Managetive •‌Quality Manageproduction and operation. The lending money supports 183.1 billion won to the partner companies until 2012. In 2013, ment Executive ment Executive ment Executive ment Executive •‌Production/Sup•‌Production/Sup•‌Production/Supthe assistance will be expanded more to enhance practical financial help for the partners. ply Executive ply Executive ply Executive Supporting Entry into Overseas markets Partners Competitiveness Enhancement Program Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction assists its corporate partners to obtain access to overseas market projects Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction promotes activities which leverage their accumulated knowledge, innovative by extending their experience and knowledge of application procedures, document preparation and other management techniques and technology to be shared and used as a support platform for its business partners, so that administrative processes to enable them to participate in the global markets. In 2012, Doosan Heavy Industries & they may achieve global competitiveness. Construction assisted 124 corporate partners in 169 PQs (Pre-Qualification) for various overseas projects and assisted The primary goal of the program is to build a long-term partnership with competitive companies that include 11 corporate partners to become sub-contractors for overseas construction projects. In addition, site tours were encompassing partners into its quality management system and utilization of their state-of-the art technology. Doosan arranged for the partners to Doosan Vina and the Gheco One Plant in Thailand, and assistance provided on Heavy Industries & Construction and their partners recognize the competition in their industry is fiercer than any other participating in the Power Gen exhibitions(Power-Gen Asia(October 3, 2012 ~ October 5, 2012 in Bangkok, Thailand) industries and thus, in order to survive, it must strive for significant improvements in seven major areas – productivity & Power-Gen International (December 11, 2012 ~ December 15, 2012 in Orlando, USA)),one of the power industry’s improvement (LM), design improvement (DTC), quality assurance, quality improvement, production technology, major exhibitions and a great opportunity to broaden their overseas exports business. environment health safety (EHS) and work-environment improvement. In 2011 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction underwent a process of selecting suitable and compatible companies and is providing tailored empowerment Enhanced Communications programs to these 141 companies with plans to continue similar activities in the future. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction supports seamless communication with its corporate partners and this can be achieved by regular communication activities and support programs. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction In addition, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction established the Consortium for HRD(Human Resource Corporate Partners Association was formed in April 2011 with the agenda to have one AGM and quarterly forums to Development) Ability Magnified Program(CHAMP) to provide partners with essential training. Especially in the area of provide an opportunity for its participants to share their successes as well as their failures with other members. On technical training. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is the only company to continuously offer the technology to February 8, 2012, the AGM was held at the Changwon Plant and 210 corporate partners participated. At this meeting, resolve problems quickly and proactively help in responding to the changing environment. This activity was recognized Consortium for HRD(Human Resource Development) Ability Magnified Program(CHAMP) and shared growth plan for when Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction was awarded in two of the three categories in the “Best Practice” 2012 was announced. In addition, an award was presented to the corporate partners for “best practice partner” and contest in 2012 and the program that was instrumental in winning the award was used to provide job training for 116 “excellent partner” amongst other entertainments. companies for a total number of 7,888 man-days. 106 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 107 Furthermore, to ensure partners receive regular feedback, it established the Win-Win Call Centre where any queries not Compliance Program resolved were to have a response within 24 hours. The types of queries include corporate partner registration, inquires about the shared growth program, competitive issue counseling, financial support, job training consortium inquiries, The Compliance Program (CP) is a voluntary compliance system and code of conduct which aims at enhancing fair trade fair trade issues and complaints. Through various resources such as the company website, e-Sourcing web tool, private in order to comply with the applicable laws. The primary role of the Compliance Program is to set a standard to prevent consultations (080-069-5000), fax and email, both inquiries as well as complaints can be filed whilst protecting the unfair or illegal activities. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction introduced their Compliance Program in 2004 with identity of the person filing the inquiry or complaint. a dedicated website was opened (partner.doosanheavy.com) to the goal of establishing a code of conduct by selecting representative compliance executives within each BG who support a medium for effective communications with corporate partners. ensures their managers, corporate compliance officers do not violate the relevant laws and regulations as well as promoting team growth in accordance with the seven core elements of fair trade rule compliance. In January 2013, the In 2012, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction distributed school books to 1,207 children of corporate partner CEO urged companies to commit to fair trade practices and to willing adopt a company-wide compliance program. employees enhancing their educational experience. In addition, to extend their support, vaccinations were provided for Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction provides various educational programs related to fair trade as well, and has a the H1N1 virus to their corporate partners and their families as well as operating a cinema for their use. monitoring system in place. The status is checked on a quarterly basis and outstanding examples are presented and shared at the fair trade self compliance forum. In addition, self-compliance activities and the operating status are presented to the Board of Directors as quarterly reports. As a result, in April 2013, at the 12th Fair Trading Day the CSR Report Shared Growth: Visits to Corporate Partner Sites Shared Growth Team General Manager Mun Jo Jang was awarded the Fair Trade Commission Award by the Chairman of the Commission. The management of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction realizes their corporate partners are essential to future growth. To this end, they support and foster close working relationships via open communications, feedback and seek to help them overcome difficulties by making regular visits to the partners’ sites. Practices for Compliance Program •Fair Trade Agreement and Introduction of Compliance Program On September 13, 2012, President Key Sun Han, Shared Growth executive Sang Gyu Lee and Nuclear Planning Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, in conjunction with its corporate partners, aims to continually promote the director In Koo Kang visited the sites of the Nuclear BG partners, Power MNC Co. Ltd. and Kyung Sung Electric Co. fair trade culture and in 2012, the company signed an agreement with 210 companies to adopt shared growth and fair Ltd. During the visit they listened to the comments and opinions of the partners’ employees from the floor staff trade practices. To assist with the compliance, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction supports the expansion of the member to top management. In addition to a detailed tour of the site, they exchanged future cooperation plans on CP program, provides onsite consulting to review and confirm the companies that are in compliance with the CP. shared growth. •Expanding Fair Trade Education Power MNC Co. Ltd. is Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s nuclear fuel handling facility supplier whilst Kyung Furthermore, to make the CP an everyday practice for the corporate partners, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 2012 Fair Trade Training (number of staff) Sung Electric is Doosan’s nuclear fuel storage supplier. In 2011 and 2012, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction provided education and training programs. The training curriculum includes classroom education, specified education, provided both companies with competitiveness-strengthening support for productivity increasing activities. Fair trade & accompanied online education etc. In particular, in 2012, the company increased their educational activities by providing training to growth training to new 132 new employees, as well as specialized training to their employees and managers. The special topics included employees President Key Sun Han emphasized, “It is vital that Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction and its corporate subjects such as sub-contracting law, unfair insider trading, international cartel illegality to reduce the risks of such 28 partners secure quality products, reduce failure costs and achieve quality stability by using appropriate levels of incidents from occurring. In 2013, the CP was reinforced and added into the orientation program for all new employees technology.” Special and also incorporated into a comprehensive training program for the purchasing department. In addition, a dedicated Online training training on person was appointed within the Shared Growth team to establish a midto long-term road map for the CP and on strengthening subcontracting In a bid to enhance its cooperation system, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction intends to continue with its implement the objectives. subcontracting 57 regular visits to the partner sites to encourage dialogue and shared growth with its partners. capabilities 132 •Unfair Trading Actions Reporting System Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has set up a division to enforce the CP by enabling employees and corporate partners to lodge a complaint in case unfair trade practices occurred, such as collusion bidding, insider trading and Fair trade training to Executive officers & abuse of positions. When a complaint is lodged, a group with the Shared Growth team investigates the claim and gives team managers in a response within 24 hours of their findings and suggests appropriate actions. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Doosan Group 79 ensures that the identity of the person filing the complaint is kept confidential and ensures they do not suffer any disadvantage due to the lodging of the complaint. The company has a limited number of staff members who already signed confidentiality agreements assigned to managing such complaints, and these people are strictly prohibited from disclosing the identity of the people or revealing the content of the reports. 108 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 109 CSR Dimension 6 Social contribution [Approach] [Key Indicators] Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is committed to the development and growth of people as this represents its corporate social contribution philosophy. Effective community service requires a deep understanding of what the community-specific issues are and a professional and systematic approach to addressing those issues by forming CSR partnerships to ensure activities are carried out progressively and continuously. Doosan Heavy Industries& Construction aims to leverage its competencies to make a positive contribution to the communities both at home and abroad, including the overseas markets such as Vietnam, India and Europe. •‌Total No. of Hours •‌‌Participation Rate by Invested by Employees Employees in Volunteer Work ,475hrs 95% What (Contents) •Fostering Talents as a means of social contribution •Supporting the development of basic competencies and growth of 22 independent people CSR Report Theme To Whom •Target Group: children and youngsters Talent g terin g •‌Target Region: Primarily start activities in Korea and then, roll [Stakeholder Interview] Fos romotin out to other overseas regions where Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction subsidiaries are located p and liance Yong Woo Lee, Society Director, Federation of Korean Industries -re self How •Leveraging Doosan’s core competencies and assets There are two directions that can be taken by a company for effective social contribution activities. Due to the characteristics of the business, there •‌Applying Doosan’s resources and strengthening partnerships •‌To address the problems by providing effective support on a are two different benefits for recipient companies – internally and externally. In other words, a stance of corporate social contribution is highly continuous basis effective in significantly and favorably improving the external image of a company but also becomes an effective tool for building a positive internal corporate culture. The corporate social contributions of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction have a deep significance in the latter sense. As the company is not in a business that produces consumer goods, their corporate social contribution produces different effects than that created by [2012 Results] [2013 Plan] other companies. Thus, it is rather difficult to determine the direction of corporate social contributions than such consumer goods companies. Nevertheless, I want to point out the significance and their core values as a company and their efforts with their corporate social contributions. They overcame the limitations of • Regional Talent Growth Support •Establishing the CSR vision and strategy their business products by focusing on “growth and self-reliance of competent people.”Eventually, the continued values and the activities of corporate social contributions will ‌Donated a development fund of 300 million won to the Changwon High School of Science, •Enhancement of corporate social contribution programs have great implications in sustaining the well-being of people and fostering talents. organized volunteer activities with the school and held a training seminar led by the executives for the students -‌Operating specialized programs for local childcare centers: promoting education, ‌Operated support programs for the gifted and talented students in the region Helped 56 culture, arts and physical education, etc. curriculums to promote growth of chilIf you look at the programs, including both the domestic and overseas programs, there is a substantially large number of voluntary work being carried out by corporate youngsters in getting admitted early to top universities (such as Seoul National University, dren KAIST, Pohang University of Science and Technology) volunteers. All the programs are unified under a common banner of “People are the future,”helping the whole group retain focus in their work. The pride and confidence that such ‌Promoting volunteer work under various themes: science field trips, helping out ‌Operated the Doosan Class and industrial exchange programs: with four meister high activities inspire in their participating staff is one of the major benefits gained by the company. with farming activities, sports activities, etc. schools, specialized high schools. (100 students) •Promoting volunteer work among employees •Expansion of programs supporting the local community ‌Increased of participants by 26% (1,020 persons) and increase of volunteer service work -‌Doosan Family Culture Festival Happy Sharing, Happy Together : invitation to Finally, in recent years, the company has been shedding light on the role of managerial activities in terms of meaningful corporate social contribution and their effects. It is hours by 34% (5,685 hours) children of underprivileged and multi-cultural families thought that commercialization of appropriate/optimal technologies or development of eco-friendly techniques are the basis of what companies can do as their corporate social •‌Joint social contribution activities with local communities: special volunteer ser-‌Continuous support of programs and activities focusing on fostering exceptional contribution. It is worth noting the fact that “desalination” business is related to corporate social contributions. There is a necessity to increase the connection between the two vice for typhoon talents and children from underprivileged families since the direct company activities themselves could have important functions in the communities of the future. At the same time, having “talent-sharing” of corporate personnel ‌affected areas, bulk purchasing of fallen fruits and expanding social programs in alignment with the One Company, Six Rural Communities program -Expansion of ties with farming communities included as part of its voluntary services is also expected to be one of the major directions and values for corporate social contributions. •Strengthening global social contribution activities ‌donating desalinization facilities to An Binh Island in Vietnam, establishing medical facilities and commencing social contribution programs in India, etc •Commendation Awards -2012 Korea Sharing Award presented by the Minister of Health and Welfare -‌2012 Community Service Award presented to Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s Social Volunteer by the Governor of Gyeongsangnam-do 110 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 111 Main Social Contribution Activities Social Contribution System Human Growth and Self-Reliance The fundamental focus of the social contribution system of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is to actively foster As an extension of their social contribution focus, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction creates tailored programs individual talent and provide such talents the opportunity to bud and grow with the goal of becoming self-reliant. The to assist those selected talents to strengthen and enhance their growth. In addition, support is also extended to those corporate society volunteer service, comprising 95% of its workers, encouraged everyone to participate in various underprivileged or disadvantaged. community centric and global projects. In addition, by utilizing its core competencies and key competitiveness within their corporate social contributions, Doosan is doing its best to inspire and encourage local communities by being a Theme Activities Details Activities Description Sisterhood relationship with ChangWon High School of Science loyal corporate citizen. Support for nurturing qualified employee Managing Industry-academic cooperation for Doosan community Sisterhood relationship with 70 Child welfare facilities Supporting Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction supports underprivileged children and youth as well as low-income families ‌Special field trips for children of low-income families & provision of growth Support for children of low-income families learning aid books under their theme of fostering self-reliance. It provides support to high schools, universities and scholarships for of strong Scholarships & funding of learning academy costs students of low-income families to enhance educational opportunities. In addition, it also operates a diverse range of independent Regular sponsorship for low income families people Support for low-income families supporting activities in the areas of culture and art, providing national disaster relief fund, donation of a seawater Providing gift boxes desalinization plant in Vietnam and enabling interchange of business among rural communities. 9 Society volunteer group & 4 Professional volunteer group CSR Report Volunteer activities by Employees Infra for Society volunteer supporting Doosan Family Culture Festival Holding Drawing contests & Essay contests In order to perform their social contribution activities more effectively, the company has set up a social contribution ‌Holding a concert for the Family of Partner companies & Kids from Doosan Family Music Festival fund by matching a grant and deposit of a certain amount withdrawn from the employee’s monthly salary. In 2012, welfare facilities Joint Activities Supporting countryside farmers despite the difficult economic times, with the support of its staff, the fund increased by 7% compared to the previous with Local Supporting farming communities Mass purchasing of local fruits year. Communities Opening a market for direct trading of Korean cows Underwater cleaning activity Underwater cleaning activity for Masan bay As a result of these social contribution activities, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction won the grand prize at the Arranging company tour & invitations to movie theater Support for emigrant women Kimchi-making event business awards ceremony for the business investment category in Vietnam in 2011, the grand prize from the Minister Operating cleft lip surgery for free for Public Administration and Security and the National Grand Prize award for sharing in Korea from the Ministry of Medical services Operating cataract surgery for senior citizen Health & Welfare in 2012. In the future, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will continue to proactively promote Ly son Island Medical service Doosan Heavy Industries voluntary participation within its workforce, both locally and abroad. & Construction-Chung-Ang Vietnam ‌Sending medical professionals & Organizing medical service squad Global social University medical center Organization Chart of the Voluntary Services Group contribution consortium activities Beyond Summer camp Establishing lectures for general study & leadership Chairman CEO Donation of desalination facility Donation of desalination facility to Anbin Island to An Binh Island Supporting small business owners Vice-Chairman Administrative Director India School Day event & Wish Tree Funding tuition for children suffering from extreme poverty Thailand Equipment donation Donation school equipments to local elementary schools CSR Team •Supporting of Underprivileged Children and Youth Changwon Seoul Technical Team Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction set up sisterhood relationships with 70 child welfare institutions, including community childcare centers, providing funding to operate specialized programs and support to foster self-reliance in Nuclear BG EPC BG Technology Team children. It also provided activities and opportunities for 1,500 children and youths to experience programs involving Social Contribution Fund Support Status Boiler BG Water BG Environmental Safety Service Team culture, fine arts and other creative endeavors to assist them on growing up more balanced socially. To enhance (Million won) Turbine/Generator BG students’ learning ability, the company donated approximately 6,700 reference books from Doosan Dong-A every Corporate Finance Division Children Service Team semester. In addition, it operates the matching fund programs to assist those students from low-income families Casting & Forging BG Family Service Team with excellent academic results throughout their junior and senior high school years, by helping them get institutional Social Welfare Education and Culture and COO/Administration scholarships and providing support to elementary and junior high school students on their after school activities. 2,091 Research Physical Education 10,812 165 Corporate R&D Institute •Fostering Gifted and Talented Students in the Region As part of its program to fostering talented students in the region, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction set up sisterhood Corporate Social Contribution-Related Awards relations with the Changwon High School of Science in 2011. It has made a contribution of 300 million won for scholarships, Environment Disaster Relief International Award year Organizer Award status Preservation 24 Exchange R&E activities, etc. It also organizes industry field trips, special seminars held by company executives and talent sharing 2010.12.01 Governor of Gyeongsangnam-do Award for assisting a neighborhood in need. 3 1,155 2011.9.19 Gyeongsangnam-do Social Welfare Council Gyeongsangnam-do social welfare award workshops. As a result, 56 students who participated in these activities gained early admissions to schools such as Seoul 2011.10.26 KOTRA Grand Prize Vietnam investment promotion CSR, National University, KAIST, POSTECH etc. The school was also the biggest winner of the 4th Science Olympiad. In 2011, Corporate category Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction formed an education-industrial exchange programs with four meister high schools, 2011.12.05 Minister of Public Administration and Security Award for the promotion of the Volunteer culture Farming Community Others Total Promoting conservation of Biodiversity and biological alternative schools and four specialized colleges and commenced operation of the Doosan Class to provide customized Support 12 14,275 2012.5.22 Governor of Gyeongsangnam-do resources training for the company. These classes included talent and expertise-sharing classes whereby the personnel recognized as 13 2012.10.25 Minister of Health &Welfare 2012Korea sharing award masters/experts in their field shared their experiences and skills with students to enhance the quality of their education. 112 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 113 •Supporting Low-Income Groups •Supporting Immigrant Women Number of Employee Volunteer Various types of financial support were provided to nearby and local areas such as supplementary living allowances, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction invited migrant women residing in rural areas who may not yet be familiar Index 2010 2011 2012 Total improvements to the local environments of rural communities, purchasing of agricultural products, installation with Korean culture and organized field trips, cinema outings, train and boat trips, home repairs and other support Social welfare 379 2,686 3,050 6,115 of fire detectors, emergency relief for the damage caused by a typhoon and deliveries of “Dasarang” (meaning activities with the goal of assisting them in settling into life in rural Korea. In 2012, Doosan Heavy Industries & Talent sharing 105 113 389 606 comprehensive love) gift boxes with living essentials to approximately 1,000 households. Construction invited 30 multicultural housewives and together with their volunteers used 2,000 cabbages to Community 245 746 1,283 2,274 make kimchi. This was then distributed to 250 places that included sisterhood childcare centers, seniors living Environmental safety 448 420 263 1,131 •Employees Volunteer Activities alone, multicultural families and underprivileged households. As a dual point, this activity was aimed at assisting Total 1,177 3,965 4,985 10,127 Within the City of Seoul and Changwon there are nine social volunteer centers and four specialized volunteer multicultural families to better understand Korean culture. corps who regularly, once a month, participate in various volunteer activities. These corps have sisterhood Employee Volunteer Hours relations with 70 child welfare centers to support the education and self-reliance of children, as well as ties with •Water Purifying Activities Index 2010 2011 2012 Total other facilities such as senior welfare facilities, single mother centers, disability facilities, asylums and numerous In June 2012, on “Sea Day,” 200 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction volunteers joined with 100 other volunteer Social welfare 1,255 11,172 13,433 25,860 Talent sharing 522 704 1,053 2,279 other social welfare facilities. In 2012, a total of 22,475 hours were volunteered by 4,985 employees to participate corps to form a 300-strong group to collect refuse along the coastline of the City of ChangWon Gwisan-dong near in various activities. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, to promote volunteer participation, introduced the Masan Bay. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction also donated their heavy machinery such as dump trucks, CSR Report Community 1,228 3,494 7,086 11,808 Environmental safety 645 1,498 903 3,046 paid leave system where employees can work as a volunteer during work hours with the company’s permission excavators and waste collection vehicles for the day and together collected 30 tons of refuse that included garbage Total 3,650 16,868 22,475 42,993 and still get paid during this time. In addition, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction introduced the society such as waste, tires, rubbish and waste arising from fishing activities that was disposed of or post processed. The service management system. Employees who volunteer come under this management whereby they are cleanup operation was on a large scale partly due to the largest voluntary participation of employees and such high compensated for travel and other expenses related to the volunteer activity as well as insurance coverage during rate of participation will likely continue for future cleanup operations. the period and outstanding volunteers are given awards for excellence. Global Social Contribution Community-based Volunteer Activities Vietnam •Doosan Family Cultural Festival •Medical Services Started in May 2002, to coincide with the Korean Family Month, Doosan Heavy Industries and Construction invites its Doosan Vina, the Vietnam subsidiary of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, has been supporting free operations employees and their children to attend the festival with various activities and events such as sketching and writing for those with cleft lips, palate patients and cataract surgeries for seniors since July 2009. They also signed an MOU contests with the aim of encouraging and bolstering the dreams and hopes of the children. In 2012, approximately 150 with the Vietnamese QuangNgai provincial government and have been in a partnership with the Chung-Ang university child from various regional children centers and orphanages were invited to attend the festival. medical center. Also, every summer Doosan Vina dispatches a medical volunteer corps to various places which in 2012 was the Ly Son Island. The medical facilities in the region are very substandard and as a result many residents cannot •Doosan Family Music Festival receive the necessary care when they need it. Thus, Doosan Vina’s objective is to provide free medical assistance Since 2005, together with employees, the local residents and their families get together and participate in Doosan where and when it is needed and by doing so,truly make social contributions. In addition, it donates nutrients for Family Music Festival, a representative local community program hosted by the company. Using the region’s children up to age five, medicines for local residents, surgical devices for cataract surgeries and devices for physical prominent culture as the lead, the festival showcases a variety of performances from classical to pop music. In 2012, therapy. the company invited the families of their corporate partners, as well as approximately 200 children from the local child welfare centers. •‌“Q Health Project” Pursued Jointly by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction and Chung-Ang University Hospital In July 2012, Doosan Vina was selected by KOICA as the Q-health provider and signed a MOU with Quang Nam •One Company-Six Villages Program (volunteer work in farming communities) Seong Central General and Hospital Hue University Hospital. The objective of Q-health is to enhance and improve The company has sisterhood relations with six rural communities for each of their subsidiaries in the Gyeongnam the competency of the medical personnel in the central Vietnam area. Thus, the healthcare service program is to province including the Misan village in Haman. Each volunteer service involves assisting these areas with activities be initiated in 2012 for five years. To this end, Doosan Vina and the medical staff of Chung-Ang University Hospital such as picking persimmon fruits, pruning grape vines and purchasing the local region’s famous produces, such as in Korea plans to form a team to dispatch to Vietnam to provide much needed healthcare services as well as form a dried persimmons and kiwi, as well as inviting the people of these communities to the company. In particular, on network of entities in Korea to support this team. 20 September 2012, Doosan’s foundation day, approximately 300 employees instead of taking the day off formed a special team to assist and restore the areas affected by the typhoon Sanba and bulk-purchased various fallen fruits, such as apples and pears. They then distributed them to other company staff. Doosan Heavy Industries and Construction also set up a meat market to allow struggling cattle farmers to sell their meat directly to the company employees. 114 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 115 Appendix •Beyond Summer Camp In 2012, for the first time Vietnam honors students were invited to South Korea for a period of 3 weeks to attend classes at the Chung-Ang University in areas such leadership, Korean languages and liberal arts. Through this program Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is able to enhance its image and at the same time provide an opportunity to discover outstanding talent that can be fostered with a wide variety of custom programs to develop leaders of the •CSR Achievements future. •Independent Assurance Report • GRI Index & ISO26000 Index •Donation of Seawater Desalination Facility to An Binh Island •Awards and Membership Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is actively promoting the core competency of their social contribution • Thanks to you program in the Angkor Wat area in Cambodia and in 2006 donated water purification equipment to enhance the quality of life. In 2007, the company built and donated a desalinization plant on the Dokdo Island In 2012, in An Binh Island, a saltwater desalinization plant was also donated. All these areas have little to no ground water supply and thus, always have a shortage of drinking water supply throughout the year. With these facilities, these regions are now capable of producing up to 100 tons of drinking water, which effectively helps them solve the water shortage problem. These activities are outstanding examples of connecting the company’s desalination skills with corporate social contribution programs. Appendix India DPSI, the subsidiary in India, replicates the activities by forming a sisterhood relationship with a primary school in Guargaon and participates in various school programs such as ‘School Day Event’ and ‘Wish Tree’ designed to improve and enhance the learning environment as well as providing financial support for tuition of students from poor families. Thailand After construction of the Gheco-One thermal power plant in Thailand, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction played a huge role in creating an educational environment for low-income family students by donating 300 items of cleaned and repaired office equipment, which were used at the development site to the Watnasa Elementary School and Satthatapong Elementary School. 116 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 117 CSR Achievements Economic Achievements Category Unit 2010 2011 2012 Greenhouse gas emissions Category Unit 2010(K-IFRS) 2011(K-IFRS) 2012(K-IFRS) Total emissions T/CO2e 316,972 327,690 300,068 All Direct emissions T/CO2e 152,753 155,102 139,115 Sales millions of won 7,928,868 8,495,506 9,627,184 Indirect emissions T/CO2e 164,219 172,588 160,953 Economic Income millions of won 515,766 569,632 594,839 Total emissions T/CO2e 312,075 322,009 294,521 achievements Headquarters Direct emissions T/CO2e 152,234 154,472 138,616 Net income millions of won 1,362,500 261,695 (205,979) Indirect emissions T/CO2e 159,841 167,537 155,905 Total emissions T/CO2e 2,269 2,087 2,187 Total assets millions of won 16,977,142 13,589,169 13,524,414 Seoul Office Direct emissions T/CO2e 365 316 316 Indirect emissions T/CO2e 1,904 1,771 1,871 Total liabilities millions of won 11,800,938 8,792,241 9,014,834 Total emissions T/CO2e 2,071 2,032 2,693 Financial information Daedeok R&D Center Direct emissions T/CO2e 109 223 106 Total capital millions of won 5,176,204 4,796,928 4,509,580 Indirect emissions T/CO2e 1,962 2,809 2,587 Credit rating Corporate bonds A+ A+ A+ Total emissions T/CO2e 177 175 480 Suji DC Center Direct emissions T/CO2e 45 50 25 Appendix R&D millions of won 148,067 144,090 177,272 Indirect emissions T/CO2e 125 455 Future growth drivers Total emissions T/CO2e 177 175 187 R&D/sales ratio % 1.87 1.70 1.84 Hapcheon Training Center Direct emissions T/CO2e 45 50 52 Indirect emissions T/CO2e 125 135 Earnings per share won 13,937 3,063 2,313 Greenhouse gas reductions 1,000T/CO2e 10 7 8 Shareholder value Dividends per share won 750 750 750 Resources Utilization and Management Iron recovery (recycled) tons 95,262 102,852 94,224 Scrap/alloy iron tons 134,092 144,956 127,183 Environment Achievements Raw material management Quicklime tons 9,872 10,764 9,296 Category Unit 2010 2011 2012 Fluorite/ lump coal tons 10,079 7,444 6,595 Total energy usage Energy usage TJ 5,666 5,862 5,613 Water usage tons 1,280,634 1,471,376 1,400,744 Water resource management All Fuel usage TJ 2,508 2,538 2,301 Groundwater usage tons 4,702 3,748 2,910 Electricity usage TJ 3,158 3,324 3,312 Wastewater generation tons 281,618 276,145 202,598 Wastewater generation Energy usage TJ 5,576 5,755 5,501 Recycled wastewater tons 12,000 8,760 Headquarters Fuel usage TJ 2,491 2,521 2,291 Total waste treatment tons 72,264 75,275 67,838 Electricity usage TJ 3,085 3,234 3,210 Waste treatment Controlled wastes tons 5,598 5,266 4,559 Energy usage TJ 42 39 44 General wastes tons 66,666 70,008 63,279 Seoul Office Fuel usage TJ 6 5 6 Total tons 14,534 14,257 13,330 Electricity usage TJ 36 34 38 Landfill Controlled wastes tons 4,435 3,931 3,283 Energy usage TJ 39 58 55 General wastes tons 10,098 10,325 10,047 Daedeok R&D Center Fuel usage TJ 2 4 2 Total tons 2,044 2,196 2,045 Electricity usage TJ 37 54 53 Incineration Controlled wastes tons 469 567 639 Energy usage TJ 7 7 10 General wastes tons 1,574 1,561 1,406 Suji DC Center Fuel usage TJ 7 6 2 Electricity usage TJ 1 8 Total tons 55,686 58,888 52,462 Energy usage TJ 2 3 3 Recycled Controlled wastes tons 692 767 637 Hapcheon Training Center Fuel usage TJ 2 2 General wastes tons 54,993 68,120 51,825 Electricity usage 1 3 118 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 119 Category Unit 2010 2011 2012 Category Unit 2010 2011 2012 Environmental quality management Women % 6.34 6.52 6.36 number of sanctions imposed number Minority employees Disabled % 2.57 2.50 2.28 Environmental law violations Monetary penalties millions of won Flue-dust concentration of Seniors % 5.69 7.91 9.12 electric arc furnace dust mg/m3 5.4 4.2 4.1 Employees who used childcare no. of employees 4 5 8 collector leave Flue-dust concentration of Return to work rate % 100 100 100 mg/m3 10.20 10.31 11.06 Childcare and maternity leave Atmospheric environment foundry sand facilities Employees who used maternity management Flue-dust concentration of no. of employees 11 10 16 mg/m3 11.20 10.85 8.79 leave descaling facilities Return to work rate % 91 70 81 Flue-dust concentration of mg/m3 12.10 11.26 11.18 Number of eligible employees no. of employees 3,610 3,941 4,405 grinding facilities Flue-THC of coating facilities ppm 13.47 13.65 17.99 Labor relations communication Number of members no. of employees 2,165 2,278 2,315 COD mg/L 14 12 15 Labor union membership % 60.0 57.8 52.6 SS mg/L 3 2 3 Average number of years T-N mg/L 4 10 10 year 13.2 12.5 10.8 Job stability worked T-P mg/L Water environment management n-hexane mg/L 1 Turnover rate % 2.2 1.9 1.1 Cr mg/L Accidents Employees number 16 9 12 Zn mg/L Employees % 0.24 0.16 0.20 Appendix Pb mg/L Accident frequency Partner companies % 0.15 0.13 0.06 Fe mg/L Environmental conservation Spending millions of won 10 10 10 Employees number 1 1 Fatal accidents Green purchasing Partner companies number 1 1 2 Eco-label items ,GR label items Total Purchased Amount millions of won 31,441 32,336 31,009 Shared Growth Fund 100 millions won 340 648 Energy reduction items, Green purchasing Amount millions of won 2,644 3,715 2,649 Support for partner companies Network loan 100 millions won 1,200 1,350 1,520 Toxic material reduction items and Social contribution investment millions won 18,407 19,635 14,275 waste reduction items Green purchasing rate % 8.41 11.49 8.54 Social service activities Total hours of employee hour 3,650 16,868 22,475 volunteering number of reports Online 2 filed Sociality Achievements Reporting on breaches by type number of reports Offline 7 12 10 Category Unit 2010 2011 2012 filed Board of directors participation Warning/Reprimand number 6 3 2 % 86.1 83.3 85.2 rate Disciplinary Action Suspension number 1 2 3 Corporate governance Outside board member Resignation/Dismissal number 7 12 7 % 86.7 82.3 89.8 participation rate Number of legal and regulatory Executive participants no. of employees 149 Regulatory compliance number violations Sexual harassment prevention Team leader participants no. of employees 405 454 387 education Team member participants no. of employees 5,564 5,762 5,818 All employees no. of employees 7,633 8,252 8,715 Korea no. of employees 6,847 7,531 7,922 Overseas no. of employees 786 721 793 Locally hired employees no. of employees 10,370 11,289 Office no. of employees 5,319 5,921 6,302 Technical no. of employees 2,314 2,331 2,413 Employee diversity Permanent no. of employees 6,393 6,792 7,270 Contract no. of employees 1,240 1,460 1,445 Male no. of employees 7,149 7,714 8,161 Female no. of employees 484 538 554 Disabled no. of employees 196 206 199 Seniors no. of employees 434 653 795 120 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 121 Independent Assurance Statement The Business Institute for Sustainable Development(BISD), led by the Korean Chamber of Commerce & Industry(KCCI), was commissioned by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction • Materiality to perform the assurance engagement of the ‘2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report’(the ‘Report’ hereafter) and presents its conclusions as follows. Does Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction include material issues that affect stakeholders in the entire spectrum of sustainability management in this Report? ‌Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction used the materiality test process to finalize major sustainability management issues. Purpose ‌Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction identified major issues through a separate process of gathering opinions on stakeholder expectations(by stakeholder group) as part of the This assurance statement aims to verify if this report contains any significant errors or prejudices and to present the conclusions through an independent assurance engagement of the materiality test process. issues and performance regarding the sustainability management conducted at Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. ‌BISD is not aware of any significant issues that were omitted from the materiality test process. • Responsiveness Responsibility and Independence Does Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction appropriately respond to stakeholder issues? In order to establish more specific plan related to the value and vision of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction and provide the performance in a transparent manner, this report ‌Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction ensures that major sustainability management issues that were identified through the materiality test process are reflected in the key integrates financial and non-financial data, and the responsibility related to the preparation of this report lies with Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. In conducting the performance indicators in relevant segments so as to appropriately address the issues that interest stakeholders. assurance engagement of this report and presenting assurance conclusions, BISD has no interest in any business operations of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction that aim to ‌BISD is not aware of any violations of the principle of responsiveness in Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s response to major sustainability management issues or of generate profits other than serving as a third-party assurance provider in a bid to maintain its independence and autonomy. sustainability management performance that is described in this Report from the perspective of materiality. Assurance Standards and Limitations Recommendations BISD performed the assurance engagement in consideration of the three accountability principles of AA1000AS(2008)(inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness), reporting The Business Institute of Sustainable Development presents the following recommendations within the scope that they do not affect the verification results: principles proposed by the Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) G3.1 guidelines and 7 issues of ISO26000. The scope of the assurance was limited to the performance in 2012, and therefore Appendix excludes any data before 2012. In conducting the assurance engagement, physical inspections were made of the Head Office located in Changwon out of Doosan Heavy Industries & •‌‌Publishing an annual report in the form of integrated reporting by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is considered very significant. The fact that the company has taken the lead Construction’s business sites in Korea and abroad and online data was not included in the assurance scope. Furthermore, GHG data that has already been verified from another thirdin introducing integrated reporting will pave the way not only for providing financial achievements, but also non-financial value and achievements to stakeholders in a transparent party organization was excluded from the assurance engagement. manner. However, it should be noted that there is room for improvement in the latest report has in terms of connectivity and linkages among important achievements. In particular, it is recommended that concerning reporting requiring detailed or additional explanation Web notifications should be actively utilized to help the reader to obtain additional Major Assurance Procedures information through online links. Moreover, it would be useful to enhance readability by utilizing graphs and infographics. BISD did not participate in stakeholder activities and assured this report through the review of the interviews conducted of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction employees, as well as related documents provided by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. Major assurance procedures undertaken are as follows: •‌‌With respect to involvement of stakeholders, it is considered that if Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction reports not only channels through which it communicates with • Review the application of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s internal sustainability reporting standards stakeholders, but also how often and on what topics the company communicates with them and to what extent stakeholders are involved in the communication, it would be a way to • Review the data contained in the Korean version of the Report as well as the process of gathering such data ascertain the level and authenticity of communication between the company and its stakeholders. • Review the report content, corporate policies and systems related to the materiality test and material issues • Verify that the financial data were correctly derived from the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements. •‌‌Concerning CSR Strategies, it is recommended that Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction sets more concrete objectives each year, while implementing and evaluating them • Interview employees in charge of sustainability management operations, report preparation and editing(Head Office) to create a virtuous cycle. At the same time, it is also recommended that the company present objectives for the post-reporting period to help stakeholders monitor the growth of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction on an ongoing basis. Opinions BISD performed the assurance engagement in accordance with the procedures described in this assurance statement and the Report was modified when and if deemed necessary. •‌‌Regarding the content of the report, it is recommended that the topicality of the report should be enhanced by focusing on activities taking place during the reporting period. When BISD is not aware of any significant errors in this Report as a result of its assurance engagement. The opinions of BISD produced as a result of its assurance engagement and in an annual report is published, the report content of the previous year may be mentioned to facilitate the explanation of business activities of the reporting year. However, it is not consideration of the AA1000APS accountability standards, are explained below. recommended that the report content of the previous year replace achievements or activities of the current reporting year. • Inclusivity Does Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction adhere to the principle of stakeholder engagement in order to ensure a responsible and strategic response in advancing sustainability management? ‌Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is gathering major concerns and opinions from shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers and local communities through diverse 2013. 7 President of BISD stakeholder communication channels. Tae Jin Park ‌BISD is not aware of any significant stakeholder groups that were omitted from the process of gathering sustainability management issues through Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s stakeholder communication channels. 122 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 123 GRI G3.1 & ISO26000 Index Reported  Reported in part ◐ Unreported ◯ Not applicable N/A Application Application G3.1 Description ISO26000 Page G3.1 Description ISO26000 Page Level Level Profile Disclosure Economic Performance Indicators 6~9, 12~13 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 6.8/6.8.3/6.8.7/6.8.9 10~11  Strategy and 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 6.2 2~3  Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate EC2 change. 6.5.5 99~101  Analysis 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 6.2 Throughout the report  Coverage of the organization’s retirement benefit plan obligations including a pension supporting  EC3 6.5.5 59  2.1 Name of the organization. 6~7 range.  EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. ◯ 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 6~7 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, Economic EC5 locations of operation. 6.4.4/6.8 ◯ 2.3 and joint ventures 6.2 6~7  Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of achievements EC6 6.6.6/6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7 ◯ operation. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 6~7  Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at EC7 significant locations of operation. 6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7 47~48 ◐ Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with operations or that Organizational 2.5 are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 6~7  6.3.9/6.8/6.8.3/6.8.4/ Profile EC8 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 47~50,110~116  2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 6~7  6.8.5/6.8.6/6.8.7/6.8.9 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.6.7/6.7.8/ 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ 6~7  EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 28~32  beneficiaries). 6.8/6.8.5/6.8.6/6.8.7/6.8.9 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 6~7  Environmental Performance Indicators 92~95 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 6.5/6.5.4 96, 119  2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 58  Raw materials EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 6.5/6.5.4 96, 119  2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 127  EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 6.5/6.5.4 100~101, 118  3.1 Reporting period for information provided. About this report  EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 6.5/6.5.4 100~101, 118  3.2 Date of most recent previous report About this report  Energy EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 6.5/6.5.4 100~101  Appendix Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions 3.3 Reporting cycle About this report  EN6 in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. 6.5/6.5.4 100~101, 118  3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. About this report  EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 6.5/6.5.4 100~101, 118  EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 6.5/6.5.4 96, 119  3.5 Process for defining report content.(deciding a priority, understand of expected the persons concerned) 18~19  Water EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 6.5/6.5.4 96, 115  3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers About this report   EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 6.5/6.5.4 98, 119 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report About this report  Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high ◯ Report EN11 biodiversity value outside protected areas. 6.5/6.5.6 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other Parameters 3.8 entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. About this report  EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas 6.5/6.5.6 102 ◐ and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques Biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 6.5/6.5.6 ◯ 3.9 underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. About this report  EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. 6.5/6.5.6 102 ◐ Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected 3.10 for N/A First report About this report  EN15 6.5/6.5.6 ◯ by operations, by level of extinction risk. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 6.5/6.5.5 101, 119  3.11 applied in the report. N/A EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 6.5/6.5.5 101, 119  3.12 GRI Checklist 124~126  EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 6.5/6.5.5 99~101  3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 7.5.3 122~123  EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 6.5/6.5.3 N/A Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body Air emissions, EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 6.5/6.5.3 98 ◐ 4.1 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 6.2 20~21  water emissions EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 6.5/6.5.3 96, 120  4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 6.2 20~21  and wastes EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 6.5/6.5.3 96  For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 6.5/6.5.3 N/A 4.3 highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 6.2 20~21  Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the EN24 Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. 6.5/6.5.3 ◯ Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly 4.4 governance body. 6.2 20~21  EN25 6.5/6.5.4/6.5.6 102 ◐ affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6/6.7.5 28~32 ◐ 4.5 executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social 6.2 20~21  Product/ Service EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. 6.5/6.5.4/6.7.5 N/A and environmental performance). Regulatory EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 6.2 20~21  EN28 compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 6.5 120  compliance Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest Transportation and Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the 4.7 governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of 6.2 20~21  EN29 organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6 101 ◐ diversity. handling All EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 6.5 102, 120 ◐ Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to 4.8 economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 6.2 4~5  Labor Practices and Decent Work 56~59, 70~72 Governance, LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. 6.4/6.4.3 57, 120  Commitments, Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and and Engagement management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and  Employment LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 6.4/6.4.3 57, 121 ◐ 4.9 opportunities, 6.2 21 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. LA3 major operations. 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4 59~60  Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/ 4.10 economic, environmental, and social performance. 6.2 21  LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 58, 121  Labor relations 6.4.5/6.3.10 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in 4.11 6.2 19  LA5 collective agreements. 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/6.4.5 58~59  organization. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to LA6 committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. 6.4/6.4.6 58 ◐ 4.12 which the organization subscribes or endorses. 6.2 58  Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related Occupational LA7 fatalities by region and by gender. 6.4/6.4.6 73, 121  4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy 6.2 127  health and safety Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce 6.4/6.4.6/6.8/ 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 6.2 18  LA8 members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. 75~76  6.8.3/6.8.4/6.8.8 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 6.2 18  LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 6.4/6.4.6 58 ◐ Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 6.4/6.4.7 64 ◐ 4.16 group. 6.2 18  Education and Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of LA11 employees and assist them in managing career endings. 6.4/6.4.7/6.8.5 58~59  Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the training 4.17 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 6.2 18~19  LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. 6.4/6.4.7 65 ◐ 124 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 125 Awards and Memberships G3.1 Description ISO26000 Page Application Level Corporate Awards Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to No Name of Award Organizer Date of Award Order/Class LA13 gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4/6.4.3 20~21, 121 ◐ 1 Mercury Awards Best of Advertising MerComm, Inc. 2012.03.22 Diversity and 6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4/ Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations 2 New Quality Management Awards Korea Foundation for Quality 2012.05.23 Grand Prize equal opportunity LA14 of operation. 57 ◐ 6.4.3/6.4.4 Five major economic organizations in Korea, including Korea This Year’s Company for Management Transparency  3 Grand Prize, 2012 Transparent Management Awards 2013.02.01 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4.4 120~121 Employers Federation Awards Human Rights Performance Indicators 56~59 4 ESG Assessment Awards Corporate Governance Service 2013.06.21 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses HR1 incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.5/6.6.6 58 ◐ Investment and procurement HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.5/ 22 ◐ Individual Awards 6.4.3/6.6.6 practices No Name of Awards Organizer Date of Award Recipient Order/Class Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that HR3 are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. 6.3/6.3.5 22~23, 120 ◐ Silver Tower Order of Industrial Service Merit 1 President 2012.04.30 Seo Jeong-cheol Medal 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7 (for Contribution to National Industrial Development) Anti-discriminatory HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 57 None Contribution to the Development of the Electric Power Industry through Yecheon PumpedMinister of Knowledge Economy /6.3.10/6.4.3 2 storage Power Plant Project Minister of Knowledge Economy 2012.05.24 Yang Hee-ryong Commendation Freedom of 3 Contribution to Industrial Development through Development of Occupational Capabilities President 2012.09.03 Kim Moon-saeng Industrial Service Medal unionization Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and 6.2/6.3.3/6.3.4/6.3.5/ 4 Computer Aided Manufacturing Minister of Employment and Labor 2012.09.03 Byeon Jeom-yong Master Craftsman of Korea HR5 collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. ◯ and collective 6.3.8/6.3.10/6.4.3/6.4.5 5 Meritorious Service Award for Development of Superior Capital Goods President 2012.09.11 Lee Jeong-hoon Presidential Commendation bargaining 6 Contribution to Shared Growth for Large and Small-and Medium-sized Enterprises President 2012.09.27 Han Keysun Industrial Service Medal Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/ Contribution to Development of Components for Turbine Generators for Ultra Super-Critical Minister of Education, Science and ◐ 7 2012.10.15 Kang Seong-tae IR52 Jang Young Sil Awards Child labor HR6 measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. 57~58 Power Plants Technology 6.3.5/6.3.7/6.3.10 Contribution to Development of Components for Turbine Generators for Ultra Super-Critical Minister of Education, Science and Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or 8 2012.10.15 Kim Min-soo IR52 Jang Young Sil Awards 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/ Power Plants Technology Forced labor HR7 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory 57~58 ◐ Appendix 6.3.5/6.3.7/6.3.10 Contribution to Development of Components for Turbine Generators for Ultra Super-Critical Minister of Education, Science and labor. 9 Power Plants Technology 2012.10.15 Song Young-seok IR52 Jang Young Sil Awards Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning 10 Korea Sharing Awards Minister of Health and Welfare 2012.10.25 Choi Geun-cheol Minister Award Security practices HR8 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. 6.3/6.3.5/6.4.3/6.6.6 ◯ 11 New Technology Application Promotion Contest Minister of Knowledge Economy 2012.11.14 Jeong Seok-hwan Minister Award Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/6.3.8/6.6.7 ◯ 12 Quality Management Innovation Commendation Prime Minister 2012.11.21 Kim Yong-hee Prime Minister Award HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/ 13 Quality Master Craftsman Minister of Knowledge Economy 2012.11.21 Song Seong-ho Quality Master Craftsman Evaluation HR10 or impact assessments. 6.3.6/6.3.9/6.3.10 ◯ 14 National Quality Control Circle Competition, Gold Medal Prime Minster 2012.11.21 Kwon Cheol-oh Prime Minister Award Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance Technology Development and Demonstration for Performance Improvement of Large Minister of Knowledge Economy Improvements HR11 6.3.6/6.3.9/6.3.10 ◯ 15 Minister of Knowledge Economy 2012.11.23 Kim Gi-hyeon mechanisms. Steam Turbines for Boryeong Thermal Power Plant No.6 Commendation 16 49th Trade Day Commendation in Plant Export Prime Minister 2012.12.05 Lee Joo-ho Prime Minister Award Society 22~23, 110~112 Tin Tower Order of Industrial Service Merit Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and 17 President 2012.12.05 Baek Nak-young Medal Local community SO1 development programs. 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7/6.6.7 110~116  th (49 Trade Day, Overseas Sojourner Employees) 18 49th Trade Day Commendation in World-class Product Export President 2012.12.05 Song Se-cheol Presidential Commendation SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 6.6/6.6.3 22~23 ◐ Minister of Knowledge Economy 19 49th Trade Day Minister of Knowledge Economy 2012.12.05 Park Seong-jin Corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. 6.6/6.6.3 22~23, 120~121  Commendation SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 6.6/6.6.3 120~121  3rd Nuclear Energy Day Minister of Knowledge Economy 20 Minister of Knowledge Economy 2012.12.27 Kim Chang-han (Commendation in Completion of New Gori Power Plant #1,2) Commendation SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 6.6/6.6.4/6.8.3 ◯ 3rd Nuclear Energy Day Awards Public policy Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions 21 (Bronze Tower Order of Industrial Service Merit in Promotion of the Nuclear Energy President 2012.12.27 Kim Gook-heon, Medal SO6 by country. 6.6/6.6.4/6.8.3 ◯ Industry) Economically 3rd Nuclear Energy Day Awards Minister of Knowledge Economy Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their 22 Minister of Knowledge Economy 2012.12.27 Lee Seong-jin SO7 outcomes. 6.6/6.6.5/6.6.7 ◯ (Commendation in Development of Core Technology in Nuclear Energy Generation) Commendation harmful activities 3rd Nuclear Energy Day (Bronze Tower Order of Industrial Service Merit in Completion of Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance 23 President 2012.12.27 Kim Sang-jin Medal Legal compliance SO8 6.6/6.6.7/6.8.7 120~121  New Gori Power Plant #1,2) with laws and regulations. 3rd Nuclear Energy Day Awards Minister of Knowledge Economy 24 Minister of Knowledge Economy 2012.12.27 Lee Sang-hoon SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7 ◯ (Commendation in Development of the Nuclear Energy Industry) Commendation Local community Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual 3rd Nuclear Energy Day Awards Minister of Knowledge Economy SO10 6.3.8 ◯ 25 Minister of Knowledge Economy 2012.12.27 Kim Ji-hyeon negative impacts on local communities. (Commendation in Development of the Nuclear Energy Industry) Commendation 3rd Nuclear Energy Day Awards Minister of Knowledge Economy Product Responsibility 80~83 26 (Commendation in Development of Core Technology in Nuclear Energy Generation) Minister of Knowledge Economy 2012.12.27 Choo Seong-min Commendation Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for 3rd Nuclear Energy Day Awards PR1 improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.7/6.7.4/6.7.5 88~91  27 President 2012.12.27 Hwang Yeong-jun Presidential Commendation Customer health (Commendation in Completion of New Gori Power Plant #1,2) procedures. 3rd Nuclear Energy Day Minister of Knowledge Economy and safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health 28 (Commendation in Completion of New Wolseong Power Plant #1) Minister of Knowledge Economy 2012.12.27 Choi Hun-seok Commendation PR2 and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.7/6.7.4/6.7.5 ◯ 3rd Nuclear Energy Day Awards 29 President 2012.12.27 Kim Deuk-han Presidential Commendation Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of significant products 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.4/6.7.5/ (Commendation in Completion of New Gori Power Plant #1,2) PR3 and services subject to such information requirements. 88~91  3rd Nuclear Energy Day Awards 6.7.6/6.7.9 30 Prime Minister 2012.12.27 Ko Gyeong-baek Prime Minister Award (Commendation in Development of the Nuclear Energy Industry) Product/Service Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.4/6.7.5/ PR4 and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. ◯ 31 3rd Nuclear Energy Day Awards Minister of Knowledge Economy 2012.12.27 Han Seong-bong Minister of Knowledge Economy labeling 6.7.6/6.7.9 (Commendation in Completion of New Gori Power Plant #1,2) Commendation 6.7/6.7.4/6.7.5/6.7.6/ 3rd Nuclear Energy Day Awards PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 88~91  32 President 2012.12.27 Park Hwa-gyu Industrial Service Medal 6.7.8/6.7.9 (Industrial Service Medal in Development of the Nuclear Energy Industry) Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, 33 Commendation for Support for the Nuclear Security Summit Prime Minister 2012.12.31 Baek Jin-seung Prime Minister Award PR6 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.6/6.7.9 107~109 ◐ Marketing including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Communications PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.6/6.7.9 107~109 ◐ Memberships Customer personal Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of Construction Environment Management Council Business Institute for Sustainable Development Korea International Trade Association Korea Nuclear Energy Qualification Association PR8 customer data. 6.7/6.7.7 ◯ Gyeongnam Employers Federation Changwon Chamber of Commerce and Industry Korea Radioisotope Association Korea Atomic Industrial Forum information Gyeongsangnam-do Region Defense Industry Security Council Wind Power Industry Council Korea Defense Industry Association Korea Academy of Nuclear Safety Regulatory Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the Gyeongsangnam-do Region Industrial Security Council Plant Engineering Council Korea Principal Engineers Association Korea Electrical Contractors Association PR9 provision and use of products and services. 6.7/6.7.6 ◯ Korea Railway Electrical Technology Association compliance Korean Medical Association Korean Carbon Capture and Storage Association Korea Industrial Technology Association Korea Electric Engineers Association Korean Nurses Association Gyeonsangnam-do Nurses Association Korea Federation of Construction Contractors Korea Listed Companies Association Construction Association of Korea Korea Construction New-Technology Association Korea Facility Maintenance Council ‌Korea Information Communication Contractors Association ‌Korea Industries Confederation for Commercialization of Superconductivity Korea Mechanical Construction Contractors Association Korea Society for Construction Quality Korea Fire Safety Association Korean Standards Association Korean Red Cross ‌Korea Association of Standards & Testing Organizations Korea Fire Safety Association, Korea Project Management Association Korea Electric Association Fair Competition Federation Korea Fire Safety Construction Association Korea Plant Industries Association Korea Specialty Contractors Association Korea Federation of Science and Technology Societies Korea New & Renewable Energy Association Korea Fusion Industry & Technology Association Korea Housing Builders Association Korean Customs Logistics Association Korea Energy Council Korea Chemicals Management Association Federation of Korean Industries Korea Association of Machinery Industry Korea Engineering & Consulting Association International Contractors Association of Korea Korea Industrial Corporate Health Council Korea Management Association Korea Engineers Club Korea Environmental Engineering Association Korea Electricity power-New Technology Association Korea Coating Experts Society Women in Nuclear Korea Korea Environmental Preservation Association 126 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 127 Thanks to you Strategy & Business Development) Junseok Kim, General Manager Corporate Finance Division) Audit Team Taecheon Kim, Deputy General Manager Corporate Strategy Team Yujin An, Member Corporate Finance Division) Financial Analysis Team Hyuksu Lee, Deputy General Manager Seungwoo Sohn, General Manager Corporate Finance Division) Consolidation Accounting Team Jeonga Kim, Assistant Manager EPC Strategy Team Kyungran Ahn, Assistant Manager Corporate Research & Development Institute) Jewook Ryu, General Manager Boiler Strategy Team Bongjun Kim, General Manager Technology Strategy & Planning Team Dongwook Lee, Member Jaekap Kim, General Manager Turbine/Generator Strategy Team Management Division) Hyungkyu Park, Deputy General Manager Sungho Kim, General Manager General Administration & Management Planning Team Jinseung Baek, General Manager Nuclear Strategy Team Management Division) HRD Team Donghyang Kim, Deputy General Manager Mijin Kim, Member Management Division) Domestic Legal Team Jaehong Koo, General Manager Yuntaek Jeong, General Manager Water Strategy Team Management Division) Jinsoo Seo, General Manager Donghoon Oh, Member Casting & forging Strategy Team Songjae Lim, General Manager Environment Health & Strategy Planning Team Cheounsoo Chae, Manager Howon Jung, General Manager Youngjun Kim, General Manager Management Division) Energy Environment Team Jihyun Hwang, General Manager Youngjoo Jeon, Manager COO) Doosan Way Team Hyunsu Lee, Assistant Manager Kangchul Seo, General Manager Joungjae Kim, Member Management Division) Public Relations Team Christina Kim, Assistant Manager Junhyeon Chun, General Manager Hanhee Lee, General Manager COO) HRM Team Haeryoun Lee, Assistant Manager Chanup Park, General Manager Minsoo Lee, General Manager COO) HRD Team Bin Lee, Deputy General Manager Eungjun Lee, Deputy General Manager Management Division) CSR Team Seongyong Lee, Deputy General Manager COO) Quality Excellence Team 2 Jaewoong Kim, Assistant Manager Munjo Jang, General Manager Sungkook Park, Deputy General Manager COO) Shared Growth Team Inha Nam, Member Youhyun Kim, Manager Corporate Finance Division) Governance Support Team Seop So, Deputy General Manager Doosan Vina Gwangju Kim, General Manager 128 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report
