2013 MANPOWERGROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY IN THE HUMAN AGE WE POWER THE WORLD OF WORK. When our deep understanding of human potential is connected to the ambition of business, a dynamic power is created. Power that drives organizations forward. Power that accelerates personal success. Power that builds more sustainable communities. We generate this kind of power by connecting the visions of clients, the motivations of people, and what’s now and what’s next in the world of work. We combine local expertise with a global reach to give organizations around the world access to and the ability to capitalize on unseen opportunities. As trusted advisors we nurture partnerships with everyone we work with, because their success leads to our success. Because of this, we create high-impact solutions to enhance the competitiveness of the organizations and the individuals we serve, so that they achieve more than they imagined. By creating these powerful connections, we help power the world of work. ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report 2 OUR IMPACT More than 600,000 associates working every day Nearly 17 million people placed in jobs over the past 5 years 3.4million in 2013 80 3,100 offices across countries around the world 27,000 colleagues helping clients and candidates win Over 400,000 clients ranging from small and medium businesses to global Fortune 100 companies Our career management $20 billion revenues in 2013 services helped 13,000 people to new jobs transition 85% outside the US ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report 3 EXECUTIVE MESSAGE Helping people maintain their employability — ­ providing them with the tools, opportunities and skills to develop their careers and increase the range of work-life choices they can make ­— is a powerful thing. It’s what we do every day. Over the years we have provided training and development to more than 11 million job-seekers. In 2013 we placed 3.4 million people in jobs in 80 countries and territories, and helped nearly 13,000 people transition to new jobs through our career management and outplacement services. We connected more than a million young people with opportunities to develop work experience, through apprenticeships, internships, and temporary assignments. That impact is broader still when we consider the time our colleagues spend volunteering in the community, and our engagement with industry associations and initiatives that raise awareness of challenges Our purpose is simple. We help people find jobs and build their that individuals and employers face in the current labor market. careers while ensuring our clients have the workforce solutions and My own engagement with organizations like Junior Achievement talent they need to win. We have always known that “doing well by frequently fuel my passion to continue equipping young people with doing good” is possible, and this duality of purpose is what fuels the tools they need to succeed in the world of work. my personal passion for what we do. I know the same is true for ManpowerGroup colleagues across the globe. We take great pride You can see the impact we have when 27,000 colleagues around in being part of a successful organization that makes a positive the world share a common purpose. I am proud and honored to difference in millions of people’s lives every year. lead ManpowerGroup, and to have the opportunity to build on such a strong foundation. I thank all of our colleagues for their impressive We live in a time of rapid change. Not a day goes by without work that contributes to sustainability in the Human Age. major news coverage of labor market issues, whether it be youth unemployment, aging workforces, skills mismatches or income Jonas Prising inequality. Pervasive talent shortages are impeding employers’ Chief Executive Officer ability to deliver value for their customers and reducing their competitiveness and productivity. Job-seekers are struggling to find the right employment opportunities. MANPOWERGROUP SUPPORTS THE UNITED ManpowerGroup has a profound understanding of these dynamic NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT, AND CONTINUES TO labor issues. This knowledge, coupled with our understanding of BE COMMITTED TO MAKING THE GLOBAL COMPACT clients’ needs to find the right skills at the right time, has allowed AND ITS PRINCIPLES PART OF OUR STRATEGY, us to match millions of people to the right job opportunities. CULTURE AND DAY-TO-DAY OPERATIONS. ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report 4 T WORLD OF WORK TRENDS AND INSIGHTS YOUTH Youth make up WOMEN Women make companies more competitive. Companies 17% 65% of women with the most female officers have 34% better returns. of the world’s population and want flexible work options but only 28% CLIENTCLIENTCLIENT of employers provide them. NGO NGO NGO GOVT GOVT GOVT 40% Source: Cracking the Case EMPLOYMENT TALENT SUPPLY VS DEMAND STEM occupations inEDUCA Europe are TION MENT PLACE PLACEMENT PLACEMENT of the world’s Global employment expanded ING ING COACHCOACH COACHING EDUCATION EDUCATION unemployed... expected to grow by… by only 1.4% in 2013… YOUTH...yet, onlyYOUTH S VETERANS 35 countries have action plans and only 4 countries have a budget for youth employment priorities ...while global unemployment increased by 5 million people 14% by 2020 …but theUNEMPL supply OYED OYED UNEMPL of OLDER UNEMPL qualified OYEDOLDER D DISABLEDISABLE OLDER D ES D REFUGE DISABLE REFUGEES REFUGE ES NS VETERA VETERANS YOUTH VETERA NS YOUTH YOUTH Source: The Challenge of Youth Unemployment, Source: Staffing Industry Analysts workers is projected to fall. WEF Global Agenda Councils Source: B20 Human Capital Taskforce Report TALENT SHORTAGE DIFFICULTY FILLING JOBS ManpowerGroup’s ninth annual Talent Shortage 34% 32% 24% Survey found 36% of employers globally report talent shortages in 2014—the highest Lack of experience Lack of available applicants/no applicants percentage in seven years. Lack of technical competencies (hard skills) Source: ManpowerGroup Annual Talent Shortage Survey Source: ManpowerGroup Annual Talent Shortage Survey ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report 5 SUSTAINABILITY: OUR VIEW IN THE HUMAN AGE For 65 years, our purpose has been to power the world SUSTAINABILITY OVERSIGHT AND MANAGEMENT of work. We connect people with meaningful employment Our global vision and policies guide social responsibility and sustainability and employers with the best talent. As the world of work across our entire organization. Each country operation then takes becomes increasingly complex, and talent becomes scarcer responsibility for the development and implementation of local policies and more in-demand, our role in creating talent sustainability and practices that meet the laws, regulations, and culture of that country. is ever more critical to enhancing the competitiveness of organizations and individuals. By unleashing potential, we foster sustainable workforces and thriving communities. Operating in 80 countries and territories around the world, BOARD OF DIRECTORS we understand that our business has economic, social and environmental impacts. We integrate responsible management into every aspect of our business, and AUDIT COMMITTEE TALENT & COMPENSATION COMMITTEE diligently consider our impacts on all stakeholders. • Finance • Audit • Risk • Succession • Talent Development • Code of Business Conduct & Ethics • Compensation Practices ONOMIC EC EXECUTIVE STRATEGY & OPERATING COMMITTEES • Strategy • Governance • Execution • Operational Performance ONOMIC STRATEGY EC GOALS PERFORMANCE GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP COUNTRY LEADERSHIP ENTAL NM SOC O IA STRATEGY ENV L GOALS IR PERFORMANCE ONOMIC ENTAL EC NM SOC O IA ENV L IR ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report 6 STRATEGY OUR STAKEHOLDERS We regularly engage with stakeholders and seek feedback on their interests and concerns in a variety of ways, including individual conversations, interviews, meetings, surveys, involvement in industry associations, joint programs, and volunteer activities within our communities. In 2013, we developed a value proposition framework for our core stakeholders, to help us better align our reporting to their concerns. STAKEHOLDER CONCERNS HOW WE DELIVER VALUE CLIENTS • Are you providing the right solutions and talent to help us be Drive clients’ business performance Organizations more successful? • Educate employers on world of work trends that impact their business that purchase our • Are you helping us reduce risk? • Develop our own capabilities to deliver solutions workforce solutions • Are you operating in an ethical and responsible manner? • Engage, develop and retain the right talent • Are you helping us achieve our own sustainability goals? • Manage our talent suppliers • Lobby for employment laws that support sustainable growth CANDIDATES • Are you helping me find the right job? Provide access to employment and build skills for long-term employability People we connect • Are you helping me develop the right capabilities, skills and • Engage a broad base of clients across multiple industries with jobs and experience to enhance my employability? • Forecast in-demand skills opportunities • Are you looking out for my best interests (fair wages, safe • Assess candidate strengths & areas to develop and healthy working conditions, etc.)? • Provide training and coaching • Are you helping me to achieve the flexibility and work-life • Target disadvantaged and under-represented populations balance that works for me? • Promote fair recruitment and employment practices COLLEAGUES • Do the company’s values match mine? Provide opportunities to grow and make a difference Our employees • Does the company have a strong reputation in the industry? • Coach leaders to unleash potential • Do I have opportunities to make a difference? • Provide development opportunities & resources • Do I have opportunities to develop my capabilities and • Create and maintain an organizational culture that encourages and advance in my career? rewards collaboration and innovation • Am I being recognized and rewarded for my contributions? • Operate according to the highest ethical standards • Partner with and support community-based organizations SHAREHOLDERS • Am I getting an appropriate return on my investment? Deliver strong business performance Our individual • Does your business strategy drive profitable performance • Execute on our strategy and institutional now and into the future? • Invest in growing our business investors • Are you taking advantage of opportunities in the market? • Develop innovative solutions that meet evolving market needs • Are you investing in the business to build long-term • Operate according to the highest ethical standards sustainable growth? ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report 7 ABOUT THIS REPORT The ManpowerGroup Sustainability Report begins with an overview of who we are and our approach to sustainability. We then share key insights into our economic, social and environmental sustainability initiatives and successes in the areas that are of greatest significance to our core stakeholders. 10/16: Corrected (graphic below) High • Business performance • Client & candidate success IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS • Employability • Of critical strategic interest to ManpowerGroup and stakeholders • Ethics & integrity • Actively managed with global goals and local objectives • Talent development & engagement • Community investment • Underlying factor in business success • Diversity • Health, safety & wellness • Managed through standard processes and practices • Human rights & fair labor • Of concern to select stakeholders • Environmental management & performance • Managed through standard processes and practices Low • Supply chain integrity Low SIGNIFICANT OPPORTUNITY, RISK OR IMPACT High This report serves as our Communication on Progress for the United Nations Global Compact, of which we have been an active member since 2006. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines were used as a framework in developing this report. Our intention is to evolve to reporting in accordance with GRI G4 guidelines. ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report 8 ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES Page 11 Award-winning program builds capabilities of small and ONOMIC medium enterprises in Mexico ATEGY OALS 9 RMANCE EMERGING MARKETS / Building skilled workforces can lead to broader economic growth. Driving Superior Business For instance, in the Netherlands, our Emerging Market Revenues In Millions ($) Performance colleagues successfully implemented 2013 2,676.8 our new Manpower delivery model that 2012 2,637.9 WHY IT MATTERS / The more profitable leverages centralized recruiting hubs and 2011 2,475.9 we are, the more we are able to invest in virtual recruiting, which was well-received by 2010 1,919.6 growing our business and developing workforce clients, candidates and colleagues alike. The 2009 1,414.8 solutions to serve more candidates and clients. team strategically consolidated branches, Emerging market revenues grew 3.8% in 2013. Key expansion markets grew: India (+23.2%), Brazil (+16.9%) and Russia (+13.3%). reduced costs by $9 million annually and Operating Profit Excluding Non-Recurring Items increased website traffic to 2.6 million visits In Millions ($) As Reported In 2013, we grew our revenues in emerging per year. And we also took the first steps markets by 3.8%. Key expansion markets 2013 601.3(b) 511.9 towards introducing Google collaboration 2012 467.1(c) 411.7 included India, Brazil and Russia. tools to our organization, which was a direct 2011 547.3(b) 524.2 2010 337.3(d) (122.0) response to feedback from colleagues in HELPING SMALL AND MEDIUM 2009 136.2(e) 41.7 our ManpowerGroup Annual People Survey. BUSINESSES IN EMERGING MARKETS Operating profit increased to $511.9 million. Excluding non-recurring items, operating profit increased 28.7% Using this cloud-based technology, we are COMPETE FOR TALENT in constant currency from 2012, to $601.3 million in 2013. poised to increase speed and agility across Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) play our company and connect our worldwide a key role in Mexico’s economy—generating operations like never before. 52% of gross domestic product and 72% of 2013 was a year of planned simplification and employment in that country. However, SMEs recalibration. Our efforts helped streamline are at a distinct disadvantage for attracting and processes, reduce costs and make faster Investing in Emerging Markets retaining in-demand talent.** decisions—all while preserving our culture. Today our people are bringing solutions with WHY IT MATTERS / The greatest asset Recognizing the importance of fostering the faster speed to market, sparking innovation of emerging markets is their people. Building growth and vitality of these businesses, Mexico’s and efficiency, and developing inventive skilled workforces in these countries can lead to Ministry of Economy partnered with the local partnerships to help our clients win and our job opportunities, sustainable employment and Manpower Foundation to provide free talent candidates succeed. broader economic growth. **Source: ProMexico http://www.promexico.gob.mx/ negocios-internacionales/pymes-eslabon-fundamentalpara-el-crecimiento-en-mexico.html ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Economic Sustainability Activities 10 STRATEGY GOALS POWER AWARDS / Celebrating the people and operations that exemplify our values and brand while achieving outstanding performance. management seminars to more than 600 small and medium businesses in just three months. The seminars focused on identifying key skills, designing competency profiles, and creating tools for attracting and retaining talent. Mexico’s Manpower Foundation team was recognized with a ManpowerGroup Power Award, an award presented annually to individual employees and operations around the world that have achieved outstanding performance during the year. This specially commissioned piece of artwork, created by an internationally renowned artist, serves as a permanent reminder and celebration of our people’s achievements. Ethical & Principles-Based Culture WHY IT MATTERS / Clients and candidates expect us to act ethically and responsibly to protect them from risk. Our colleagues expect us to live up to our values. For 65 years ManpowerGroup has built a corporate culture of trust, integrity and accountability. Conducting business in an ethical and responsible manner is part of our company’s DNA. A commitment to human rights, fair labor practices, and ethical business dealings is essential in our principles-based culture, and is recognized both inside and outside our company. ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Economic Sustainability Activities 11 STRATEGY GOALS CODE OF CONDUCT / 100% of employees trained and certified on the Code in 2013. Every year, as part of our ManpowerGroup Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics MAKING IT EASIER TO DO THE Annual People Survey, we ask our colleagues provides guidance to all of our colleagues RIGHT THING for feedback on our ethical standards. The and partners on the conduct of our business In 2013, we increased awareness of our ethics response is consistently positive: according to the highest ethical standards. reporting resources with an internal marketing We have grown and prospered with a culture campaign at our offices worldwide. The of honesty, integrity, and accountability, and materials reminded colleagues how to seek 89% HAVE HIGH AWARENESS OF OUR the Code contributes to our future success by advice and report concerns about ethical issues. ETHICAL PRACTICE GUIDELINES helping to maintain this culture. The Code and They also promoted our improved Business 83% AGREE THAT WE CONDUCT OUR our other ethics policies help to focus everyone Ethics Hotline, which now enables online WORK WITH HIGH ETHICAL STANDARDS on areas of ethical risk, offer guidance in reporting and can be accessed free of charge recognizing and dealing with ethical issues, and from anywhere in the world. provide mechanisms to report unethical conduct without fear of retaliation. In 2013, for the third consecutive year, Helping Clients Win ManpowerGroup was named one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies. We 2013 Ethics Training Completion Rates 100% WHY IT MATTERS / Employers create jobs. continue to be the only company in our Our solutions help employers prosper and grow. 80% industry to achieve consistent recognition We continually innovate to ensure that our 60% for our ethical and principles-based culture. brands drive value for clients. 40% We were also recognized by Trust Across America Our client base is extremely broad and diverse, 20% as America’s Most Trustworthy Company. 0 Code of Conduct Anti-Trust Information Security & Foreign Corrupt Global Competition Insider Trading ranging from local small and medium enterprises Data Privacy Practices Act to global Fortune 100 companies, and public Code of Business Conduct and private organizations across every industry. and Ethics Training Some clients partner with us in a single country; Each of our colleagues is expected to complete all required training and certification annually. Given others leverage our global footprint. Many of our WHY IT MATTERS / We expect our colleagues to maintain our culture of trust, normal employee turnover, we target a completion clients engage our services and solutions across integrity and accountability. rate of at least 95%, which we consistently achieve. multiple brands. ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Economic Sustainability Activities 12 STRATEGY GOALS HELPING CLIENTS WIN / With the right people and the right training. BRAND/OFFERING Manpower HOW WE MEASURE Satisfaction at market and client level OUR GOAL Continuous 2013 varies by P WERFUL Improvement market connections Experis Net Promoter Scores Continuous 10 point Mirjam Ruiten, Global HR Director, Improvement increase DSM Food Specialities ManpowerGroup Solutions Market leadership position, based on Market Leadership independent assessments by Nelson #1 Collaborating to Create RPO Hall, Everest Group and Staffing MSP #1 Opportunities Industry Analysts Right Management Right Management Client Survey Continuous 1% DSM, ManpowerGroup and Technicom Improvement increase joined forces to find the right people to operate a newly built Spray Drying Facility at the DSM location in Delft, the Netherlands. We use a variety of approaches to measuring client satisfaction, both at the local market level as well Through combined skills and expertise we managed to recruit, train and coach a as globally. For our most mature brand—Manpower—we measure client satisfaction at a market and completely new and highly skilled team of client level. Experis and ManpowerGroup Solutions are newer brands/offereings, and we have global process operators within two years. measures for those. The recruitment and training phase started in 2012. With help of the new team of ABBA: THE MUSEUM TAKES A CHANCE ON MANPOWER operators, the DSM Spray Drying Facility Before our client, ABBA: The Museum, could open its doors in 2013, they started operations in 2014. needed a partner to help them staff the entire museum. Without knowing Today, the team is fully operational, the how strong the demand from the general public would be, they wanted individual members have all the skills they to plan the museum’s workforce while retaining the flexibility to quickly need and are performing at their best in the expand if necessary. high performance environment of DSM. Manpower Sweden strategically put together a pool of talent with The partnership between DSM, Manpower and Technicom is an excellent example of engaging personalities and the necessary language skills, allowing for staff how we can collaborate to achieve great expansion during the busier summer months. results, embrace one common goal, and thus create new opportunities for people with “ABBA: The Museum is like a stage, and we need our staff to create an diverse competencies and backgrounds. experience for the visitors,” said Mattias Hansson, the museum’s chief executive officer. “Manpower found just the right people!” ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Economic Sustainability Activities 13 STRATEGY GOALS CANDIDATE EXPERIENCE / Meeting the needs and expectations of our Candidates, wherever they are. Candidate Experience Since 2010, we have measured our success in delivering the Candidate Experience across WHY IT MATTERS / Our success and that of our global organization, using both internal and our clients is dependent on attracting the best external assessment tools. talent. We want to make sure that wherever candidates interact with us, they have a Data from experience measurement activities is consistently positive experience. used to identify areas for improvement, and to check alignment between internal and external Candidate Experience views of how well we deliver the Candidate 100% Experience. Regional experts review results Confident in Hugo’s potential and expertise, leaders 80% with country leaders, highlight trends, and help from Experis IT and ManpowerGroup Norway came 60% develop action plans to address the identified to Hugo’s defense, convincing government 40% areas for improvement. officials to once again review his qualifications. 20% Our most recent Candidate Experience 0% “When the phone call came that both permits 2010 2011 2012 2013 measures indicated that we have the highest had finally been granted, my girlfriend and I scores from those candidates who came to us started screaming and crying,” said Hugo. through online channels, which confirms that our “This means an enormous difference for my In 2009, we launched our global Candidate investments in an enhanced digital experience family. I’m humbled by everyone at Experis and Experience program. Candidate Experience are beginning to pay off. ManpowerGroup who stood up for me.” defines the way that we engage with the people who come to us for help in connecting CHANGING LIVES to employment. It’s about making sure that Supply Chain Integrity Despite his in-demand skills and exemplary wherever candidates interact with us, they work experience, Brazilian IT professional Hugo will have a consistently positive experience WHY IT MATTERS / We need to ensure that Pereira was having great difficulty securing we do not expose ourselves or our clients to where they feel welcomed, their needs and permits to work and live in Norway. The young operational or reputation risk from the actions of expectations are understood, and they are provided with honest and accurate direction. father was desperate and facing deportation. our suppliers. ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Economic Sustainability Activities 14 STRATEGY GOALS SUPPLY CHAIN INTEGRITY / Embedding CSR provisions into global supplier contracts. 2013 SUPPLIER OVERSIGHT IN KEY MARKETS Percent of Number of Action Procurement Suppliers Spend Requested to provide assurance of 1660 66% responsible practices CSR provisions embedded in contract 550 22% P WERFUL c o n n e c t i o n s By Hayley Barr, Regional Manager, Manpower South Africa We engage a wide variety of suppliers around Making A Difference the world — from large, global technology providers to small, local goods and services Just two months after joining Manpower, I interviewed a Zimbabwean artisan named Blesswell. He was the beginning of my success here. providers, as well as local diversity suppliers and recruiters of specialized talent. We take a riskBlesswell walked into our Durban branch and made it clear he was desperate. He had a work based approach to addressing concerns that visa, but was unhappy with his current position where he was expected to work long hours may arise from our supply chain. for very low wages. With a wife and three children to support, and feeling vulnerable as a foreigner, he didn’t know where to turn. It was a heart-wrenching conversation. Even though I We expect all suppliers to operate in accordance was new to recruiting, I knew I could make a difference in this man’s life. with our Supply Chain Business Partner Policy. On impulse, I made a call to a new client—someone who had never worked with us—with a Significant suppliers in each of our markets workshop that could benefit from Blesswell’s skills. The manager heard the urgency of my call are requested to provide positive assurance of and agreed to meet with Blesswell immediately. I personally took Blesswell to the interview— their adherence to our policy. Our largest global which turned into an offer of a job paying four times what he was currently earning. He suppliers have key social responsibility principles started the very next day. embedded into their contracts. Blesswell now has a permanent position there, with benefits, running the workshop operations. I’ve also placed three of his brothers—who are also well-trained and skilled We have a robust supplier diversity initiative artisans, and have seen a new flow of skilled, in-demand talent. through which local womenand minorityowned service providers are qualified, Who benefited more from this experience? I went above the call of duty to help Blesswell, but developed, and mentored to build their in the end it was he who “Bless(ed me) well.” capabilities, accelerate their growth, and ensure they operate ethically and responsibly. ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Economic Sustainability Activities 15 STRATEGY GOALS SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES Page 30 Promoting diversity in the workplace SOC IA L 16 DEVELOPING LOCAL LEADERS / 85% of our country leaders are native to the countries they manage. Talent Planning 2013 Hires This careful preparation produced the kind 100% of leader that we’ve always developed at WHY IT MATTERS / As the world’s 80% ManpowerGroup, one with deep industry workforce expert, we know that developing 60% Hired Externally knowledge, a client-first approach, strategic our people and ensuring a pipeline of talent is 40% Filled Internally vision, and a passion for recognizing and essential to sustaining our performance now 20% cultivating human potential. and into the future. 0 Diversity & Inclusion Entry Level Mid Level Senior Level Talent planning aligns our business goals with our talent strategy, and helps us understand CEO SUCCESSION: TALENT WHY IT MATTERS / Diversity is an important the talent we have currently and determine how SUSTAINABILITY IN PRACTICE part of our talent planning process. A diverse effectively we are developing the capabilities of In our 65 year history, ManpowerGroup has workforce allows our clients and candidates to our people. It’s how we track and review the only had three Chief Executive Officers: Elmer see themselves reflected in our people, while performance, potential and succession of all of Winter, Mitchell Fromstein and Jeffrey Joerres. bringing a broad range of perspectives and Most recently, during preparation of this report, capabilities to our organization. Diversity of our key leaders worldwide. Jonas Prising was promoted to the fourth CEO. thought inspires the productivity, innovation Our goal is for the majority of our leadership We strongly believe that developing our leaders and collaboration needed to be competitive in positions to be filled from within the internally is a key to our success. today’s market. organization. Of our global leadership team, Because we operate in 80 countries and Having a strong succession pipeline does not 87% were promoted into their current roles. happen by chance — it requires discipline and territories around the world, our colleagues are investment. Soon after joining ManpowerGroup, naturally quite diverse. Although our company’s To ensure a sustainable talent pipeline, we tap Jonas was identified as having the potential to world headquarters is in the United States, we into multiple channels to find and secure talent. become our CEO. Over the last 15 years he work to make sure that our leadership reflects We have increased our efforts to fill key roles was given development opportunities to prepare the diversity of our entire organization. While with high-performing and diverse candidates, for the role, including leading each of our we do use foreign postings as development and we are launching a global program to brands, moving across regions and markets, opportunities for our leaders, 85% of our identify and accelerate the development of and heading up global strategic projects. He country leaders are native to the countries emerging leaders. was also mentored by his predecessors. they lead. ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 17 STRATEGY GOALS DIVERSITY / Attracting more high-performing women is imperative to any organization that wants to win. Global Organization and Leadership P WERFUL c o n n e c t i o n s 60% 50% 40% 30% National Origin of Key Monica Flores Barragan, Former Branch Manager, Leadership Team 20% National Origin of Global Leads Operations in 18 Countries Leadership Team Geographic Distribution 10% of Employees In Monica’s Words 0 Asia Europe Latin North Pacific America America “One of the most exciting aspects of my job at ManpowerGroup and what made it different from my previous jobs was that 90% o  f employees were women. In fact,it was the first and only time I had a female boss.” Women at ManpowerGroup All Employees Board of Directors “Throughout my career, I have seen women underestimate their capabilities. I made it my personal goal to do what’s humanly possible to break down gender stereotypes, empower women, and help them 66% 31% recognize their talents and realize their potential—just as my mentor, Jonas Prising, did for me.” Female Female ManpowerGroup was one of the first employers to bring women into the workforce decades ago, and we remain a pioneer today, providing training, experience and employment for women across the globe. Women account for nearly 70% of our workforce, and more than 50% of our managers worldwide. First-Level Top-Level Global Managers Managers Leadership Team Our support for women in the workforce doesn’t stop with our own company. Our strategic partnership 59% 46% 30% with the World Economic Forum (WEF), and our participation in the WEF Global Agenda Council on Female Female Female Gender Parity, gives us an unparalleled platform to raise awareness about the critical role that women have to play in the world of work, and encourage closing the gender gap to ensure the continuing sustainability of the world’s workforces and drive competitive advantages for businesses and economies. In 2013, Mara Swan, ManpowerGroup Executive Vice President, Global Strategy and Talent, chaired a meeting of the Women Leaders Advisory Board at the WEF Annual Meeting in Davos, Switzerland. She also led a discussion at the launch of the WEF 2013 Global Gender Gap Report in New York City, where MARA SWAN she shared how companies and countries can capitalize on their female talent pool, and how multinational SPEAKS AT THE LAUNCH OF and national companies can collaborate with governments on closing the economic gender gap. THE WEF 2013 GLOBAL GENDER “Attracting more high-performing women is imperative to any organization that wants to win, as unleashing GAP REPORT the potential of all people is what will make businesses successful in the Human Age,” said Swan. ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 18 STRATEGY GOALS DEVELOPING TALENT / 6,200 employees participated in formal training programs in 2013. Developing Great Talent Unleashing Potential is one of our core leadership programs that strengthens leaders’ WHY IT MATTERS / We need to ensure that ability to coach and develop their people to we are developing the capabilities of our people, PARTICIPATION IN FORMAL TRAINING realize their full potential and achieve business PROGRAMS IN KEY MARKETS IN 2013 to enable them to execute on our strategy results. We continue to embed this program and take on leadership roles throughout 52% OF MANAGERS further into the organization through targeted the organization. 25% OF NON-MANAGERS training topics such as “leadership success ManpowerGroup’s development philosophy through coaching” as well as local manager emphasizes the shared nature of responsibility development programs. for individual development: Leadership must create an environment in which development Below is a sampling of the global programs that is encouraged and supported, while individuals were delivered in 2013. Engagement must seek out the exposure, experience and Solution Selling training course WHY IT MATTERS / Having people who are education that they need to reach their potential. launched in 2013, and taken by 900 engaged and believe they can make a difference This philosophy underpins our approach to sales professionals around the world. is critical to our success. Engaged colleagues training and development: individuals create We also hold global sales forums on a quarterly are motivated to achieve success for our clients development plans in conjunction with their basis led by our executives, and promote strong and candidates, and act as ambassadors for managers aligned to their specific career goals. our brand. peer learning and collaboration. Development plans typically include a range of Ampersand was designed and rolled For nine years, we’ve taken the pulse of activities such as participation in formal training out in 2013 to all global leaders, country our people’s engagement through our programs, stretch assignments, coaching, and leaders and their management teams. ManpowerGroup Annual People Survey. The targeted learning in our online Global Training Designed to help leaders lead in today’s complex survey is available to 100% of our employee and Development Center. world, where we must think in the “and” to population, and more than 80% participate each Each of our markets has formal training and solve problems and drive value, this workshopyear. The results are shared across every level development programs for its employees. In based program brought leaders together from of the organization, and leaders are accountable addition, we have global development programs around the world and across brands to learn and for creating action plans to continually targeted to Leadership, Sales and Recruitment. collaborate around solutions. improve engagement. ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 19 STRATEGY GOALS ENGAGEMENT / 93% of our colleagues are fully or partially engaged. WE MEASURE ENGAGEMENT ACROSS SIX PILLARS: Engagement 1. Job motivation 4. Employer advocacy 2. Pride in organization 5. Business /service advocacy Fully Engaged 3. Pride in work 6. Job satisfaction Partially Engaged Not Engaged 92% In 2013, 92% of respondents were fully or partially engaged. Another measure we use to monitor the engagement of our people is intent to stay—a leading indicator predicting employee turnover. Most of our colleagues indicate that they intend to stay with ManpowerGroup for six months or more. Half expect to stay for at least three more years. Intent to Stay Our employee turnover has remained relatively low, and actually decreased slightly during 2013. At least 3 more years 93% P WERFUL c o n n e c t i o n s 6 months to 3 years Less than 6 months Comments From 2013 People Survey What Our Colleagues Tell Us “Putting people to work every day personally brings me a lasting sense of pride.” Employee Turnover Total Voluntary 30% “I am proud to be a part of this company and wake up every day trying to move our business to greater success.” 20% “I am challenged and encouraged to grow personally and professionally. I am given the freedom and 10% flexibility to approach opportunities with new ideas. I am constantly learning new things and improving my craft.” 0% 2011 2012 2013 “This organization gives their employees chances to showcase their skills and talent. It also offers a lot of opportunities to their people to hone their skills, to master their craft and to reach their goals in life.” “It gives me the chance to help others to have jobs, to help them reach their goals in life. The satisfaction of seeing someone fulfill their dreams is priceless.” ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 20 STRATEGY GOALS EMPLOYABILITY / Possessing the knowledge, skills and experience needed for sustainable employment Investing in Employability WHY IT MATTERS / Unemployment continues A focus of our day-to-day work is connecting 72% ofPrograms Markets Have Formal Training for Associates & Contractors to be a global problem. Skills that adequately individuals to opportunities that allow them to Australia Belgium met yesterday’s market needs are already dated gain valuable work experience and develop France Germany today. While exploding youth populations have their skills. They don’t all have specific barriers Italy created a surplus of workers in some parts Japan to employment, and they don’t necessarily Netherlands of the world, many of them lack the proper United Kingdom come to us through participation in formal United States education and training to find meaningful work. programs. Whether through employability Young people graduating from college may not programs, flexible assignments, or permanent have the work-relevant skills and experience job placement, we focus on each person and 73,000 associates benefited from formal necessary to gain employment. We need their capabilities, and provide them with training programs to develop new capabilities, to bridge how educational institutions are preparing new graduates, and the actual needs the right tools and opportunities to unleash upgrade existing skills, or acquire the necessary of the job market. their potential. qualifications to enter new fields. P WERFUL c o n n e c t i o n s Tapani Aittoniemi, Recruitment Consultant, Manpower Finland Making New Career Paths Humanly Possible When a leading regional insulation manufacturer decided to close one of its plants in eastern Finland, I was asked to help their employees make this life-changing transition. It was a particularly tough situation as many of the employees had been with the company for decades, and most had never applied for a job or written a CV. But I knew we could help get them prepared for new opportunities. I work as an in-house consultant at the factory, in close cooperation with site managers and labor union personnel, and I have made it my mission to help the impacted employees improve their skills. The first crucial step was to gain the trust of the workforce. For me, the only way to do that was to serve them as best I can. That means delivering tailor-made career consultation services for individuals in a challenging situation. I am certain that the services we’re offering will have a positive long-term impact on the employees’ lives. We often say that the world of work is “one size fits one,” and right now this role fits me perfectly. I’m truly proud of being able to help these individuals, our client and my company. We make new careers humanly possible. ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 21 STRATEGY GOALS APPRENTICE PORTFOLIO PROGRAM / Supporting more than 4500 apprentices throughout the UK. One of our critical focus areas is addressing youth unemployment. 80% of our markets have programs focused on helping to better prepare young people for employment. Investing In Employability More than a third of the associates and contractors in our key markets are young people under the age $1.2 million in sponsorships and industry association memberships of 25, as compared with less than 15% of the general labor force in most countries. $7.3 million in charitable donations, including money, goods, services & $72.1 Million volunteer time $63.6 million invested in We also partner with clients, governments and community organizations to develop and support employability programs employability programs for long-term unemployed, people with disabilities, and other disadvantaged groups. These programs may include coaching to help build confidence, training to develop in-demand skills and capabilities, and support to improve job search success. In 2013, we coached and trained 38,000 candidates from at-risk groups. Associate & Contractor Age In Key Markets LOCAL EMPLOYABILITY PROGRAM EXAMPLES Enabling Small Enterprises to Support Apprenticeships < 25 600,000+ Every Day 25 50 As the largest employer in the UK, small and medium enterprises (SMEs) present the largest potential > 50 opportunity for young people to gain work experience through apprenticeship programs. However, many SMEs are not able to meet the obligation of supporting a full-time apprentice for the legally mandated year. In response to this challenge, ManpowerGroup in the UK developed an Apprentice Portfolio Program Connecting Youth To Opportunities 60% that allows SMEs to take on apprentices on a part-time or short-term basis. ManpowerGroup will then % of ManpowerGroup associates and contractors % of local workforce under the age of 25 under the age of 25 place the apprentice with other SMEs, enabling the individual to fulfill the 12-month apprenticeship 40% requirement, while gaining experience with a variety of employers. We currently have more than 4,500 20% apprentices in our program throughout the UK. 0% Argentina Australia Belgium France Germany Italy Japan Mexico Netherlands Norway Sweden United Kingdom United States Source: ILOSTAT ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 22 STRATEGY GOALS WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT / Putting thousands back to work through targeted training programs. Partnering to Put People Back to Work history. This new program so far has trained Across the United States, ManpowerGroup 40 individuals, engaged 25 employers and partners with local government and workforce put 15 people to work. development agencies to introduce programs that help put people back to work, especially Education to Put Job-Seekers on the underemployed or low income adults and the Path to Employability long-term unemployed. As part of its 2013 Workforce Employability Initiative, ManpowerGroup Hong Kong partnered In partnership with the Southwest Wisconsin with multiple organizations to educate jobWorkforce Development Board, we trained seekers about the skills and capabilities needed 1,100 unemployed individuals, engaged 500 by employers now and into the future. From employers and placed 800 individuals into jobs. August through October, ManpowerGroup Hong Kong participated in resume consultations and With help from 200 employers and the Office other educational programs and events with nonof Economic and Workforce Development in profit and private groups like Junior Achievement, San Francisco, California, we helped 160 city Jiu Jik, Hong Kong University and others. All told, residents find jobs and trained 1,500 individuals. the initiative connected thousands of job seekers EDUCATING JOB SEEKERS IN HONG KONG to paths of career opportunity. ABOUT IN-DEMAND SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES The Just In Time Program in San Antonio, Texas, a partnership with Workforce Solutions Alamo, trains and places job seekers in the Addressing the Talent Mismatch community into in-demand occupations. More The ManpowerGroup France Foundation for than 100 low-income or underemployed adults, Employment partnered with Pôle Emploi, the including veterans and dislocated workers, French Public Service for Employment, on have participated in the program and gained an initiative called “Agissons pour l’Emploi” full-time positions. (Let’s Commit for Employment). The program addresses the talent mismatch by hosting Supported by the Atlanta Workforce Innovation “job dating” events in Toulouse, Marseille, Grant, ManpowerGroup and five workforce Rennes and Paris. The events connected 1,850 boards are placing long-term unemployed job seekers with 300 employers with open individuals into partially subsidized work positions, while helping recruiters see beyond JOB DATING EVENTS IN FRANCE CONNECT experiences to close a gap in their work ONOMIC the CV to a candidate’s potential. YOUNG JOB SEEKERS WITH EMPLOYERS EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 23 STRATEGY GOALS PROGRAMS & PARTNERSHIPS / Connecting people with opportunities and helping them become more employable. Partnership Types Program Focus 80% 68% 77% OF MARKETS OF MARKETS OF MARKETS government youth refugees, people client KEY immigrants, minorities with disabilities 33 community/NGO EUROPE Programs 66% 69% Market Challenge: Partnership Types Program Focus OF MARKETS OF MARKETS Youth unemployment, long-term world of work Integrating refugees unemployed education and immigrants, 12 Thanks to the Integra program my skills and abilities as a worker have increased exponentially. NORTH AMERICA Programs Alvaro Gomez-Cambronero, Spain Market Challenge: Partnership Types Program Focus Participant in Integra program for college students with disabilities Long-term unemployment and re-integrating veterans I was a person with no employment… It was very important to me, not just to have a skill, but to have an in-demand skill. Rickey Brooks, US Veteran and Just in Time Manufacturing graduate 11 LATIN AMERICA Programs Market Challenge: Partnership Types Program Focus 11 Integrating people from discriminated and ASIA PACIFIC Programs disadvantaged groups Market Challenge: Partnership Types Program Focus Youth unemployment The program changed my life—it helped me strengthen my skills, enabling me to fend for myself. Before MVTC, I was dependent on my mother and a government subsidy. Jhonatan Londono, Colombia Now I will succeed and support my mother. Participant in Jovenes Visionarios program for at risk youth R. Vasuki, India Manpower Vocational Technical Centers graduate ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 24 STRATEGY GOALS 80% OF MARKETS / have employability programs for youth. Creating 10,000 Internships Tackling Youth Unemployment Across The World In Sweden, 27% of youth were unemployed in 2013. But thanks to UngaJobb (YoungJobs), they will now have more opportunities to develop work experience and become more employable. UngaJobb got its start in 2009, and is the result of a partnership between Manpower, Swedbank, one of Sweden’s largest banks, and the National Employment Service. Through our 60 local offices across Sweden we identify internship opportunities among our clients across a wide variety of industries and recruit the candidates from the local youth population. Global Germany Middle East & North Africa Career development Filling skills gaps Work-ready competencies Potential interns are introduced to employers 283,000+ associates and contractors 400 people, including youth, obtained Thousands of young people followed under the age of 25 were employed last year industry qualifications and training in a number our “Finding a Job is a Job” curriculum, via “speed dating” interviews, and the National in our 13 largest markets, having access to free skills development and training of industry sectors, including metalworking, electrical engineering and business. prepared in partnership with Education For Employment Foundation, which helps youth opportunities. and first time job seekers enter the workforce. Employment Service handles the logistics of Italy Argentina Vocational training Sweden Employability training 26,000 unemployed individuals, Internships formal employment. 5,000+ low income youth received including youth, received basic business, 10,000 internships for 18-24 year employability training through the Juntos vocational and on-the-job training through olds will be created through a program por los Jovenes program in partnership our Forma.Temp program. called UngaJobb (YoungJobs) developed with Ministry of Social Development, in partnership with Swedbank and the UngaJobb’s vision is to contribute to a cultural private, public and education sectors. Japan Employment Service. Job training Australia 1,400 high school and college change where young people have access to Upskilling graduates developed soft skills and United Kingdom 15,000 youth struggling to enter the Youth charity programs were placed for trial-work periods with small Created 200,000 new entry level jobs jobs through qualified and practical training workforce will gain valuable skills through our partnership with Landcare Australia for and mid-size firms following our training and internships. and helped avoid the economic and societal Australia’s national conservation initiative cost of a “lost generation” by supporting experiences. Our goal is to create 10,000 new Green Army Program. Mexico WORKing for YOUth initiative alongside corporate partners. France Work reintegration internships. To date, we have placed 4,000 Supporting start-ups Talent Pipeline is a comprehensive consulting service that advises United States Since 2012, the ManpowerGroup Career coaching Foundation has funded the training of 5,200+ employers how to incorporate hundreds young people in internships. youth starting their own micro-business by of apprentices and trainees into their Hundreds of Milwaukee area teens with barriers to employment participated providing financial support to Adie, the leading workplaces and connect candidates with educational institutions. in the ArtWork program, which provides microcredit association in France. employability training through paid internships, career coaching and exploration workshops. ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 25 STRATEGY GOALS 77% OF MARKETS / have employability programs for people with disabilities Manpower Inclusive: A Winning Partnership For Diversity in Finland The program’s success was recognized in June of 2013 by the European Commission P WERFUL In 2007, ManpowerGroup Finland launched with a CSR Award, which honors collaborative connections Manpower Inclusive, a collaborative programs that tackle sustainability through Neils Strande, Experis Contractor, Norway program that provides job opportunities for innovation and partnerships. disadvantaged individuals — such as people Job hunting is not easy. The economic crisis with disabilities or chronic illness, immigrants, Young Refugees Finding Their Futures does not help, and it’s and youth, especially those who have been Work is an important element for the successful no secret that it can be unemployed for more than one year. integration of refugees into a new society. tough for a deaf person like me to get a job. That’s why ManpowerGroup in the Netherlands “We wanted to create a bridge to employment teamed up with the Dutch Refugee Council So it has been a great by working in partnership with government, help for me that, without to create a program that helps prepare young community organizations and businesses,” solicitation, an Experis recruiter offered to refugees for a successful future in their new help me jump-start my career. said Mika Wilén, director of marketing and home. The program matches refugees between communications for ManpowerGroup Finland. She did not spend her time finding just any the ages of 15 and 18 with study and future job for me; she focused on finding a good Manpower Inclusive leverages the expertise career opportunities and includes workshops, company that does not see limitations but of partner organizations including Finland’s internships, company and school visits, and rather opportunities for a deaf employee to social activities. contribute to their business. Ministry of Employment and the Economy, The Finnish Neuromuscular Disorders Association, Note: We are happy to report that in March 2014, And the ManpowerGroup team is having some Niels obtained a permanent IT position with a very The Finnish Children and Youth Foundation, Fair large Danish company doing what he loves most. fun with the project, too. In June, nearly 40 Recruitment Campaign and Abbvie Oy. women from across the company took part By helping match candidates with opportunities, in the 10K LadiesRun in Rotterdam, raising assisting with wage subsidies, and providing nearly €11,000. job coaching and other services, Manpower “Of course we are very happy with the funds Inclusive has placed 400 people in jobs to date. raised,” said Sylvia van der Graaf of the “These individuals now enjoy earning their own Dutch Council for Refugees, “but the real income and an improved quality of life, while benefit is the design of the program that will their employers benefit from the skills of capable have a significant impact on the future of these RAISING FUNDS FOR THE DUTCH REFUGEE and motivated employees,” added Mika. young refugees.” COUNCIL AT THE 10K LADIESRUN ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 26 STRATEGY GOALS 68% OF MARKETS / have programs for refugees, immigrants, minorities and others with barriers to employment. P WERFUL c o n n e c t i o n s By Jhonatan Londoño, Colombia Manpower Changed My Life In 2007, I was part of Jovenes Visionarios (Young Visionaries) in Medellin, Colombia. This program helped me to strengthen my skills and identify my weaknesses. The individual and group training, as well as the moral support, helped me—and others like me who had no one to rely on—to stand on our own feet. This is a great program and sets an example for other companies. As a Young Visionary, I’m proud, and I give many thanks to this company. Community Investment an immediate, community-wide impact. and Engagement $7.3 MILLION DONATED TO COMMUNITY TeamWorks also increases appreciation for ORGANIZATIONS, (MONEY, GOODS & diversity, while boosting our ability to attract, WHY IT MATTERS / Our ability to understand SERVICES, & TIME) develop and retain the best employees and tap into the dynamics of our local and candidates. 35,000 HOURS OF COMMUNITY SERVICE communities is critical to the success of our IN 9 KEY MARKETS business. Our visible engagement and support Each year, TeamWorks selects a small group make for stronger, thriving communities where of premier local and national non-profit and we live and work. community organization partners that share TEAMWORKS: SUPPORTING our goal of building successful workforces. Sustainable communities attract the talent and OUR COMMUNITIES Colleagues at world headquarters in Milwaukee businesses that fuel growth and profitability. Helping to develop sustainable workforces participate in a variety of organized volunteer Community investment also provides more is the goal of TeamWorks, our North activities, while our people in the field are opportunities for our colleagues to make a America corporate volunteer program. By encouraged to connect with national partners difference, increasing their engagement and our concentrating our combined efforts on one locally or choose their own local organizations organizational performance. focus area, we are better able to make with which to partner. ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 27 STRATEGY GOALS SAFETY FIRST / 100% of operations have standard practices to assess potential risks to associates and contractors on assignment. 2013 TEAMWORKS PARTNERSHIPS Health, Safety & Wellness ARTWORKS FOR MILWAUKEE: employability WHY IT MATTERS / Because we care about people, we care about the health and safety of everyone training via arts-based paid apprenticeships for as an integral part of our culture. at-risk Milwaukee high school students. We endeavor to take appropriate measures to provide a safe working environment for all of our BEST BUDDIES: opportunities for one-on-one employees, associates, contractors and consultants. We focus on compliance with health and safety friendships, employment, and leadership legislation within our own business operations and also apply this same standard as a matter of development for people with intellectual and priority when reviewing whether to place associates, contractors and consultants in a client’s work developmental disabilities. environment. CITY YEAR: unites young people of all In 2013, we conducted an assessment of 13 of our largest operations to understand the approaches backgrounds for a year of full-time service to keep they were taking to ensure health and safety and promote wellness in their organizations and for the students in school and on track to graduate. associates and contractors that we place with clients. Given the differences in local regulations, as well JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT: educating students as the variety of industries and roles in which we place our associates and candidates, we expected about workforce readiness, entrepreneurship that approaches would differ significantly around the world. and financial literacy through experiential, handson programs. of operations have standard of operations provide health & practices to assess the safety training to employees, LITERACY SERVICES OF WISCONSIN: providing associates/ contractors or both. health & safety risk of clients’ literacy education to motivated adults. 100% worksites and roles prior to 85% Training is provided to associates placing associates & and contractors specific to the contractors on assignment. requirements of their roles and OUR NEXT GENERATION KIDS: our Homework clients’ work environments. Club helps at-risk children achieve their full potential, envision a better tomorrow and grow of operations have formal into well-adjusted and successful adults. employee wellness programs. Examples include: of operations have health & Employee Assistance Programs SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION: safety certification: These tend Free health screenings & annual checkups to be countries where a large empowering Milwaukee County residents with Discounted fitness memberships resources to move beyond poverty, including 69% On-site fitness classes & weight-loss 38% volume of our clients are in industries that have more rigorous support groups health & safety needs, like mining, economic and employment support, asset Healthy choice menus in cafeterias and corporate catering logistics and construction. development and preservation, youth and Weight-loss and/or fitness challenges Monetary incentives for preventive family strengthening, and education. health screenings ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 28 STRATEGY GOALS FOCUS ON WELLNESS / Providing a variety of programs to promote wellness among our employees. NEW POLICY AND GLOBAL FRAMEWORK While a certain amount of variability is acceptable—even necessary—when working across so many P WERFUL different geographies and markets, we want to ensure that all of our operations have practices in place connections that align, as much as possible, with our global priorities. To that end, we have refreshed our global Eira Phjanvaara, HR Manager, ManpowerGroup Finland Health, Safety and Wellness policy, and developed a comprehensive program that establishes high-level governance, guidelines and goals. We plan to roll out this program in 2015 as part of our new Global Wellness to Power the World of Work Sustainability Framework. At ManpowerGroup we believe in supporting people to become the person they want to be. GLOBAL FRAMEWORK Two years ago ManpowerGroup offered me the HR professional role that I had dreamed of for a • Provide management, oversight and direction long time. I had doubts about how a demanding Global Sponsor • Demonstrate visible and active program support job would affect my general life satisfaction. But • Report overall program status to the Executive Operating Committee I soon realized that both professionally and as a working parent I had the full support of my manager, and our company culture supported • Define key program guidelines and components my general well-being. Global Health, Safety & • Monitor established SKIs and metrics Wellness Committee • Provide best practice advice/counsel Now it is payback time! Recently I helped • Assist in the preparation of sustainability reporting develop the Be Well Program, which includes everything from comprehensive occupational health, pension insurance and possibilities LOCAL PROGRAMS for remote work, to wellness training and fun sports activities like running and ice skating. • Develop local programs to meet company objectives There have also been a wide range of Be Well training sessions on stress • Demonstrate visible and active support of local programs Local Sponsor management, ergonomics, • Monitor effectiveness of local programs nutrition, and more. • Designate in-country Health, Safety and Wellness representatives In my work, I help our • Establish local programs in accordance with global guidelines people be strong and fit to meet our business • Develop and maintain program documentation communication Local Program Owners challenges in the • Establish and track program objectives world of • Track and report program outcomes work. ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 29 STRATEGY GOALS HUMAN RIGHTS / 100% of key market operations have standard practices to ensure the protection of fundamental human rights at work. Applying the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights IN ITALY, MANPOWER AND MANPOWER WHY IT MATTERS / People are core to our business. We have publicly committed to supporting FORMAZIONE HAVE EARNED SA 8000 our people by respecting internationally proclaimed human rights and fair labor practices, and to SOCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY CERTIFICATION embedding these practices into our operations. FOR THEIR COMMITMENT TO PROTECT HUMAN RIGHTS. The United Nations Human Rights Council endorsed the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights as an authoritative global standard for addressing adverse impacts on human rights linked to business activity. In 2013, we benchmarked our performance against the Guiding Principles: PRINCIPLE 16: POLICY COMMITMENT P WERFUL Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics serves as our moral compass, and outlines our shared connections responsibility to treat people with respect, dignity, courtesy and fairness. Joe Wehbe, HR Diversity Coordinator ManpowerGroup Australia/New Zealand PRINCIPLES 17-19: DUE DILIGENCE We conducted a preliminary assessment of our largest markets to understand the state of their It is great to be practices to ensure human rights at work. We also developed a more detailed Human Rights Impact part of a diverse workplace where I Assessment tool that will be rolled out in 2014. am treated equally. When I started at PRINCIPLES 20-21: TRACKING & COMMUNICATING PERFORMANCE ManpowerGroup, Our local organizations supported a number of initiatives, including Project Futures, FEVIMTRA, my managers made Fundacion Reintegra, and Human Trafficking Task Force of Greater Milwaukee. sure that my colleagues understood how to accommodate my hearing disability. They have PRINCIPLE 29: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS gone to great lengths to provide real-time We increased awareness among our employees of our resources for seeking guidance and reporting captioning services for team meetings and phone calls so I won’t be left behind. concerns about ethical issues. In addition, we improved our Business Ethics Hotline to provide online reporting capabilities, as well as toll-free access from anywhere in the world. ManpowerGroup believes in the dignity of work and employment opportunities for all, and that is what my role is all about! If it weren’t for ManpowerGroup, I wouldn’t have become the professional I dreamed of being. ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Social Sustainability Activities 30 STRATEGY GOALS STRATEGY GOALS ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY NM ENTAL SOC ACTIVITIES O IA ENV L IR ONOMIC EC STRATEGY GOALS Page 33 PERFORMANCE Manpower Sweden’s new ENTAL bike fleet—zero-emission business travel. NM SOC O IA ENV L IR 31 ISO14001 / Our operations in Australia, Finland, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway and Sweden have obtained ISO14001 or equivalent certification for their environmental management systems. Environmental Management Beginning in 2014, we will set high-level goals MAKING OUR OFFICES MORE and priorities for our environmental performance RESOURCE EFFICIENT WHY IT MATTERS / Even office-based at the global level. Our key markets will then Following the lead set by our global headquarters businesses have an opportunity and identify local targets and objectives that in Milwaukee, which moved to a LEED Gold responsibility to reduce their environmental contribute to meeting our global goals. certified building in 2007, our headquarters in impact—especially a business with offices in France, Germany, Australia, and Austria are all 80 countries and territories. located in environmentally certified buildings. Energy Consumption Unit: MWh As a professional service organization, 200,000 Other countries have taken steps to reduce ManpowerGroup’s operations are entirely 150,000 energy consumption in their offices by making office-based with an environmental impact use of technology such as programmable 100,000 that is relatively small compared to companies Natural Gas Heating Oil lights and thermostats, as well as encouraging 50,000 with more obvious carbon footprints, such as Electricity Fleet Fuel employees to power down computers and turn those in the manufacturing or transportation 0 2011 2012 2013 off lights. sectors. Our greatest areas of impact are from the energy we use in our offices and travel to Detailed reporting on our environmental deliver our services. Water Consumption performance is available in the Performance Unit: Cubic Meters Data table on page 35 and on our Ecodesk 400,000 IMPROVING OUR ABILITY TO TRACK AND MEASURE PERFORMANCE profile and CDP responses. 300,000 200,000 In 2012, we reported environmental 100,000 performance in our three largest markets. In Greenhouse Gas Emissions Unit: Metric Tons CO2e 0 2013, we continued to improve the quality and 50,000 2011 2012 2013 consistency of our environmental reporting, 40,000 using raw data available from key operations 30,000 Scope 2 Our water consumption is limited to domestic Scope 1 and extrapolating performance across our 20,000 use for drinking and hygiene. We strive to global population. This enables us to establish 10,000 use this resource responsibly and reduce a baseline against which to measure our 0 consumption through the use of water 2011 2012 2013 performance and set goals going forward. conservation technologies where possible. ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Environmental Sustainability Activities 32 STRATEGY GOALS GREENING OUR FLEETS / Our operations in Norway and Sweden have added electric cars to their fleets. And our colleagues in Sweden can now cycle to local meetings on one of several branded bicycles. Recycling and Waste Management Unit: Metric Tons 15,000 P WERFUL 10,000 Landfill Recycled connections 5,000 Mattias Ransfeldt, Consultant Manager, Manpower Sweden 0 2011 2012 2013 I feel that the environment is important for me, but even more important for my A number of initiatives to reduce paper use, such as programming printers to automatically print children. I like using the bike because double-sided and moving to paperless transaction systems, have enabled us to substantially reduce I like building strong legs instead of environmental footprints. After some the amount of office waste we produce. The majority of our office waste is recycled and does not weeks of taking the bike instead of the end up in landfills. Most of our key markets have recycling programs in branch offices and standard car, I realized that I felt better, saved practices to ensure the responsible disposal of electronic equipment. some money and was helping a little bit for the environment. GREENING OUR FLEETS Fleet fuel accounts for almost half of our energy consumption. It’s no surprise that our operations are looking at ways to increase the efficiency of their fleets, while at the same time reducing their emissions. For the past few years, our operations in Belgium, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and the UK have all been replacing fleet vehicles with lower-emission models. Nearly 80% of Italy’s fleet runs on liquid natural gas. Norway and Sweden both have electric cars in their fleets. And our colleagues in Sweden can now cycle to local meetings on one of several bicycles branded with our logos. ONOMIC EC ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Environmental Sustainability Activities 33 STRATEGY GOALS PERFORMANCE DATA & GRI INDEX 34 Performance Data Global Current Year 2012 2011 GRI Code Compact ECONOMIC 2013 Principle Financial Performance Revenues from services ($ million) 20,250.5 20,678.0 22,006.0 G4-EC1 Gross profit ($ million) 3,366.7 3,442.0 3,706.3 Operating profit ($ million) 511.9 411.7 524.2 Net earnings ($ million) 288.0 197.6 251.6 Revenues in emerging markets ($ million) 2,676.8 2,637.9 2,475.9 G4-EC1 Client & Candidate Success Candidate Experience score 70 ***** 73 G4-PR5 G4-EC1 People placed in permanent, temporary and contract positions 3.4 million 3.4 million 3.5 million G4EC8 Associates on assignment daily 600,000 636,000 600,000 G4-EC1 Ethical & Principles-Based Culture G4-HR2 Employees required to train & certify on Code of Business 100% 100% 100% G4-SO3 1-6, 10 Conduct and Ethics G4-SO4 Percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption 100% 100% 100% G4-SO3 10 Supply Chain Integrity G4-LA14 Number of suppliers in key operations with CSR provisions embedded in 550 (22%) ***** ***** G4-HR10 1-10 contracts (percentage of total spend) G4-SO9 G4-LA14 Number of suppliers in key operations requested to provide positive 1660 (66%) ***** ***** G4-HR10 1-10 assurance of alignment with CSR principles (percentage of total spend) G4-SO9 G4-LA14 Percentage of high-risk suppliers audited 100% ***** ***** G4-HR10 1-10 G4-SO9 ***** Data unavailable / not previously tracked ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 35 Performance Data Current Year Global 2012 2011 GRI Code Compact SOCIAL 2013 Principle Employability G4-LA9 Associates participating in training programs 72,732 ***** ***** G4-LA10 G4-SO1 Key operations with employability programs 100% ***** ***** G4-LA10 Donations ($ million) 7.3 3.7 6.36 G4-EC8 G4-EC8 Investments in employability programs ($ million) 63.6 ***** ***** G4-SO1 G4-EC8 Volunteer hours 35,000 60,000 32,200 G4-SO1 Diversity & Inclusion Total number of employees 27,000 25,544 28,344 G4-9 Women employees 65% 67% ***** G4-LA12 6 Women in management positions 57% 55% ***** G4-LA12 6 Women on the Board of Directors 31% 31% 31% G4-LA12 6 Executive leaders not of US origin 69% 70% ***** G4-LA12 6 Employees represented by labor unions / collective bargaining agreements 51% 40% ***** G4-11 3 Employee Development & Engagement Percent of employees fully or partially engaged 92% 92% 93% Employees receiving regular performance reviews 100% 100% 100% G4-LA11 Key operations offering leadership development programs 85% ***** ***** G4-LA10 Number of managers participating in leadership development programs 1475 (52%) ***** ***** G4-LA9 Key operations offering other development programs 85% ***** ***** G4-LA10 Number of employees participating in other development programs 4725 (27%) ***** ***** G4-LA9 Percentage of midand senior-level positions filled internally 84% ***** ***** G4-LA1 Employee turnover (voluntary) 13% 15% 16% G4-LA1 ***** Data unavailable / not previously tracked ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 36 Performance Data Global Current Year 2012 2011 GRI Code Compact SOCIAL (CONTINUED) 2013 Principle Health, Safety & Wellness Key operations with wellness programs 69% ***** ***** Key operations with health & safety certifications 38% ***** ***** Reportable injuries among employees (number of incidents per million hours worked) 2.97* 16.38** 19.03** Reportable injuries among associates (number of incidents per million hours worked) 23.36* 83.19** 88.88** ENVIRONMENT Environmental Management Key operations with environmental certifications 31% 31% 23% 7 Key operation HQs in certified buildings 31% 31% ***** 8, 9 Key operations with energy/emissions reduction initiatives 62% 53% ***** 8, 9 Key operations with recycling programs 77% ***** ***** 8 Key operations with responsible e-waste disposal programs 85% ***** ***** 8 Energy (MWh)*** Total energy consumption 154,467 151,081 168,702 G4-EN3 8 Fuel consumption in offices 9,358 13,029 16,601 G4-EN3 8 Heating oil 844 5,029 3,877 G4-EN3 8 Scope of raw data (% of employees) 47% 46% 37% Natural gas 8,514 8,000 12,725 G4-EN3 8 Scope of raw data (% of employees) 41% 42% 33% Electricity consumption in offices 71,626 72,533 96,719 G4-EN3 8 Scope of raw data (% of employees) 36% 53% 43% Percentage of electricity from renewables 10% 17% 14% G4-EN3 8, 9 Fuel consumption by fleets 73,483 65,519 55,382 G4-EN3 8, 9 Scope of raw data (% of employees) 52% 47% 27% Energy intensity per employee 5.450 5.330 5.952 G4-EN5 8 ***** Data unavailable / not previously tracked * Scope of data: 13 key markets representing 74% of total employees and 83% of revenues. ** Scope of data: 4 key markets representing 40% of total employees and 55% of revenues *** Extrapolated to 100% based on raw data available from key operations ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 37 Performance Data Global Current Year 2012 2011 GRI Code Compact ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) 2013 Principle Emissions (metric tonnes CO2e)*** Scope 1 emissions 19,267 19,915 14,641 G4-EN15 8 Stationary combustion 1,778 4,290 4,633 Mobile combustion 17,490 15,625 10,009 Scope 2 emissions 16,661 20,181 27,348 G4-EN16 8 Scope 1 + Scope 2 emissions 35,928 40,096 41,989 G4-EN18 8 Scope 3 emissions from air travel**** 7,124 ***** ***** G4-EN17 8 Scope of raw data (% of employees) 49% ***** ***** Scope 1 + Scope 2 emissions per employee 1.331 1.570 1.481 G4-EN18 8 Scope 1 + Scope 2 emissions per $ million revenue 1.774 1.939 1.908 G4-EN18 8 Waste & Recycling (metric tonnes)*** Total waste 7,291 13,879 11,260 G4-EN23 8 Waste to landfill 2,290 5,044 4,682 G4-EN23 8 Waste recycled 5,001 8,835 6,578 G4-EN23 8 Percentage of total waste recycled 69% 64% 58% G4-EN23 8 Scope of raw data (% of employees) 6% 4% 4% Water (cubic meters)*** Water consumption 257,256 278,404 375,388 G4-EN8 8 Scope of raw data (% of employees) 10% 7% 6% ***** Data unavailable / not previously tracked *** Extrapolated to 100% based on raw data available from key operations **** As reported by Egencia, new vendor as of 2013 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 38 GRI Index Global GRI Code Description Reference or Short Answer Compact Principle STRATEGY & ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization Executive Message 1-10 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization ManpowerGroup Inc. G4-4 Primary brands and services 2013 Annual Report G4-5 Location of organization's headquarters Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries G4-6 with either significant operations or operations that are specifically relevant to 2013 Annual Report the sustainability issues covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 2013 Annual Report Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of G4-8 2013 Annual Report customers/beneficiaries) G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 2013 Annual Report G4-10 Workforce demographics Diversity & Inclusion, Performance Data 6 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Performance Data 1, 3 G4-12 Description of organization’s supply chain Supply Chain Integrity 2, 4-6, 10 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, G4-13 2013 Annual Report ownership or supply chain Each year, as part of our strategic three-year planning process, we undertake an enterprise risk analysis and Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is G4-14 outline global and regional mitigation strategies to 7 addressed by the organization address significant risks. This process demonstrates our commitment to a precautionary approach. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, G4-15 Human Rights & Fair Labor, Recognition, Memberships 1-10 or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy G4-16 Memberships 1-6, 10 organizations ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 39 GRI Index Global GRI Code Description Reference or Short Answer Compact Principle IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDRIES G4-17 Entities included in organization’s financial statements 2013 Annual Report We are in the process of transitioning to the G4 G4-18 Process for defining report content and Aspect Boundaries framework and plan to report on this in our 2014 report. G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content About this Report We are in the process of transitioning to the G4 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization for material Aspects framework and plan to report on this in our 2014 report. We are in the process of transitioning to the G4 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization for material Aspects framework and plan to report on this in our 2014 report. G4-22 Effect of, and reasons for, restatements of information provided in previous reports N/A G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting period in Scope and Aspect Boundaries N/A STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Our Stakeholders G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Our Stakeholders Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement G4-26 Our Stakeholders by type and by stakeholder group Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder G4-27 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and Our Stakeholders, About this Report concerns, including through its reporting REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided 2013 calendar year G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2012 G4-30 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents joann.strickon@manpowergroup.com G4-32 In accordance option Core Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for Revenue data has been assured by external auditors. G4-33 the report Some local environmental data has been assured. GOVERNANCE Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the G4-34 highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting Corporate Governance strategy or organizational oversight ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 40 GRI Index Global GRI Code Description Reference or Short Answer Compact Principle ECONOMIC Aspect: Economic Performance DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 2013 Annual Report Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating G4-EC1 costs, employee compensation, community investments, retained earnings, 2013 Annual Report, Investing in Employability and payments to capital providers and governments Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s G4-EC2 2014 CDP Response 7 activities due to climate change G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations 2013 Annual Report G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Not tracked at the global level Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Investing in Emerging Markets, Investing in Employability, DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Community Investment & Engagement, Performance Data Investing in Emerging Markets, Investing in Employability, G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Community Investment & Engagement, Performance Data ENIVIRONMENTAL Aspect: Energy DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Environmental Management 7 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental Management, Performance Data 8 G4-EN5 Energy intensity Performance Data 8 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Environmental Management 8, 9 Aspect: Emissions DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Environmental Management 7 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Environmental Management, Performance Data 8 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Environmental Management, Performance Data 8 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Environmental Management, Performance Data 8 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Environmental Management 8-9 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 41 GRI Index Global GRI Code Description Reference or Short Answer Compact Principle SOCIAL—LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Aspect: Employment DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Talent Planning, Diversity & Inclusion, Engagement Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age Engagement (We will begin reporting on employee G4-LA1 6 group, gender and region turnover by gender and role in 2015.) Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or G4-LA2 Not yet reported part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Not tracked Aspect: Occupational Health & Safety DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Health, Safety & Wellness Performance Data (The significant decrease in 2013 injury rates is a reflection of the increased scope of reporting. A Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and G4-LA6 number of markets that were not included in past years number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender reporting have extremely low injury rates among both employees and associates.) Aspect: Training & Education DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Developing Great Talent, Investing in Employability We do not believe that hours of training is a relevant Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee G4-LA9 metric. We do report on participation in training programs. category Developing Great Talent, Investing in Employability Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued G4-LA10 Developing Great Talent, Investing in Employability employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 100% of employees participate in performance and G4-LA11 6 development reviews, by gender career development reviews at least annually. Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Diversity & Inclusion 1, 6 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per G4-LA12 employee category according to gender, age group, minority group Diversity & Inclusion 1, 6 membership, and other indicators of diversity Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Supply Chain Integrity 1-6 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria Supply Chain Integrity 1-6 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 42 GRI Index Global GRI Code Description Reference or Short Answer Compact Principle SOCIAL­—HUMAN RIGHTS Aspect: Assessment DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Human Rights & Fair Labor Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human G4-HR9 Human Rights & Fair Labor 1-6 rights reviews or impact assessments Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Supply Chain Integrity 1-6 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria Supply Chain Integrity 1-6 SOCIAL­—SOCIETY Aspect: Local Communities Investing in Employability, Community Investment and DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 1, 6 Engagement Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, G4-SO1 Employability Programs Around the World 1,6 impact assessments, and development programs. Aspect: Anti-Corruption Ethical & Principles-Based Culture, Code of Business DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 10 Conduct and Ethics Training As part of our annual enterprise risk assessment, we analyze Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to G4-SO3 all business units for potential risks related to corruption, and 10 corruption. develop mitigation plans for significant risks. G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Training 10 Aspect: Public Policy DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 10 Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics prohibits G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary contributions to political parties, politicians and related 10 institutions. Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Supply Chain Integrity 10 G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society Supply Chain Integrity 10 ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 43 RECOGNITION / Our commitment and approach are recognized both globally and locally. Recognition Our strong commitment to responsible business practices is reflected in everything that we do­—from our corporate governance structure and policies, to our people practices, to the assurances we seek from our supply chain business partners. We strive to provide a great work environment for our employees and to be a beacon of integrity for our clients. Our commitment and approach have been consistently recognized over the years, both globally and at the local level. GLOBAL RECOGNITION 11 3 6 6 MOST TRUSTWORTHY 100 BEST 2 DIVERSITY RECOGNITION EXCELLENCE IN WORKPLACE CONSECUTIVE CONSECUTIVE CONSECUTIVE CONSECUTIVE CORPORATE CONSECUTIVE AT THE EFFECTIVENESS PUBLIC CITIZENS YEARS YEARS YEARS YEARS COMPANY YEARS HIGHEST LEVEL AND FLEXIBILITY On Fortune Named one of the Listed on FTSE4 Named to Dow Jones Fourth annual study Named to Corporate Gold CSR Rating Recognized by Alfred P. Sloan 11 magazine’s list of 3 World’s Most Ethical 6 Good Index Series 6 Sustainability Index MOST of more than 2000 TRUSTWORTHY 100 BEST Responsibility 2 from EcoVadis DIVERSITY 2020 Women on RECOGNITION EXCELLENCE Award WORKPLACE IN CONSECUTIVE World’s Most CONSECUTIVE Companies CONSECUTIVE CONSECUTIVE US-based public CORPORATE Magazine list CONSECUTIVE Boards Campaign AT THE EFFECTIVENESS Admired Companies PUBLIC companies CITIZENS YEARS YEARS YEARS YEARS COMPANY YEARS HIGHEST LEVEL AND FLEXIBILITY On Fortune Named one of the Listed on FTSE4 Named to Dow Jones Fourth annual study Named to Corporate Gold CSR Rating Recognized by Alfred P. Sloan magazine’s list of World’s Most Ethical Good Index Series Sustainability Index of more than 2000 Responsibility from EcoVadis 2020 Women on Award World’s Most Companies US-based public Magazine list Boards Campaign Admired Companies companies LOCAL RECOGNITION ARGENTINA FINLAND FRANCE ITALY MEXICO NORWAY UNITED KINGDOM UNITED STATES Listed on IFREI’s Recognized by the Highest EcoVadis Earned SA800 Recognized for Recognized by Earned Two Ticks Named one of Family Responsible World Wildlife Fund CSR rating in our Social Accountability Social Responsibility, Lighthouse for ratings for support America’s Top Employer Index for environmental industry certification Inclusion, and environmentally of people with Corporations for ARGENTINA management FINLAND FRANCE ITALY Gender Equality friendly operations disabilities Women’s Business MEXICO NORWAY UNITED KINGDOM UNITED STATES Enterprises Listed on IFREI’s Recognized by the Highest EcoVadis Earned SA800 Recognized for Recognized by Earned Two Ticks Named one of Family Responsible World Wildlife Fund CSR rating in our Social Accountability Social Responsibility, Lighthouse for ratings for support America’s Top Employer Index for environmental industry certification Inclusion, and environmentally of people with Corporations for management Gender Equality friendly operations disabilities Women’s Business Enterprises ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 44 INDUSTRY ENGAGEMENT / Through our participation in key industry associations and initiatives, our leaders advance the agenda of talent as a critical component of sustainability in the Human Age. Industry Engagement EXECUTIVE LEADERS • Australian Institute of Company Directors • Business Ethics Leadership Alliance • Business Council Coordinator (CCE), Mexico • Committee for Economic Development, Director • Centre for Social Justice Research, United Kingdom • G100 Network • CEO Forum Group, Australia • HR Policy Association, Board Member • Confederation of India Industry • Human Capital Institute, National Advisory Board Member • Confederation of Norwegian Service Industries (NHO), Chair • International Confederation of Private Employment Agencies (CIETT), • Employers’ Association of Germany Vice President • European Union Chamber of Commerce in China • National Academy of Human Resources, National Advisory Board Member • Federal Association of Medium-Sized Businesses, Germany • Personnel Roundtable, Executive Committee Member • Federal Commission of Labour and Social Affairs, Sweden • United Nations Global Compact • Federation of HR Service Providers, Belgium, Past President • World Economic Forum (WEF), Strategic Partner • Federation of Private Employment Agencies, Netherlands, Board Member • WEF Global Agenda Council on Migration • Foundation for Action Against Exclusion (FACE), France • WEF Global Agenda Council on Gender Parity • German Association for Materials, Purchasing and Logistics • WEF Global Agenda Council on Youth Unemployment • Indian Staffing Federation • Japan Executive Search and Recruitment Association, Outplacement Services Council COUNTRY LEADERS • Japan Staffing Services Association • American Chamber of Commerce, Finland, Germany, Spain • JINC, Supervisory Board Member, Netherlands • Amsterdam Economic Board, Human Capital Steering Group, Netherlands • Mexican Association of Human Capital Enterprises • Association Energie Jeunes, France • National Association of Employment Services Companies (ASEMPLEO), Spain • Association for Private Employment Agencies (HPL), Finland • Recruitment and Consulting Services Association, Australia • Association of Private Employment Agencies (BAP), Germany • Shanghai Human Resources Consulting Association ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 45 THOUGHT LEADERSHIP / Unique research and insights into how organizations and individuals can win in the changing world of work. View all of ManpowerGroup’s research and insights on www.manpowergroup.com Simplify to Win in the Human Age A Technology Roadmap for Smarter Sourcing SIMPLIFY TO WIN IN THE HUMAN AGE Organizational Agility a Must in Certain Uncertainty Amid economic volatility, the key to business relevance A Technology Roadmap for Smarter Sourcing HR professionals are challenged to identify sourcing technology and success today is strategic simplification. This fosters Jim McCoy Vice President, Practice Lead ManpowerGroup Solutions, North America that will connect them to the right talent quickly and effectively. the flexibility and agility companies need to be successful. The best sourcing technologies are agile—adapt to both the rapid changes in the talent marketplace and recruiting Cracking the Case innovations—and attuned to client’s business needs. Zenger, J. & Folkman, J. (2012). “Are Women Better Leaders than Men?” HBR Blog Network. Retrieved January 13, 2014 from http://blogs.hbr.org/2012/03/a-study-in-leadership-women-do/. ? PDI Ninth House. (2012). Can Women Executives Break the Glass Ceiling? Personnel Decision International Corporation. And You Don’t Even Know What Affects their Careers LinkedIn. (2013). What Women Want @ Work: A Global LinkedIn Study. http://blog.linkedin.com/2013/02/28/linkedin-what-women-want-study/. Why you need women leaders. How to get them and keep them. [51% stat]. ManpowerGroup. (2013). 2013 Women in Work Survey. (Unpublished). CRACK I NG [30% stat]. LinkedIn. (2013). What Women Want @ Work: A Global LinkedIn Study. http://blog.linkedin.com/2013/02/28/linkedin-what-women-want-study/. [47% stat]. Women in the Leadership Pipeline are being Funneled Out International Labour Organization. Key Indicators of the Labor Market, 7th CASE Edition. Accessed November 21, 2013. THE CNN Money. (May 9, 2013). Women CEOs in the Fortune 500. http://management.fortune.cnn.com/2013/05/09/women-ceosfortune-500/. Why you need Why Financial Institutions Need a Workforce Strategy It’s a Fact (Maalfrid Brath Profile) women leaders. KPMG Top management survey, 2012. How to get them and keep them. Why Financial Institutions Need The current economic environment of certain uncertainty, a Workforce Strategy growing talent shortages and quickly-evolving workforce needs When Engaging the Right Talent, One Size Does Not Fit All make it imperative to have a robust workforce strategy in place When Engaging the Right Talent, One Size Whether high-tech or high-touch: it’s all about the candidate. that accelerates execution of business strategy. This paper Does Not Fit All Candidate Preferences in Make sure your organization is delivering the right Candidate Job Search and Interview Practices outlines talent management strategies HR functions can use to Experience. develop and maximize their employees’ human potential. This is the first in a five-part series from ManpowerGroup Solutions analyzing the results of its candidate preferences survey. Contingent Workforce Index Accelerating the Leadership Development of High The Contingent Workforce Index helps employers make Fast Track Potentials Accelerating the Leadership Development of High Potentials in Asia CWI informed decisions about their entire workforces by measuring Contingent Workforce Index 2014 Global Analysis HARNESSING THE WINDS OF CHANGE IS HUMANLY POSSIBLE This joint Right Management and Conference Board report and tracking the relative ease of sourcing, hiring and retaining frames the conversation about how top companies select, contingent workers in 75 countries. P r o p r i e t a r y, M a n p owe r G r o u p © 2014 develop and deploy leaders in Asia, where the shortage Manpower Employment Outlook Survey of leaders and pressure to develop leaders is greater than Q4 2014 Each quarter, the Manpower Employment Outlook Survey anywhere else. Manpower measures hiring confidence among approximately 66,000 Employment Outlook Survey Recruiting a Competitive Workforce: Should Needed Skills Global A ManpowerGroup Solutions White Paper TM A Manpower Research Report employers in 42 countries and territories. Recruiting a Competitive Workforce: Should SMART JOB NO: 07591 CLIeNT: MANpOweR QuARTeR 4 2014 Needed Skills be Built or Bought? Be Built or Bought? Globally, the working-age population is on the decline. At the SuBJeCT: MeOS gLOBAL Q414 – A4 – 2 COLOuR SIZe: A4 Kate Donovan, President of Global RPO DOC NAMe: 07591MpCp_gLOBAL_2COL_A4_Q414 pAge: 1 For more information on RPO, please visit ARTwORk SIZe: 297mm x 210mm DATe: 19.08.14 The Talent Shortage Continues: How the Ever Changing manpowergroupsolutions.com 87 ChARTeRhOuSe STReeT • LONDON eC1M 6hJ • TeL +44 (0)20 7324 1077 THE TALENT SHORTAGE CONTINUES Role of HR Can Bridge the Gap same time, low-skilled workers exceed demand while highskilled workers are in short supply. For the foreseeable future, it HOW THE EVER CHANGING ROLE Why is talent so elusive? HR leaders must play three distinct OF HR CAN BRIDGE THE GAP roles to ensure talent sustainability for their organizations – as appears there will continue to be more buyers (employers) than supply and demand experts, as marketers and as designers. there is product to buy (talent). The companies that come out on top will be the ones that learn when it’s best to buy talent and when it’s more effective to build it. And the answers may not be as obvious as they seem. ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 46 THOUGHT LEADERSHIP / Unique research and insights into how organizations and individuals can win in the changing world of work. View all of ManpowerGroup’s research and insights on www.manpowergroup.com The Great Talent Shortage Awakening: Actions to Take for Series: The Future of the Manufacturing Workforce THE GREAT TALENT SHORTAGE a Sustainable Workforce A Technology Roadmap for The manufacturing environment is changing dramatically, and AWAKENING: Smarter Sourcing In the world of 2013, the only certainty is uncertainty. Changing the technologies and the skills to use them are becoming critical ACTIONS TO TAKE FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORKFORCE Jim McCoy Vice President, Practice Lead ManpowerGroup Solutions, North America demographics, technological evolution and a world prone to to the success of manufacturing companies. This series of political, economic and social shocks have created a global five reports presents challenges and solutions to closing the environment in which talent shortages are the rule rather than the manufacturing talent gap. exception. As business cycles have become compressed, so too have skills cycles. The Future of The Manufacturing Workforce Report One: Technology and the Manufacturing Workforce: An Overview Make Global Recruiting a Winning Strategy Today’s global workforce is on the move like never before. By Tom Davenport T he manufacturing environment is changing dramatically, and the technologies The People Side of Strategy Macro-economic forces, including globalization and and the skills to use them are becoming critical to the success of manufacturing companies. This report highlights the necessity for multiple stakeholders to work together to yield an impact on the supply of well-trained workers. We are now at a turning point in the manufacturing workforce environment in North America. There are major changes underway in the demand and supply for manufacturing workers – many driven by new technologies – that will require new strategies and tactics for both companies and employees. These changes could lead to ManpowerGroup some of the most dramatic shifts in the human aspects of manufacturing since the Industrial Revolution. Indeed, Solutions some elements of this shift are already taking place, including the demand for a new type of technology-intensive Talent Based Outsourcing manufacturing workforce and the limited availability of that workforce. This report is the first in a series of related reports on the new manufacturing workforce, with a particular focus on manufacturing technology. This first report describes the current situation in the manufacturing workforce for North America. It also summarizes the results of a survey of manufacturing managers on these issues. Subsequent reports will address the following topics: Talent has long been a critical differentiator for organizations, technological revolutions, provide individuals even more choices The People Side of Strategy • The Rise of the “Tech” in Manufacturing; • Contemporary Manufacturing Technologies and the Talent Required to Use Them; Why Closing the Gender Talent Gap • Approaches to Educating the Manufacturing Workforce on Technology; • Policy Prescriptions for the Manufacturing Talent Gap. Makes Sense for Business Changes in Demand for the Manufacturing Workforce Perhaps the most significant development in the demand for North American manufacturing workers is that the U.S. and Canadian governments, the business media, universities, and other institutions have arrived at a consensus that manufacturing matters to the economy’s and the society’s well-being. For many years it was argued that North America was heading for a “service economy,” and few observers worried about the movement of high-tech and other manufacturing jobs to other parts of the world. This trend amounted fueling a race for the best and brightest individuals that has been of how, where and when they want to work. While this is great A ManpowerGroup™ Solutions White Paper a The People Side of Strategy raging for nearly half a century. Even today, with high levels of news for talented job seekers, it is increasingly challenging for global unemployment, competition among employers to attract many employers who are discovering that finding the right talent skilled workers has never been more fierce. where and when they need it most is not an easy task. Optimizing the Talent Pool Leading in the Human Age As economic conditions improve, having a blueprint for growth Companies today must prepare for one certainty—uncertainty. Leading in the Human age Why an era of certain uncertainty requires new Optimizing the Best Practices for Driving a approaches to the world of work Successful Talent Acquisition Talent Pool and thinking differently about talent acquisition strategies is what Specifically, companies will need to challenge themselves to Strategy in Any Economic Climate ManpowerGroup Solutions Talent Based Outsourcing will help companies drive their businesses forward. create profiles for highly resilient and strategic Human Age leaders who can, in turn, build and leverage collaborative organizations. Recruit the Right Talent Businesses able to successfully navigate the Human Age and Recruit the Right Talent To Increase Sales Effectiveness ManpowerGroup Solutions Organizations that recruit right-fit candidates and provide control their destiny are outpacing former competitors, swept leadership training can create a high-performance sales Recruitment Process Outsourcing along by the forces driving and shaping this era. organization by building bench strength and helping talented sales professionals develop the necessary skills to become effective leaders. ManpowerGroup Corporate Sustainability Report | Performance Data & GRI Index 47
