United Nations Global Compact Version – October 2014 United Nations Global Compact – version 10-2014 1|Page 1. General Period covered by our Communication on Progress (COP) From: 15 November 2012 To: 15 October 2014 2. Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) IP Nexia being a Belgian company operates in a country, where the values which are embodied within the UN Global Compact declaration have always implicitly or explicitly governed business practices. As a company we strive to implement a sustainable development policy, principles of good corporate governance, and conduct business in a way that is compliant with the principles of the Global Compact charter. IP Nexia does not tolerate any form of discrimination, based on ethnic origins, religious beliefs, gender identity or disabilities. The products and services we market and sell are designed for contributing to the reduction of ecological burdens and we expect the same from our suppliers when we are on the buying side. IP Nexia and all its employees share a conviction that sustainable development based on good stewardship of environmental, ethical, social and societal factors are at the core of our existence. Michel Coric, CEO 3. Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 3.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals IP Nexia subscribes the Belgian, European and worldwide legal and ethical frameworks, which govern the interaction between employees, contractors and employers. IP Nexia expects its employees to maintain a high standard of conduct and work performance to make sure the business maintains its good reputation with customers and suppliers. Good personal conduct contributes to a good work environment for all. This involves all employees:  observing all policies and procedures; United Nations Global Compact – version 10-2014 2|Page  treating colleagues with courtesy and respect;  treating customers and clients in a professional manner at all times;  working safely at all times. 3.2 Implementation o Each employee receives upon signing her or his contract a copy of the Code of Conduct that governs rights and obligations of the employee. o A staff member has followed an officially recognized training after which she was appointed Person of Confidence. He/She will treat any employee complaint confidentially as indicated by labour law. o IP Nexia will install a box for employees to submit their complaints and/or issues with regards to unfair treatment. If any complaint will be submitted, it will be revised by the Excecutive meeting on a monthly basis. 3.3 Measurement of outcomes The HR Manager reports to the IP Nexia CEO. Once month the executive directors convene; every director reports on any incidents or issues that may have arisen during the previous period and proposes corrective actions if required. Until October 2014 no incidents or issues have been reported. 4. Labour Principles We support the International Labour Organization on the fundamental principles and rights at work: Principle 3: freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation All IP Nexia employees are free to join a union wherever and whenever permitted by law 4.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals o All IP Nexia employees have fixed working times, governed by the interdisciplinary agreements that are reviewed on a 2-yearly basis during sector consultations. United Nations Global Compact – version 10-2014 3|Page o All employees receive at the beginning of the calendar year the schedule of official holiday. If an official holiday coincides with a Saturday or Sunday, compensation is granted automatically. If employees work more than the contractual labor time, they are entitled to compensation in terms extra days off or a financial reward. o IP Nexia does not tolerate any form of discrimination, based on ethnic origins, religious beliefs, gender identity or disabilities. o IP Nexia rejects any form of forced or child labor; we condemn any form of exploitation and oppression because of economical or any other motives. 4.2 Implementation o IP Nexia has a multi-ethnic, multi-cultural workforce and adheres to a strict non-discrimination policy with respect to personal and gender identity, religious or philosophical beliefs and handicaps and disabilities. These policies are communicated to all IP Nexia employees. o Whenever an employee, a partner, a supplier or a customer would feel to be a victim of discriminatory practices or violations of rights, executive management will treat this matter in a respectful and transparent manner. o A staff member has followed an officially recognized training as Prevention Advisor. He/She will treat any health and safety issues confidentially as indicated by labour law. o All employees are now entitled to medical insurance. 4.3 Measurement of outcomes o IP Nexia operates in Belgium, which has 3 officially recognized languages: Dutch, French and German. Every IP Nexia employee has the right internally to express herself or himself in the language of choice. Except when the use of official language is legally required, english is mainly used as the universal language both for internal or external communications. o No incidents have ever been reported due to discriminatory practices or the way our employees from different backgrounds work together. IP Nexia wants its employees, partners, suppliers or customers to be delighted by the way we conduct business. 5. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and United Nations Global Compact – version 10-2014 4|Page Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 5.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals IP Nexia has since two years been assessing how we can reduce our environmental footprint. This assessment covers:  The office building with its infrastructure  Geographical dispersion of workforce and customer base  Transportation home-work  Transportation commercially  Technological support infrastructure  Incoming mail flow process  Products and services. As a result of this assessment we have engaged in a continuous change program to ameliorate the elements which can be improved to judicious choices. The products and services we market and sell are designed for contributing to the reduction of ecological burdens and we expect the same from our suppliers when we are on the buying side. 5.2 Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents Following changes have been initiated or are being executed:  The new office building with its infrastructure o In 2013, we decided not to stay in the current offices because  The building is not up to ecological standards of isolation, heating, electrical cabling  The building has no stairs, only elevators  Is located in downtown Brussels with sub-optimal access to public transport o Does not support more flexible working schemes such as walk-in desks o Has an outdated technological infrastructure (Internet access, telephony etc) o In June 2014, we moved our office in a more recent building on the first floor in a business park outside of Brussel. o The current kitchen is equipped with selective garbage o Every week, two baskets of fresh fruits are offered to our employees. Within the “Planting Fruit Trees” campaign, it means that for every basket delivered to our company, one fruit tree will be planted and will provide fruit to the local community.  Geographical dispersion of workforce and customer base o Our workforce lives dispersed throughout Belgium o Our clients are increasingly dispersed throughout Belgium United Nations Global Compact – version 10-2014 5|Page o Whenever possible, employees make direct appointments at the customers’ premises, without having to show up in the office, reducing travel  Transportation home-work o Tele-working and flex-working are essential to minimize travel and its ecological consequences o Rationalization of automotive fleet; disposal of high-end executive limousine; focus on eco-friendly cars o New offices are well served by public transport and in the immediate vicinity of many of our suppliers as well as existing and new customers.  New car policy o Our car policy has been reviewed in order to equip our fleet vehicles using less co²  Technological support infrastructure o We have consolidated all individual computer servers onto a centralized virtualized infrastructure o This virtualized infrastructure is housed in a datacenter that has the newest low-energy consumption infrastructure for cooling, electrical alimentations etc  Incoming mail flow process o All incoming mail whether by postal services, by courier or by other hand delivered way is canned and routed to the proper handling department o This electronic process allows digitalization and immediate sending of all mail to the concerned departments and associates, while mitigating the possibility of the loss of documents and a large decreasing of paper consumption  Products and services o Products are developed to work in a cloud based environment, reducing the need for onpremises customer equipment that consumes electrical power o Video conferencing is being marketed as a solution to avoid physical travel. 5.3 Measurement of outcomes o In three months, from July to September 2014, our office “planted” 26 fruit trees. o The new office location is situated in a business park next to the Brussels Ring. This means each day 30 minutes in the morning and 30 minutes in the evening, so 60 minutes less travel time for employees who come by car, approximately 25 out of 40. Per day IP Nexia Employees has reduced exhausts with the equivalent of a medium passenger car, continuously driving around for 24 hours. 6. Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery United Nations Global Compact – version 10-2014 6|Page 6.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals This principle is part of Code of Conduct that all IP Nexia employees and officers subscribe to. Our business principles included the share core values of honesty and business integrity. These apply to all transactions and have to drive the expected behavior of each employee in the conduct of its business. As we are judged by how we act, our reputation in the market will be confirmed by acting in accordance with the law and those principles. 6.2 Implementation o Under the supervision of the Risk and Legal Officer, IP Nexia provided the necessary procedures and internal control into the organization to prevent such kind of behavior. This Officer is also in charge of the implementation of ISO 9001-2008 planned in the beginning of 2015 and in charge of the external contact with the local police. o All Belgian Telecom companies are supervised by the BIPT/IBPT, the Belgian regulator, which continuously monitors all licensed operators in the Belgian market. Suspicious business practices can lead to suspension or withdrawal of an operator’s license. 6.3 Measurement of outcomes o Any inappropriate practices from any of IP Nexia employees or its associated parties will be reported to the appropriate judicial authorities for further investigation. o Internally, we maintained an excellent check and balance system over financial transactions. The records are maintained with proper proves about where each euro goes to and what is done with it. This information is checked and controlled by Finance and ultimately reaches to the CEO. o Until October 2014 no incidents or issues have been reported and IP Nexia has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. 7. Contacts: Michel CORIC, Chief Executive Officer, mcoric@ipnexia.com Jean-Luc Petit, Risk & Legal Officer, jean-luc.petit@ipnexia.com United Nations Global Compact – version 10-2014 7|Page
