CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Statement by the Chief Executive We support and remain On behalf of Dhiraagu, it is my pleasure to submit the “Communication on Progress” Report for the year 2013 to the United Nations Global committed to the ten Compact (UNGC). principles of the Global The report signifies our continuous commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility and to the ten principles of the Global Compact in the Compact with respect to Human areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. Rights, Labour, Environment and During the year, we further strengthened our internal efforts to enhance our commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility within the company. In the report, you will find the description of our policies and the implementation of our operations to support the UNGC principles, Anti-Corruption. demonstrating our continued support. We will be sharing this information with our stakeholders through our website www.dhiraagu.com.mv Thank you in advance for taking the time to read this report and we welcome your feedback. Sincerely, Ismail Rasheed Chief Executive Introduction DHIRAAGU became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in The report is December 2012 and this report is the second Communication on Progress (COP) Report issued by the company. The divided into two reporting period is for the year 2013 from January – December. parts: Section I Section II provides an overview about the company describes our policies, implementation and and the approach to corporate social outcomes in relation to the specific Global responsibility Compact Principles This report was reviewed and approved by Dhiraagu CSR Committee 1 dhiraagu.com.mv Section I About DHIRAAGU 2013 2 dhiraagu.com.mv About DHIRAAGU DHIRAAGU PLC is the leading and the Enhanced Under the 3 pillars; People, Community and Environment, key focus areas for community support were further largest telecommunication operator offering established. These include, a comprehensive range of fixed, mobile, commitment to Internet and data services throughout Corporate Social Maldives. Responsibility at In addition to the strong presence in Dhiraagu the Capital Male’, the company has 9 strategically located operating centers to The company strengthened internal efforts serve over 350,000 customers spread across to further enhance the commitment to the nation’s 199 inhabited islands and Corporate Social Responsibility within the over 100 industrial islands including tourist company which included the formalization of resorts. This is augmented by the largest Dhiraagu’s CSR strategy during the year. retail and distribution network established in the country. The corporate social responsibility strategy of Dhiraagu is based on responsibly grounded Dhiraagu provides the widest coverage in business decision-making that considers Maldives covering all inhabited islands and the broad impact of corporate actions on Child protection Environmental Youth development/ & support sustainability empowering youth resort islands. With over 25 years of service, people, communities and the environment. Dhiraagu continues to be the market leader. It is based on the idea that it will form an integrated part of core business processes A CSR Committee was established within the company which is overseen by the Executive Committee with the purpose to support the including, HR, Marketing, Procurement and strategic direction of the company’s activities towards CSR. Networks. Key aspects of Dhiraagu’s CSR programme include: Respect for the culture, Encourage and nurture best Positive contribution to Contribute towards values and human rights practices in our activities the social and economic protecting the environment throughout our operation development of the community 3 dhiraagu.com.mv Supporting the Community Some significant Establishment of a new library set up and computer Outreach campaign to raise awareness against Child Twitter Campaign to raise awareness about Child initiatives in labs at Kuda Kudhinge Hiyaa Abuse Helpline (orphanage) community support for the year are as Dhiraagu established a new library set-up and made a contribution of over Dhiraagu took the initiative to undertake an outreach program by conducting awareness A campaign called “Do a Lil’ Something Sweet” was launched on Twitter, an follows 700 children’s books . The books included raising workshops for parents against Child awareness raising campaign about the Child a collection of picture books and story Abuse. Apart from Male’, these workshops Helpline 1412 service supported by Dhiraagu books that support language development, were conducted in 4 main regions across which enables all children in the country in children’s encyclopedias and books that the country including Addu City, Fuvah need of protection to remain accessible via help with general knowledge. Dhiraagu also Mulah, Kulhudhuffushi and Eydhafushi. a toll free number . The campaign enabled set up two computer labs at the orphanage. Through these interactive workshops, topics Dhiraagu Twitter followers to Retweet the This contribution was made at a special relating to the different forms of Child Abuse message with the Helpline number and enter children’s evening hosted by Dhiraagu where including child neglect, how to recognize into a drawing where they had a chance to the children enjoyed a magic show and live signs, how to report abuse and how to win a basket of sweet treats. The campaign music during the December holidays. reach out were covered. This initiative was helped to spread awareness, reaching to undertaken by Dhiraagu in collaboration over 106,000 people. with the NGO: Advocating for the Rights of Children (ARC) and Family and Children Service Centers. 4 dhiraagu.com.mv Supporting ongoing initiatives Dhiraagu Apprenticeship Child National Drug Abuse Special Sports Free Internet to Kuda Programme (DAP) Helpline Helpline Festival Kudhinge Hiyaa, Home for People with Special Needs and Dhiraagu Apprenticeship Programme (DAP) Since 2009, Dhiraagu continues to provide Dhiraagu provides support to the National Special Sports Festival is an annual event National Thalassemia Centre is a training programme that supports the support to the Child Helpline 1412. The Drug Abuse Helpline 1410 since its organized and conducted by Dhiraagu work skill development of young Maldivians. service provides assistance to all children inception in 2011. This is a collaboration in association with various stakeholders Dhiraagu provides free internet to While giving opportunities for youth to across the country in need of protection between United Nations Office on Drugs in Maldives. The festival aims to provide ‘Kudakudhinge Hiya’ orphanage, where a gain experience in a professional work to access help via a toll free number by and Crime (UNODC), the Department of opportunities for children with different resource center and computer facilities are environment, the programme also provides means of mobiles and landlines . The service Drug Prevention and Rehabilitation Services disabilities to participate in sports activities. also established. Similarly, the company educational experiences along with soft was launched together with the Ministry (DDPRS) and the Government of Maldives. The event creates a platform for further provides free internet to the home for people skill development training that includes of Gender, Family and Human Rights in The service is targeted to the general collaboration among institutions and helps to with special needs in Guraidhoo and to the communicational skills, problem solving and Maldives and Child Helpline International, community, providing counseling and advocate for children in need of special care. National Thalassaemia Centre where a cyberdecision making skills, planning, organizing a global network of telephone helplines, support relating to drug abuse. A number of Dhiraagu employees voluntarily center is established. and time management skills etc. operating in over 150 countries that provide participate in organizing the event every year. outreach services to children and young 200 students had the opportunity to take part As of 2013, 86 apprentices have been people. in the event in 2013. given the opportunity to take part in the programme. Out of the 24 apprentices that were selected in the Year 2013, 19 apprentices were based in Male’ and 5 Dhiraagu Maldives GSMA Mobile Alliance Against Road Race apprentices were based across Dhiraagu Child Sexual Abuse Content regional centers across the country. Dhiraagu’s annual road race is dedicated to Since 2008, Dhiraagu has been a member a social cause and the theme for 2013 was of the ‘GSMA Mobile Alliance Against Child to raise awareness against child abuse. The Sexual Abuse Content’ and blocks child event had over 2700 registered participants sexual abuse content on Dhiraagu internet. and it provided a platform for NGOs to create awareness and raise funds for different social campaigns. 5 dhiraagu.com.mv Section II Global Compact Principles 2013 6 dhiraagu.com.mv United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principles Medical Care & Health & Retirement Safety Benefits The company has successfully run its Dhiraagu is committed to ensuring the own medical benefits scheme for several health and safety of all staff and providing years, which applies to all employees and a safe work environment. Dhiraagu takes Principle 1 dependents and is more comprehensive than a basic health insurance scheme. The responsibility to comply with local laws and regulations and work towards achieving Businesses should support and respect company also had a voluntary retirement international best practice in relevant areas the protection of internationally proclaimed benefit scheme in place, even before the relating to our industry and specific work human rights and; establishment of the national pension environments. In particular, the company has scheme in 2009. The Company contributes the following targets. 10% to the employee pension fund which is beyond the 7% required by law. To ensure that work activities are not harmful to the health of employees or to the general public and are as safe Ethics Policyas is reasonably practicable Code of Conduct To provide and to maintain adequate measures to control Principle 2 Dhiraagu’s Ethics Policy recognizes that the company’s success depends on the health and safety risks arising from work activities in order to prevent Make sure that they are not complicit in ability, as a company and as individuals to accidents and cases or workrelated human rights abuses. establish and maintain positive relationships, ill health both internally with our colleagues and Maldives is a signatory to the Universal externally with our stakeholders. It specifies To provide staff with relevant Declaration of Human Rights and Dhiraagu the ethical standards of behavior expected of information, instruction, training and complies with all local laws and regulations. all Dhiraagu employees in their interactions supervision to ensure health and The respect for the culture, values and with each other, customers, suppliers, safety at work human rights throughout our operation is one government, business partners and the wider of our key principles in our Corporate Social community in which we operate and targets Responsibility Strategy. all staff to be familiar with the policy. 7 dhiraagu.com.mv United Nations Global CompactHuman Rights Principles IMPLEMENTATION Employee Induction includes 5 representatives for Male’ and 5 representatives for regional centers. A Safety Programme Management Review is organised once a Ethics Policy together with the code of month in order to monitor and review the conduct is communicated with all new programme. employees as part of the Employee Induction Programme and is shared on the online employee portal for further reference. The company implements the following in accordance to the Health and Safety Policy Health and Safety Ensure that safe systems of work are implementation implemented and reviewed. In order to implement our commitments relating to Health and Safety, a policy and Ensure that all personnel are given information, manual was issued in 2011 which describes instruction, training and supervision as the responsibilities and the arrangements for appropriate in order to carry out their work safely. Health and Safety within Dhiraagu. The policy is applicable to all Dhiraagu employees and Carry out assessments of risk to the health and contractors. The Chief Executive Officer is safety of persons involved in or affected by the responsible for the implementation of the operations of their departments policy and ensures that the policy is adhered to and regularly reviewed. Furthermore Arrange induction safety training for all new all senior managers and managers are employees. responsible to ensure that the Safety policy is implemented in all functions under their Ensure that all firefighting equipment is control. As part of the Induction Programme, regularly inspected and serviced. all staff are briefed with regard to safety procedures including fire and first aid procedures. A dedicated Health and Safety Officer is appointed to support the Chief Executive to promote all aspects of Health and Safety at work and assist in developing and maintaining safe working practices in accordance with the Safety Policy. Comprising of the Chief Executive and the Health and Safety Officer, a Safety Committee with representatives from all departments and regional centres is in place. The committee is comprised of 10 Safety Representatives, which 8 dhiraagu.com.mv United Nations Global CompactHuman Rights Principles Measurement of Outcomes In 2013, there were no 57 staff were given 24 staff were given major accidents that training on Basic Fire training on Basic First Aid resulted in lost-time Safety An Induction Programme 81 staff were provided was conducted for ALL with Health and Safety new staff and the ethics related awareness policy, code of conduct training and safety procedures were briefed to ensure that employees are familiar with the policies from the very beginning 9 dhiraagu.com.mv United Nations Global Compact Labour Principles Principle 3 Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the freedom of The effective abolition of child labor; and association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 Principle 6 The elimination of all forms of forced and The elimination of discrimination in respect of compulsory labor; employment and occupation. We ensure to comply with local employment laws in the Maldives. We do not engage or employ child and forced labour in any of our operations. We also ensure to eliminate discrimination with respect to employment in all our operations. 10 dhiraagu.com.mv United Nations Global CompactLabour Principles IMPLEMENTATION We believe in open, transparent dialogue The effective The elimination with regard to labour related issues within the organization. abolition of of discrimination child labor in respect of The elimination of In relation to the above, the company employment and all forms of forced adheres to the Maldives Employment Act occupation and does not employ minors. and compulsory The company complies to the Employment act with regard to the above and ensures labour HRD Board not to discriminate amongst persons carrying out equal work either in the In accordance to the Maldives Employment A Human Resources Board (HRD Board) granting of employment, determination of Act, the company declares that no person is established to periodically review Labour remuneration, increase in remuneration, is compelled or forced into employment issues by senior management. The HRD provision of training, determination of and undertakes Forced Employment to Board convenes every month or as and conditions and manner of employment, mean any service of labour obtained from when required if there is an urgent issue to dismissal from employment or resolution of a person under the threat of punishment, be dealt with. Mandate of the board includes other employment related matters, based undue influence or intimidation and does reviewing HR policies and procedures and to on race, colour, social standing, religion, not include services or labour performed of make strategic decisions. political beliefs or affiliation with any political his own violation by any person (Chapter 3, party, sex, marital status, family obligations Employment Act, Maldives) etc (in accordance to Chapter 2 , Part 4 of the Employment Act) Dhiraagu’s legal department regularly reviews to ensure that the company adheres to all local laws with regard to labour principles. United Nations Global CompactLabour Principles Measurement of Outcomes There have been no major employment issues in the reported period. The HRD Board ensures that employment issues are dealt fairly and harmoniously as per the employment law of the Maldives. Dhiraagu’s General Counsel regularly gives legal advice on employment issues to deal within the bounds of the Employment law and company procedures. 11 dhiraagu.com.mv United Nations Global Compact Environment Principles Principle 7 Principle 9 Business should support a precautionary Business should encourage the development approach to environmental challenges; and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 12 dhiraagu.com.mv United Nations Global CompactEnvironment Principles IMPLEMENTATION The company targets to reduce the All the lights used in the building environmental impacts and the footprints of including emergency lights are 99% our activities by implementing the following; LED lights Use of Renewable Energy Motion detectors/sensors are used to switch off the lights in common areas Since 1988, Dhiraagu has been one of the building such as corridors, of the highest users of renewable staircases, toilet areas etc, to ensure energy in the Maldives. Dhiraagu uses lights are switched off when not in use renewable energy as the secondary source of power in some of its High heat reflective glass is used equipment sites in building facade to minimise heat entering into the building A hybrid solar powered mobile BTS station was installed at Hulhumale’ Ozone friendly refrigerant R410A is during the year used in the VRV AC units installed in the building Energy Efficiency Air conditioning is set at a minimum 25 at Dhiraagu Head degree Celsius in all main office areas. The office adopts central AC control, Office where air-conditioning is centrally turned off at pre-set times and is The sustainable green design features limited to official working hours incorporated in Dhiraagu Head Office leads to significant energy consumption efficiency. United Nations Global CompactEnvironment Principles Measurement of Outcomes The hybrid solar powered The energy saving features mobile BTS station at incorporated in Dhiraagu Hulhumale generates 1,800 Head Office results in kWh/year of renewable an annual reduction of energy approximately 390,228.00 kwh of electricity, which is also There are 58 islands where equivalent to 276 metric Dhiraagu has installed solar tonnes of Carbon Dioxide or power systems, covering an 636 barrels of oil area of more than 1,462 sqm across the country and producing 228,000 KWh of renewable energy per year 13 dhiraagu.com.mv United Nations Global Compact Anti-Corruption Principles We do not tolerate bribery, and do Any gifts or hospitality or promotional We do not make political contributions POLICY AND GOALS not offer , give or receive bribes or expenditure we receive or give either directly or indirectly to political improper payments or participate in connection with our business parties, causes or individuals Dhiraagu’s Anti-Bribery Policy in any kind of corrupt activity, either should always be proportionate and comprehensively addresses in detail with directly or through a third party reasonable in terms of value and regard to the following; frequency. Gifts and hospitality should We are committed to ensure that never be offered or accepted if it may those who act on our behalf as Principle 10 We do not make facilitation payments and we do not allow others who work be perceived as improperly influencing a business decision about or by us representatives, agents, consultants and other providers of services do not Business should work against corruption in for us to make them either or impair independence or judgment bribe on our behalf all its forms, including extortion and bribery about us United Nations Global CompactEnvironment Principles United Nations Global CompactAnti-Corruption Principles Measurement IMPLEMENTATION of Outcomes Supplier Code of Donations and ALL donation and sponsorship ALL suppliers entering into a contract Conduct Sponsorships Policy requests received in the reporting with Dhiraagu signed the Supplier period were formally reviewed and Code of Conduct From 2013 onwards, it was made mandatory A Donations and Sponsorships Policy awarded in accordance to the for all our suppliers to sign the Supplier Code was issued which establishes a clear and Donations and Sponsorships Policy of conduct when entering into a contract transparent framework for all donations with us. This code of conduct addresses and sponsorships made by the company. the commitment to comply with applicable It also further complements the Antilaws and regulations concerning bribery, Bribery Policy in working against corruption corruption, fraud, and any other prohibited by implementing good governance business practices. and establishing a formal application, assessment, approval, notification and reporting process in accordance to the policy 14 dhiraagu.com.mv The content in this report has been approved by Dhiraagu CSR Committee. dhiraagu.com.mv
