PROJECT FACILITY MANAGERS [PFM CARIBBEAN] LIMITED utilities civil works construction COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SUBMITTED TO THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT THEME/TITLE MAINTAINING THE PRINCIPLES AGAINST ALL CHALLENGES PARTICIPANT ADDRESS #8 CHACONIA TERRACE MARACAS, ST. JOSEPH REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD & TOBAGO DECEMBER 2014 utilities civil works construction 12th December 2014. United Nations Global Compact Global Compact Office Two United Nations Plaza New York, NY 10017 United States of America. CONTINUING STATEMENT OF SUPPORT OF THE TEN (10) PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Project Facility Managers [PFM Caribbean] Limited is pleased to confirm that all the directors of the Company have reaffirmed their support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We record this Affirmation with great pride considering the difficult period the Company experienced that tested our resolve. Our Company notwithstanding the challenges remain resolute and determined to be a beacon in the region in the conduct of its business in demonstrating that the Principles of the Global Compact is a noble initiative to which we would continue to support and implement. This is our Second Communication of Progress [COP] with the Theme/Title Maintaining The Principles Against All Challenges. Yours respectfully, PROJECT FACILITY MANAGERS [PFM£ARjrRBEANl Managing Director project facility managers [pfm Caribbean] limited #8 Chaconia Terrace, Maracas, St. Joseph, Trinidad, W.I. Tel: 868 645-9761: 868 221-4398 Fax: 868 221-4543: skype: pfmprojects email: pfmcaribbean@yahoo.com : pfmcaribbean@gmaii.com utilities civil works construction TO ALL STAKEHOLDERS • NATIONAL • REGIONAL • INTERNATIONAL Once again we are pleased to be able to prepare our Communication On Progress and recommit to the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. In our usual spirit of promoting the Principles, we extend an invitation to all stakeholders to consider, join and support the Principles of the Compact. We firmly believe that together we can make a difference by cooperation and collaboration that would result to the benefit of all Participants of the Compact. This is Project Facility Managers [PFM Caribbean] Limited Second Communication of Progress [COP]. Yours respectfully, PROJECT FACILII AGERS TED Managing Director 12th December 2014. utilities civil works construction Reporting on the Ten Principles of the Four Issue areas of the Global Compact. Human Rights 2 Principles Labour 4 Principles Environment 3 Principles Anti-corruption 1 Principle Global Compact 10 Principles HUMAN RIGHTS We stand by and continue to adhere to the fundamental tenets of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. • Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Project Facility Managers continue to promote the core value of this Principle by respect for the law and the employees within our Company. Should there be any dissatisfaction with the outcome of a complaint, there exist laws for review and redress. Principle 2 Business should ensure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses. Every effort is made by our Company to ensure that we do not participate or contribute knowingly to human rights abuses. In our business correspondence we forewarn the Parties that we support the principles of the Global Compact. Further, our Company do not and would not accept contracts from companies that we know practice human rights abuses. utilities civil works construction ACTIONS & ASSESSMENTS While Project Facility Managers does not have its own written human rights policy, we adopt the Principles and covenants practiced internationally by reputable companies. We have had no incident of human rights abuse in our Company since the submission of our last COP. As a consequence our Company record remain unblemished with respect to any matter of Human Rights Abuse. MEASUREMENT & OUTCOMES Our Company continue to monitor the conduct and behaviour of all employees to maintain an ongoing commitment against human rights violations. We continue to have orientation and staff meetings to keep employees knowledgeable and communicate abuses reported in other countries to raise our employees' awareness. LABOUR We respect the fundamental Principles and rights at work. There is no discrimination whatsoever in the employment of persons at our Company. • Principle 3 Business should uphold Freedom of Association and the effective recognition of rights to collective bargaining. Project Facility Managers offers no objection to workers representation, workers council or collective bargaining in any form whatsoever. • Principle 4 The elimination of all forced and compulsory labour Our Company does not engage in forced or compulsory labour of any kind. Employees however, have an obligation to discharge the duties agreed upon at the time of their employment. While reasonable notice is preferred an employee is free to terminate their own employment. The Company does not pursue any redress in this regard. utilities civil works construction • Principle 5 The effective abolition of Child Labour. Project Facility Managers does not employ child labour. All employees are over eighteen (18) years of age. • Principle 6 The elimination or discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We follow the words and spirit of our National Anthem here every creed and race find an equal place . There is no discrimination regarding employment and occupation at our Company. Persons are employed on the basis of merit and their ability to discharge the functions assigned to them. ACTIONS & ASSESSMENTS Project Facility Managers is of the firm view that it has engaged in the best internationally accepted labour practices. Employees are entitled to vacation leave, sick leave, casual leave, maternity leave, injury leave and a range of other entitlements. The Company continue to be compliant with respect to the labour laws of the country. Continuous monitoring of safety systems employed on projects is one of the Company's main focus for the protection and safety of its employees. The Company record with respect to injury or fatality is unblemished to date. MEASUREMENT & OUTCOMES We continue to provide training for existing and new employees The nature of our projects still require a ratio of 80% men and 20% women of the labour force. The geographic location of our country makes it very costly for ISO/BSI Certification, as significant cash outflow is required for foreigners over a period of time and thereafter intermittently. However, we project to begin the ISO process in mid 2015. utilities civil woncs construction ENVIRONMENT Project Facility Managers has a Ten (10) Point Environmental policy Statement. This Policy Statement is an extract from the Health & Safety Manual being prepared by the Company. The Policy Statement formed part of our First COP. Changes in the country's environmental laws have delayed the final completion and release of the Manual. However, our Company remain committed to the protection of the environment. • Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Project Facility Managers would continue to take all the necessary precautions to ensure that the welfare of its employees and that of the wider community is the basis for environmental protection. • Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. In accordance with our Environmental Policy Statement Project Facility Managers consider the environment of significant importance and is the responsibility of all to protect and conduct their activities in such a manner that would cause no damage to the environment. Project Facility Managers implement systems that are internationally acceptable and also in accordance with the country's environmental laws and regulations. • Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The development and application of environment friendly technologies should be promoted at all levels. Project Facility Managers is always researching new innovations that would reduce risks, dust, noise, spills, fumes, etc. that would lead to the creation of a friendlier environment. utilities civil works construction ACTIONS & ASSESSMENT Project Facility Managers have conducted its affairs in a manner that would ensure the protection of the environment. To the best of our ability our environmental knowledge and in consultation with others, we have worked towards making the environment a top priority in our planning process. MEASUREMENT & OUTCOMES Project Facility Managers is committed to additional investments in the implementation of new environmental technologies and reporting systems that would further protect our employees, improve the continued protection of the environment. ANTI-CORRUPTION Project Facility Managers support all initiatives geared towards the eradication of corruption, conscious of the significant damage that is done to economies and the culture of nations should corruption be allowed to go unchecked. • Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all forms. Our Company has a zero tolerance policy on corruption in any form. ACTIONS & ASSESSMENTS Project Facility Managers continue to maintain its business activities and take measures that would discourage corruption among its employees and stakeholders. MEASUREMENT & OUTCOMES We are pleased to report that there have been no incident of corruption between our employees, suppliers, sub-contractors and other stakeholders. Project Facility Managers propose to implement further checks and controls to ensure that corruption remain absent in our Company affairs. This Communication On Progress is available to our employees and stakeholders and can be viewed on the United Nations Global Compact website www.unglobalcompact.org.
