INGEMANN FOOD NICARAGUA S/A Statement of Continued Support to the UN Global Compact CARRETERA PANAMERICANA KM 43,5 LAS MADERAS, MANAGUA Ingemann Food Nicaragua SA NICARAGUA TEL.: +505 8465 6247 INFO@INGEMANN.COM.NI WWW.INGEMANN.COM.NI Period of reporting: July 2014 –July 2015 Statement by the Managing Director, Mr. Lars Moller Referring to our Letter of Commitment to the UN Global Compact in May 2011, I am very pleased to herewith reconfirm that Ingemann Food Nicaragua continues to actively support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Over the past 12 month period we have continue to make progress on the implementation of the principles within our sphere of influence in the honey chain in Nicaragua and we will actively continue to do so for the period to come. Furthermore we have expand our activities into the cocoa sector in Nicaragua, where we also actively support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. At Ingemann Food Nicaragua we are committed to aligning all our business operations and strategies with the ten universally accepted principles in the field of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Joining and contributing to UN Global Compact has given us the opportunity to effectively work out our vision as a business driving more fair and sustainable economic development in international food chains. We feel that our efforts are supported, shared and sustained by other businesses under the Global Compact. We believe that together we can make a change and transform current market arrangements into fair and sustainable trade. The ten universally accepted principles of the UN Global Compact are the stepping stones in this transformation. As we learn from other business under the Global Compact, we sincerely hope that this COP serves to others as an experience worth analyzing and learning from. Lars Saquero Moller Managing Director Ingemann Food Nicaragua SA
