InterCement is one of the top ten international cement producers 34 Intellectual Capital 42 Built Up Capital 50 Financial Capital 06. Profile 16. Message José Édison Barros Franco 60 Human Capital 68 Social Capital 82 Natural Capital 18. Message Ricardo lima 20. Corporate Governance 4 • CONTENTS 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 5 InterCement is one of the ten largest the construction of an integrated cement, it operates in engineering One of international cement producers. unit with an annual production and construction, energy With operations in eight countries capacity of 1.6 million metric tons concessions, transportation and across South America, Europe of cement. urban mobility, offshore naval and Africa, it is a market leader in industry, clothing and footwear, Portugal, Argentina, Mozambique In 2013, 28.4 million tons of denim and workwear, and real the Top 10 and Cape Verde, and second to cement and clinker were sold, a estate development. the leader in the Brazilian and volume increase of 19% over 2012, Paraguayan markets, in addition to resulting in net revenues of R$ 7,526 Founded in 1967 as Camargo maintaining significant operations million, a 7.6% increase over the Corrêa Industrial, the company in South Africa and Egypt. previous year. This performance started cement production at its is the result of intensive work first factory, in 1974. Over time, it internationally With 40 cement production to improve and strengthen the grew based on plant expansion plants active, the company has company’s relationship with its projects and acquisitions of an installed capacity of 46 million customers, the strategic focus on its companies in the sector, such metric tons/year. Through this market performance, and on the as Cement Cauê, Minas Gerais, structure, it markets cement, performance of its 8,875 employees. (1997), Loma Negra, Argentina concrete and special mortars, (2005) and Cimec do Brasil (2006). products recognized for their The company is controlled by In 2010, InterCement acquired With operations in eight countries in South America, quality and high reliability rates. Camargo Corrêa SA, a leading approximately 33% of Cimpor Europe and Africa, InterCement stands as one of the It also has a participation in a Brazilian business organization, Cimentos de Portugal and, in leading global companies in the cement market. company incorporated in Angola, with operations in key sectors 2012, it took over 94.11% of the together with local investors for of the economy: in addition to company’s shares. 6 • Profile 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 7 International PORTUGAL Presence • 03 Integrated plants • 02 Grinding units • 9,1 Million metric tons of capacity • 55% Market share Egypt • 01 Integrated plant • 5,5 Million metric tons of capacity • 06% Market share Among the top 10 Cape Verde international • 01 Bagging terminal cement companies Brazil • 10 Integrated plants 46 million • 06 Grinding units Metric tons annual • 17,9 Millionmetrictonsof capacity capacity for cement • 20% Market share production Mozambique 8.875 • 01 Integrated plant Employees PARAGUAy • 04 Grinding units • 2,9 Million metric tons of capacity 4 million • 01 Grinding • 72% Market share metric tons of • 0,4 Million metric tons of capacity international • 30% Market share trading annually 40 production South Africa units around the world • 01 Integrated plant • 02 Grinding units argentina • 1,7 Million metric tons of capacity • 11% Market share • 06 Integrated plants • 02 Grinding units • 01 Mixer • 8,5 Million metric tons of capacity • 46% Market share 8 • Profile ANNUAL REPORT 2013 − InterCement 9 7526 EVOLUTION 6997 2013 InterCement reviews its mission statement and vision and creates the tagline building sustainable partnerships . Inauguration of a grinding unit in Paraguay and two in Mozambique. 2474 2012 InterCement takes over 94.11% of the capital of Cimpor and becomes one of the 20 largest companies in the industry, worldwide. 2010 Creation of the holding cement company InterCement Participações S.A. In the same year, a shareholders' agreement authorizes the construction of the factory in Lobito, Angola. Controlling company Camargo Corrêa S.A. acquires 33% of Cimpor Cimentos de Portugal, SGPS, S.A. 2362 2009 Production of aggregates in Argentina starts with the acquisition of La Preferida de Olavarría S.A. 2042 2008 Acquisition of controlling interest of CIMEC do Brasil and introduction in the Brazilian northeast market. 2006 A joint venture establishes Companhia Brasileira de Concreto (CBC). In the following year, the company takes over 100% of the capital of CBC. 1481 2005 With the acquisition of Loma Negra, the national leader in sales, the company enters the Argentinian market with a capacity of 7.0 million metric tons. Continued Revenue in 923 concession of Ferrosur Roca. R$ millions 2000 Creation of Yguazu Cementos in Paraguay 423 1997 The company acquires Cimento Cauê, with units in Minas Gerais and a production capacity of 1.2 million metric tons. 150 1968 Foundation of Camargo Corrêa Industrial, which would later generate InterCement. 10 • Profile ANNUAL REPORT 2013 − InterCement 11 SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE As of December 31, 2013 CCC CCSA 100% Luxemburgo 91% 28,22% InterCement InterCement Cimpor Participações 100% Austria 65,96% SGPS 100% 9% 100% Cimpor Cimpor Minority Inversiones Portugal 100% 100% 99% 74% 82% InterCement Cimpor Cape Amreyah Natal Portland Cimentos de Cement Mozambique Brazil Verde Egypt South Africa 4,44 % 5,28 % 9% 99,5 % 70 % 30 % Loma Yguazu Cimentos Estreito Machadinho Barra Grande Negra Palanca Cementos Angola South Africa 80 % Ferrosur 12 • Profile 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 13 VISION To stand out to customers for the level of partnership MAIN INDICATORS and services, while staying among the top ten largest and top five most solid and profitable companies in the sector, internationally. MISSION To grow and develop together with customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders and communities, driven by innovation, sustainability and operational excellence. Reals Euros Variation Variation VALUES FINANCIAL 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2012 2013 RESPECT FOR PEOPLE 13/12 13/12 AND THE ENVIRONMENT Net income (in millions) R$2363 R$2474 R$2884 R$6.997 R$7.526 7,6% €2.788,9 €2.624,4 -5,9% To always act in a correct and fair manner in relation to shareholders, associates, customers, suppliers, EBITDA (in millions) R$641 R$616 R$695 R$1.927 R$1.970 2,2% €768,1 €686,9 -10,6% governments, communities and society in general. EBITDA Margin (%) 27% 25% 24% 27,5% 26,2% 1,4pp 27,5% 26,2% -1,4 p.p. To act responsibly with regard to the environment. Net profit (in millions) 1 R$538 R$255 R$257² -R$125,0 R$490,0 (€ 49,8) €170,9 RESPONSIBLE PERFORMANCE To comply with the terms of the laws of the regions and Investments (in millions) R$263 R$302 R$579 R$1.014 countries in which it operates; to correspond to the values set forth herein; to act with integrity and in accordance Revenue per employee (in thousands) R$639 R$654 R$708 R$1473 R$1572 6,7% €295 €296 0,3% with universal standards of human co-existence, with no EBITDA per employee (in thousands) R$135 R$129 R$137 R$406 R$412 1,5% €81 €77 4,7% discrimination in relation to race, gender, creed, religion, position, function or other. Variation OPERATIONAL 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 13/12 TRANSPARENCY Sales of cement and clinker 10,1 11,5 12,7 27 28,4 5,4% To supply clear and in-depth information on activities, (millions of metric tons) achievements, policies and performance in a systematic Sales of concrete (millions of m3) 2,5 2,3 2,1 5,2 4,8 6,7% and accessible manner. Volume of aggregates (millions of metric tons) 1,3 2,9 8,1 8,3 1,5% FOCUS ON THE RESULTS To always strive to maximize performance as a means Tons transported 5,1 5,2 5,6 5,2 5,8 10,4% (millions of metric tons) (1) of guaranteeing continuity, its investments, shareholders profit and suitable working conditions. Employees (at the end of the period) 4.751 4.787 5.061 9.457 8.875 6,2% QUALITY AND INNOVATION (1) Results attributable to capital holders To guarantee customers the best possible quality in the execution of services and supply of products and to invest continuously in the improvement of its activities and personnel. 14 • Profile 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 15 Consolidation with partnerships The new strategic vision directs the agenda of the company to build sustainable partnerships in order to achieve the growth and profitability goals. Consolidation is the word that sums up the year of important aspects is the relationship with customers. and coprocessing. Our investments in research and the challenges and fulfill our mission to grow with 2013 for InterCement and that sustains our strategic Let us emphasize the joint development of solutions and development and process improvement have allowed partnerships, oriented to innovation, sustainability and objectives: maintaining our rank among the ten largest products that sets us apart due to our level of partnership us significant results, challenging us to move further. operational excellence. international cement companies and becoming one of and services, adding to the benefits of our practices Our targets to be reached by 2023 include reducing the the five strongest and most profitable in the industry and know-how, and, in return, receiving loyalty and incorporation of clinker in cement from 72.5% to 50% by 2023. In oder to drive this agenda, we have defined increasing sales volumes. These partnerships also allow without loss of margin and reaching a coprocessing a new strategic vision expressed in the tagline Building for the advances in concrete, so that we can achieve a rate of 60%, by replacing fossil fuels with renewable Sustainable Partnerships. significant market share in this channel. Additionally, energy sources, such as tires, scrap and urban waste. José Édison we plan to increase our representation in aggregates, Our average is currently 12%, one of the world’s highest Barros Franco Along this line, we have successfully implemented the with focus on planning and long-term goals. coprocessing rates. Chairman of the Board of integration of the InterCement and Cimpor units, whose Directors at InterCement acquisition, completed in 2012, has placed us among the In order to achieve this, we need a thorough This practice helps in another aspect, which is the focus Top 10 in the world. We have overcome the challenge of understanding of our customers’ businesses, with a on carbon management to reduce environmental impact conciliating the diversity of geographies, cultures and more detailed view of each segment in order to adjust and create a competitive advantage with integrated peoples in the eight countries where we operate, and the value proposal in products, services, and logistics. control of a significantly expensive component, and have incorporated the best practices in both companies. Examples of this are the customization of portfolios also opportunities to sell carbon credits. It was a strenuous exercise that required a lot of focus by types of use and integrated logistics solutions, all of and determination from our leaders, to identify our key which we will continue to improve with the transfer of We have great projects running in 2014 and future levers for adding value. best practices between operations in different countries. years, such as building a new culture, productivity and innovation, all in line with our long-term These drivers cover the exact topics related to building Innovation and technology are also strategic, strategy. Therefore, in addition to acknowledging the sustainable partnerships and are essential to turn because they directly bolster three key levers of value commitment of all professionals over the past year, we the future we wish for into reality. One of the most creation, namely: productivity, industrial efficiency can rely on a team that is able to act quickly to meet 16 • Message 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 17 United by the same ideal Integration work brought synergy gains on several fronts, successfully completing integration with process efficiency gains and cost savings. The year 2013 marked a unique and decisive moment not only with regard to the knowledge of the business, exports the volume was 76% higher and make new audacious goal, but an achievable one. We are on the in the history of InterCement. We came to the end of but also to the political and economic conditions in these partners in places where we were not operating yet. right track, with engaged partners, motivated employees, a major growth cycle and entered a new stage, which regions, which have strengthened our performance. efficient processes and quality products. And this is involves even more ambitious goals for the next ten There were improvements also in Paraguay, with how we will arrive in 2023 as a solid, strong and very years. The joint effort to define the long-term goals Today, the InterCement brand is present in all the the new grinding unit going into operation. It was a successful company. reflects how important the participation of all areas countries where we operate. This was a strategic record year also in Argentina, with 6.4 million metric has been, to define the Vision 2023, which will guide the decision, aiming to add even more value to our business, tons sold. And despite the less dazzling performance proposed actions for the next decade. and to promote a closer relationship with our customers. of the Brazilian economy in the first half of the year, We understand that this is one of the most important the cement market rebounded in the second half, Undoubtedly, it was a year of hard work, but also one premises to grow steadily and continuously. surpassing the numbers from 2012. of quite impressive results. The integration process Ricardo Lima ceo cimpor required special attention. It is not easy to integrate In the global context, the financial performance of the Also, let us not forget to look at the other pillars of two companies with such different geographical cement industry has experienced critical moments, with sustainability. We reinforced our ethical position operations, and with so many different habits, cultures a shrinkage effect in almost all economically developed with the creation of a single Code of Conduct for and people. Fortunately, we were able to rely on a highly countries. But still, even below forecasts, we managed all countries. We are striving for excellence in skilled and motivated team of professionals, which has to grow in sales volume and cash generation in 2013. environmental management and, in the sphere of enabled us to successfully complete each stage of this EBITDA for the year was R$ 1,970 million, 2.2% higher social responsibility, the InterCement model was important journey. The integration work has brought than in 2012. disseminated to all countries. The first practical result synergy gains on several fronts. We improved process of this effort was holding the Day of Doing Good in all efficiency and management, performed better and From the point of view of operations, we have made units, with absolute success. further reduced costs. significant progress in all countries. There was an excellent trading effort in Portugal, a country whose We are aware that there is still a long way to go. We want All this diversity has also been essential for the rich economy has not yet recovered from the severe to be among the top ten largest and the top five most insights on the reality of each country where we operate European economic crisis. We saw a chance to increase solid and profitable international companies. It is an 18 • Message 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 19 SIMPLIFIED An effective governance model needs to have, in its DNA, elements that ensure the contribution of all and that bring the results of the integration into the future vision. STRUCTURE To this end, InterCement simplified its structure in 2013 and now operates with a single governing body, the Executive Committee. With the simplification of the structure, InterCement The committee consists of six members: the Chairman of the Board of Directors at InterCement, the Cimpor began operating with a CEO and the Vice Presidents of Organizational Development, Engineering & Technology, Business single governing body, Support and Finance. the Executive Committee, Moreover, in 2013 the position of Vice-President of responsible for the Operations in Africa was created, with an office in overall conduct the city of Durban, South Africa. The initiative was intended to provide a geographical solution for the work of business. InterCement develops in the three countries located on the continent: Mozambique, South Africa and Egypt. South Africa 20 • Corporate Governance 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 21 A NEW SUSTAINABILITY code FOR ALL Unified for all operations, the Code of Conduct has been KEY TO THE FUTURE Committed to creating long-term value, the company seeks to ensure widely circulated among employees during road operational and financial strength and respect to ethical, legal, shows through the countries. social and environmental criteria. Ethics, transparency and respect drives Council for Economic Defense (Cade), and fines for InterCement understands that sustainability is key for In strengthening this vision, the company assumed InterCement’s relationships with peers, suppliers, companies and associations in the lawsuit were business continuity. From this vision, it seeks to ensure external commitments that support the quest customers, employees and other stakeholders. proposed, to the total of US$ 3.144 billion, of which operational and financial strength, discipline in capital for efficiency and continuous improvement. use and respect to ethical, legal and environmental These include the Global Pact, an initiative of the These relationships are based on the principles of about US$ 550 million would be payed by InterCement criteria, in a commitment to creating long-term value for United Nations (UN) for companies to incorporate the new Code of Conduct, which is the same for all Brasil, as the successor of Cimpor Brazil and Camargo its stakeholders. sustainable business practices; the Cement business units and was been widely circulated among Corrêa Cimentos. In addition, the lawsuit provides Sustainability Initiative (CSI), which includes cement employees in 2013, during road shows that took place that major companies in the sector (InterCement, This activity is supported by its Health, Safety and producers that seek to reconcile economic growth, in the various countries. Votorantim, Holcim and Itabira) waive a portion Environment (HSE) and Sustainability policies, as well as ecological balance and social progress; Empresas of their assets in the case of InterCement, 25% of by internal processes that provide flexibility for possible pelo Clima (EPC), which encourages improvements corrective actions in order to maintain the company’s in the management of air emissions; RedEAmérica, An Ethics Hotline is available to all stakeholders, installed capacity. growth and competitive advantages. which brings together private organizations working to receive complaints, comments, suggestions and on reducing poverty and increasing social inclusion reports regarding behaviors that break the Code The trial is still underway and is not expected The company also believes that the only way to become in the Americas; and Convenio de Lucha contra of Conduct. Managed by an outside company, this to be completed anytime soon. The company’s an increasingly sustainable operation is to discover new El Trabajo Infantil, in Argentina. channel ensures complete confidentiality and management and its legal counsel evaluate the ways of working. Therefore, innovation is an important independence in the analysis and decisions regarding success of InterCement in this lawsuit. element in this quest. The company also has, in several units, ISO 9001 (quality management), ISO 14001 (environmental all reports. Attention is focused on measures to minimize the management) and OHSAS 18001 (occupational health impacts of the company’s activity on the environment, and safety) certifications. The company reinforces its action within the using the most advanced production technologies, regulations, laws and responsible conduct regarding process controls, risk management and specific actions. the lawsuit that has investigated an alleged cartel in In 2013, all units from Cimpor have come to share the the Brazilian cement market for seven years now. In same sustainability management model, thus defining a single standard, fully aligned with the vision 2023. January 2014, the trial started at the Administrative 22 • Corporate Governance 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 23 Melhores e Maiores Awards RECOGNIZED EXPERTISE Gold Seal For the second consecutive year, InterCement Brazil has received the highest recognition from the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program, thus certifying that the company complies with all the requirements of the methodology for assessing the inventory of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Presidency of the Republic’s In July 2013, Cementos Yguazú, InterCement’s operation in Paraguay, received this Award to Companies or recognition for efforts in promoting the cement sector, which is strategic for the people who contribute to development of infrastructure in the country. the industrial development of Paraguay Corporate Citizenship Recognition for InterCement Argentina, Loma Negra, came from the American Chamber of Commerce in Argentina (AmCham). The award recognized the ten leading companies in Managing for Sustainability (GES) in Brazil and InterCement Argentina, Loma Negra, was among the winners. Valor 1000 Cimpor Brazil, integrated to InterCement, was voted the best company in the construction and décor materials industry by the Valor 1000 yearbook, from newspaper Valor Econômico, which recognizes the best performances based on sustainable growth, profitability and value creation, among others. Melhores e Maiores Cimpor Brazil, integrated to InterCement, was highlighted by yearbook Melhores e Maiores, from Exame magazine, as the best in the Construction Industry. Premio Qualidade 2013 In addition to being voted as Best Supplier by professionals in the cement-based products industry, InterCement Brasil won, with the brand Cauê Cimentos, the Vitória Trophy in the categories Portland Cement and High Strength. The award is given out by the National Union of the Cement Products Industry (Sinaprocim) and by the Union of the State of São Paulo Cement Products Industry (Sinprocim). Entrepreneur of the Year Given out by the Portuguese Chamber of Commerce in Rio de Janeiro, the award was a tribute to the professionals who have excelled in enhancing bilateral relations (Brazil/Portugal) throughout 2013. Among the winners was the CEO of Cimpor, Ricardo Lima. 24 • Corporate Governance 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 25 Integration Event InterCement and Cimpor GUIDELINES FOR THE FUTURE Strategy review was a priority in 2013; it engaged about 200 people and ended with the definition of the tagline Building Sustainable Partnerships After the integration of Cimpor, which was executed on schedule, and after exceeding the goal of being among the top 20 cement companies in the world by 2012, reviewing the strategies was a priority in 2013. It was a period devoted to developing the Vision 2023 and the Mission for the company, culminating in the definition of the tagline Building Sustainable Partnerships. APPROXIMATELY The strategic planning process involved about 200 PEOPLE 200 people and reviewed all of the critical issues WERE INVOLVED for the future of the segment and of InterCement, establishing the growth prospects. 26 • Corporate Governance 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 27 STRATEGIC The new Strategic Map establishes the guidelines that use, as the Portugal exports exemplify. In addition, will permeate the work in the next decade, in order to the company seeks to develop a market for the position InterCement always among the top ten largest installation of future InterCement operations at the and the five most profitable international companies. places it exports to. The coordination of shipping, with all the port logistics and the competency of supply to With the incorporation of Cimpor, the goal of markets, was also significant to spot opportunities MAP expanding geographical boundaries into South and show results beyond the expected. America and Africa was met. Now, we will seek to expand the operation at these locations and also in The discussion about the relevance of Concrete and other countries. At the same time, critical issues for Aggregates area was intensified in 2013, with effects the cement industry in the future were prioritized and and planning of action for these products in various included in the long-term strategy, such as additions, countries of operation. thermal energy, products and services, concrete and aggregates, and environmental management. Expansion of current operations and critical issues In additions, goals were established to reduce the for the cement industry in the future were prioritized consumption of clinker based on the use of ground limestone, slag, waste, and others, in order to reduce and included in the long-term strategy. the emission of the chemical process in cement production. Coprocessing activities to replace fossil fuels in cement production were also in the agenda. Because of its importance, relevance and impact on the segment, from an environmental perspective, CO2 management got a strong plan, with goals to reduce emissions by 40% in cement and and 50% in concrete, for the next ten years. Trading actions have become even more relevant, since they optimize assets with the lowest rate of 28 • Corporate Governance 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 29 CUSTOMERS AS A PRIORITY Strengthening the relationship Argentina Portugal with customers is a priority; in order to achieve this, the solution if offering products and services that create growth and differentiate InterCement within the market. The best practices were replicated between operations, unifying concepts of value proposition and Egypt driving innovation. Integrated Brazil logistics solutions, customization of the portfolio by type of use, and a menu of cement-related services are among the highlights. The brand architecture was also defined. Just as the recognition Mozambique South Africa and strength of regional brands are important, the endorsement of a robust group with international presence, is essential to consolidate the company in the market. Therefore, all operations maintain their identity, but add the signature “a member of.” 30 • Corporate Governance 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 31 MANAGEMENT RISK SUPPORT TOOLS The internationalization of the revolutionized the company. The MANAGEMENT Risk management is a priority issue in the company’s strategy map, which identifies, evaluates and prioritizes the factors regarded as critical for the business. company determined the need methodology of the Guideline-based to standardize management and Management (GPD) was deployed InterCement maintains a corporate with Cimpor, as a priority set by currencies, with high purchasing monitor key performance indicators for senior and middle management policy and guidance manual that the Executive Committee, and power. In order to mitigate this tools. Thus, replication plans for the professionals. Countries such as help optimize risk management, an was gradually implemented in all risk, the Executive Committee InterCement Management System Argentina and Brazil continued to issue prioritized by the Executive other business units Portugal, has sought, whenever possible, to (IMS) were created, customized in use the system, and the model was Committee and an integral part of Cape Verde, Egypt, South Africa take out local currency loans to the local language. expanded to the Cimpor plants the company’s strategy map. and Mozambique. finance investments and working incorporated in Brazil, reaching capital for the respective business At the same time, we identified 100% of the staff. A highlight was The pilot methodology was The main mapped risks are those units. Exchange rate variations, the processes with greater impact Mozambique, which was able developed with the support of a that can affect the continuity of however, do not significantly on EBITDA and safety indicators, to deploy up to 100% of the staff risk factors benchmarking for the operations and business performance. impact the company’s value, since and established continuous who still did not have variable cement industry worldwide and its They involve, especially, financial, the industrial assets in the cement improvement teams using the compensation according to results. implementation started in 2012, in operational, market, compliance, industry are heavily indexed to PDCA methodology (Plan, Do, Brazil and Argentina. It consisted information security, reputation and U.S. dollars. Check, Act) made up by operators, The year also saw the further of the identification, assessment image issues. supervisors, managers, and often consolidation of the integration of and prioritization of risks and even directors. SAP in Brazil, which included the The Cimpor production processes regarded as critical and A major risk monitored relates unification of Cimpor’s operations centers in Brazil were also included the implementation of to the impact of the exchange The financial statements have also in the country. integrated and the procedures action plans for the mitigation rate volatility over InterCement been standardized for the fixed costs for different areas were of risks and the development of operations, since its revenues and expenses accounting plan. indicators for monitoring them. are generated in eight different standardized, with gains of currencies, mostly in emerging scale and reliability. The concepts of unfolding goals The methodology was widely used countries, and its capital structure and rewards for results have in 2013 during the integration consists mainly of stable 32 • Corporate Governance 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 33 Innovation Workshop InterCement Brazil Innovation and sustainability play an increasingly Even in the little time during which the area has vital role in the planning and development of been structured, the company has already reaped InterCement’s business. The restructuring of the significant results, such as obtaining funding from R & D, Innovation and Sustainability department, agencies in non-reimbursable resources, which in 2013, provided a new perspective for business. exceed the investment in the department. Another NEW A portfolio of programs and projects was created, achievement was managing to file three patents, aimed at guaranteeing incremental values in the in partnership with the Massachusetts Institute of short, medium and long terms, involving coordinated Technology (MIT), Instituto Superior Técnico (IST) projects in Brazil and in Lisbon, branching out in at the University of Lisbon, and the Instituto de several other places. Pesquisas Tecnológicas (IPT) of São Paulo. PERSPECTIVES A Technology Radar was developed, which allows for an overview of the stage of technologies related to the area of cement and its frontiers. The Radar The initiative with the IST brought, as a result, the first patent filing fully developed under the leadership of InterCement. The object of this research is an innovation WITH INNOVATION has a global scope and covers competitors, research that, when introduced in the process, will reduce CO² institutions, universities and researchers. In addition, emissions in the production of clinker by 25%. the Internal Technology Group (GIT) was established; the group involves professionals from various fields to support R&D management in order to ensure, with its network of knowledge, the relevance and appropriateness of the research portfolio. Throughout 2013, the company’s partners enabled the development of projects and the acquisition of new technical skills. Beyond knowledge, this practice provides long-term outcomes, such as reduced costs, as well as short-term outcomes, once the research has already produced changes in testing, evaluation of materials and process improvement. 36 • Intellectual Capital 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 37 CENTER FOR CONCRETE AGGREGATES COMPETENCIES and Spreading excellence and 10.5 million metric tons of projects and promoting interaction aligning the company with best aggregates, annually. between the units, the center global practices, the Center for concrete and aggregates Aggregates for Concrete and Aggregates As the production of concrete varies competencies is structured into Argentina Competencies was restructured greatly between countries, due to five pillars of performance, to meet the demands of cultural, environmental, legal and contemplating the critical issues that InterCement’s international even labor characteristics, it has permeate the company: Business presence, packed with new been very challenging to establish Intelligence and Information challenges and opportunities. indicators that are common to all Management; Performance and The company currently has 131 business units. In 2013, two Best Benchmarking; Production, concrete plants and distributes Practices Manuals were released, one Products and Quality; Investments 4.8 million cubic meters of for Concrete and one for Aggregates. and Engineering; and Development concrete. It also owns 25 active and Innovation. quarries which produce about Focused on developing global 38 • Intellectual Capital 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 39 Driving development Some examples of projects: • The production of cement from civil construction waste, which has given the company its first filed patent in Brazil.. Workers at the Central Laboratory • The establishment of the Technology Center in high carbon technology. Sustainable partnerships with CENTRAL LABORATORY national and international research • In the quest for new alternatives of centers have been instrumental in additions, the department works in identifying innovative techniques to partnership with Instituto de Pesquisas be applied efficiently and safely in Tecnológicas (IPT) and with the Arcelor the production chain. Mittal steel mill, and receives support To support the business of cement, concrete and Argentina, 6.5% for Egypt and 5% to the Innovation & from the Brazilian Agency for Industrial aggregates, the Central Laboratory has been operating Development department). InterCement operates with a network Research and Innovation (Embrapii). of more than 20 research centers, for 20 years in the research and development of new universities and private companies, • The establishment of the Sustainable products and technologies, with tests that are essential The work involved, for example, tests for the production with the aim of developing new Construction Technology Center, which to confirm theoretical parameters, mitigate risks and of new types of cement, reducing carbon emissions, aims to develop a concrete with low technologies and expanding knowledge spot opportunities to increase the productivity of improving the reactivity and mineralization of clinker, within the value chain. consumption of bunders and, therefore, the operation. Based in Lisbon, it relies on ten highly the durability of concrete, and the behavior of concrete a much smaller carbon footprint. specialized professionals and has infrastructure using new types of cement and new additions. While still being structured, the It is run as a joint effort with Escola compatible with the most renowned laboratories in company’s R&D department already Politécnica, the Civil Engineering the world. In addition to the central laboratory, InterCement also shows interesting results that reinforce Department of the University of runs laboratories in São Paulo (Brazil) and Buenos the promising nature of this activity. São Paulo (USP). In 2013, about 40,000 tests were performed, from 2,063 Aires (Argentina). samples, serving virtually all areas of the company (49% for Brazil, 23% for Portugal, 9.5% for Mozambique, 7% for 40 • Intellectual Capital L’Amalí Argentina Apiaí – Brazil GLOBAL STRENGTHENING a benchmark in the global cement industry, was devised, in order to establish actions that would InterCement is present in eight countries provide the greatest impact and bring significant on three continents, with 40 units that changes to the business. speak five different languages. Operating at full steam throughout its new perimeter The work plan provides a great effort in defining of activity in South America, Europe and Africa, the organizational processes, strengthening communication company expects to strengthen its position as a result and understanding between the units and making sure of its international presence. To that end, it has an that all countries participate effectively in the decisionambitious investment plan that includes increasing making and planning processes. capacity especially in Brazil and Mozambique, as well as expanding into new regions, supported by higher exports from Portugal. In order to grow in an orderly fashion, InterCement Culture has incorporated internationalization as a new dimension, respecting local particularities InterCement is present in eight countries and encouraging its trademark aspects, such as on three continents, with 40 production units optimism, flexibility and responsiveness. In 2013, opportunities were mapped and a scale of priorities 44 • Built Up Capital 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 45 Trading Portugal INVESTMENTS The year 2013 was a year of record investments, TRADING & SHIPPING InterCement is among the top five global players in with R$ 952 million invested in the expansion and cement trading. Its strategic international presence modernization of operations. The highlights were enables thorough actions, with competitive prices the new production line in Cezarina; the new factory and product availability in serving regions with high in Caxitu; the completion of the grinding unit in demand, which, due to various circumstances, have Cubatao; the Apiaí lifts, in Brazil; the beginning of the a margin for export operations. In addition, Portugal grinding operation; and the full factory start planned has an excellent transport infrastructure, with ports, for 2014 in Paraguay; the rehabilitation of a cement railways and highways that contribute for the full mill in Egypt; and the installation of a new cement efficiency of the trading process. mill in Dondo, Mozambique. During the year, the volume traded in 2012 was nearly doubled, reaching a record 4.5 million metric CONCRETE, tons. Highlights included exports to the African and South American markets, especially to Brazil (in the MORTAR AND Amazonas region), Paraguay, Algeria, Mozambique and Egypt. AGGREGATES Considered a reference in the concrete segment, The positioning in the international trading market and the relations with various suppliers allowed InterCement maintains 131 plants in eight countries InterCement to acquire about 44% of the volume and an area of research and development in tune with traded with third parties and, thus, optimize flows the very latest in products for building technology. and maximize results. Moreover, with the acquisition of Cimpor, also started to work in the production of mortar. At this infrastructure, add to 25 gravel quarries in strategic regions and limestone mines located within a radius of up to 20 km of operational and close to major consumer markets units. During the year, several improvement actions occurred in all the countries, highlighting a number of strategic meetings, called Concrete Day, we have focused on defining the drivers of long-term business. 46 • Built Up Capital 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 47 Logistics To support operations in Argentina, InterCement A stronger has an 80% stake in Ferrosur Roca, which owns a 3,181 kilometers long railway network. In 2013, the railroad reached record levels of cargo transportation, surpassing the volume of 2012 by 10.4%. more cohesive unit The railway links seven of the nine Loma Negra units, connecting the cement producer to the major consumer centers. For other customers, mainly in the construction sector, it transports chemicals, fuels and raw materials, among others. In 2013, it signed a major contract with Brazilian company Vale, adding The transformation that the unit in even more value to the business. Egypt underwent stemmed from simple and original ideas, which brought significant results to the entire business and, particularly, allowed for PROCUREMENT the development of a more secure and harmonious work environment. The procurement area is in charge of maximizing value, driving efficiency and managing the results of In 2013, InterCement completed As a result of this change, the unit has the decisions to purchase goods and services, always the integration of its unit in Egypt, maintained a market share of 6.4% adhering to the principles of ethics and sustainability. located in Borg El Arab, in Alexandria. and has managed to improve its price Among the major initiatives of the year were the Despite the great difference in margin in local currency, even in the purchases of petcoke, in particular to Venezuela, the cultures and habits, an open and midst of a rather austere economic renegotiation of electricity prices in certain regions, frank dialogue provided an enriching and political environment. the new conditions for the acquisition of paper for exchange of experiences and, production of cement bags, and the new strategy of from that, several opportunities Egypt currently has an installed packaging supply for Brazil and Argentina. were spotted for gains in structural capacity of 5.5 million metric tons efficiency, logistics, supply, and of cement per year. In 2013, 3.2 In 2013, in partnership with Portugal’s Agency others, resulting in improved million metric tons of product were for Investment and Foreign Trade, InterCement performance and reduced sold, a volume 2.8% higher than that organized the event Growing Together (Crescer operating costs. achieved in 2012. Juntos), with the aim of supporting and encouraging the relationship between suppliers in various locations. 209 companies participated. 48 • Built Up Capital Trading Portugal SALES OF CEMENT AND CLINKER (MILLION METRIC TONS) 26,9 28,4 BUSINESS 12,7 11,5 10,2 10,1 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 EXPANSION TURNOVER PER UNIT (MILLION METRIC TONS) Brazil Argentina 2012 (proforma) 12.469 5.730 2013 12.533 6.383 Variation (13/12) % 0,5 11,4 Paraguay 209 280 34,1 In 2013, the total volume of cement and derivatives marketed by Portugal 3.435 4.053 18,0 the business units, across the eight countries where the company operates, reached 28.4 million metric tons, a 5.4% increase Cape Verde 189 176 -6,9 compared to 2012. Performance was especially driven by trading Egypt 3.108 3.196 2,8 activities and by the growth in Argentina, Paraguay, Mozambique 1.184 1.299 9,8 Mozambique and South Africa. South Africa 1.069 1.281 19,8 SUBTOTAL 27.394 29.202 6,6 Intercompany eliminations -449 -815 CONSOLIDATED TOTAL 26.944 28.386 5,4 Perceiving the benefits of working together 52 • Financial Capital 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 53 BRAZIL In Brazil, InterCement is second only to the leader of Portugal Holding approximately 55% stake in the Portuguese the cement market, with about 20% of the market share. market, the Portugal operation is one of the most About 40% of the company’s assets are located in Brazil, relevant for the company, mainly due to the high which accounted for approximately 60% of the results in productivity and low operating costs of its plants. 2013. In 2013, performance continued to be strongly The Brazilian economy maintained the trend of recent impacted by economic conditions, which caused the years and the cement market grew in line with Gross local cement consumption to drop by about 25%, with Domestic Product (GDP), with an increase of 2% over no prospect of recovery in the short to medium term. the previous year. InterCement sold 12.5 million metric InterCement chose to maintain the export strategy tons, a stable number in relation to 2012 (0.5% more), adopted in 2012, which resulted in a 76% growth in but the highest volume recorded by the company. The export volume. activity of concrete and aggregates reached a record sales volume, with 2.8 million m3 and 2.4 million metric The movement also allowed the company to gain tons, respectively. customers in countries where it did not previously operate, particularly in those located on the western During the second half, records of production, sales and coast of Africa. Part of the exports was also destined shipping were reported, with special mention to the to Northern Brazil and to Paraguay. units of Campo Formoso (state of Bahia), Cezarina (state of Goiás), São Miguel dos Campos (state of Alagoas) and The total volume of cement and related products sold Suape (state of Pernambuco). The year also marked the by the Portugal plants amounted to about 1.5 million company’s entry in the state of Amazonas market, with metric tons, down 24% compared to 2012. During the over 10% market share in the Manaus region. year, activities were terminated at the Hydraulic Lime unit of Cabo Mondego, with no significant impact 55% market share in Portugal There has also been significant progress in reducing over the business. costs, improving efficiency and performance, obtained mainly due to synergy efforts, which allowed an increase of US$ 161.4 million in EBITDA results. The integration of operations with Cimpor also brought gains in logistics, such as reducing the average radius of operation and, therefore, improving the use of installed capacity. Alhandra Portugal 54 • Financial Capital 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 55 Argentina With the Loma Negra operation, InterCement MOZAMBIQUE In July 2013, an agreement was executed allowing the CAPE VERDE The country accounts for a small portion of the achieved record production and shipment of all lease of one more production unit (Matola 2) in the InterCement operations, although the company products, with the largest market share in five years: country, one of the markets where InterCement has maintains leadership in the local market. The cement 46%. The country recorded an 11% growth in sales the greatest presence. A grinding unit in Dondo also marketed comes from Portugal exports. The year volume in 2013, totaling 6.4 million metric tons. went into operation. Although the results were good, of 2013 was marked by the shrinkage of the cement the operation is still negatively impacted by the large market, with a sales drop of about 7%, for a total of The activities of concrete and railway transportation, distance between the plants and the limestone mines. 176 metric tons. through Ferrosur, also followed this positive trend, The start of operation of the two grinding units and a EGYPT with a growth of 7.2% and 10.4%, respectively. more aggressive business policy have improved the Business performance stands out, with strict cost competitiveness of InterCement in imports, with sales control, operational improvement, increased of 1.3 million metric tons, 9.8% above 2012. coprocessing activity (all-time record rate of 3.4%), The repercussions of instability in the country were SOUTH AFRICA optimizing the consumption of raw materials and felt in the construction industry and, consequently, the production management across plants. cement consumption in 2013 saw a decrease of about 2%, for a total of approximately 50 million metric tons. The main operations of InterCement in the country InterCement recorded an increase in sales of 2.8% to 3.2 are located in the Durban area, where one cement unit million metric tons, regaining market share. Paraguay Through Yguazú Cementos, InterCement holds a and two grinding units are installed. The company is a benchmark in the country in terms of technical indicators, especially safety. market share of approximately 30% in the country. Just as in other countries of the continent, the South The highlight of 2013 was the start of the new grinding African market is heavily impacted by the imports of unit, in November. Leveraging the strong dynamics of cement, especially from India. In order to counteract the local market, sales grew over 30%, for a total of these effects, InterCement launched premium 280 tons. This increase was sustained in the sales of products during the year and, as a result, was able to imported cement, mainly from Portugal, and, from recover 1.1% of market share. With a more aggressive the second half on after the start of the grinding trade policy, it increased sales by 19.8% compared to operation, from the production of cement itself. the previous year, to 1.3 million metric tons. L’ámali Argentina 56 • Financial Capital 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 57 LEADER IN PROFITABILITY InterCement’s gross revenue totaled 2,624.4 billion euros in 2013, down 5.9% compared to the previous Despite the complexity of global operations, with different currencies for the financial statements, NET REVENUE 7.526 Indebtedness As of December 31, 2013, InterCement Holdings had net financial debt of € 2,466 million, which compares to € 2,975 million as of December 31, 2012. 6.997 year (2,788.9 million), basically due to the exchange InterCement was able to anticipate the consolidation The reduction in net debt is due to, (i) capitalization, rate effect, since the currencies of all the countries of the 2013 financial statement and ended this through the issuance of preferred shares held in outside Europe were devalued against the euro. In process on February 28, 2014, as recommended by the December, 2013, (ii) operating cash flow in 2013, reals, revenues increased 7.6% to R$ 7,526 million, as a best practices in the industry. 2.789 (iii) sales of non-operating assets, and (iv) exchange result of the increase in sales volume, higher average 2.624 gain on indebtedness. Of the total debt, about 2.9% price of cement, and business trading performance. is short-term and 97.1% long-term (mean 4.5 years). EBITDA (million euros) 2012 2013 2012 2013 Consolidated EBITDA was 686.9 million euros, R$ million Million euros 2012 Variation The cash and cash equivalents of the company’s representing a decrease of 10.6% compared to 2012. A 2013 (proforma) (13/12) % consolidated cash, as of December 31, 2013, totaled devaluation of all currencies against the euro caused Brazil 420,6 411,2 -2,2 € 1,278 million, compared to € 1,051 million as of EBITDA to drop around 100 million euros for the year. Argentina 129,1 119,7 -7,3 December 31, 2012. In reals, the consolidated amount was equivalent to R$ 1,970 million, up 2.2%. Paraguay 1,8 4,6 157,9 EBITDA and Margin Net Financial Debt/EBITDA as of December 31, Portugal 74,4 32,0 -57,1 2013, was 3.3 times its EBITDA in Euros (3.7 times The EBITDA margin was 26.2%, which represented Cape Verde 3,3 3,4 3,7 27,5% 27,5% 26,2% 26,2% in American Dollars), comfortably below the a decrease compared to the previous year, when Egypt 53,1 49,3 -7,2 financial covenant level established in some of its the margin was 27.5%. This result confirms that Mozambique 35,3 32,1 -9,0 1.970 1.927 financing agreements. InterCement is a leader in operating profitability, South Africa 48,7 36,5 -25,0 among the largest international companies in the Trading/Shipping or others 1,8 -1,8 768 InterCement Participações S.A. has a BB rating sector. Eliminating non-recurring items, EBITDA 687 Consolidated 768,1 686,9 -10,6 with positive outlook, issued by Standard & Poor’s, was 741.4 million euros (2,126 million reals), with a 2012 2013 2012 2013 EBITDA margin 27,5% 26,2% -1,4 p.p. the same level of its parent company, Camargo margin of 28.2%. R$ million Million euros Corrêa S.A.. 58 • Financial Capital 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 59 Apiaí Lifts Brazil Building I n order to achieve the goals stated in the desired speed, the five members of the Executive Strategic Map, the development of people and Committee were designated as sponsors of the culture was important in 2013, to efficiently dimensions, and the Chairman of the Board of and transparently integrate human capital Directors was assigned the general leadership. a unique across InterCement and Cimpor. A set of skills and a standardized model of performance In order to create an environment of meritocracy evaluation were defined, and the system of and high performance, it is critical to value people variable compensation for every level of through the practice of a clear and efficient culture leadership was unified. This action allowed performance management, with recognition and the company to identify the professionals opportunities offered for careers and development. who were more aligned with its vision and values. The participatory model of integration made At the end of the year, the company employed it possible to capture knowledge that was later 8,875 people. replicated during the training of skills. The existing Technical Training Program in Cimpor was The results of the company climate and culture expanded to all units of InterCement. surveys were combined with comparative studies of global best practices, and served as the basis to structure five dimensions for the construction of the new culture aspired by InterCement: Internationalization, Leadership, People Integrate Management, Performance Management and human capital Outside Guidance and Innovation. efficiently and transparently Each dimension generates corporate action plans, which may, because of other variables, be complemented by individual action plans at each business unit. In order for the process to have the 62 • Human Capital 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 63 The five dimensions Engaging all employees, bringing together knowledge and best practices PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT PEOPLE MANAGEMENT A culture of focusing on results, An environment of development always comparing ourselves with and meritocracy, valuing the the industry, with a robust, people with the best performance simplified management system, and greater engagement and structured based on the main establishing clear consequences levers of business value for poor performance INTERNATIONALIZATION A company adapted to the context of international operations respecting and 100% Safety valuing local particularities, while maintaining the characteristics of InterCement, such as optimism, flexibility and responsiveness OUTSIDE GUIDANCE LEADERSHIP With the evolution of the integration process, the company has AND INNOVATION A company at the forefront of Inspirational leaders, who make assertive decisions strengthened safety culture, through the dissemination of Golden innovation in the industry and in relationships with customers, through a participatory process, respecting the Rules and a safety behaviors campaign. suppliers and society cultural issues of each country 64 • Human Capital 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 65 professionals of tomorrow Known as Safety 100%, the campaign aims to engage all employees, bringing together knowledge and the best practices. An action plan for the next five years includes objectives, guidelines, indicators and targets for achieving high levels of safety. Safety Ambassadors were trained and given the task of multiplying and disseminating the campaign at their units. The new scenario of the company and of the market was the background for the In order to bolster 100% Safety and evaluate the integration process, which engaged the conditions at each unit, the Radar tool was created, largest number of people possible. We took including safety steps and processes, which must advantage of the best at each unit, realigning be constantly updated by the health and safety these experiences to the current corporate managers at the units. moment. The participation of the teams throughout the whole process made it possible to apply climate and culture surveys with the engagement of over 5000 employees, The integration process between about 65% of the total. The objective was to InterCement and Cimpor measure the level of satisfaction of employees brought on the challenges of a and promote improvements identified as In strengthening the campaign, the Safety Culture dissemination was intensified, regional operation that becomes necessary. The number of participants in all based on four pillars: international. In addition to the countries was 3,549 for the organizational cultural differences, the synergies culture survey and 7,869 for the organizational between the companies and the climate survey. Understanding All employees should know the risks and the controls required for each activity. respect for the potentials of local The results reflect people’s perception of communities and employees, there clarity and alignment regarding the strategic After they have the information and knowledge, professionals must act in a safe was still the goal of alignment and direction of the company (62%). In addition, Acting manner, using the required controls and not taking risks. creation of a governance the Principles and Values are widely known model that ensured the (67%) and the company is recognized for Everyone should adopt safe behaviors, protecting their own lives and the Collaborating lives of other professionals. InterCement identity, to build providing the working conditions and sustainable partnerships. workplace safety (69%). Professionals should disseminate information and have a positive attitude, Sharing ensuring that everyone engages in safety culture. 66 • Human Capital Day of Doing Good 2013 Brazil DIALOGUE FOR SUSTAINABILITY Supporting the community in the pursuit In developing these initiatives, the company has the support of Instituto Camargo Corrêa (ICC), who is in charge of the methodology and social intelligence. In 2013, the company restructured its governance in the management of social responsibility, creating a Corporate of its potential is a fundamental value at Committee to take care of the social responsibility strategy and of the alignment with company values. It is comprised InterCement, based on a model that seeks of shareholders and members of the company’s Executive Committee, and representatives of ICC and Camargo Corrêa to reconcile the production of wealth with Group; it also relies on the support of Local Committees, made up by corporate representatives and the Board, at the generation with social welfare and each country. environmental protection In order ensure that its actions are always in line with this vision of sustainable growth, InterCement seeks to develop actions that value and encourage open and transparent dialogue with stakeholders customers, suppliers, shareholders, investors and the communities surrounding its plants. 70 • Social Capital 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 71 COMMITMENT logo, thus indicating that the concrete is made with Visits to units cement produced by the company, which gives it a The initiative invites architects, customers, quality advantage. government agencies and schools to visit the units. Training TO THE CUSTOMER Portugal Training courses for customers and their employees. Customer Plus Meeting Breakfast An event held annually in Portugal to recognize the Breakfast invitations for entrepreneurs and resellers. ten major buyers in the bulk and bagged segments. The outstanding customers in 2013 maintained the same Over the past few years, InterCement has developed Argentina volume of purchases from the previous year, despite the Mozambique several strategic actions with its major customers. drop of over 13% in the market during the period. Workshop on Business techniques The company believes that, in order to achieve Point of sale exposure Based on the motto Building Sustainable Partnerships, The Loma Negra brand was placed in units of over 100 Sectoral Meetings excellence in a relationship, one must offer more Throughout 2013, InterCement Portugal promoted the Mozambique unit held its first customer event, than quality products and competitive prices. It is distributor customers across the country, so that the bringing together representatives of major domestic several regional meetings with its most representative necessary to have technical mastery, market data, locals could identify the company’s brand. and foreign construction companies operating in the customers, allowing, on one hand, the identification of and great commitment to results from all the staff, Loyalty program customers’ expectations and needs, and, on the other country, as well as customers and resellers. providing solutions for customer loyalty and building Points obtained in the purchase of cement can be hand, the promotion of a few of Cimpor initiatives, long-term relationships. redeemed for prizes. Business School such as its new 25 kilos bag and pallet system . Egypt It is not a coincidence that the new company tagline Joint promotional actions Cimpor | Customer Updating customer data Building Sustainable Partnerships has customer Maintained in Argentina, a joint effort with Instituto Carried out especially in newspapers, billboards, CRM tool with data from 521 customers were updated relations as one of the key aspects, and one that will de Altos Estudios Empresariales (IAE), from Austral and business documentation (invoices, promotional in the SAP. be the object of even greater efforts to strengthen University, it provides training for customers who brochures and technical and sporting events). The distribute or use the company’s products, exclusively, association between the Cimpor brand and the Loyalty program actions that are already focused on customer loyalty. A 2013 calendar was created by the CRM team to These actions include: in the manufacture of concrete. Classes are targeted customer’s brand strongly enhanced visibility and at managers and sons or daughters who are actively credibility in the markets. underscore a series of customer events. engaged in the company’s management. In addition Survey of customer satisfaction Brazil to training more than 120 customers, the action reinforces the Loma Negra brand among the new South Africa Survey conducted among customers to measure InterCement & You Experience their satisfaction. The initiative is to offer Brazilian customers a series generations. In 2013, classes were expanded to four Gold Customer additional cities, besides Buenos Aires. Dinner at the Oyster Hotel with the key customers of Reminder Campaign of cultural activities. In 2013, about 90 customers A campaign was used to remind the market of the company. attended national and international concerts, theater Consulting for concrete companies the InterCement Egypt products under the brand plays and musicals in a custom box located at a Also developed in Argentina, the program takes Fultons Awards Amreyah Cement. São Paulo venue. technical and managerial knowledge to concrete Awards for customers and suppliers who used the producers across the country. Support includes company’s cement and concrete. Daily meetings with customers InterCement Forum the assessment of several issues, such as the use of A program for customers from various segments of Golfing days CRM KPI machinery, management systems, and development KPI plan defined by the CRM team to decide, measure the construction industry in Brazil brings relevant Customers were invited to go golfing. of products and tests of raw materials, in addition and evaluate the daily CRM performance. and updated information to help them make assertive decisions in their business. It includes to training professionals in the technical center Events laboratories. A marketing action provides for the Exhibitions, conferences and seminars with market data, technical analysis, standardization and concrete mixers of customers to bear the Loma Negra customers and institutes in the industry. innovation studies. 72 • Social Capital 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 73 STRENGTHENING SUPPLIERS InterCement develops a series of actions to strengthen relations with suppliers An example of successful event is Growing Together The format of the event allowed for several business Supplier Network, held in June 2013 in Lisbon, Portugal. opportunities to be shared, because, in addition to Organized in partnership with Portugal’s Agency for getting to know the procurement profile of InterCement Investment and Foreign Trade (Aicep), the initiative aimed and its partners, suppliers’ employees exchanged at a greater approximation between InterCement and ideas and information with the people responsible for local companies. procurement at each of the units, in order to present concrete business proposals. The event was attended by more than 260 small and medium companies, who got to know the procurement Day of Doing Good 2013 – Portugal profile of all InterCement units and of other 13 partner companies (11 Brazilian and two Argentine). 74 • Social Capital 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 75 Inclusion in local communities The dialogue with the communities surrounding its operations is an important part in InterCement’s decision-making, which actively seeks to participate in the discussion of local problems and help find solutions. Corporate Social Responsibility and values of Instituto Camargo initially adopted in the city of Apiaí is defined by the standard as Corrêa (Brazil) and Fundación (state of São Paulo); 3) Ideal Future, an ongoing commitment, with Loma Negra (Argentina). to encourage entrepreneurship minimum procedures for the and generate employment and implementation of social actions, Investments totaled R$ 13.9 million income; and 4) Ideal Volunteer, ensuring that they are in line with in 2013, with a focus on projects to encourage employees to take Day of Doing Good the business goals. It also meets targeted at children, education citizenship actions. 2013 Brazil the principles of the Sustainability and income generation, and based Statement and the Corporate on four fronts: 1) Ideal Childhood, Social Responsibility guidelines of to protect young children’s rights; the Camargo Corrêa Group, as well 2) Ideal School, to improve the as the mission statement, vision management of public schools; 76 • Social Capital 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 77 Day of Doing Good 2013 Brazil VOLUNTEERING VALUES One of the agendas of the integration process was taking the core guidelines of volunteer action to all units, across eight countries. The Ideal Volunteer Program was a priority in the integration, since its structure carries much of the values underpinning the company’s stance. The selection takes into account that the participation of young professionals in these initiatives allows for the integration between units and communities, according to the social investment strategy. A road show across business units in South Africa, Egypt, Mozambique and Portugal aimed to raise awareness, align and level the expectations regarding concepts, models of operation and best practices of social investment at InterCement. Specific action EARLY CHILDHOOD AS A PRIORITY plans, however, will be developed by the units Held from 4-10 November, 2013, the Baby Week all Actions included official openings with the presence themselves, because they have the best insight into together for infants and toddlers had the primary of mayors, councilors and secretaries; lectures and the local demands. objective of making the right to survival and workshops covering topics such as family ties, development of children aged 6 years and under a importance of early childhood, family education, During the process, Volunteering and Interaction priority in the agenda of Brazilian municipalities. breastfeeding, first aid, among others. Various Incentive Committees and Ideal Volunteer Action The action took place in nine Brazilian cities, in the activities were conducted, such as visitation of Groups were created in all countries. Especially in states of São Paulo, Minas Gerais, Pernambuco and pregnant women to the maternity ward, a ballet Mozambique, there was an important advance in this Ceará, with about 210 activities over the span of performance, makeup workshops for mommies to agenda during 2013, with special mention to an effort seven days. The initiative was so successful that the be, face painting for children, musical performances, of diagnosing and setting short and medium term city of Itaoca (state of São Paulo) turned the week into physical activities for pregnant women, videos about goals. Also noteworthy are the global results of the a public policy, through a bylaw passed in the House sexuality, scavenger hunt and cultural presentations. Day of Doing Good. of Representatives. 78 • Social Capital 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 79 An exercise in citizenship DEVELOPMENT AND INCLUSION InterCement also develops projects that help social In Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay, the event took place on August 25, and in other countries it happened on inclusion and income generation. A highlight among October 20. In total, 142 actions took these programs is Apiaí Ceramics Pole, in the region of place, with the engagement of 14,000 the Upper Ribeira Valley, in the state of São Paulo. The volunteers (including employees, work is performed by a group of women artisans who family members and partners). collect raw materials from nature to manufacture pieces Including the resources allocated by that reflect the local culture. the company, by business partners and by communities, the investment The company has supported the establishment totaled US$ 1.22 million. The main of community output centers, with technical and initiatives included repair work and managerial trainings, as well as actions which have improvements in kindergartens, improved the dissemination of labor and, consequently, schools, hospitals, and social More than 99,000 people have institutions headquarters, in addition optimized the marketing of products, increasing benefited from the action of to recreational activities. productivity and business profitability. professionals who engaged in InterCement’s Day of Doing Good Units in Europe and Africa relied Another good example of social investment has taken in 2013. The action is in line with on the expertise already developed place in Pedro Leopoldo, state of Minas Gerais, where Instituto Camargo Corrêa (ICC)’s in other countries and volunteers the Community Development Committee (CDC) of the social policy on volunteering. In were assigned to Volunteering and municipality has a decisive role in the definition of its fifth edition, the activities were Community Interaction Incentive projects and programs for local action. The program is expanded to Africa and Europe, Committees. Based on the culture structured around the four pillars of action previously complementing the actions already and conditions of each location, the defined by committee: the training of childhood undertaken in South America. project was set in motion. education professionals; the enhancement of care for Day of Doing Good 2013 Brazil pregnant women and newborns; fostering culture and leisure; and reducing the rate of teenage pregnancy. 80 • Social Capital t he proper use of natural resources and the preservation of the environment are the basis for the environmental management model at InterCement, following the guidelines of the UNIFIED Camargo Corrêa Group and aligning their actions to the concept of sustainable development. The company also undersigns various commitments, both in Brazil and ENVIRONMENTAL abroad, with representatives of the sector, aimed at further improving environmental management. AGENDA In order to increase and disseminate this policy to all operations, a single agenda for the subject was created in 2013 and widely circulated in all countries. The integration of environmental key performance indicators (KPIs) was consolidated in 2013 in all units of InterCement and set the basis for consistent environmental proper use of management programs. The natural resources importance given to this issue is also expressed in the fact that sustainability goals are related to the variable remuneration of managers. Apiaí Brasil 84 • Natural Capital 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 85 These initiatives allow for proper disposal of waste, in addition to saving fossil fuels and raw materials, which account for 30% of the company’s operating costs. In 2013, 587,000 metric tons of waste were coprocessed, which is equal to the volume of 30 thousand trucks. With this, the company did not consume 235,000 metric tons of fossil fuels, thus reaching a 12% level of thermal substitution, in addition to saving 130 metric tons of mineral waste. About 75% of the units that produce clinker have coprocessing activities integrated into their process. During the year, four units hit the mark of over 20% average substitution of fuel for residues . The Candiota plant (state of Rio Grande do Sul) reported ADVANCES in COPROCE SSING InterCement has consistently expanded coprocessing technologies, with the thermal destruction of waste in its cement kilns. an average of 36%, operating with a level above 40% during some periods. Portugal recorded a historic coprocessing rate in all the plants in the country, around 16.5%. In 2013, InterCement obtained the first license granted in South Africa to coprocessing used tires in cement production. In 2014, in addition to tires and industrial waste, the focus will be on urban waste corprocessing. Because of the constant investment in innovation and excellence, the goal is to reach 60% thermal substitution by 2023 with more than half of it coming from waste. Bodoquena – Brazil 86 • Natural Capital 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 87 Alhandra Portugal SOLUTION FOR SLUDGE Portugal currently faces significant challenges and pressures to achieve goals and targets for waste management, as defined by European policies. One of provides, for the next phase, the assessment of the origins of sludge for which it will be feasible to invest in drying. these involves the purifying sludge, which is currently destined for agriculture (90%) and landfills, but poses The company is able to coprocess about 90 metric risks to the environment and public health. Analyses tons of dry purifying sludge, which will solve the of various treatment alternatives have suggested environmental problem in regions where solar drying that solar drying (treatment) and coprocessing are is feasible. The project started in 2012, and its first competitive solutions. phase of assessment of the coprocessing solution and industrial testing will be completed by the end of the InterCement has conducted tests with dried first quarter of 2014. industrial-grade purifying sludge (with a 30% lower humidity) in order to validate the amount of this waste it is able to coprocess in its cement plants. After the maximum amounts were defined, the study 88 • Natural Capital 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 89 EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT The cement industry is responsible for a significant portion of emissions The integration of environmental KPIs has supported the agenda InterCement currently has one of the lowest CO2 emissions per ton of greenhouse gases, especially for carbon management and of cement in the world. In Brazil, it CO2 (carbon dioxide) emissions. consolidated indicators of pollutant also self-sufficient in electricity from Because of its effect on global emission with a vision specific to hydropower, which directly impacts warming, carbon management is each plant and country, which has on reducing costs and CO2 emissions strategic in the company, which has allowed InterCement to establish the undersigned nine commitments bases and goals for its environmental relating to this issue. performance to be met by 2023. BLUE ATTITUDE FOR WATER The Blue Attitude, a program for the rational use of water created The guidelines of the watersaving and intelligent use of to assess the risks of water water initiative are integrated shortage, covered all the cement into the Cement Sustainability operations and created plans for Initiative (CSI), a group in which critical situations. For 2014, Blue InterCement has had a leading Attitude should proceed with the role for many years, as one of its methodology for assessing the risk founders through Cimpor. of shortages in concrete operations. 90 • Natural Capital 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 91 Climate agenda InterCement undersigns the Camargo Corrêa Group’s Climate Agenda, approved in 2009, and characterized by a set of nine commitments that determine the adoption of carbon as a variable for the strategic planning and management decisions of each company in the Group. The main priorities are: COMMITMENTS ACTIONS COMMITMENTS ACTIONS Regulatory risks in the various countries where it operates, as well Include solutions that minimize as indirect risks related to climate change, are monitored in order Since 2009, with the support of R&D projects, technologies of carbon GHG emissions and identify to control overall exposure to these factors and provide appropriate Invest in initiatives to reuse capture and sequestration/reuse, namely, oxy-combustion and CO2 business opportunities in support to the decision-making process. The company has emission and store carbon. fixation in algae, have been applied. strategic planning, business reduction projects, including projects capable of generating carbon decisions and investments. credits certificates, and develops much of its R&D programs with a focus on reducing emissions. Invest in reforestation activities Conduct periodic inventories CO2 emissions have been calculated and monitored since 1990 through and use of sustainable forest Develop sustainable forest management projects to plant biomass of emissions, disclosing several key indicators and according to the model of the GHG Protocol. management substrate, for use as an alternative fuel, while creating positive social impact the results, and establish Also, are they audited and certified since 2005 via an independent supporting actions to reduce on communities. reduction targets. third party. deforestation and degradation and valuing the standing forest. Continuously strive to reduce The policy of reducing emissions per metric ton of product (clinker and specific emissions (per unit cement) is developed according to a set of strategies and goals for the Participate in joint initiatives of product) associated with short, medium, and long terms. Key initiatives include the reduction with civil society, research R&D projects with universities and research centers, in particular the processes, products of clinker; increasing the percentage of energy from alternative fuels centers and public and private with regard to climate change, such as studies on the production of and services, through the and fuels with lower CO2 emission factors; greater energy efficiency of belite clinker and geopolymers, investigating the nanoengineering sectors, aimed at sustainable of hydrated calcium, low carbon clinker, recycling of construction rationalization of resources and the clinker and cement production process; among others. Currently, innovation in order to overcome InterCement features one of the smallest carbon footprints in the and demolition waste, and carbon capture and sequestration, the use of organic inputs (e.g., the challenges of mitigating and industry, worldwide. among others. energy and raw materials). adapting to climate change. 92 • Natural Capital 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 93 COMMITMENTS ACTIONS alternative Sensitize the workforce to adopt conscientious for slurry consumption attitudes, InterCement monitors its carbon footprint to determine the level of empowering them to identify exposure, sets goals and evaluates opportunities to reduce its footprint business opportunities by through specific projects. managing the risks associated with climate change. The process was initiated at the Alhambra plant in September, 2013, and totaled 3000 tons of waste disposed in the kilns. The process provided direct Acting along the value chain, savings of 10 euros per metric ton of including the carbon variable water eliminated, which represents a as a competitive advantage Use of alternative fuels and raw materials with lower emission factors, reduction of 0.1 US$ per metric ton of when purchasing inputs and and electricity from renewable sources, as well as promoting new clinker; and indirect savings of 3% in selling products and services, types of cement with a reduced carbon footprint. the consumption of ammonia, reducing thus influencing customers US$ 0.05 per metric ton of clinker. and suppliers. Cement kiln are a viable The method still requires authorization alternative for slurry for the operation depends, according Contribute to the design of Leachates (slurry) generated in landfills to all the environmental and safety regulatory frameworks and are being evaluated by InterCement in requirements in place for the use of InterCement contributes to the development process of policies and Portugal as material for coprocessing in leachate water. The slurry is stored in standards on a national, regional, guides for a low carbon economy, participating in various global forums. local and sectoral level in the cement kilns. The initiative combines tanks, respecting the same conditions countries where it operates. important advantages for all parties: necessary to burn alternative fuels. reducing the cost of treating these materials, which have high a risk of The company is studying the expansion contamination for water bodies and of the initiative to other countries, soil, efficiency gains for the cement including Brazil, where there is an industry, with lower consumption of increasing need for alternative natural resources and cost reduction. solutions to treat this kind of residue. 94 • Natural Capital CORPORATE INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS Engineering and Technology IT Director André Gama Schaeffer NEW BUSINESS Gerardo Diez Solange Akiama Spain Marcos Gradin Chairman Engineering and Technology DIRECTOR OF NEW BUSINESS José Édison Barros Franco Vice-President Coprocessing Director Sergio Bandeira Portugal and Cape Verde Vienna Jorge Martinez Francisco Leme Business Unit Tim Klaus Kuba Vice-Chairmen Albrech Curt Reuter Domenech Technology and Processes Director Concrete and Aggregates GEOGRAPHIES Managing Director André Pires de Oliveira Dias Sandra Lebreiro Superintendent Luis Fernandes BRAZIL HEADQUARTERS Luiz Roberto Ortiz Nascimento Carlos José Massucato Brazil Business Unit Av. das Nações Unidas 12.495 Engineering Projects Director CFO 13ºandar Advisor Horácio Ardiani IT Superintendent Managing Director Marcos Gradin CEP. 04578-000 São Paulo | Brasil Vitor Sarquis Hallack Marcelo Terrafino Cleber Acurcio Machado Engineering Projects Director Directors Tel.:. 55 11 3718-4200 President of InterCement A Neto Cordeiro CFO Luis Menezes www.intercement.com José Édison Barros Franco Management and Security Carlos José Cantú João Ghira CEO Cimpor Organizational Development Management and Security Directors Africa Business Unit PORTUGAL HEADQUARTERS Ricardo Fonseca de Corporate Superintendent Dorivaldo Ferreira Rua Alexandre Herculano, 35 Mendonça Lima Organizational Development Marco Túlio Lima Nessralla Manuel Antonio Sobral Cruz Vice-President of Operations 1250-009 Lisboa | Portugal Vice-President Rubens Prado Valentin Júnior Ricardo Frederico Tel.: +351 21 311 81 00 InterCement Executive Committee Nelson Tambelini Júnior Valter Garbinatto de Albuquerque Buarque Barbosa www.cimpor.com José Édison Barros Franco Legal Ricardo Fonseca de Mendonça Lima Sustainability and Innovation Director Brazil Superintendent South Africa Business Unit Administrative Claudio Borin Guedes Palaia Adriano Nunes Corporate Legal Director Oldack Leal Sampaio Neto André Gama Schaeffer Luiz Augusto Klecz Managing Director Headquarters Austria Jorge Martinez People Management Director Argentina and Paraguay Ricardo Frederico Buarque Barbosa Hohenstaufengasse 10/3rd floor, Nelson Tambelini Júnior 1010 | Vienna Nelson Tambelini Júnior Strategic Planning Business Unit CFO External Managing Director Ricardo Bonazzi Corporate Finance Communication Director Strategic Planning Osvaldo Jorge Schutz Filipa Mendes Corporate Director Egypt Business Unit Finance Vice-President Marco Antonio Zangari CFO Claudio Borin Guedes Palaia Sergio Faifman Managing Director Corporate Finance Director Business Support Ricardo Frederico Buarque Barbosa Risks and Audit Directors Marcelo Arantes Business Support Cleber Ceroni Mozambique Business Unit Consolidation and Vice-President Risks and Audit Dardo Ariel Damiano Managing Director Tax Planning Director André Gama Schaeffer Corporate Director Eduardo Blake Jorge Reis Gueber Lopes Juan I. Masjoan Sergio Almeida Trading and Procurement Luis Roberto Guillermo Irlicht CFO EUROPE & AFRICA FINANCE, CONSOLIDATION Director South Africa, Angola and Filipe Filipe AND CONTROLLING DIRECTOR Pedro Marques Mozambique Director Superintendents Argentina Edney Vieira Carlos Pica Armando Silva 96 • CORPORATE INFORMATION 2013 ANNUAL REPORT − InterCement 97 CREDITS General Coordination Executive Committee Management of Corporate Communications Fernanda Guerra Concept and Graphic Project UNO+BRAND Content and Writing Editora Contadino Photos Gérson Martins Printing Interfill
