SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS INTEGRATED REPORT 2013 South Africa’s National Airline mission To deliver sustainable profits and grow market share through world-class service to customers internally and externally. Vision An African airline with a global reach. CORE BUSINESS The movement of people and goods by air. CORE VALUES Safety VALUING ITS PEOPLE Adopting a zero-defect philosophy SAA IS COMMITTED to their satisfaction, and striving for zero safety incidents development and well-being by treating through proper training, work practices, them with respect, dignity and fairness. risk management and adherence to safety regulations at all times. ACCOUNTABILITY Taking responsibility for individual and CUSTOMER-FOCUSED team actions, decisions and results by Striving to meet the unique needs of establishing clear plans and goals and customers (internally and externally) by measuring progress against them. tailoring each interaction to suit their specific needs. EXCELLENCE IN PERFORMANCE Setting goals beyond the best, INTEGRITY reinforcing high-quality performance Practising the highest standards of standards and achieving excellence by ethical behaviour in all lines of work implementing best practices. and maintaining credibility by ensuring that SAA’s actions consistently match its words. Scope and contents The scope of this Report CONTENTS this Integrated report, published in 2013 Highlights 2 line with the King Code on Corporate About SAA 4 governance (King iii of 2009), reviews Operational Overview 8 South African airways (saa) economic, LEADERSHIP social and environmental performance Board of Directors 12 for the period between 1 april 2012 Group Executive Committee 16 and 31 march 2013. this report combines elements of a sustainability LEADERSHIP STATEMENTS report with a conventional financial Chairperson’s Report 18 report. The aim is to provide sufficient Chief Executive Officer’s Report 20 insight to enable stakeholders to form a comprehensive VIEW of the SAA’S OPERATIONS organisation’s performance and its Commercial 24 ability to create and sustain value, in Cargo 26 the context of ITS environmental, social Human Resources 28 and economic challenges. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTS Group Environmental Affairs 32 Corporate Social Responsibility 34 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance and Accountability 36 SUBSIDIARY REPORTS Mango 40 SAA Technical 42 Air Chefs 44 South African Travel Centre 46 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement by the Company Secretary 51 Directors’ Report 52 Report of the Audit Committee 66 Independent Auditors’ Report 68 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 70 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 71 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 72 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 74 Notes to the Financial Statements 75 Corporate Information 127 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 1 2013 Highlights SUPPORT FOR SOUTH AFRICA’S NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENDA • The airline contributes R8,6 billion to South Africa’s GDP and is responsible for 35 000 jobs • An additional R11 billion in catalytic demand impact on tourism and an additional 44 000 South African jobs created in tourism STRATEGIC • Compilation and submission to the Shareholder (the Department of Public Enterprises) of SAA’s first-ever comprehensive and holistic Long-Term Turn-Around Strategy (LTTS) developed by Executives under the guidance and leadership of the Board • Skills development Key Performance Indicators achieved for cadet pilots and technicians • Three new African routes introduced: Cotonou (Benin), Abidjan (Ivory Coast) and Brazzaville (The Republic of the Congo) COMMERCIAL • Strengthened alliance and code-share relationships • SAA achieved an overall 12% sales revenue increase • Skytrax Award for Best Airline in Africa for the 10th consecutive year • Four-star Skytrax rating reconfirmed OPERATIONAL • SAA achieved a 91,17% on-time performance average and won the FlightStats On-Time Performance Service Awards in the category “Middle East and Africa Major Airlines” FINANCIAL • Total income up 14% • Controllable costs up 5% • Average rand/USD exchange rate of 8.42 (2012: 7.48) and average Brent oil price USD 111.80 (2012: USD 113.70) • Cost savings against budget in excess of R1 billion • Irregular expenditure down 59% • Operating loss before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation improved by 40% • R5 billion Government guarantee received 2 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 2013 Highlights SAA, Africa’s most awarded airline, Operates its core business in three distinct markets: Domestic SAA and Mango have the most extensive schedules, enhanced by their partnerships with state-owned regional carrier South African Express and the privately owned SA Airlink, which operates as a feeder network linking smaller towns and regional centres to the main hubs in the country. Additionally, SAA moves 40% of all air cargo in South Africa. REGIONAL SAA is one of the leading carriers in Africa, offering 26 routes across the continent. INTERNATIONAL SAA’s international network creates links to all major continents from South Africa through direct routes. saa accounts for approximately 35% of all international arrivals to South Africa and through its Star Alliance membership offers 21 900 daily flights serving 1 329 airports in 194 countries. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 3 About SAA South African Airways (SAA) proudLY SUPPORTS SOUTH AFRICA’S NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENDA AND CAN REPORT positive growth in various PARTS OF the business. The airline is operationally sound and both SAA and its low-cost airline, Mango, have been recognised for their reliable on-time departure and notable safety record for the year under review. SUPPORTING SOUTH AFRICA’S NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT seconds. The Abandoned Call Rate measure is that no more than 5% of AGENDA total calls may be abandoned. At Reservations and Voyager, a 3% average SAA is proudly 100% state-owned by the South African Government and, was achieved. as the national carrier, strongly supports our national development agenda. SAA contibutes 0.3% of South Africa’s Gross Domestic Product and is THE BEST IN BUSINESS TRAVEL responsible for 35 000 jobs through its activity and a further 44 000 jobs The expansion of SAA’s value proposition tailored for corporate entities now through its catalytic demand impact on tourism. It is heavely focused on offers even more to global corporations. The SAA Global Sales Programme skills development for previously disadvantaged individuals, particularly is designed to provide multi-national companies with a holistic incentive cadet pilots and technicians. programme that entitles a corporate entity to a host of generous discounts and other benefits. The aim is to provide the corporate world with a single AT YOUR SERVICE solution that encompasses contract negotiation and other business-specific On-Time Performance remains a high priority. In addition, Skytrax, a requirements. recognised and independent global airline-rating organisation, has awarded SAA a four-star rating for 10 years in a row. TAPPING INTO THE MICE MARKET With global trends focusing on the revenue potential of this lucrative Substantial improvements have also been achieved in baggage handling. industry, SAA has identified the Global Meetings, Incentives, Conferences SAA implemented a system-wide structured approach which resulted in & Exhibitions (Mice) desk as an important sales channel. There is a clear reducing baggage irregularities and pilferage. need for SAA to partner with organisers on future meetings. SAA remains committed to its core value: safety first. The SAA Technical A close partnership with South Africa Tourism’s National Convention team of experts applies a zero-defect philosophy to all safety-related Bureau, which aims to better serve the business events community, activities. The Group’s safety record is testimony to its uncompromising approach towards world-class operational standards, with SAA fully compliant with International Air Transport Association’s (IATA) Operational Safety Audit. 2012 Awards: World Travel Awards – Leading Airline in Africa The oversight role of the South African Civil Aviation Authority (SACAA) Public Sector – Service Excellence Gold Award (Transport) is pivotal in ensuring that SAA not only maintains our exceptionally high Sunday Times – Generation X Coolest Domestic Airline Sunday Times – Beat Brand Awards (Consumer) standards, but that we exceed expectations. Skytrax – Best Airline in Africa Skytrax – Best Staff Service in Africa SAA values the loyalty of those who fly with the airline. That’s why its Global Traveller Magazine Awards – Best White Wine in always looking for innovative ways of improving the SAA experience and International Business Class delivering outstanding service to our customers. South African Tour Operators Association (SATOA) Awards – Best Airline FIRST POINT OF CALL Business Traveller Awards – Best African Airline The SAA Call Centre is where many customer interactions take place. Its Apex – Passenger Experience (over 50 fleet IFE) Best in effective and efficient operation is key to the overall success of the airline. Region: Africa Ask Africa – Orange Index – Service Excellence Africa Customer service levels apply the best practice standard, with 80% Premier Traveller Magazine – Best Airline to Africa Global Traveller Award – Best Airline to Africa of calls being answered within seconds. In the year under review Reservations and Voyager achieved 84% of calls being answered in 17 4 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 About SAA SAA conducts its core business, the movement enables SAA to bid for major events. With the expansion in of people and goods by air, through two the network across Africa, SAA is better equipped to serve the business tourism market more effectively. Special Mice fares are operating business units, four subsidIAry available to meeting organisers for delegates once a partnership companies and two partner airlines – LED with SAA has been concluded. and supported by the group’s head office corporate services function AT YOUR FINGERTIPS SAA’s travel trade partners benefit from a suite of self-service check-in products such as on-line check-in, bag drop and mobile check-in which improve business processes MANGO considerably. All SAA passengers who make bookings through Mango is SAA’s low-cost domestic these valued trade partners can access these features. airline, with a mandate to make air travel accessible and affordable. It AFRICA’S MOST AWARDED AIRLINE uses a young, highly-utilised fleet, In 2012 SAA was awarded Best Airline in Africa for the 10th innovative distribution model, lean consecutive year and Best Service Excellence in Africa for the organisation principles and warm, third consecutive year by Skytrax. energetic branding. SKYTRAX FOUR-STAR RATING For ten consecutive years, SAA has retained its Skytrax FourStar rating, one of the airline industry’s highest accolades. The rating is recognised worldwide and is awarded to those airlines SAA TECHNICAL which are delivering consistent and inspired service to their SAA Technical is the sole provider customers. Moreover, it is the airline industry’s benchmark for of aircraft maintenance, repair airlines’ frontline product and service quality excellence. This and overhaul to SAA and Mango is testimony to SAA’s customer service focus and excellent in Africa. It also supplies line standards, which are on par with the best in the industry. maintenance to 24 other domestic, regional and international airlines, AN AFRICAN SUCCESS STORY and heavy maintenance to eight SAA’s strategy for growth on the African continent is consistent other customers. with its Shareholder’s mandate, which aims to enhance travel within and beyond Africa for Africans and the rest of the world. The introduction of new African destinations to the route network ensures further growth of SAA’s footprint on the continent, made possible as ties between African countries and the rest of the AIR CHEFS world strengthen and continue to grow. Air Chefs, SAA’s in-flight catering subsidiary, is one of the largest The African route network focuses on three key areas: southern catering and in-flight providers Africa and the Indian Ocean Islands (Zambia, Malawi, in South Africa. It has five airline Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Namibia, Botswana, Lesotho, customers and produces over Swaziland, Mauritius and Angola); East Africa and the Middle 30 000 meals a day. East (Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Ethiopia, Burundi and Rwanda) and North, West and Central Africa (Ghana, Nigeria, Senegal, Ivory Coast, the Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Cameroon and Benin Republic). From October 2012, the Southern Africa and Indian Ocean South African Travel Region was strengthened by adding Ndola as a third destination Centre in Zambia, along with Lusaka and Livingstone. South African Travel Centre is a retail travel agency franchise network EAST AFRICA aimed at corporate and leisure The Johannesburg to Bujumbura (Burundi) and Johannesburg to customers, and is one of the Group’s Kigali (Rwanda) routes were added to the East African region in most cost-effective sales channels. 2012. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 5 About SAA NORTH, WEST AND CENTRAL AFRICAN REGION has grown consistently. South Africa’s membership of Brazil, Russia, SAA’s presence in the North, West and Central African region was India, China and South African (Brics) has played an important role here. expanded by adding Pointe Noire and Brazzaville (The Republic of the Passengers flying from Mumbai will appreciate the benefit and convenience Congo), Cotonou (Benin) and Abidjan (Côte d’Ivoire) to the network. of connectivity to 26 African destinations, and to key cities in South America and Australasia through Johannesburg. Johannesburg to Cotonou, Benin, launched on 17 May 2012, is served twice-weekly. Cotonou, the country’s largest city, is the economic capital Australia of Benin and the seat of many government departments and embassies. SAA offers a daily service between Perth, Australia on an Airbus A340Flights operate from Johannesburg to Pointe Noire and onwards to 300s and Airbus A340-600s, which operate this route. Customers can Cotonou. enjoy the added benefit of connectivity to all major cities in Australia through the Qantas code-share. SAA also introduced a twice-weekly service from Johannesburg to Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire as an extension of our Accra (Ghana) flights on Tuesdays and SOUTH AMERICAN REGION Fridays, enabling SAA to serve customers flying between these two cities The South America to South Africa contribution to the Mice market is in either direction. Ghana is an important travel destination in West Africa, expected to increase this year by 150% in comparison with the previous which is why Johannesburg-Accra was increased from five to six flights per year. Boosting incentive travel from South America, especially from Brazil week, with the additional flight on a Sunday. to South Africa, has been an important focus area for the South American region, which has resulted in record performance levels. Brazzaville, the latest addition to the African route network, effective 14 September 2012, offers customers another destination in the Republic The Buenos Aires route remains challenging and is being reviewed closely of the Congo, besides Pointe Noire. In May 2012, SAA celebrated 10 years by SAA of flying to the Republic of the Congo. NORTH AMERICA AN AFRICAN AIRLINE WITH GLOBAL REACH In recent months, SAA has launched new code-share flights with Air SAA’s intercontinental capacity enriches the continental offering of Africa. Canada and US Airways, which means convenient connections and more SAA makes it possible for investment, trade and government role-players to options for travel between South Africa and North America. Customers meet as and when their schedules demand. connecting between SAA and either Air Canada or US Airways will be able to book a single itinerary and ticket through check-in and baggage transfer ASIA PACIFIC REGION from origin to destination. China In January 2012, SAA launched its first-ever non-stop flight between SAA will code-share on Air Canada-operated flights between Toronto, Johannesburg and Beijing, China. This flight operates on a Tuesday, Friday Vancouver and both Johannesburg and Cape Town via London Heathrow. and Sunday from South Africa and returns on a Monday, Wednesday and Air Canada will, in turn, code-share on SAA-operated flights between Saturday. Operated by an Airbus A340-600, this long-haul flight has a Toronto and both Johannesburg and Cape Town via New York-JFK. flying time of approximately 15 hours. CONTINENTAL EUROPE SAA is challenged on this route due to low frequency, poor airport slots Improving on feeder connectivity in Europe, new code-share agreements in Beijing and needing to operate fuel inefficient aircraft due to its range with Scandinavian Airlines, the flag-carrier of Denmark, Norway and from Beijing. These serious challenges need to be overcome to make the Sweden and the Portuguese airline TAP were implemented from Lisbon to route profitable. London, with Lisbon to Frankfurt and Munich to be implemented. SAA also offers convenient self-check-in kiosks at Frankfurt airport. On 1 March 2012, SAA’s code-share agreement with Air China came into effect. Based on the free-sale principle, it is a bilateral agreement The SAA Service Centre was ranked eighth in a survey (out of 32 airlines in in which Air China code-shares on SAA-operated flights between Beijing Germany with 840 travel agents participating) by the German travel trade and Johannesburg and SAA code-shares on Air China-operated services magazine Travel One on the availability, competence and responsiveness of between Beijing and Shanghai. call centres. India United Kingdom SAA offers non-stop daily flights between Johannesburg and Mumbai, Customers flying with SAA from London Heathrow’s Terminal One in India, on an Airbus A330-200, offering 36 Business and 186 Economy March and April were invited to take part in a “self-boarding” trial, making Class seats. boarding faster and more efficient. The trial involves an infra-red scanner taking a scan of the customer’s face when they arrive at Heathrow check-in Over the past three years the market between southern Africa and India and then again when they reach the “self-boarding” gate. When these two 6 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 About SAA scans are successfully matched, the barrier opens and the customer can pass through to board their flight. For greater convenience, their identification documents are only checked once, which makes their journey even smoother. PREMIUM PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS For added on-board comfort, new branded amenity kits have been introduced in Business Class. The kit includes airline socks and shades, a full-length toothbrush and toothpaste, a comb/brush combination, and branded professional skin and bodycare products. SAA now also offers high-quality, noise-cancelling headsets in Business Class on all aircraft types. ENTERTAINMENT SAA offers a wide selection of the latest blockbuster movies, as well as 12 music channels. Passengers flying to Pointe Noire and Cotonou can choose from four movies and an additional West African music channel. On the Airbus A330-200s every seat has its own screen: Business Class has 12” screens and Economy Class has 10” screens. Customers can select English, French or German to navigate the system and most movies will be available in all three languages. The all-new entertainment system allows for additional applications to be included, such as movie information, menus, surveys, duty-free catalogues and a 2D interactive map with in-depth information about the countries over which the aircraft is flying. Business Class passengers have laptop power at each seat, as well as a USB and RCA jack where they can plug in their camera, memory stick or iPod. Customer’s content, such as movies, can be viewed from a personal iPad. GREEN INITIATIVES SAA has completed its baseline Carbon Footprint Report and is in the process of consolidating the information. This will allow the Group to monitor carbon reduction efforts and ensure that the public is kept informed of the carbon cost of a flight and what the national carrier is doing to reduce its impact on the environment. SAA has an extensive environmental initiative which includes: • Energy and fuel efficiency programme; • Carbon offset programme for all flysaa.com bookings; • Renewable energy projects; • Recycling; • Environmental management system; • Air traffic management programme to reduce flight distances; • Biofuel programme, working closely with our Shareholder; • Water programmes; and • Sustainable procurement. No other airline in Africa can match the scale, scope and ambition of SAA’s environment programme. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 7 Operational Overview 6 Continents 30 countries 42 destinations 1 329 star alliance destinations 26 intra-african routes 53 flights a day between johannesburg and cape town (38 saa, 15 mango) 8,8 Million passengers (7.0 Million saa, 1.8 million mango) 11 462 employees worldwide 132 866 tonnes of cargo flown 8 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Operational Overview SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS FLEET SAA 11 A319-100s 4 A320-200s 13 B737-800s 6 A330-200s 1 A340-200 8 A340-300s 9 A340-600s 3 B737 Freighters MANGO 6 B737-800s south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 9 flysaa.com Thanks for Voting us Best Airline in Africa for 10 Years Running. Thanks to you, we have been voted Best Airline in Africa for 10 years running. With over 25 destinations in Africa, SAA is not only taking you more places more often, we’ve also been voted Best Airline in Africa for 10 consecutive years at the Skytrax Awards. This, coupled with the coveted Best Staff Service in Africa Award is a result of 19 million passengers voting for the airline that best exceeded their expectations. So we’d like to thank you for voting for SAA. The more we win, the more we strive to serve you. South African Airways. Bringing the World to Africa and taking Africa to the World. Visit flysaa.com/Skytrax to find out more. 10 11 Leadership Board of Directors NON-EXECUTIVE directors DUDUZILE MYENI ANDILE KHUMALO ANDILE MABIZELA CHAIRPERSON CA(SA), BCom (Accounting), Post-Graduate BSc Economics (Hons), LLB Secondary Teachers’ Diploma (Commerce), Diploma in Theory of Accounting A member of the SA Institute of Financial Advanced Business Management Dip, Currently Chief Investment Officer at Markets and a registered attorney with Leadership and Management Development MSG Afrika Investment Holdings, Mr the Southern Gauteng Law Society, Certificate Khumalo is a member of the Association Mr Mabizela was appointed Executive Ms Myeni is the current President of Africa for the Advancement of Black Accountants Director: New Business for Afrilog SA Water Association (AfWA), Chairperson of of Southern Africa and of the Black in 2011. He has acquired an in-depth South Association of Water Utilities (SAAWU), Business Council. He sits on the boards understanding of economic development Mhlathuze Water Board and the Executive of Quarto Press, Continental Outdoor in his previous positions, including Deputy Chairperson of the Jacob G Zuma Foundation. Media, Metropolitan Republic and The Director-General: Economic Planning Ms Myeni was appointed to the Board of Communications Firm. He started his career and Co-ordination at the Economic SAA in September 2009 and to the Board in auditing and financial management Development Department, Head of Africa of Air Chefs in April 2010. An entrepreneur, with Deloitte & Touche. He also worked Asset Management for Liberty Holdings, business woman and a philanthropist, she for Deloitte & Touche in the USA on the Executive Vice-President: Commercial for was the founder and CEO of Skills Dynamics, financial and compliance audit of Duke SAA. He developed SAA’s Africa strategy consulting for various blue chip companies Energy – the largest producer of natural and established its first regional airline such as BHP Billiton, RBM and others. gas liquids in the USA reporting to the franchise, Trans Air Congo, and also She previously served on the ABSA Bank Securities Exchange Commission. Following managed the airline’s franchise relations Board. She also served as a Board Member this, he worked at Investec Corporate and third-party ground handling agreements of the Trade and Investment KZN, and was a Finance. He was a Director of Sasol Inzalo with 17 international carriers. He is the Deputy President of the Zululand Chamber Groups Ltd, the Chairperson of Metropolitan Chairperson of the Johannesburg Property of Commerce and Industry. In 2001 she was Republic and sat on the Financial Services Company and South African Express and nominated by Investec Private Bank and Board’s Directorate of Market Abuse. Mr has sat on the boards of numerous national Sunday Tribune for a Woman Entrepreneur Khumalo is also a member of the Takeover and regional organisations and companies. award, and was a winner of the SABC 3/ Regulations Panel. Shoprite Checkers Woman of the Year Award in the Education Category. She won a prestigious South African Philanthropist Award in 2007 (First Woman). In 2009, she was nominated for Businesswoman of the Year by the South African Chamber of Commerce (SACCI). She is one of the founding members and a stalwart of the Black Business Council. Ms Myeni has been an Honorary member of Lattice (USA) since 2007 and is a current member of the Institute of Directors. 12 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Leadership Board of Directors YAKHE KWINANA BONGISIZWE MPONDO RAJESH NAITHANI CA(SA), BCompt (Hons), BCom (Hons), BSc (Town & Regional Planning) (Hons) MBA, PhD (Medicinal Chemistry) Diploma in Banking, Higher Diploma in Mr Mpondo, a social entrepreneur, has Dr Naithani’s professional research Computer Auditing extensive experience in the fields of experience has included extensive stints Appointed to the Board in December 2009, transportation planning, development with the IFIM Business School and Ms Kwinana is Chairperson of SAA’s Audit planning, project management and the Mukti Mission and Shankracharya Committee and was Chairperson of SAA’s strategy development. Presently Managing Charitable Trust Hospitals in India, where Finance, Financial Risk and Investment Director and founder of SAFIRI (Pty) Ltd, he gained specialised sales and marketing Committee prior to its merger with the a transportation planning company, he has skills by helping to expand and implement Audit Committee in early 2011, as well as a served in Board positions at the Crossvarious promotional projects, as well as Director of SAA Technical. She is a finance Border Roads Transport Agency, the Gauteng raise funds and increase revenues. His and auditing specialist and previously Transport Management Agency (Freight positions included working with the private served on the boards of the Air Services Transport Expert) and African Tramways. sector to create jobs for youth, launching Licensing Council, the Debt Collectors’ Prior to venturing into managing his own a voluntary blood donation project Council and the South African State businesses, he was employed at the Council and cleaning the Ganges River and its Information Technology Agency (SITA) as for Scientific and Industrial Research tributaries. He has worked with the Cancer Chairperson of the Audit Committee. She is (CSIR Transportek), the Gauteng Provincial Research Institute of HIHT University and currently Managing Director of Kwinana & Government’s Office of the Premier (Director served as an advisor to the CM Uttarakhand Associates. for Growth & Development) and the Road Government in Dehradun. In the USA Freight Association (Policy and Regulation he was the leading scientist in cancer Head). Amongst his various activities, he drug discovery for the Illinois Institute of is also a co-founder of the Institute for Technology Research in Chicago, as well Transport & Sustainable Development as an Assistant Professor at the University (ITSD) whose major objective is to provide of Illinois. He has in-depth knowledge of sustainable transport solutions. His portfolio synthetic organic and analytical chemistry, of projects range from Freight & Public modern laboratory techniques, instruments Transport Plans, Freight Databanks & Freight and safety practices, radiation and Logistics Hubs amongst others. Awards hazardous materials safety training. He he has received include the 2001 CSIR: has been an officer, on special duty, to the Transportek Outstanding Achievers Team Indian Commerce and Industry Minister Award, the 2002 CSIR: Transportek Young and is currently is Pro Vice Chancellor of Professional Award and a nomination for the Bharath University and is a board member 2003 CSIR Young Professional Award. He is of a number of private companies. also the co-author of numerous works in the transportation field. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 13 Leadership Board of Directors NONHLANHLA KUBEKA CAROL ROSKRUGE RAISIBE LEPULE Secondary Teacher’s Diploma, BCom BSc (Hons), MSc, MBL (Corporate Governance) BAdmin (Economics and Public (Accounting), MBA (Strategic Marketing), Ms Roskruge was appointed in September Administration), BAdmin Economics Executive Leadership Diploma 2012 and is a member of the Audit Committee, (Hons), MPhil (Maritime Studies), Ms Kubeka has extensive expertise in the Procurement and Tender Processes Committee Certificate in Project Management areas of: strategy; leadership; financial and Chairperson of the Board of South African Ms Lepule has specialist knowledge in planning and reporting; yield management; Travel Centre (SATC). She has 12 years’ the areas of public-private partnerships brand and marketing; and meetings, executive and senior-level experience in supply and is a member of both the Transport incentives, conferences, and exhibitions chain management, strategic sourcing, sales and Forum Sector Interest Group and the (MICE). She holds numerous certificates in operational planning, outsourced operations, Women’s International Shipping & Trading subjects related to these fields, as well as logistics and complex project management. Association. As Group Executive: Transnet in promoting South Africa in the tourism Having begun her career at the South African Property, she heads the team administering industry. She is a member of numerous local Sugar Association doing scientific research its asset portfolio of residential, commercial and international professional organisations, into sugar cane genetic engineering, she later and vacant land. She also leads the Group’s including the Southern African Association joined Unilever. Her roles encompassed product strategic direction on property issues and for Conference Industry (SAACI), Destination and brand development, category innovation is instrumental in aligning its portfolio with Marketing International (DMAI) and Deputy management and cost effectiveness. She the national objectives of B-BBEE and Chairperson of the African Chapter of the then joined Avroy Shlain Cosmetics as Group the Property Charter. She is a key driver of International Conference and Convention Technical Leader, a position in which she led SAA’s transition into a successful national Association (ICCA). Appointed the Executive: the business to an ISO accreditation. She also carrier and the strengthening of South Destination Marketing for Gauteng Tourism, worked at SAB as Supply Chain Executive in African Express as a regional carrier. She she has a wealth of experience in marketing the Project Management department, where was previously Deputy Director-General for both brand “South Africa” and its national she managed innovation and capital projects. the Department of Public Enterprises, as carrier to an increasing international tourist She has completed consulting assignments well as Business Development Manager trade, as well as attracting international with organisations such as, PepsiCo, the at Viamax Logistics, where she led the investors to the country. Her career began National Department of Health and Sasol. She Zimbabwe relief food (grain) logistics when she served her articles with Grant rejoined SABMiller in 2011 to drive Preferential project that won Viamax the Logistics Thornton and her previous positions include Procurement, Enterprise and Supplier Achiever Award in 2002. She has also Executive Manager: Commercial for the Cape Development. In November 2012, she was worked for Rennies Cargo Terminals Town International Convention Centre, Senior appointed to Supply Chain Strategic Projects. (Bidvest Group). Manager: Direct Marketing for Standard Bank Ms Roskruge is also the Managing Member of (Corporate and Investment) and Investor Thacali Consulting Services and Chairperson of Relations Manager: Transnet Group. Rural Brands. She also served as a non-executive director of Cape Town Tourism and the Sandton Tourism Association. 14 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Leadership Board of Directors EXECUTIVE directors LINDIWE NKOSI-THOMAS NICO BEZUIDENHOUT WOLF MEYER BJuris, LLB CEO OF MANGO AND ACTING CHIEF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Appointed to the Board in September EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF SAA FOR THIS BPL, BCompt (Hons), CA(SA) 2009, Advocate Nkosi-Thomas is a member REPORTING PERIOD Mr Meyer was appointed Chief Financial of the Audit Committee and the Social Mr Bezuidenhout moved to Mango from Officer of the South African Airways and Ethics, Governance and Nominations SAA, having led the team that created Group in June 2011. Prior to this, he was Committee, and Chairperson of the Ad the low-cost airline. While with SAA, he Chief Financial Officer at the Land and Hoc Committee on Litigation. She also was involved in launching the carrier’s Agricultural Development Bank of South serves on the Mango Board of Directors e-commerce functionality and electronic Africa and part of the team who was and is a member of the Mango Audit ticketing system. Prior to his career in responsible for the successful turnaround Committee. Admitted as an advocate of aviation, he served as founder of the first of the Land Bank. He previously served as the High Court of South Africa in 1994, and highly successful South African online Chief Financial Officer of private equity she had the status of Silk conferred upon ticketing service TicketWeb, preceded by a company Brait SA for five years and, prior her by the President of the Republic of period in the commercial segment of the to that, held senior financial positions in South Africa in 2009. She has been in entertainment industry. several financial institutions. He has a active practice as a member of the Bar strong banking background and extensive since 1995 and has served as an Acting local and international listing experience. Judge of the High Court of South Africa, His career began in 1987 when he South Gauteng High Court and North West commenced his articles with Ernst & Young. High Court. Ms Nkosi-Thomas serves as Chairperson of the Appeals Board of the Financial Services Board. She also serves as a member of the Board of Trustees of Government Employees’ Medical Scheme and is Chairperson of its Governance and Nominations Committee. In 2008 she served as Non-Executive Director of Soul City Broad-Based Empowerment and was Vice-Chairperson of the Advertising Standards Authority Tribunal of South Africa in 2007 and 2008. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 15 Leadership Group Executive Committee 1 2 3 4 5 1. SANDILE DLAMINI 4. MANOJ PAPA COMPANY SECRETARY ACTING GENERAL MANAGER: COMMERCIAL B Juris, LLB, LLM (Corporate Law) and Advanced Labour Law Mr Papa is a aviation specialist with over 10 years’ experience in senior Programme Certificate positions within the airline industry, with a focus on its strategic and Mr Dlamini provides Company Secretariat services to the SAA Group. commercial aspects. He spent five years in the Middle East as ViceHe is admitted as an Advocate of the High Court of South Africa and a President: Corporate Strategy for Etihad Airways, where his priorities member of the National Bar Council of South Africa. He is an experienced were designing, developing and implementing strategic initiatives that legal counsel and company Secretary. He also serves as a member with underpin and align with overall business strategy in building an airline special expertise on the Audit and Risk Committee of the University of with a vision of “being the best in the world”. He returned to South Africa KwaZulu-Natal and also chairs its Litigation Management Sub Committee. in 2012 and is currently Acting General Manager: Commercial, while also heading Market SA (the home market, responsible for a major part of the airline’s revenue). He is currently completing an MBA through Herriot Watt 2. TLELI MAKETHA University, London. GENERAL MANAGER: CARGO BCom, LLB, Advanced Executive Programme and Wolfson Programme (Cambridge) 5. BARRY PARSONS An admitted attorney, Mr Maketha was appointed GM of SAA Cargo in Chief Strategy Officer December 2010. He was previously with Cargo as Executive Manager: BEc (Accounting), Graduate Diploma in Arts (Russian Studies), Member of Networks and Alliances and later Executive Vice-President from 2001the Project Management Institute (USA) 2004. At various times before that, he was Legal Advisor at JCI, Mr Parsons took up his current role in July 2011, however, his relationship Executive Manager: Fuel (Coal) Procurement at Eskom, Executive Director with SAA goes back to 2005, with his involvement in the design and at Safair and Divisional Secretary (Aviation Division) at Imperial Holdings. establishment of Mango. He was Mango’s Head of Commercial from its Before rejoining SAA, he consulted to a number of organisations as a launch in 2006 to 2008. From 2008-2010, he worked on assignments for business coach. the Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation, involving aviation policy development and state-owned enterprise airlines in developed and emerging markets. He has held Executive commercial and major project management 3. THULI MPSHE positions with Air New Zealand and Ansett Australia. Prior to entering GENERAL MANAGER: HUMAN RESOURCES aviation in 1997, he held various information technology and internal audit BCom, Postgraduate Certificate in Business Management, International management roles with the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group. Licentiate Diploma, Associate Banking Diploma Ms Mpshe started her career at Standard Bank and has held senior posts at IDT Finance Corporation, the then African Bank and Nedcor Bank. Between 2001 and 2003, she was Executive Manager: Human Resources at SAA Cargo and Executive Manager: Human Resources for SAA’s Operations department. From 2003 to 2010, she was Executive Director: Human Resources at Makro, part of Massmart Holdings, and then re-joined SAA in September 2010 in her current role. She has been a council member of the University of Zululand for seven years and Chairperson of the Board for Kids Haven (a home for street children in Benoni) for seven years. 16 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Leadership Group Executive Committee 6 7 8 9 10 6. ZUKISA RAMASIA (Group Reporting) and Head of Procurement and Petroleum Affairs. Before joining SAA, she held a number of financial and operational positions, GENERAL MANAGER: OPERATIONS including Financial Director of Network Logistics at Tibbett and Britten, BA (Hons) (English and Psychology), Human Resources executive roles with Avon Cosmetics in South Africa and the UK, including Development Degree, IATA Diploma in Airline Operations, Vice-President of Operations (South Africa), and Divisional Accountant for Leadership Development Programme the Volkswagen Audi Group (UK). Ms Ramasia has had an illustrious 20-year career in airline operations in areas such as Cabin Crew Daily Operations Manager, Senior Manager of Crew Movement and Global Operations Control Centre Head. Her skill lies in ensuring operational efficiency through effective planning for on-time 9. BULELWA KOYANA departures and arrivals during normal and irregular operations, identifying CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER: SA TRAVEL CENTRE BSocSc (Hons) (Psychology), Certificate in Airline Management, Transnet bottlenecks and providing optimum solutions. She currently serves on the Executive Development Programme Board of Directors for Aviation Coordination Services (ACS). Ms Koyana took up her current position in September 2011, having spent over 10 years at SAA in various positions, including Regional General 7. FIKILE THABETHE Manager: Direct Sales Channels, Executive Manager: SAA Global Call Centres, Senior Manager: Reservations, Manager: Alliance Sales and ACTING GENERAL MANAGER: LEGAL RISK AND COMPLIANCE Manager: Corporate Sales. Her involvement with SATC dates back to BProc (Law), Certificate in Legal Practice, Certificate in Legislative 1996, when she was part of the team responsible for implementing the Drafting, Advanced Certificate in Compliance, SARS Executive Leadership SATC concept (then called SAA City Centre) within Lufthansa. She was Development Programme previously CEO of Business Process-enabling SA (BPeSA), an industry Ms Thabethe practised as an attorney at Solomon Nicholson & Verster association promoting business process services and offshoring in South Inc in 2002. She also served as its Deputy Director: Legal Advisor to the Africa in collaboration with the Department of Trade & Industry and the Executive Management Unit in the Department of Trade & Industry. Business Trust. She has worked at the South African Revenue Service (Sars) as Senior Manager: Corporate Legal Service and was legal leader in the Sars IT Modernisation Project. She was also responsible for supporting Corporate Governance and the Company Secretariat to the Commissioner and 10. MUSA ZWANE Executive Committee. She was later employed by Barloworld Logistics CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER: SAA TECHNICAL MBA, MAP, MSc (Industrial Chemistry) Africa as the Executive: Legal, responsible for its Dedicated Transport Mr Zwane was appointed CEO of SAA Technical in November 2010. Prior Services and Freight Forwarding operations. She joined SAA in 2012 as to this, he spent 14 years with Sasol, most recently holding the position of Head of the Legal Department and is currently Chairperson of the Bid Managing Director of Sasol Gas and serving on various boards within the Adjudication Committee of SAA. Sasol Group. Having joined that organisation in 1996, he held a range of other posts, such as General Manager: Heating Fuels at Sasol Oil (2001) 8. ALISON CROOKS and General Manager: Sales and Marketing at Sasol Gas (2005). He was a member of the executive team at Sasol Synthetic Fuels. Before joining CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER: AIR CHEFS Sasol, Zwane was Chemical Services Manager with Eskom and a Senior BCom (Accounting and Law), Fellow of the Institute of Certified Research Scientist with AECI. Accountants (UK) Ms Crooks was appointed CEO of Air Chefs in November 2010. She initially joined the SAA Group in 2008 and has held a number of positions, including Financial Controller (Commercial), Group Financial Controller south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 17 Leadership Statements Chairperson’s Report SAA exists within a developmental state and our mandate is naturally to ensure that the airline ADEQUATELY supports our country’s National Development agenda, while continuing to operate optimally as a business, Returning to an operating profit and improving efficiencies On behalf of the Board of Directors of the airline, I am proud to present the 2013 Integrated Report for South Africa’s national carrier. This is the current Board’s first report and it highlights some of the achievements realised and also presents solutions that will be implemented in areas that require greater focus. The airline has made significant progress in this reporting period. Noteworthy is SAA’s continued contribution to South Africa’s economy by supporting both developed and developing business hubs, connecting people and working with our stakeholders to transform the industry. The airline contributes 0,3% of South Africa’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and is, directly and indirectly, responsible for 35 000 jobs in South Africa. As the airline implements its expansion plans, this contribution will increase. Leadership stability for the national carrier After the departure of the previous Board and CEO, the current Board was appointed in September 2012. Its key focus areas included stabilising the leadership structure at SAA and producing a cohesive, all-encompassing strategy for the airline, as mandated by our Shareholder, the Department of Public Enterprises (DPE). The Board called upon Nico Bezuidenhout, a CEO of one of our subsidiaries, Mango, to act as CEO for the SAA Group while the Board underwent due process for the appointment of a new Chief Executive for the national carrier. The Board lauds Mr. Bezuidenhout and the Executive team for keeping the airline’s operations running smoothly, until Mr. Monwabisi Kalawe commenced as CEO of the Group on 1 June 2013. 18 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Leadership Statements Chairperson’s Report ACHIEVEMENTS UNDER CHALLENGING CONDITIONS Corporate governance and accountability are at the core of SAA’s Restoration of leadership stability during the 4th quarter of the fiscal LTTS, as a state-owned company operating under the Public Finance and the commitment of the entire SAA Group family saw material Management Act (PFMA). Also included in the document are SAA’s improvements in the majority of the Group’s major business areas and plans to enhance its status as a good corporate citizen and achieve subsidiaries, including: employment equity targets and overall transformation of the industry. The LTTS holds the potential to ensure that SAA takes off into an era of • Year-on-year growth in total income of 14%, together with sustained profitability while quantifying the amount of support required continued gains made in SAA’s cost compression programme and from our Shareholder and the state as a whole. a strong financial performance from key subsidiaries, resulted in a 21% reduction in consolidated Group operating losses relative to the The Board is confident that all short-, mediumand long-term FY 2012; objectives will be fulfilled on time and that SAA will soon begin to • A 59% year-on-year reduction in losses emanating from financial report on achieved deliverables emanating from the strategy. A detailed control breaches, with a zero-tolerance approach being enforced Implementation Dashboard has been developed to provide the Board, and further supported by an enhanced focus on employee fraud Shareholder and key stakeholders visibility of the implementation awareness, prevention and whistleblowing mechanisms; progress and achievement of financial and other agreed targets. • Active support of the country’s transformation objectives, reflected in the level of workplace and supply-chain transformation achieved by The future of SAA the Group, culminating in the two airline brands, SAA and Mango, The SAA brand is strong and instantly recognisable all over the world. jointly leading the industry in terms of B-BBEE ratings further gains Most customers who fly with the airline feel that they are already home are expected. even before boarding the aircraft. The quintessential warmth and vibrancy of SAA, coupled with its quality product and impeccable safety Financial sustainability, governance and performance in accordance record, put this airline head and shoulders above its competitors. with the Shareholder mandate are three of the cornerstones of survival in an industry that remains notoriously challenging. Increased emphasis The world can look forward to an airline that is agile enough to respond on these business imperatives, along with an emphasis on service to operational challenges, innovative enough to be a pioneer and trendimprovement, have helped the Group report improved results over the last setter among its peers without losing its warm African hospitality and, fiscal and form the foundation of our business approach going forward. above all, an efficient business that has the potential to deliver year-onyear operating profits. Long-Term TurnAround Strategy The SAA Board of Directors was tasked with creating a Long-Term We call upon each valued SAA customer to continue flying with the Turnaround Strategy (LTTS) for the airline. The LTTS is intended to national carrier and show their support as we aspire to our new vision to implement SAA’s strategic response to a highly competitive operating be ‘Africa’s Leading World-Class Airline’. environment and to address specific weaknesses and inefficiencies within the business. This strategy is designed to repair the business from the inside out and restore the airline’s reputation in the market globally, regionally and, most importantly, nationally. Duduzile Myeni Chairperson The executive team and employees of SAA worked tirelessly, under 22 January 2014 the guidance and leadership of the Board, to ensure that the strategy was delivered on time. Comprehensive input was consolidated, updated and assimilated from previous consulting reports that were commissioned, yet never implemented by the airline. As the custodians and implementers of the strategy, these inputs were work-shopped with all SAA employees for effective execution. The steadfast implementation of this strategy is crucial and this will be aligned to the Group’s next four corporate plans. These will constitute clear milestones and be synchronised with specific and measurable outcomes that will indicate, through continuous monitoring, the progress made. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 19 Leadership Statements Chief Executive Officer’s Report Whether travelling abroad or domestically, no feeling matches the sight of an SAA tail on the apron. Our national Airline represents, in many ways, an export of our national culture, ambition and aspirations Even before I joined SAA, as the new Chief Executive Officer on 1 June 2013, I understood that beyond the emotive impact of the South African flag landing and taking off across the globe, SAA fulfils a strategic national role in supporting South Africa’s national development agenda. This is through our critical role in the provision of air services that enable the movement of people and goods; an invaluable underpinning of economic activity. The will of the business to grow this contribution has never been stronger, with the Oxford Economics study as a foundation, the Long-Term Turnaround Strategy as a future roadmap and the passion of SAA’s people to succeed. On-time performance The Group dominated domestic on-time performance, with SAA and Mango respectively occupying first positions for the majority of the past fiscal period. FlightStats, a global leader in flight and airport information services, recently announced On-time Performance Service (OTPS) Awards for airlines across the globe. The OTPS Awards programme recognises airlines around the world which achieve sustained operational excellence and deliver the highest percentage of flights to their arrival gates within 15 minutes of the scheduled arrival time. SAA, with its 91,17% on-time performance average, won in the category “Middle East and African Major Airlines”, which includes airlines that operate at least 30 000 scheduled flights annually within this region. The flight status coverage threshold was set at 80%. World’s most on-time airline In the FlightStats June 2013 Airline and Airport Ontime Performance Report, SAA was named the world’s most on-time airline. According to the report, which covers major international airlines and airports in North America, Europe and Asia, the big international airlines on average delivered 75,85% of their flights to the arrival gate within 15 minutes of schedule in June, down from 80,70% in May. Only six major international 20 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Leadership Statements Chief Executive Officer’s Report carriers delivered over 90% of their flights on time, with SAA topping the South Africa is rich in entrepreneurs, natural resources and boasts a list at 93,33%, outperforming several reputable carriers from across the resilient economy, despite the many challenges it faces. With the relative world. end-of-hemisphere geographic disadvantage, the role of air services to the economy will continue to play a major part in securing long-term SkyTrax Award: Best Airline in Africa trade and tourism potential. As a business owned by the people of the For the 10th consecutive year, SAA was named the Best Airline in country, it is the Group’s mandate to fulfil national development ideals Africa by SkyTrax. This is the most prestigious recognition for airlines and actively seek out opportunities where the benefit to the South African globally. All airlines are voted for by their customers in this online economy far outweighs the opportunity cost. customer satisfaction survey, which runs during a 10-month period, with over 18 million business and leisure air travellers from 160 countries Strategic focus participating. As our Chairperson highlighted in her report, the LTTS is designed to repair the business from the inside out and restore the airline’s reputation Improved baggage–handling in the market. My key challenge is to ensure our strategic objectives of SAA embarked on an initiative to improve baggage-handling as part of the supporting our nation’s national development agenda is balanced with airline’s overall passenger service enhancement project. It also focuses commercial sustainability and I will be focused on improving our recent on improving co-ordination of security activities at the airports. The poor operating results and strengthening operating cash flows with initiative has started to yield positive results, with SAA achieving its goal continued cost compression as a key intervention. of reducing the number of tampered and mishandled bags. The pilferage rate has stabilised, in line with global industry standards and SAA will Our Africa growth strategy is exciting and SAA will continue to build continue to further reduce this. its already strong African passenger and cargo network. The LTTS also stresses the importance of closer alignment of SAA’s operations with the Such operational successes are indicative of the airline’s continued intent of our Shareholder and we welcome this guidance and look forward aspirations towards improvement. The economic benefits that are to delivering this for South Africa in a stronger ‘Whole of State’ aviation delivered against SAA’s mandate are equally impressive. policy framework where aviation has an even greater role as a strategic state sector. Economic contribution According to the June 2012 Oxford Economics study, the SAA Group contributes R8,6 billion to South Africa’s GDP. This is broken down into three categories, where R3,4 billion is a direct consequence of the Group’s (SAA, Mango, SAA technical and SAA Cargo) economic output, while R3,8 billion is indirectly contributed through the Group supply chain and R1,5 billion through employee and supply chain employee spending. Catalytic demand impact on tourism is measured at Monwabisi Kalawe R11 billion. The SAA Group supports 35 000 jobs in South Africa, with CEO 17 000 jobs directly supported by the group’s output, 7 000 employment 22 January 2014 opportunities through employee and supply chain spending, and an additional 44 000 further jobs created through catalytic demand impact on tourism. The SAA Group employs 11 462 people, each generating Gross Value Add (GVA) of R301 392, indicating 30% higher productivity than the South African average. The importance of a state-owned airline for a developing economy such as South Africa’s cannot be underestimated. The movement of people and goods to territories outside South Africa’s borders continue to open up markets for export, particularly on high value to weight goods. Air transport lowers costs over long distances and increases the competitive advantage of domestic suppliers across a wider area. It is estimated that each 10% improvement in air connectivity impacts the long-run economic benefit to South Africa with R415 million. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 21 22 23 Saa Operations Commercial The year under review has been an exciting one for the SAA Commercial team. The team responded resolutely to the challenges it encountered and was able to continue with the momentum established during the previous financial year. HIGHLIGHTS INCLUDE 12% IN SALES REVENUE EMINATING FROM 9% passenger growth Operating landscape The lingering European sovereign debt crisis, continued moderate growth in China and slow response to quantitative easing in Japan and the USA continued to adversely impact the global aviation industry. In addition, the Arab Spring uprising and escalating Syrian conflict resulted in unpredictably high oil prices, with Brent Crude oil prices peaking early in the financial year at over US$120 per barrel and averaging at US$112 per barrel for the period under review. For the 2013 financial year, SAA achieved an overall 12% sales revenue increase, driven by 9% passenger growth in comparison with the previous financial year. Domestic market Locally, the demise of two domestic airlines highlight the difficult environment faced by airlines operating in the South African market. SAA now offers Canada The team adopted a robust process of refining and maintaining the highest level of schedule integrity to meet the needs and demands of discerning customers. Sales and marketing initiatives, complemented by solid pricing and revenue management systems, ensured that SAA Commercial gained market share and that grew revenue generated at high yields. A positive performance compared to the previous year was driven by a structured focus on the Voyager programmes and the resultant positive trends in customer relationship management. The domestic market was adequately serviced through refining the broad range of capacity change. For the year under review, SAA domestic routes achieved a 13% increase in revenue compared with the prior year, driven by a 10% increase in SAA begins code share with Air Canada to offer the most convenient ways to see more of Canada. Fly to Toronto and passengers and a 3% increase in average fares year-on-year. Vancouver by connecting via London or New York, while still enjoying the beneﬁts of earning and redeeming frequent ﬂyer miles on the SAA Voyager programme and Air Canada Aeroplan. For more information call +27 11 978 1111. Regional market South African Airways. Bringing the World to Africa and taking Africa to the World. SAA continued to achieve robust results on its African routes, flysaa.com despite increasing competition from well funded airlines from the Middle East as well as other African airlines. Almost all the 9160 Canada Print Ad 173x110.indd 1 2013/08/30 11:38 A 24 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Saa Operations Commercial African routes continued to perform well in all aspects, including Harare loyalty programmes in Africa. In early 2013 the Voyager team embarked (Zimbabwe), Luanda (Angola), Maputo (Mozambique) and Lilongwe and on an exciting “Voyager iFly Loyalty” project. The new platform, which Blantyre (Malawi), which continued to show positive revenue results. will be launched in the third quarter of 2014, will give customers more Further afield, routes such as Accra (Ghana), Dar es Salaam (Tanzania), self-service options on www.flysaa.com, as well as the benefits of real-time Lagos (Nigeria) and Nairobi (Kenya) remain of strategic importance and interaction with dedicated Voyager contact centre consultants who can also performed well. access accounts more quickly and easily. The flexibility offered by Voyager iFly Loyalty will make a world of difference to how customers experience As part of SAA’s African growth strategy, three new routes were launched in Voyager and the way the airline manages its relationships with frequent 2013. Operations to Cotonou (Benin), Abidjan (Ivory Coast) and Brazzaville flyers. (Congo) were commenced. These new routes performed to expectation and the connecting revenue from them complements the broader SAA route Marketing and products network strategy. The team continues to work diligently to ensure that the In 2013, SAA continued to refresh its brand identity and completed momentum is maintained and that more strategic routes are added to our the consolidation of the customer touch-point audit. The global roll-out African footprint. of the brand refresh was completed, focusing on customer interfacing environments. International market With Europe in financial crisis and the USA’s quantitative easing slow in Great improvements were made to the contents of the in-flight showing results, the intercontinental routes showed a slight improvement entertainment arena during the financial year under review. SAA further in passenger numbers. The lower-than-budgeted revenue resulted in the concluded negotiations with Samsung to introduce tablet-driven in-flight 2013 financial year ending at -12% below target. entertainment on longer regional routes. SAA re-routed its Cape Town-London operation in August 2012. The The new in-flight menus, introduced in May 2011 by celebrated South analysis of the Cape Town-London route performance highlighted the African chef Reuben Riffel, were a resounding success, spurring SAA to fact that that aircraft would be more productive and efficiently utilised continue with the enhancement of its on-board offering by alternating its by serving other profitable destinations, and that SAA can ensure menu cycles. Signature dishes by master chef Benny Masekwameng were continued excellent service of the London-Cape Town business and introduced to showcase South African cuisine to the world. Executive Chef tourism passengers via its Johannesburg hub. In order to ensure seamless Song Lee Chong will continue to focus on improving the menus on the connectivity, SAA increased its services from Cape Town to Johannesburg. Beijing and Hong Kong routes. The Beijing route, which was introduced late in the 2012 financial year, Marketing continued with consistent tactical and promotional throughcontinues to show steady growth. Compared with the previous year, the the-line campaigns promoting prices, inventory sales, specials, new routes load factors on this route indicated positive improvement in both Business and product and frequency adjustments. Further co-ordination between Class (3% increase year-on-year) and Economy Class (23% increase yearinbound and outbound destination marketing continued on a regional on-year). Despite this improvement, Beijing remains a challenging route for level, in line with the many routes commenced during the prior year and SAA and its performance is being very closely monitored. Buenos Aires is frequency adjustments. also under-performing and its performance is also being closely monitored. Marketing campaigns highlighting the extent of SAA’s achievements were Alliances ongoing, with emphasis on SAA’s long list of accolades. SAA was awarded As a member of Star Alliance, SAA enjoys a greatly extended global Best Airline in Africa by Skytrax. Furthermore, SAA received numerous network reach, while simultaneously providing passengers with a safe, other accolades, including the Sunday Times’ Generation X Coolest customer-focused and seamless air transportation experience Domestic Airline and the public sector’s Excellence Award. to virtually every corner of the globe. Member carriers of Star Alliance are required to undertake a wide range of service and quality programmes to ensure the strength of the combined alliance offering, while enabling member airlines to derive the maximum value from their participation. SAA also continued to develop additional alliances by concluding two new code-share agreements with Air Canada and US Airways. We achieved further code-share enhancements with All Nippon Airways, Virgin Atlantic, Lufthansa and United Airways. Voyager Voyager, SAA’s frequent flyer programme, remains one of the best customer south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 25 Saa Operations Cargo SAA Cargo is a critical part of the group’s key mandate to transport goods domestically, within the region and across the globe. Its core business is to provide reliable air transportation of timesensitive freight. It moved more than 132 866 tonnes of cargo – from perishables and Operating landscape livestock to automobiles and dangerous goods – and has established Due to the uncertainty resulting from many international political itself as one of the most profitable divisions of SAA. and economic events – including fluctuating exchange rates, fuel costs and the ongoing weakness in the Eurozone – the airfreight market was In addition to using the belly space of SAA’s passenger aircraft and challenging, however SAA Cargo continues to provide a strong revenue its own three Boeing 737 freighters, SAA Cargo leverages interlines contribution to the results. and partnerships in accessing key markets to provide customers with extensive reach and seamless connectivity worldwide. Demand into and out of Africa continued to grow, as did the increase in 26 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Saa Operations Cargo airfreight capacity by Middle Eastern and European carriers into South Performance Africa. The division’s performance in the year under review was better than expected, considering the trading environment, with revenue 6% above South Africa’s admittance to the emerging economies association Brics budget and 8% above the previous year. Actual tonnage decreased by 6% (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) continued to have a as opposed to a 10% increase in the previous year. positive impact on demand to South America. Johannesburg-BeijingJohannesburg showed good volumes once permission was granted In order to increase volumes and improve service delivery in the African by the Chinese authorities for the movement of cargo by SAA on this markets, SAA Cargo appointed new ground handling agents in Lagos, route as of July 2012. Luanda, Lilongwe, Blantyre, Abidjan, Dar es Salaam, Brazzaville and Bujumbura. The implementation of transfer pricing was introduced, with the result that SAA Cargo now accounts for the cost of belly space to SAA. A Load factors remained in line with the previous year; however, SAA Cargo further refinement of transfer pricing will be implemented in the coming remains committed to continued growth in support of South Africa’s financial year to account for further head office overhead costs. developmental state policy objectives and the SAA Group mandate to grow trade links with South Africa’s major trading partners. Operational highlights Despite market challenges and capacity changes on various routes, SAA Cargo achieved a number of milestones during the year: • Freighter activities increased by 7% due to additional rotation on existing routes; • Load factors of freighters also increased by 7%; • The implementation of a new ventilation and extraction system at the OR Tambo Cargo Terminal was a major step in improving the health and safety conditions of employees; • The upgrade of the fridges at OR Tambo International improved the Company’s ability to handle temperature-sensitive consignments such as perishables and pharmaceuticals; • The Company was able to improve profit margin on its purchase of capacity out of Europe from 20% the previous year to 23%; • The sponsorship of Team SA in the Dakar Rally held in Peru in January 2013 showcased SAA Cargo’s capability and delivered valuable marketing exposure. The Toyota Imperial SA team performed exceptionally well and finished the 2013 event in the second position overall; and • SAA Cargo participated in the successful Air Cargo Africa 2013 conference and exhibition, which was held for the first time in South Africa. SAA Cargo was the Diamond Sponsor for the Gala Awards Night Dinner, which was addressed by the Minister of Public Enterprises, the Hon. Malusi Gigaba. Due to the success of the event, the organisers have committed to holding the next event in South Africa in 2015. Awards SAA Cargo was named African Cargo Airline of the Year at Air Cargo Africa 2013. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 27 Saa Operations Human Resources at the core of saa’s intricate operations are its dedicated people. the human resources department acknowleges that in order to navigate the current and future complexities of the aviation industry, it is critical to ensure that saa attracts and retains the relevent talent and capabilities. Talent management LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT SAA has designed a human capital framework that focuses on building The learning and development team achieved a score of 11,93/15 for organisational capability targeted at an individual (career management), the financial year 2011/12 (from a score of 6,22 for the financial year operational (talent identification) and leadership (succession planning) 2010/11) in the B-BBEE skills development pillar, making a significant level. contribution to SAA being classified as a level 3 skills development contributor. Key strategic focus areas include identifying those positions that represent the lynchpins to support SAA’s strategy and operations. By understanding The Department achieved the 2012/13 NGP targets for cadets, interns and what roles are at the “heart” of the organisation, SAA is able to ensure that technicians, as agreed with the DPE. top talent is attracted and retained, ensuring its sustainability as an airline. As part of the HR strategy to build leadership capability, the Supervisory SAA has also started building its talent pipeline through the Development Programme, Management Development Programme and implementation of a formal Graduate Programme, which is aimed at Leadership Development Programme were implemented. Research topics creating a talent pipeline for critical areas within the business, as well as associated with these programmes will focus on the initiatives. for the aviation sector in general. Graduates obtain a significant amount of exposure and experience in the workplace over an 18-month period, with The team also conducted a skills audit over the past financial year and the aim of retaining talent in trainee positions. This programme further a database of qualifications for levels 1 and 2 was created. This aims to supports SAA in building its brand in the market as an “employer of choice, support the succession planning strategy. of employees of choice”. As part of the Department’s strategy to provide performance support for New Growth Path (NGP) Initiatives real-time learning, an e-learning strategy was developed. This initiative also SAA strives to implement programmes that positively prepare South supports SAA’s drive of cost containment. Africa’s youth to take on a progressive career journey. The Group’s Youth Development Programmes are designed to expose youth to new knowledge In order to improve data integrity and reporting to statutory bodies and and opportunities to practise skills in the workplace. The overall aim is to business, the team ensured that the SAP Learning Solution (LSO) went position youth to become an integral part of the workplace by acquiring functionally live in April 2013. cognitive, emotional and social competencies that will assist them to function successfully within the working community. With regard to aviation medical training, there were no findings from either the ICAO or SACAA aviation authorities During the last financial year, SAA developed an integrated focus on youth development and invested resources into providing career days for youth in EMPLOYEE RELATIONS disadvantaged communities. Key focus areas included: • Training of managers and supervisors as presiding and disciplinary Internship Programme officers; The SAA Internship Programme provides youth with the opportunity to • Automating key Employee Relations (ER) processes and improving gain valuable work experience for a six-month period. Interns benefit reporting capability; and from being exposed to the world of work and the aviation environment, in • Introducing a new stakeholder engagement framework to improve particular. Upon completion of the programme, interns are better prepared relationships and manage conflict. for a working role in their career fields of study. The Internship Programme is supported across SAA and all of its subsidiaries. The SAA Group HR priorities for the year under review and the impact of these priorities: successfully employed 83 interns during the financial year under review. • The ER team trained 79 managers and supervisors in employee relations; 28 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Saa Operations Human Resources • A new ER system (Labourite) was implemented in Cargo, OR Tambo that staff satisfaction levels within this region increase. and Cape Town International Airports; and A change management framework was developed and presented to the • The ER team designed and consulted on a stakeholder engagement Human Capital Forum Committee for approval. The strategy was piloted framework with UASA and SATAWU. within Airport Operations on the biometric system implementation process. The lessons learnt from this implementation will be used to roll out the CHANGE AND organisational development strategy in forthcoming change at SAA. An organisational culture survey dipstick was completed during the reporting period. The results were analysed and recommendations were The Central Employment Equity Committee was established and is fully provided to relevant departments. Action plans are being developed and functional. This assisted in compliance with stipulations from finalised for improving the organisational culture and they will be rolled out the Department of Labour. The improvements to the processes of by each department. The roll-out progress is monitored on an ongoing basis implementing the Employment Equity Act earned SAA an accolade from by HR. the Commission of Employment Equity in its annual report for showing progress since it received a compliance order from the Department of A project plan was developed and completed for the regional stations’ Labour. A diversity management strategy was developed and senior organisational analysis interventions. The information was analysed and leadership were engaged. project plans were jointly agreed upon with outstations in order to ensure south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 29 Saa Operations Human Resources HR SERVICES Employee wellness programmes The upgrading to SAP EC6 with the latest enhancement commenced During the year under review, SAA intensified its focus on employee and is at an advanced stage. The development platform is also being well-being and capitalised on the successes achieved through the upgraded. Company’s “Heartbeat” Employee Assistance Programme (EAP), which was implemented in the previous year. In its first year of implementation, ESS/MSS (Employee/Management Self-Service) was rolled-out to running from 1 October 2011 to 30 September 2012, a total of 1 742 all managers, pilots, corporate junior employees, SAA technical employees made use of the EAP. For the subsequent six month period, administrative employees and cargo administrative employees. The next from October 2012 to March 2013, 1 662 employees accessed roll-out of ESS/MSS will be to all operations staff, including cabin crew, the programme. airport employees (not desk-bound), technicians and cargo employees (not desk-bound). The Heartbeat EAP is administered by ICAS Southern Africa, a leading provider of behavioural risk management services. The purpose of the Both personnel cost planning and enterprise compensation management Heartbeat EAP is to improve the psychological health of the airline’s are in production. This functionality is under review to ensure alignment employees. The programme helps staff develop coping skills and accept with the business process. a greater degree of personal responsibility. It also helps them resolve marital, family and job performance problems. The Heartbeat EAP is Learning Solutions (LSO) is in production and the Training Department is driven by a confidential toll-free number operational for 24 hours a in the process of collecting the history data to be loaded on SAP. Training day, 365 days a year. The service is available to all employees within is in the process of being rolled out in LSO. the Group and their immediate family members and aims to help them manage their personal and professional lives more effectively. It includes Performance management confidential services relating to legal advice, stress, relationships, SAA has embraced a performance management culture that is aligned to trauma, family matters, work, substance abuse, health and finances. the organisation’s values and goals. During the past financial year, various interventions were implemented to promote the performance-driven During March 2013, SAA implemented its Employee Added Benefits culture. To this end, a unilateral approach was maintained, supported by Programme with the objective of assisting employees in various ways, a standardised performance management system in sustaining progress including the following: and accomplishing valuable outcomes, despite challenges and adversity. • Providing employee assistance using the SAA database to get preferential rates on various goods and services; Performance management focused on both management • Supporting initiatives to enhance employees’ health and well-being; and non-management. and • Enhancing SAA’s status as an employer of choice and demonstrating Development of an e-learning training solution was started and will be the airline’s commitment to valuing its people. rolled out from August 2013. This will significantly contribute towards maximising the economies of scale by reaching outlying stations. Policy development An employment equity policy was approved. SAA received recognition A pilot system to automate performance management was conducted. from the Commission of Employment Equity on this improvement with Pending contractual approval, this will be rolled out to the rest of the regard to the implementation of the Employment Equity Act. business during 2013. Challenges faced by the public entity The performance management policy was revised to be more suitable Budget constraints remained a challenge, as strategic initiatives had to to SAA’s business environment. Training material for classroom-based be conducted internally, with limited external resources. sessions was developed and is currently being reviewed to support additional Long Term Turnaround Strategy requirements, with a particular Future HR plans and goals focus on induction and on-boarding processes. The strategic purpose of HR is to create and drive a high-performance, values-based culture to deliver commercially sustainable outcomes, as Due to continuous challenges in embedding a performance-driven outlined in the LTTS. culture, an in-depth analysis was embarked upon and its findings tabled. The intention is to develop future interventions in line with The focus of HR for the 2013/14 financial year will revolve around these findings. (The analysis excluded the subsidiaries, but included the implementation of the LTTS, with the key themes being performance regional and international stations.) management, productivity, accountability and succession planning. 30 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Saa Operations Human Resources Equity target and employment equity status MALE Levels AFRICAN Coloured Indian White Current Target Current Target Current Target Current Target Top management 2 2 0 0 0 1 1 1 Senior management 21 15 1 1 3 2 22 12 Professional qualified 133 129 41 33 67 50 712 723 Skilled 127 91 53 40 32 32 110 114 Semi-skilled 1 077 733 203 199 66 68 215 216 Unskilled 11 12 1 3 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 1 371 982 299 276 168 153 1 060 1 066 FEMALE Levels AFRICAN Coloured Indian White Current Target Current Target Current Target Current Target Top management 2 2 0 0 0 0 1 1 Senior management 12 11 3 3 2 2 8 6 Professional qualified 90 52 22 19 27 26 130 102 Skilled 152 125 50 44 42 38 116 94 Semi-skilled 1 471 1 145 318 273 151 128 368 331 Unskilled 11 18 1 2 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 1 738 1353 394 341 222 194 623 536 People with disabilities Levels Male Female Current Target Current Target Top management 0 0 0 0 Senior management 2 0 0 0 Professional qualified 6 0 4 0 Skilled 5 2 6 2 Semi-skilled 8 19 7 19 Unskilled 0 1 0 1 TOTAL 21 22 17 22 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 31 Sustainability Reports Group Environmental Affairs In the year under review, the group made significant progress in embedding environmental sustainability as a key strategic focus that supports the principles of the Department of Public Enterprise’s (DPE’s) Climate Change Policy Framework for State-owned Companies. SAA has embedded the framework’s principles into its Long-Term Turnaround Strategy with clear goals and measurables at intervals of three, 12 and 20 years, designed to ensure SAA’s position as one of the most environmentally sustainable airlines in the world by 2022. Major initiatives implemented include: • A Voluntary Carbon Offset Programme which supports a cookstove project in Uganda. The programme was supported with a series of advertorials. The inclusion of Mango is planned in 2013, along with additional carbon offset projects; • A Carbon Footprint Report was developed that provides a baseline measurement of the Group’s carbon emissions; • Facilities’ energy-efficiency measures were developed with installation progressively scheduled during 2013 to reduce both electricity consumption and carbon emissions; • Implementation of a major recycling programme with separation bins placed at most SAA facilities at head office as the pilot action. A comprehensive, group-wide recycling programme, with strong black enterprise development goals, is under development; • SAA participated in the International Air Transport Association (IATA) Environmental Assessment (IEnvA) Programme, as one of six pilot airlines developing a comprehensive environmental management system. SAA took a leading role in the programme by qualifying for IEnvA Stage 1 accreditation; • A relationship is being developed with the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) in order to facilitate access to knowledge and skills housed within the WWF to further enhance SAA’s environmental sustainability strategy. The Voyager programme partnered with the WWF so that it receives donated miles from passengers; • SAA’s procurement policy is being revised to incorporate environmental sustainability factors into tender processes, in line with the DPE Climate Change Policy Framework for State-owned Companies. Implementation commences in 2013; We work hard to reduce our carbon footprint and now • The DPE and SAA have embarked upon a joint bio-fuel programme designed to investigate the potential for alternative aviation fuel production in southern to add a small charge to your ticket, you contribute t Africa, with the aim of providing 50% of SAA’s fuel requirements sustainably For details visit flysaa.com by 2022; and • An energy efficiency and generation project, incorporating solar panels for SAA has been awarded IATA Environmental Assessment stage electricity and heat pumps for efficient use of heat in our Air Chefs in-flight catering subsidiary, is being progressively implemented in 2013. This will reduce costs and carbon emissions in line with the long-term strategy of ensuring Air Chefs is the greenest in-flight caterer in Africa. 32 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Sustainability Reports Group Environmental Affairs In addition to the established projects, SAA embarked upon a solar water geyser programme for South African staff. This reduces energy bills and creates carbon credits which SAA can use for its Voluntary Carbon Offset Programme. SAA also continues to contribute strongly to the industry environmental sustainability drive, as a full member of the IATA Environment Committee setting policy on behalf of all IATA member airlines. HOW YOU VIEW THE WORLD IS UP TO YOU. Offset your carbon emissions every time you fly. you can join us. By choosing o carbon-offsetting projects. 1 status. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 33 Sustainability Reports Corporate Social Responsibility Saa’s corporate social responsibility (CSr) strategy aims to promote projects which result in meaningful change for beneficiaries which encourage the participation and involvement of employees and other stakeholders and that create a culture of corporate responsibility HAVASWW8703/E REACH FOR A DREAM FOUNDATION IN COLLABORATION WITH VOYAGER Collaboration with the Reach for a Dream Foundation continued in 2012 to enable the dreams of children aged three to 18 living with terminal illnesses to come true. SAA also partnered with the organisation to host various events such as Queen for a Day, for children who have been diagnosed with lifethreatening illnesses. Queen for a Day focuses on girls aged five to 11 and living with diseases ranging from cancer and blood disorders to cystic fibrosis and kidney failure. The day allows the girls to escape the hospital environment and feel special. VULINDLELA AVIATION AWARENESS PROGRAMME The Vulindlela Aviation Awareness Programme continues to highlight career opportunities for young South Africans with a strong focus on communities in disadvantaged areas. The programme takes teams of pilots, cabin crew and aircraft technicians to schools and career exhibition platforms across the country. It also encourages youth in high schools to explore careers in aviation, with a spotlight on maths and science career paths in the sector. Through a partnership with the Vulindlela Aviation Awareness Programme, SAA and other industry players participated in the successful hosting of the 2012 International Civil Aviation Day (ICAD) in Mafikeng. BRINGING THE WORLD TO AFRICA, TAKING AFRICA TO THE WORLD. This event aims to raise knowledge and understanding of the training opportunities offered in the aviation industry. 8703 Mandela Day Print.indd 1 2013/07/11 12:32 PM Other partners in this South Africa chapter of the international initiative awareness – both worldwide and among communities less exposed to air include the South African Civil Aviation Authority, Air Traffic and Services, travel – of the importance of international civil aviation in the social and the Airports Company of SA, the South African Air Force, the South African economic development of states. The celebrations also highlight the role of Police Service Air Wing and the Department of Transport. the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) in promoting the safety, efficiency and regularity of international air transport. Over 3 000 learners were treated to aeronautical displays, which included displays by three SAA Harvard aircraft. GOODWILL TICKETS Sixteen years ago Kwakhe Msibi was born with cystinosis, a lysosomal The purpose of the annual ICAD celebration is to establish and reinforce storage disease that affects the kidneys, eyes and bones. 34 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Sustainability Reports Corporate Social Responsibility Kwakhe, who is on peritoneal dialysis because of renal failure, is one of THE MANDELA DAY LIBRARIES the many recipients of SAA-sponsored goodwill tickets that are offered to In 2012 support for teacher training in library resource management needy individuals who require emergency medical relief. continued for Breadline Africa and the Nelson Mandela Centre of Memory. In December 2012 SAA enabled him to go to the Red Cross Children’s SAA provided flights for this crucial annual training for the teachers of the Hospital in Cape Town with his two sisters, Sizakele and Khanye, as well as schools that are recipients of the Mandela container libraries to ensure that his mother, Constance, for further treatment. the programme is sustainable. Constance Msibi is a single parent, so taking her family to Cape Town was As part of the Mandela legacy projects, SAA will continue to support the something she could not do on her own. However, SAA gladly stepped in literacy initiatives through the Nelson Mandela Centre of Memory by rolling and was able to sponsor the Msibi family with return tickets to the city. out more Mandela libraries to needy schools in the coming year. Over the past year, SAA has provided many other families like the Msibis with flight ticket assistance in cases where emergency medical relief was On 18 July – Madiba’s birthday – SAA staff were also encouraged to required. participate in outreach activities. They visited: • The Paediatric Oncology Unit at Charlotte Maxeke Hospital in ANNUAL CHRISTMAS PARTY FOR ORPHANED Johannesburg, to which they donated 50 blankets and toys to the AND VULNERABLE CHILDREN children’s unit; In December SAA hosted the annual Christmas party for 130 orphans at a • The Day Care Centre in Alexandra Township, to which they donated children’s farm in Kempton Park, Johannesburg. The two homes to which non-perishable food items, clothing and 150 blankets; SAA reached out were the Siyazigabisa Home of Hope in Tembisa and the • The Soweto Home for the Elderly, to which they donated 150 Sithabile Child and Youth Centre in Benoni. blankets, toiletries and non-perishable food items; • The homeless in and around Johannesburg, including Hillbrow and The SAA team that organises the annual Christmas parties ensured that Braamfontein, to whom they donated 250 blankets; and the gifts were appropriate for the needs and interests of the orphans. • Various centres that care for orphaned and vulnerable children in Durban and Cape Town, to whom they donated hundreds of blankets. MANDELA DAY 2012 SAA commemorated Mandela Day in 2012 by flying 17 youngsters from Blankets distributed by SAA staff, during the outreach sessions were different parts of the world, on continents where the airline operates, to donated by Swissport. Johannesburg. TAKE A GIRL CHILD TO WORK DAY This group joined other young minds in preparation for a youth dialogue SAA is proud to be part of the national initiative of Take a Girl Child to focusing on Nelson Mandela’s ideals on 14 July 2012. The youth Work Day. dialogue was hosted at the Johannesburg Mayoral Council Chambers in Braamfontein and focused on the lessons learnt during each of the 27 On this day, girls in Grades 10-12 are exposed to the working aviation years of Madiba’s incarceration. world. Girls from different provinces to which SAA flies were flown into the SAA headquarters to join a group of girls from Gauteng at the Preparation for the dialogue was made possible by the “Life College” and Johannesburg offices. the Nelson Mandela Centre of Memory, otherwise known as the Nelson Mandela Foundation. They were given an opportunity to visit the simulators and the highly specialised operational areas of SAA technical. The 2012 dialogue’s focus was on keeping Mandela’s legacy alive and encouraging the youth of the world to “take action and make every day a CSr INTO THE FUTURE Mandela day”. SAA CSR will continue supporting literacy projects aimed at underresourced primary schools, especially in rural communities, through the During the week of Madiba’s birthday, SAA hosted activities at various Nelson Mandela Centre of Memory. The airline will also focus its efforts in airports globally, including London, Frankfurt and New York, regionally in promoting maths and science education and thereby giving learners Lagos, Maputo and Kinshasa, and locally in Cape Town, East London, Port access to the world of aviation. Elizabeth, Durban and Johannesburg. At these airports, stands were set up for staff and passengers to sign pledges for Mandela Day activities. The airline will make an effort to bring aviation to those who cannot reach SAA’s facilities, through a purpose-built vehicle that resembles The month of July also saw onboard activations carrying the Mandela Day an aircraft. message to various continents as a reminder to our global passengers to “make every day a Mandela day”. Birthday cards were handed out to passengers to write messages for Madiba. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 35 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance & Accountability AS A STATE-OWNED COMPANY OPERATING IN A STRICTLY REGULATED INDUSTRY, THE SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS GROUP IS COMMITTED TO OPERATING WITH THE UTMOST TRANSPARENCY. THE PAST FEW YEARS HAVE SEEN A NUMBER OF SYSTEMS IMPLEMENTED AS PART OF THE ORGANISATION’S EFFORTS TO ACHIEVE ACCOUNTABILITY. The aviation industry is faced with a number of challenges, as well as a from the Board, is responsible for ensuring the implementation of unique operating environment. To ensure that SAA is equipped to meet processes guiding operations, so that SAA is able to achieve its key these challenges in a way that is fair and transparent, the organisation performance indicators. It is headed by the CEO and meets monthly to is monitored and regularly reviewed by a number of independent bodies. monitor the progress of the strategy in terms of the annual Corporate Plan. Key organisations in this regard include the South African Civil Aviation Authority, as well as the US Federal Aviation Administration. BOARD COMMITTEES During the past year, the SAA Group updated its constitution and terms Internally, corporate governance is ensured through the implementation of of reference to align to the Companies Act of 2008. Through this exercise, a rigorous ethical framework. The Board also plays a vital role in ensuring a number of sub-committees of the Board have been established, that SAA meets its obligations, while adhering to the strictest standards including the: and operating in a manner that not only benefits the society which the • Audit Committee; Company serves, but also serves the Shareholder’s interests. To this end, • Procurement and Tender Processes Committee; a number of policies have been introduced, such as those dealing with • Social and Ethics, Governance and Nominations Committee; conflicts of interest. • Remunerations and Human Resources Committee; • Long-Term Turnaround Strategy Committee; and Attention has been focused on key areas such as aviation safety • Ad Hoc Committee on Litigation. compliance and customer care. Again, relevant policies and procedures have been put in place to ensure that the Group now adheres strictly to all The terms of reference and mandates of these sub-committees have been requirements and is able to address challenges effectively. redefined to ensure a stronger focus on SAA’s statutory obligations. SAA recognises that effective corporate governance hinges on co-operation COMPLIANCE between management, the Board, the Shareholder and other stakeholders. The Group is currently working to finalise the revision of the Memorandum It is guided in this regard by the King Report on Corporate Governance of Incorporation of SAA and its subsidiaries in compliance with the for South Africa (King III of 2009). Moreover, the Company sets its own Companies Act. targets for corporate governance, which are closely monitored and regularly reviewed. SAA’s compliance with the competition laws improved significantly over the past year. During 2012 there were no adverse findings against the BOARD OF DIRECTORS Group, with the exception of those rulings already in place. As of 31 March 2013, SAA’s Board comprised 10 Non-Executive directors and two Executive Directors. All Non-Executive Directors, including the SAA is still dealing with several outstanding civil litigation matters, Chairperson of the Board, are appointed by the Shareholder. SAA prides including anti-trust related matters initiated by Comair and Nationwide, itself on having a Board peopled by local and international individuals as well as an investigation initiated by the Swiss Competitions Authority in hailing from diverse backgrounds, granting them a multi-dimensional view 2007. of business issues and challenges. Members boast many years’ experience and are considered experts in their field. An initiative developed around the Consumer Protection Act was launched in August 2012. This included the revision of policies and standard The responsibilities of the Board are clearly outlined in the Company’s operating procedures, as well as identifying personnel affected by the Act Articles of Association, Board Charter, Companies Act and in the approved and provision of training to impacted staff. Delegation of Authority Framework. These responsibilities include the review and approval of strategic direction, annual budgets and the Irregular expenditure was reduced by 59%. A multi-pronged approach corporate plan of SAA and its subsidiaries. The Board further approves all was adopted to achieve this; the entire organisation underwent refresher major capital expenditure and monitors the Group’s performance against training to reiterate the aims and implementation of the Public Finance financial objectives and approved detailed budgets. Management Act (PFMA), while training around procurement processes The Group Executive Committee, a sub-structure of the CEO’s delegation – to ensure the correct utilisation of SAP – was also given. Added to this, 36 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance & Accountability a contract management system and process has been developed which monitors expiring contracts, along with the review and renewal of existing ones. A contract management framework and policy was approved. The PFMA forum is operational and, among its terms of reference, the forum monitors and reports on compliance and/or non-compliance with the PFMA on a monthly basis and reports to the Board through Exco every quarter. These actions ensure that proper procurement practices are followed and that SAA’s policies are adhered to. Open litigation was also reduced during the year, with the result that contingent liabilities have also come down. ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT Enterprise risk management is viewed as an ongoing process. Assessments are conducted at SAA and its subsidiaries on a quarterly basis to ensure that risk is maintained at a manageable level. SAA INTERNAL AUDIT (SAAIA) SAA has an in-house internal audit function, which was introduced during the 2012/13 financial year. The function reports to the Board through the Audit Committee. The Committee approves SAAIA’s audit plan and monitors performance against a three-year rolling plan. SAAIA is further guided by an approved charter, which was developed in accordance with with all stakeholders to ensure that their expectations are met and the guidelines put forward by the Institute of Internal Auditors. This charter exceeded; is reviewed annually and was reviewed by the Audit Committee during the • The implementation of an audit working paper software (TEAMMATE) year under review. that is aligned to SAA’s internal audit methodology, as well as the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal The primary function of internal auditing is to provide reasonable assurance Auditing; regarding internal controls, governance, efficiencies, effectiveness and • All duties of SAAIA function, as laid out in the 2012/13 annual performance against strategic objectives. It provides a systematic and internal audit plan, were discharged; disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the effectiveness of • The function filled 16 of the approved 19 staff positions. This these criteria. The function is therefore a key part of the Group’s risk excellent progress has meant that approximately 70% of planned management and combined assurance strategies. audits were conducted by in-house staff members; and • The establishment of SAAIA has ensured that the overall control In order to provide the Board and management with the necessary environment improved during the year under review and can now be assurance and timely early-warning alerts on potential failures, SAAIA deemed to be effective. However, there will be increased focus on maintained a risk-based audit approach through the implementation of the developing internal controls within the operations. 2012/13 internal audit plan. Any control deficiencies identified by the internal auditors were brought to During the year, SAAIA focused on the following key areas: the attention of management for corrective action. Where internal controls • Developing internal information technology audit skills capacity; did not operate effectively, compensating controls and/or corrective action • Following up on the remediation of the root causes of management were recommended by SAAIA and implemented by management, enabling letter findings; the organisation to eliminate or reduce risk. This ensured that the Group’s • Trend analysis of the cross-cutting root causes, repetitive findings, assets were safeguarded and proper accounting records maintained. process and control failures and their owners; • Creating awareness around the role of SAAIA; SAA has adopted an aggressive stance against corruption and SAAIA plays • Increasing the audit focus on strategic risks; and a key role in the detection, reporting and prevention of fraud. • Improving the efficiency of internal audit processes. Highlights during the period in question included: • The development and implementation of SAAIA methodology, which is aligned to the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing; • The development and implementation of service-level agreements south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 37 38 Subsidiaries Mango SAA Technical Air Chefs SAA Travel Centre 39 Subsidiary Reports Mango Mango achieved the highest turnover and bottomline profitability result in its history during the 2012/13 financial Year. The airline’s turnover reached R1,36 billion during the period under review, recording a Net Profit of R39,1 million. Given the backdrop of a subdued economy, Mango performed economic enabler through the cost-effective transportation of people and exceptionally well. Achievement, growth and responsible business products in South Africa. Among other things: practice set the tone for Mango’s performance during the 2012/13 • Mango initiated a national Career Day programme with three successful fiscal year. This within a sector that faced a continued decline in the number of domestic travellers (Airports Company SA (Acsa): 4,6% decline in domestic travel 2012), as well as high fuel prices, a weak currency and global industry forecasts of a low profitability benchmark of 1,6% by the International Air Transportation Association. The exit of two domestic carriers during the period in review emphasised the flatlined condition of the South African aviation industry. Performance Mango launched a new port in 2012 and introduced a sixth aircraft to its fleet, launching Port Elizabeth-Johannesburg-Cape Town frequencies in the third quarter, after adding wet-leased capacity and bulking up its existing Golden Triangle presence. The airline continued to focus on innovation with the launch of the first African on-board Wi-Fi service across its fleet. The G-Connect In-flight Wi-Fi service saw take-up of well over the international aggregate of 6%. The development of its travel management system, designed to deliver seamless corporate and trade inventory distribution, saw Mango become the first airline to launch booking and payment applications across mobile platforms. It continues to be the only carrier globally to accept store charge cards as tender online and through its call centre (Edcon), and offers the widest distribution channel and payment options in the domestic market. In December 2012, Mango also crossed South African borders for the first time when it introduced highly successful charters to Zanzibar. The airline plans to implement a scheduled service to Zanzibar and other African destinations, pending route rights and regional licensing. Mango continued its lead in terms of on time performance in the domestic market with a 93% network aggregate (ACSA) and a load factor increase to 81% for the period in review against 77% in the previous period. Aircraft dispatch reliability targets were exceeded with an achievement of 99.05% (target 98.5%). Call centre service levels exceeded industry norms of 80%. Social participation Mango continues to be active among the communities it serves, beyond its direct and indirect socio-economic roles as employer, customer and 40 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Subsidiary Reports Mango events in Lanseria, Athlone and Tshwane, reaching 41 000 individuals supported by way of the construction of fully sustainable vegetable and learners collectively, and will continue to create awareness to gardens at community centres and schools; educate a future human resources market to consider a career in • Mango also turned its attention to arts and culture through aviation and its respective support industries; partnering with the South African Mzansi Ballet Company in the • The airline achieved a Level 5 B-BBEE rating under the new development of formerly disadvantaged talent, as well as the Transport Charter, with more stringent criteria than the Generic Charter Vryfees Arts Festival, among others; previously applied; • Mango announced its intention of becoming the most carbon• The airline renewed its fundraising partnership with Unicef, whereby efficient domestic airline and achieving relative neutrality within South African youth are afforded life-changing opportunities through two decades; and development in sport, while also implementing a community-driven • As a responsible corporate and environmental citizen, Mango sustainability programme; will continue to invest in youth development and enabling self• Mango continued its national programme where community feeding, sufficiency as it relates to meeting basic needs, cognisant of our opportunity creation and environmental educational schemes are own environmental impact, as a means of investing in the future of South Africa. LOOKING AHEAD Mango plans to increase its fleet with two additional units during the 2013/14 period, with capacity increases on existing domestic routes, as well as regional expansion on the near horizon. A seat replacement programme will see new lightweight seats introduced, increasing fuelefficiency and guest comfort without compromising seat density. The business also plans to launch travel package products later in the year. The key to aviation business sustainability lies in the extent to which a given airline/model can respond to extreme volatility in both cost and demand while maintaining liquidity – this within an industry that is showing undeniable trends of commoditisation amidst continuing, and capital-intensive, supply growth. From a financial standpoint, it is accordingly important to minimise the proportion of total cost deemed to be fixed in the long term, while simultaneously compressing costs that are variable in nature – an ongoing trade-off. It is also important, as across all industries, to effectively target customers (guests) through a relevant value proposition cognisant of current and future consumer needs and trends. Mango believes that, within the context of growing demand for costeffective air travel and an ever-increasing consumer flight to value, the low-cost model will continue to be the fastest-growing and most profitable airline. Mango further believes that the Company’s strong cash reserves and gearing position, operational unit-cost leadership and growing brand positions it well for a 2013/14 financial period. The combination of capital efficiency, cost-effectiveness and market relevance, along with environmental responsibility and a commitment to employee well-being, is evident in a brand that conducts itself with integrity, in full compliance with a well-developed governance framework. All of this leads Mango to be confident of the long-term financial future and growth of the Company. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 41 Subsidiary Reports Saa Technical SAA Technical achieved a R39 million operating profit and continued to strongly support south africa’s national development agenda through its jobs creation and technician skills development programmes SAA Technical is the sole provider of aircraft maintenance to SAA operating profit, down from the R171 million achieved in March 2012. and Mango in Africa, and an independent business that contributes The year-on-year drop in operating profit was mainly influenced by a drop revenues to the greater SAA Group. The Company operates as a fullin flight hours from SAA as well as depressed heavy maintenance business. service maintenance repair organisation (MRO), and is the largest such organisation in Africa. It has held full and uninterrupted US Federal An in-depth operational, financial and organisational assessment Aviation Authority certification since the late 1980s. It supplies line completed during the financial year to March 2011 confirmed that SAA maintenance to 24 other domestic, regional and international airlines, and Technical’s quality and technical work are well regarded from both a heavy maintenance to eight major customers. quantitative and qualitative perspective, but indicated that improvements in certain areas were needed if long-term sustainability was to be assured. Operating landscape The MRO business is rapidly changing in an industry subjected to A three year project code named Thrust was initiated in order to foster uncertainty of oil prices, pressure on yields, limits on aircraft financing and delivery of the recommendation by Simat, Heiliesen & Eichner (SH&E) increased competition to win traffic. department. Although the project achieved a bottom-line improvement of R100 million during the first year, there was a drop in the quantum Despite these challenges, long-term fleet growth looks solid. This is mainly of savings achieved in the year under review. The implementation of the driven by population growth, growing middle class and the decline in the project has largely delivered though in three key areas: cost containment; average age of the fleet since 2009 (12.2 to 11.9 years over 20 000 business efficiency improvements, especially in base maintenance; and aircraft). The production rate of the new generation aircrafts with fuel alignment of the structure to the organisational strategy. efficient engines has also increased. Fleet growth is forecast at 3.7% CARG to 29 955 in 10 years. Cost-containment initiatives focused largely on the two most high-cost items – labour and materials. The reduction of overtime continued during The implications of a solid long-term fleet growth to the MRO business the year under review and a focus on a reduction in material consumption outlook are positive. According to Team SAI, the global MRO spend last has resulted in a saving of more than R30 million as at the end of March year was US$49.5 billion, 5.7% higher than 2011. This growth was 2013. mainly driven by fleet renewal programmes by various airlines as well as higher aircraft utilisation. Maintenance of components increased at a The overall reduction of turnaround time, achieved through the application higher rate than that of airframe and line while engine overhauls decreased of lean principles, continues to yield positive results for our customers slightly compared to the previous year. Labour rates marginally increased and has ensured that customers receive their aircraft within the budgeted in the same period. timelines – a remarkable improvement over the performance achieved in the previous financial year. In fact, almost 40% of major maintenance Global growth is expected to maintain a 3.3% CAGR through 2022. The checks conducted in our hangar were completed a day earlier than the $49.5 billion industry is expected to grow to $68.5 billion over the ten budgeted turnaround time. year forecast period. This growth will be slowed down towards 2022 due to the lower average fleet age. Engine maintenance is expected to continue The Quality Assurance department has successfully managed the being the largest segment with the highest growth rate whilst the growth in renewal of all major AMO approvals ie. South African Civil Aviation component is expected to catch up in the latter half of the forecast. Authority (SACAA), Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), as well as a number of other SAA Technical response to the challenges and opportunities highlighted approvals such as South African National Accreditation System (SANAS) above was critical to the continued growth of the company. The focus on for Metrology and Compressed Gas Cylinders and Regulatory Authorities efficiency improvements, high utilisation of labour and process innovation like the Namibian DCA, Madagascar DCA and Qatar CAA. All line stations was key towards ensuring positive outcomes. Tightened relationships with were audited at least once during this period to renew their approvals. Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and continued investments in A total of 418 audits were performed on product processes, procedures facilities, training and new product development are some of the important and vendors. steps that were considered in the period under review. A commendable achievement was the development of a complete new Performance Maintenance Organisation Exposition (MOE) for the Civil Aviation Safety In the year to 31 March 2013, SAA Technical achieved a R39 million Authority of Australia (CASA). 42 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Subsidiary Reports Saa Technical In order to revive the JEOS, it was decided in 2012 to enter into an Off Load Agreement with Pratt and Whitney to repair JT8 and JT9 engines. The Off Load agreement on the JT8 engines are currently under investigation to test the viability of the agreement. It was envisaged that as part of this off load agreement, capacity would be created for more engine work to be done in SAAT Jet shop which will ensure optimum profitability and productivity improvement of workshop staff. The key strategic objective of SAAT is to improve its profit position, largely by increasing volume through added third-party business and putting underutilised resources and facilities to more productive use thus positioning itself as a leader in the sub-Saharan Africa MRO business. The in-sourcing of engine maintenance is one avenue that can be used in order to ensure that we are successful in attaining that goal. Human Resources: Highlights and Milestones The year was eventful in a number of areas. The first challenge was to restructure the department such that the Staffing Function is separated from the Remuneration and Benefits functions. This needed to be achieved without disruption of the total system which has been integrated for more Quality Assurance (QA) has also used in-house available resources than 10 years. This milestone has been achieved and both functions are to develop an entire certification management system to replace an now working together in a complementary fashion. antiquated and unsupported system from the 1980’s, which became unusable and could no longer satisfy the increasing requirements of the The unstable Employee Relations climate was partially arrested through aviation regulatory authorities. A very useful extension to this programme continuous meetings with both South African Transport and Allied also monitors the currency of all compulsory training, and provides warning Workers Union (SATAWU) and Aviation Union of Southern Africa (AUSA) reports of training due to expire, to assist managers with their planning. unions. This was done in the wake of the split in SATAWU with its former leadership forming a new splinter union with the name of National In-sourcing of Engine maintenance services Transport Movement (NTM), thus complicating the ER terrain even A decision taken a few years ago to outsource all engine work to other further. Needless to say, the wage negotiations for the financial year were MROs and OEMs has lead to a huge loss in revenue streams and not protracted and at times acrimonious. Eventually all was resolved and a contributing optimal to Total Cost of Ownership. The investment in test wage agreement was signed. NTM remains unrecognised as they do not equipment for the new generation engines has not taken place thus have the threshold membership. limiting the upgrading of the facility. As a result of this decision not much development was done increasing the human resources skills Two management development programmes were pursued to deal with the to complement the new generation engine types and there are a few threat of a leadership vacuum due to an ageing baby boomer management technicians most of whom are closer to retirement that have the capability cadre which would retire nearly in the same period. Both the Future to repair and overhaul old generation aircraft engines. Leaders Development Programme (FLDP) and the Women in Aviation (WIA) initiatives took off without a hiccup, with initial stages at Wits Business South African Airways Technical (SAAT) Jet Engine Overhaul Service School and subsequent sessions at Cranfield University in the UK. These (JEOS) Facility has limited repair capability on the current SAA fleet; are intensive two year programmes culminating in an MSc (Aviation). hence any major repair work that is required is outsourced. The contract value of outsourcing these services is significant, at more than R1.3 billion The Technical Training school is currently approved by the SACAA as per annum (narrow and wide body aircraft engines), the narrow body an Aircraft Training Organisation as per part 141 of the South African engines have a potential to increase SAAT revenues if in-sourced. Civil Aviation Regulations. In 2011 the SACAA included a requirement The project to in-source engine maintenance services will provide an that all instructors must be appropriately licensed to provide tuition and opportunity for organisational growth and capability as well as reducing examinations. Currently all affected instructors have been licensed and a the current unit cost of labour complementing the contribution to the total monitoring system implemented. Training provided towards licensing is cost of ownership also accepted by EASA and the FAA. SAAT currently has the capability to repair and overhaul JT8 and JT9D Looking forward series aircraft engines and had full capability in the V2500-A1 engines for A number of opportunities have been pursued regionally and internationally SAA’s previously owned A320’s. There is limited capability to repair the creating a robust pipeline for A checks C checks and potential cooperation current fleet of engines on both the narrow and wide-body aircraft flown by with an OEM for component maintenance for the Embraer fleet. SAA. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 43 Subsidiary Reports Air Chefs Air Chefs is SAA’s catering subsidiary Focused on Market share growth, Leveraging non-airline business opportunities and investing to grow. This was achieved by reopening the Durban and Bloemfontein facilities and consolidating the two operating units in Johannesburg into one unit. 44 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Subsidiary Reports Air Chefs Market share growth LOOKING AHEAD Following the recent merger of Wings (dnata/Emirates) and First Newrest, Air Chefs’ strategic objectives are: there are now three airline catering companies in South Africa, namely Air • To support South Africa’s national developmental agenda; Chefs, LSG Sky Chefs and Wings/First Newrest. There is fierce competition • To achieve and maintain commercial sustainability; to secure new business in the market as it comes up for re-tender. Air • To provide excellent customer service; Chefs was awarded the SA Express and Precision Air business in 2011/12, • To achieve consistent, efficient and effective operations; and and has been shortlisted for the Air Mauritius tender. Air Chefs still holds • To foster performance excellence. the largest market share of the South African airline catering market. Based on the achievements in the 2012/13 financial year and the reduction Investing to grow in losses during March 2013, the 2013/14 financial year is set to turn Air Chefs invested in new fleet and infrastructural improvements over the around to one of profitability. past year, in order to meet Airports Company South Africa (Acsa) licensing requirements of airside vehicles, provide adequate facilities for operations The areas of focus that will further assist Air Chefs are: and consolidate in Johannesburg. • Structural changes to mirror best practice and ensure that accountabilities are clearly set through appropriate job descriptions Twenty-five Light Duty Vehicles (LDV) and eight Hi-loader vehicles were and KPIs (separate submission); and purchased as part of the fleet replacement plan. The Hi-loaders were to • The creation of appropriate policies and standard operating procedures address the aged fleet of specialised vehicles that could no longer go and further enforcement of existing policies and procedures. airside (six years for normal vehicles and 12 years for specialised vehicles) and the LDVs to service the SA Express business, requiring refrigerated LDVs that can carry six trolleys per journey. The two Johannesburg facilities were consolidated into one facility at Jones Road in mid-2012, in order to reduce operating costs. However, given a change in strategy regarding the in-flight building, which is much better positioned to access airside, a motivation to evaluate the plans and costs associated with the refurbishment of this building has commenced. Leveraging non-airline business opportunities Air Chefs’ non-airline business now includes airport lounge catering, events catering and canteen services, including the SAAT, Cargo and Airways Park Canteen and the King Shaka International Airport Lounge in Durban. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE A plan to turn Air Chefs around was put into place and incorporated the following: • Consolidating the two Johannesburg facilities to eliminate duplicate overheads, which was completed in mid-2012; • Reducing material costs by re-implementing the SAP Production Planning programme to ensure that business operates more efficiently; and • Implementating processes and procedures for both accountability and reduction of waste. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 45 Subsidiary Reports South African Travel Centre The South African Travel Centre (SATC), a whollyowned subsidiary of South African Airways (SAA), has been in existence for 16 years. The travel retail consortium is part of the SAA-owned sales channel network, whose main function is to promote sales of the airline’s ticket inventory through its franchisees. SATC boasts an extensive footprint, with over 80 agencies located in the major centres around South Africa, as well as Maseru, Maputo, Gaborone and Accra. Through these retail outlets, it offers competitive rates and service on air travel, car rental, travel insurance, foreign exchange, global tour products, cruise holidays, packaged tours, assistance with visa applications and accommodation across the globe. Each SATC agency is independently owned and run by seasoned travel agents who are focused on consistently offering the best value to their clients. Most importantly, they all share in our common purpose of promoting SAA sales in a mutually beneficial manner. SATC’s PERFORMANCE IN 2012/13 SATC completed the year having achieved notable improvements in key areas of the business, which in turn resulted in a healthier financial position. The overall organisational improvement was supported by advances in employee engagement following SATC’s restructuring process, as well as advances in technology. Client acquisitions also improved in comparison with previous years, while attrition was kept to a minimum. Financial performance suggests an impending turnaround. IMPROVEMENT OF RETURN ON INVESTMENT FOR CLIENT ACQUISITION/RETENTION The sustained growth of SATC is dependent on the improvement of franchisee benefits, which in turn will ensure the retention of current franchisees, as well as the successful recruitment of new ones. DEVELOPING BUSINESS GROWTH AND COUNTERING ATTRITION SATC head office has been engaged in rendering business development support to franchisees in order not only to grow their enterprises, but to counter possible attrition of their businesses. FRANCHISEE RECRUITMENT AND AFRICAN EXPANSION SATC continued to grow its geographical footprint through ongoing recruitment of franchisees into the consortium. An additional 11 franchisee acquisitions were achieved in the 2012/13 financial year. 46 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Subsidiary Reports South African Travel Centre HIGHLIGHTS training by the appointed training provider, as well as practical • SATC’s B-BBEE rating has progressed from Level 4 to Level 3. This training at the participating franchisee offices; is expected to improve further, partly owing to SATC’s Learnership • Following the appointment as the official travel agent to the 29th Programme which was launched nationally at the end of Q4. The Orange Africa Cup of Nations, SATC successfully managed the programme is being run nationally in conjunction with the Culture, account, ensuring smooth movement of the participating teams and Arts, Tourism, Hospitality and Sport Sector Education & Training match officials, as well as Local Organising Committee members; Authority and is aligned to the National Skills Development • The implementation of the public relations strategy continued until objectives. A total of 50 unemployed learners have been engaged. the end of the financial year, with a number of media engagements, Over a 12-month period, the learners are afforded theoretical press releases and articles for Sawubona magazine being produced; and • Cost compression continued to form an integral part of operations and significant long-term cost-savings have been realised through the SATC head office’s relocation to Parktown, Johannesburg, and organisational restructuring. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 47 48 49 Contents ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement by the Company Secretary 51 Directors’ Report 52 Report of the Audit Committee 66 Independent Auditors’ Report 68 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 70 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 71 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 72 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 74 Notes to the Financial Statements 75 Corporate Information 127 50 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Statement by the Company Secretary The Company Secretary, Mr Sandile Dlamini, certifies that the company has lodged with the Companies and Intellectual Property Commission all such returns and notices as required for South African Airways SOC Ltd in terms of the Companies Act and that all such returns and notices are true, correct and up to date. Sandile Dlamini Company Secretary 22 January 2014 Name: Mr CS Dlamini BUSINESS ADDRESS Airways Park, Jones Road, Postal Address Private Bag X13, OR Tambo International Airport OR Tambo International Airport Kempton Park, 1619 Kempton Park, 1627 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 51 Directors’ Report For the year ended 31 March 2013 The directors have pleasure in presenting their report, which forms part of the annual financial statements of South African Airways SOC Limited (SAA) and its subsidiaries, ‘the Group’, for the year ended 31 March 2013. The financial statements, set out on pages 70-126 of this report, The net impact of the weaker currency was to reduce profitability by have been prepared by management in accordance with International approximately R1 billion. Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and are based on appropriate accounting policies adopted in terms of IFRS, as detailed in Note 1 to Despite the challenging and competitive operating environment, the the annual financial statements. Group still managed to achieve a R261 million improvement (21%) in its operating result for the year, with a loss of R991 million compared to R1,3 There have been no changes made to the accounting policies in the billion in the previous financial year. After finance costs, tax and items year under review. The accounting policies are supported by reasonable reflected in other comprehensive income, the total comprehensive loss for and prudent judgements and estimates as detailed in Notes 3 and 4. the year was R1,2 billion. The previous year’s comprehensive result was a The audited financial statements are submitted in accordance with the profit of R60 million, which was bolstered by the recognition of a deferred statutory requirements of the Public Finance Management Act No 1 of tax asset of R514 million and property revaluations of R823 million. 1999 (PFMA) (as amended) and the South African Companies Act No 71 of 2008. The Directors confirm that the annual financial statements Total income present fairly the state of affairs and the business of the Group, and Group total income increased by 14% to R27,1 billion from R23,9 explain the transactions and financial position of the business of the billion in the previous financial year. The 11% improvement in passenger Group for the year ended 31 March 2013. airline revenue was partly attributable to a 6,3% improvement in average air fares – from R2 644 in the previous financial year to R2 812 in the Nature of the business and company shareholding current financial year. This increase, however, was driven by the impact SAA is a state-owned company, incorporated in terms of the South of the 13% weakening of the rand/dollar exchange rate on airfares. Other African Airways Act No 5 of 2007, reporting to the Minister of Public contributors to the increase in passenger revenue were the 9,3% increase Enterprises as supported by the Department of Public Enterprises (DPE). in revenue passengers and a 3,1% increase in available capacity. The airline’s principal activities include providing scheduled air services for the transportation of passengers, freight and mail to international, The graph below depicts the Group’s total income trend over the past five regional and domestic destinations. In fulfilling its mission to deliver financial years, reflecting a continuous upward trend from 2010. commercially sustainable world-class air passenger and aviation services in South Africa, the African continent and our tourism and trading partners, SAA proudly operates in 26 destinations across the continent Total Income and provides a competitive, quality air transport service within South Africa and to major cities worldwide. 30 27,1 26,3 1,5 Review of operating and financial results 25 1,4 23,9 22,2 22,6 SAA and its subsidiaries all operate in highly competitive global markets 24,9 1,3 25,6 1,2 1,4 that are rapidly liberalising and consolidating, resulting in growing levels of 20 21,0 22,6 21,2 R Billion competition. As a result, SAA is facing strong competition in the domestic market, increasing levels of competition in the regional (African) market 15 and intense competition in the international market. Mid-hemisphere airlines are capitalising on African market liberalisation and continue to 10 aggressively advance their positions. 5 SAA was faced with a number of specific challenges during the year under review. These included, in addition to a sustained competitive 0 09 10 11 12 13 landscape, persistently high jet fuel prices and the weakening of the rand against all major currencies. While fuel remained the biggest single Airline revenue Other income expense, accounting for 35% (2012: 34%) of the Group’s operating costs, the weaker currency had a significant impact on operating costs as approximately 60% of the Group’s costs are foreign currency denominated. 52 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Segmental performance Competition from Middle East carriers in the region has placed pressure on average airfares, significantly reducing yields over time. New International destinations and frequencies launched during 2011 are now maturing The graph below depicts the contribution to the Group from its and making a positive contribution to airline profitability. Additional international operations. routes launched in 2012 are similarly starting to yield more positive returns. International contribution Domestic 400 The graph below depicts the contribution to the Group from its domestic 200 operations. 0 -200 Domestic contribution -400 900 -600 R Million 800 -800 700 -1 000 600 -1 200 500 R Million -1 400 400 -1 600 300 -1 800 200 09 10 11 12 13 100 The 5-year contribution trend for the international operations reflects 0 09 10 11 12 13 great volatility. Fuel costs severely impacted on the profitability of the long-haul routes where the existing fleet is fuel inefficient. Domestic routes have traditionally contributed positively to the airlines performance. SAA was particularly hard hit in 2012 by the increase It should be noted that in years that produced losses, the average fuel in fuel price and the economic climate restricting the Group’s ability prices were at levels in excess of $80 (2009) and $100 (2012 and to adjust airfares. The domestic market contracted by 15% in 2012 2013) which further eroded route profitability. 2010 reflected a positive and yields fell by 4%. The domestic market is still below that of 2008. contribution from the international routes as a result of a “double Domestic passenger numbers increased in the current year, as did positive”, ie. a lower Brent crude oil price coupled with a stronger average airfares and load factors, particularly in the Business Class currency. (Refer to graph on page 54). segment. This, together with increased capacity in the low cost offering, contributed to the improved results for 2013. The increase in Cost per Available Seat Kilometre (CASK) on the international routes of 18% in 2012 was predominately as a result of the Operating costs increased fuel price, combined with the introduction of new routes that have not had the time to mature and become profitable. As a result, this The increase in fuel costs as well as the steady weakening of the rand segment significantly underperformed during 2012. The improvement over the past three financial years, severely impacted Group costs. in the current year is largely attributable to the termination of the Cape While operating costs reflect a year-on-year increase of 12%, fuel remains Town-London route from the flight schedule, coupled with the positive the single biggest cost to the Group, having increased from 34% to 35% impact of the cost compression project. of operating costs. Despite the 2% decrease in the average Brent crude oil prices for the financial year, fuel costs increased by R1,3 billion Regional (15%) over the previous year due largely to the weaker rand. The graph below depicts the contribution to the Group from its regional operations. Cost Compression Programme During the financial year, the Group embarked on a cost savings and Regional contribution compression programme to re-engineer processes in order to derive 1 400 sustainable cost benefits going forward. The programme consisted of 38 individual projects covering a multitude of initiatives. These 1 200 initiatives ranged from basic simple projects, such as saving energy by 1 000 switching off unnecessary lights, to more complex projects such as fuelR Million 800 saving initiatives to optimise fuel by utilising dynamic flight plans and 600 alternative landing rights, and reducing the weight of on-board items. SAA successfully achieved 97% of the R1,3 billion budgeted reduction 400 in costs, removing in excess of R1 billion in costs from the business, 200 which was unfortunately to a large extent offset by the weakening rand. 0 09 10 11 12 13 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 53 Directors’ Report For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) The graphs below depict the movement of the ZAR/USD exchange rate as previous year is excluded, the increase is 5%. Management did not receive well as a comparison between the dollar price of Brent crude oil and the any increase for the year, while the pilots received 7,2 % and general staff rand price of Brent crude oil. received 6,1 %. Headcount reflected a 4% increase, primarily at SAA Technical. Elsewhere in the Group only critical vacancies were filled. Average R/$ exchange rate Aircraft lease costs have increased by 17% from R1,8 billion to R2,1 billion R10 in the current financial year. The increase is largely attributable to the full R9 year impact of aircraft entering the fleet during the previous financial year. In R8 addition, the weak rand had a significant impact on this expense item. R7 R6 Regulatory costs (which include navigation, landing and parking fees) have increased by 18% from R1,5 billion in the previous financial year to R1,8 R5 billion in the current year, reflecting the impact of increases in fees charged R4 by Airports Company of South Africa (ACSA) and similar service providers R3 across the global network. R2 R1 Maintenance costs reflect an increase of 33% over the previous year from R1,7 billion to R2,3 billion. The majority of these costs are contract driven R0 09 10 11 12 13 and impacted by currency fluctuations. If one removes the impact of the exchange rate movements and costs directly attributable to changes to the Year End R/$ Average R/$ fleet plan, the increase reduces to only 11%. Exchange Rate Exchange Rate Rand and dollar price of Brent crude oil Commissions and network charges have increased by 13% from R1,2 billion R941 to R1,4 billion in the current financial year. There is a direct correlation $120 $114 R950 between these costs and the improvement in airline revenue. Electronic $100 $112 R900 data costs have decreased by 11%, primarily due to reduced network costs $85 $84 R850 R851 following the sale of the Galileo reservation/distribution system. $80 $70 R800 $60 R753 R750 Excluding the impact of fuel, regulatory and maintenance costs, which are to R700 a large extent out of the control of management, the Group’s operating costs $40 R650 increased by 5%, underlining the tight control maintained over controllable $20 costs. In real terms, operating costs have reduced by 2% over the previous R611 R600 R558 year. $0 R550 09 10 11 12 13 Average dollar Average rand STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Brent oil price Brent oil price Equity In October 2012, SAA was granted a R1,5 billion guarantee by its The graph below depicts the operating cost and fuel cost trends over the Shareholder to secure its continued operations over the next two years until past five financial years. alternative forms of shareholder support is received to restore the airline’s capital and reserves position. 30 28% 27,6 40% 4,0 25 24,1 24,6 30% The graph below depicts the capital and reserves trend over the past five 25% 3,0 3,2 financial years. 20,7 20 19,9 2,5 20% R Billion 8,6 3,1 8,3 9,6 Capital & reserves 15 6,1 10% 4 5,1 8% 3% 7% 10 0% 3 2,1 -6% 12,1 5 -10% 2 12,5 11,7 13,1 13,9 (0,2) 0,5 0,4 (0,8) R Billion 2,9 0 -19% -20% 1 1,3 1,3 1,3 1,3 09 10 11 12 13 0 Operating cost YOY fuel & regulated cost increase (0,8) (1,5) (0,8) (0,9) (2,1) Total fuel cost Operating cost increase -1 Regulated cost (ex fuel & regulated costs) -2 Operating costs over the past 5 years have remained well contained compared with the significant increases in fuel and regulatory costs. -3 09 10 11 12 13 Employee costs increased by 3% to R4,8 billion from R4,7 billion in the Subordinated loans Capital & reserves (excluding subordinated loans) previous financial year. If the once-off pension related expense in the Note: 2009 not adjusted for restatements. 54 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Cash Flow major maintenance events (R359 million). Cash and cash equivalents reduced to R1,1 billion during the year from a net overdraft of R33 million. Cash generated from operations of In addition, R208 million of long-term loans were repaid during the year R161 million improved by R 1,3 billion from the R 1,1 billion cash utilised (2012: R644 million). Dividends paid (interest on the subordinated in the previous financial year. Banking facilities utilised increased from loan) was R88 million, reduced from R92 million in the previous financial R1,2 billion to R2,1 billion in the current financial year. year. Finance costs during the year amounted to R191 million (2012: R147 million). The cash outflow from investing activities for the current financial year includes a net capital expenditure of R806 million (2012: It can further be noted that over a period of five years, SAA has repaid loans R552 million). The outflow is primarily attributable to pre-delivery to the value of R3,5 billion (refer to the graph below) and invested R585 payments with regard to the A320 transaction (R383 million), the million in aircraft pre-delivery payments. This has contributed to the erosion acquisition of aircraft spares included in PPE and the capitalisation of of the cash reserves over the period. Loans repaid Net cash position 1 400 1 288 5000 3 776 1 200 4000 3 402 $70 1 000 838 3000 2 252 R Million R Million 800 2000 644 600 564 1000 400 0 208 (33) 200 -1000 (1 100) 0 -2000 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 The graphs below analyse the sources of cash flows and how the cash was applied. 2013 Cash inflow R474 Million 2013 Cash outflow R1 572 Million 1 23 208 88 191 161 278 12 1 084 Operations Proceeds on disposal of assets Investments Borrowings Interest Derivatives and forex Finance cost Additions Dividends 2012 Cash inflow R343 million 2012 Cash outflow R2 769 Million 3 42 96 644 1 126 205 757 92 147 Interest Proceeds on disposal of assets Borrowings Investments Derivatives and forex Finance cost Additions Dividends Operations south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 55 Directors’ Report For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) Group Operating Data 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Capacity Available-seat kilometres (ASKs) (millions) 31 718 31 543 32 378 32 423 33 441 Traffic Revenue passenger kilometres (RPKs) (million) 23 328 22 413 22 661 23 217 24 880 SAA* 21 935 21 081 21 181 21 509 22 901 Mango* 1 393 1 332 1 480 1 708 1 979 Revenue passengers (thousands) 8 230 8 023 8 053 8 087 8 846 SAA* 6 898 6 735 6 630 6 480 7 009 Mango* 1 332 1 288 1 423 1 607 1 837 Cargo – tonnes flown (thousands) 138 119 129 142 133 Utilisation Passenger load factor (%) 74 71 70 72 74 Yield (passenger revenue/RPKs) passenger* 0,74 0,65 0,68 0,69 0,71 Passenger revenue (R million)* 17 343 14 598 15 443 15 908 17 716 Yield (revenue/ASKs) airline revenue* 0,77 0,66 0,65 0,70 0,76 Yield (total income/ASKs) total income* 0,83 0,71 0,70 0,74 0,81 Unit cost (cost per available seat kilometre)** 0,76 0,63 0,64 0,76 0,82 Labour cost 0,11 0,13 0,14 0,15 0,14 Energy 0,27 0,16 0,19 0,26 0,29 Material cost* 0,06 0,06 0,04 0,05 0,07 Other operating costs** 0,32 0,28 0,27 0,30 0,32 * The 2009 and 2010 amounts have not been adjusted for the restatements that occurred in those years. ** Before restructuring costs and exceptional items. Critical issues facing the airline Voyager system upgrade SAA continues to deal with a number of critical issues that are elaborated On 7 October 2012, SAA Voyager switched to a new, modern-technology on below. These include strategic and policy issues in respect of which customer relationship management system, i-Fly Loyalty. As with the Directors wish to acknowledge the support received from the DPE. the implementation of any new system various challenges have been The Group reported on these issues in its 2012 Annual Report with experienced that have been or are in the process of being resolved. progress highlighted below. The advantages to members resulting from the implementation of the Cash flow will remain a critical issue until such time as the airline new system include: receives appropriate Shareholder support. This is being addressed in the • Ease of access to information for call centre agents, enabling faster Long-Term Turnaround Strategy customer service; • Automated confirmation messages to members for all transactions Aircraft orders and fleet modernisation on their account; Critical to the success of the implementation of the Long-Term • Service resolution at most SAA touch points instead of only at the Turnaround Strategy and the airline’s return to profitability is the call centre; replacement of the wide-body aircraft on international routes, with more • Reduction in the time period for processing missing miles claims; fuel-efficient new-generation aircraft. • Simplification of the award-booking process to a single transaction and the elimination of the need to contact Voyager to complete the The replacement of these aircraft, however, will be subject to a phase-in process; and period driven by the expiry of current leases and the availability of new• Enhanced account information and self-service functionality on the generation aircraft. During June 2013, SAA issued a Request for Proposal web site in respect of: (RFP) to aircraft manufacturers for the acquisition of appropriate wideupgrading with miles; body aircraft commensurate to the network requirements of SAA. purchase of miles; requesting and replacement of membership cards; As reported previously, SAA signed an agreement with Airbus for the claiming missing miles for Star Alliance partners; and delivery of 20 A320 aircraft, with deliveries scheduled to commence in donating miles to charity. 2013 through to 2017. Competition matters The order’s total capital commitment of US$942 million is contained in The company is currently defending various litigation matters including Note 34 to the annual financial statements. the three actions brought by Comair and the liquidators of Nationwide which arose from findings by the Competition Tribunal that SAA The financing of the first 10 aircraft has been finalised and delivery of contravened the Competition Act No 89 of 1998 in agreements between the first four aircraft is expected during the 2013/14 financial year. SAA and various travel agents between October 1999 and May 2001 56 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 (”the first period”) and between 1 June 2001 and 31 March 2005 (“the is properly utilised; and second period”). Comair’s claims refer to both the first and the second • The review and renewal of existing contracts with suppliers was period, while the Nationwide claim refers to the second period only. SAA performed. is not in a position to assess the extent of the exposure that may attach to these claims as a consequence of an order of court but has made an Two specific categories that have shown significant improvement with the approximate estimate of all necessary costs in the financial statements direct implementation of these initiatives are: based on legal advice received. Category 2011/12 2012/13 Movement Remarks Compliance with the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) indicator SAA, as a state-owned company and listed as Schedule 2 Major Public Expired R73,1m R8m ▼ • Review and Entity in terms of the PFMA, (Act No 1 of 1999), and its Board as the contracts monitoring expiring accounting authority, has the responsibility to ensure that SAA has and contracts. maintains effective, efficient and transparent systems of financial and • Development risk management and internal control. The design and implementation of of the contract effective controls has been delegated to SAA’s Executive Management. management The table below provides a summary of PFMA non-compliance categories system. for 2011/12 and 2012/13. Procurement R26,6m R4,9m ▼ • Vigorous process not procurement Category of PFMA Movement from 2011/12 2012/13 followed training together non-compliance previous year with PFMA Irregular spend without loss R128m R33,8m ▼ refresher training Fruitless and Wasteful that took place expenditure R4m R19,9m ▲ during the year. Losses due to Criminal conduct R28k R556K ▲ With the development of the PFMA tracking system and enhancements thereto, the levels of PFMA non-compliance have improved and will Recoveries R3,7m R187k ▼ continue to do so in future years. Focus and effort will be placed on other areas of weaknesses that have been identified to achieve the There was a significant decrease in PFMA non-compliance as indicated intended objective of minimising the incidence of PFMA non-compliance by the table above. The improvement in the level of non-compliance was within SAA. due to initiatives that were put in place during the current financial year by SAA, ensuring that effective controls around identification, collating, Fruitless and wasteful expenditure has increased from R4 million to reporting and monitoring were in place and working as intended. R19,9 million largely due to inventory losses at Air Chefs. Management has instituted rigorous financial controls to address the matter. During the year detailed analyses of the previous year’s irregular spend without loss was performed to identify the root causes or weaknesses that Loss due to criminal conduct for 2012/2013 was R556 thousand (2012: contributed to the PFMA non-compliance. The irregular spend without R28 thousand). This loss relates to three specific incidents. Disciplinary loss was the biggest reported PFMA non-compliance category in the action has been taken and two police cases were opened. previous financial year. The analysis identified the following root causes (categories) of non-compliance: Internal control • Procurement process not properly followed; The Critical Financial Reporting Controls project, implemented some two • Delayed contract renewals; years ago and designed to address key financial control deficiencies in • Procuring without a valid signed contract; and core financial processes, has successfully addressed areas that were of • Lack of understanding in terms of proper classification of PFMA concern. SAA continues to be fully compliant with section 51(1)(a)(i) and non-compliance issues. 51(1)(a)(ii) of the PFMA. Initiatives were developed to address these causes to ensure that SAA Air Service Licences: Guarantees achieved a significant reduction in the PFMA non-compliance and to put In terms of both the International Air Services Act No 60 of 1993 and adequate efforts in place to achieve that objective. Some of the initiatives the Domestic Air Services Act No 115 of 1990, all South African carriers that were developed and implemented were: are obliged to have a guarantee in place to cover passengers who have • PFMA refresher training was provided for the entire organisation; purchased tickets, but have not yet travelled, against non-performance • Development of a contract management process within the by the airline. Without a guarantee in place, SAA would not be permitted organisation; to operate any domestic or international routes. The required liability • Monthly monitoring of expiring contracts through the PFMA forum guarantee amount at the end of the current financial year has been and following up on action plans; calculated at R466 million (2012: R388 million). This increase is • Vigorous training around the procurement process ensuring that SAP directly related to the increase in passenger tickets sold. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 57 Directors’ Report For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) Going concern statements. The Directors, however, remain of the view that a more As with previous years, SAA remains undercapitalised. Two consecutive permanent appropriate capital structure is required for the airline and years of operating losses have further eroded the capital base and set out their proposals to the Shareholder in the Long-Term Turnaround this continues to impact on the ability of the business to operate in a Strategy which was presented in April 2013. highly demanding and competitive environment. The lack of capital has hindered the Directors’ ability to invest in newer and more efficient Legal and regulatory aircraft and left the company less able to cope with the significant Section 51(I)(h) of the PFMA requires that SAA complies with the PFMA volatility in foreign exchange rates and the price of jet fuel. and any other legislation applicable to the company. SAA’s process of developing, reviewing and monitoring the regulatory universe is During the financial year, SAA received a R5 billion guarantee from underpinned by the approved compliance policy and framework. The its Shareholder in terms of which SAA had the right to utilise R1,5 framework was informed by the adopted enterprise risk management billion for working capital requirements while the remaining R3,5 methodology aligned to ISO31000. The alignment of risk and compliance billion could only be accessed should certain pre-determined critical methodologies forms the building blocks towards an integrated reporting economic thresholds be met. To assist with its ongoing working capital and combined assurance framework. requirements and to strengthen its balance sheet, the Shareholder gave an assurance to the company on 29 November 2013 that this guarantee, The annual review and update of the SAA consolidated regulatory which was previously scheduled to expire on 30 September 2014, has universe was completed during the year and included outstations as been converted to a perpetual guarantee, which would, in the event of well. To date, there are four outstations that have been audited to ensure future capitalisation, reduce proportionately. compliance with regulations in their respective jurisdictions. The full terms and conditions of this extension are yet to be finalised, Embedding a culture of compliance is a continuous process. To this but the Directors believe this process to be perfunctory. This guarantee end, refresher training on the Consumer Protection Act was conducted is in addition to the existing R1,6 billion perpetual guarantee. Any future during the year. Further training sessions will be scheduled on critical utilisation against these guarantees is conditional upon the approval regulations for the 2013/2014 year. Compliance checklists (CRMP) of both the Minister of Public Enterprises and the Minister of Finance. have been developed to assist with effective monitoring within the These guarantees provide reasonable comfort that SAA will have the organisation. ability to continue as a going concern in the foreseeable future. Shareholder’s compact In addition, certain cost-cutting programmes set out in the Long-Term Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) have been created to monitor SAA’s Turnaround Strategy have already been implemented successfully. The performance against the predetermined objectives as agreed upon positive impact that these actions have already had on the income between the airline and the Shareholder. These KPIs are reported on a statement gives the Directors further comfort over the going concern status. monthly and quarterly basis, with regular feedback sessions held with the Shareholder. The Net Retained Earnings of the SAA Group was the main In their assessment, the Directors have taken the future cash flow performance indicator for the 2012/2013 financial year. Other supporting requirements of the airline into account and are of the view that the KPIs have been formulated to support the main KPI and are consistent financial support extended by its Shareholder through the two guarantees with SAA’s 2012-2015 Corporate Plan. During the current financial year is adequate for the going concern requirement in the short term, SAA achieved 60% (2012: 52%) of its total KPIs. being 12 months from the date of approval of these annual financial 58 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Key Key performance performance indicator by FY 2013 FY 2013 area 31 March 2013 Target Actual Explanations Main KPI Net retained earnings. R(960) million R(1,256) million KPI not achieved. This financial year was another challenging one for the airline industry. Profits were adversely affected by the high Brent Crude oil price and adverse exchange rates. The Brent Crude oil price remained consistently high and the weak ZAR/USD exchange rate (2013: R8,42 vs 2012: R7,48) had a major influence on the weakening of profit margins. Fuel comprised 35% (2012: 34%) of operating expenditure for the year. Aircraft maintenance costs were also higher than target. Similarly, passenger revenue was below target for all sectors, as expected demand did not materialise. Cash generated from R(200) million R161 million KPI achieved. operations. Profitability Net profit of 5% of 5% 41% KPI achieved. KPIs – Voyager revenue (before structural and consolidation). operational improvements Net profit of 8% of cargo 8% 39% KPI achieved. revenue. Net profit of 5% of Air 5% (14,8)% KPI not achieved. Chefs revenue. Revenue was 18% below target as a result of an overall softening in passenger volumes. Additionally, operating costs were above target due to higher food costs and efficiency savings which have not yet been fully achieved. Net profit of 7% of SAAT 7% 0,4% KPI not achieved. revenue. Revenue was 12% below target as a result of lower demand and the exiting from the market of one of the commercial airlines. Continuous monitoring of KPI achieved. the effectiveness of the revised hedging policy. Obtain suitable financing KPI not achieved. for the A320 transaction, SAA engaged with a number of potential financiers on without government this matter. Subsequent to the year end, funding for the support, at least six first 10 aircraft was finalised and the process to finance months prior to the first the second 10 aircraft has commenced. aircraft delivery. Cargo belly revenue per 134 cents 122 cents KPI not achieved. available tonne kilometre. This KPI was not achieved as the air freight market Revenue, traffic endured the effects of a slow-moving economy. and costs Average passenger fare. R2 789 R2 812 KPI achieved. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 59 Directors’ Report For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) Key Key performance performance indicator by FY 2013 FY 2013 area 31 March 2013 Target Actual Explanations Financial value RASK* (total income). 80,03 cents 81,68 cents KPI achieved. creation RASK (total income) 66,98 cents 68,07 cents KPI achieved. excluding fuel levy. RASK (only PAX revenue 61,49 cents 62,27 cents KPI achieved. and fuel levy). CASK** (total operating 82,27 cents 85,31 cents KPI not achieved. expenses + leases + Operating costs were strongly impacted by the weaker depreciation). ZAR against other major currencies. Excluding the impact of the weakening exchange rate, the CASK would have been 79.93 cents. The Brent Crude oil price also remained high at an average of US$112. Aircraft maintenance expenses were also higher than target. CASK (excluding fuel 54,11 cents 56,18 cents KPI not achieved. costs). Operating costs, excluding fuel costs, were higher as a result of the weaker ZAR against other major currencies. Excluding the impact of the weakening exchange rate, the CASK (excluding fuel costs) would have been 53.94 cents. *Revenue per available seat kilometre **Cost per available seat kilometre Operational Passenger load factor 73% 74% KPI achieved. efficiency (Revpax*). Cargo load factor (tonnes 72% 62% KPI not achieved. carried/ATK**). Air-freight markets continued to suffer the effects of a sluggish economy, as the freight volumes did not improve as much as passenger volumes over the last financial year. Daily block hours per 11,13 10,36 KPI not achieved. aircraft. SAA was not able to achieve the target utilisation of its aircraft. The CPT-LHR route was cancelled and the aircraft was redeployed on shorter sectors, hence the lower number of block hours. On-time performance 86% 86% KPI achieved. (within 15 minutes of scheduled departure time). *Revenue-bearing passengers (SAA only) **Average tonne per kilometre ***Revenue tonne per kilometre Human capital Average seat per kilometre 4,9 million 5,26 million KPI achieved. (ASKs) per employee (SAA only). Training spend on total 3,0% 2,66% KPI not achieved. income. This KPI was not achieved as a result of re-prioritising training needs. *Average seat per kilometre 60 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Key Key performance performance indicator by FY 2013 FY 2013 area 31 March 2013 Target Actual Explanations Skills Cadet pilots. 43 43 KPI achieved. development SAA technical apprentices. 100 144 KPI achieved. Internships. 83 83 KPI achieved. Safety and Operational reportable 100 55 KPI achieved. maintenance incidents. efficiency Corporate governance and code of ethics Special resolutions passed during the 2012/13 financial year In accordance with the prescript of King Code, PFMA and the new One special resolution was presented at the Annual General Meeting Companies Act, the Board of Directors, through a number of initiatives, has held on 15 October 2012. It was resolved that there be no increase ensured that SAA has a robust and effective corporate governance process in the Non-Executive Directors’ fees payable for the financial year in place. This is evidenced by the Board’s commitment in promoting values 2012/13. of integrity and transparency through the adoption of and compliance with the company’s conflict of interest policies for Board members and staff Appointment of auditors members. At the Annual General Meeting held on 15 October 2012, the company reappointed PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc and Nkonki Inc as joint auditors for SAA’s Code of Ethics, by which all employees and Board members the 2012/13 financial year. are bound, is underpinned by the company values. The Code of Ethics remains a cornerstone in prescribing the behaviour and Dividends paid and recommended conduct of SAA staff in delivering exceptional service to customers No dividends have been recommended, declared or paid for the current and other stakeholders. or prior financial year. The government guaranteed subordinated loan has been classified as equity in accordance with IAS 32 and the terms of Events subsequent to the statement reporting date the guarantee conditions. Accordingly, any interest that SAA has paid on Subsequent to the end of the reporting period, in April 2013, SAA this loan has been classified as dividends. For the current year, SAA paid completed its Long-Term Turnaround Strategy and presented its proposals to dividends of R88 million (2012: R92 million). its Shareholder. Share capital In addition, on 29 November 2013, SAA received an assurance from its Details of the share capital of the Group and Company are set out in note 26 Shareholder that the R5 billion financial guarantee, previously due to expire to the annual financial statements. on 30 September 2014, has been converted to a perpetual guarantee. Full terms and conditions associated with this extension are still to be finalised, Directors but the Directors believe this process to be perfunctory. SAA has put in place processes, frameworks and structures to ensure that the Board and all its Committees operate effectively and efficiently. For a full description of how these events support the going concern status Adequate resources in terms of both human resources and finances have of the company, please refer to note 42. been allocated to provide sustainable support to the Board. Compliance statement During the year under review, the SAA Board comprised 10 Non-Executive This report is presented in terms of the National Treasury Regulation 28.1 of Directors and two Executive Directors. All Non-Executive Directors are the PFMA, as amended. The prescribed disclosure of emoluments in terms appointed by the Minister of Public Enterprises. The Directors are drawn of National Treasury Regulation 28.1.1 is reflected in the notes of these from diverse backgrounds (both local and international) and bring a wealth financial statements titled “Related Parties”. of experience and professional skill to the Board. The performance information as envisaged in Subsection 55(2)(a) of the Directors’ duties, responsibilities and powers are set out in the Memorandum PFMA and Section 28(l)(c) of the Public Audit Act No 25 of 2004 has been of Incorporation, the Board of Directors’ Charter, the Companies Act, the incorporated into this report. By virtue of the matters referred to in this PFMA and/or shareholder’s directives. report, the Board does not consider that the company has complied with the provisions of Sections 51 and 57 of the PFMA throughout the period The Board considers that the balance of Executive and Non-Executive under review and up to the date of the approval of these annual financial Directors as detailed above to be appropriate and effective for the control statements. and direction of the business. The Board and management have taken and are continuing to take steps The Board is led by a Non-Executive Chairperson and the Executive to ensure that the areas of non-compliance are addressed in the 2013/14 Management of the Company is led by the Chief Executive Officer financial year. (CEO). All Non-Executive Directors are independent of SAA. There is a south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 61 Directors’ Report For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) division of responsibilities between the Chairperson and the CEO, and their Board Committees respective roles are described in the Board of Directors’ Charter. In order to assist the Board and Directors in discharging their duties and responsibilities, specific responsibilities have been allocated to the Board There have been a number of changes to the Board during the year. Nine Committees listed below which each have specific Terms of Reference. The Non-Executive Members of the Board, including the Chairperson, resigned Terms of Reference deal with or provide for issues such as the composition of in September 2012. The Minister of Public Enterprises appointed a new Board Committees, duties and responsibilities and their scope of authority. Board lead by a new Chairperson. When the CEO of SAA resigned in October 2012, the then Chairperson was appointed as Acting CEO by the Board The Executive Directors and members of the Executive Management team and the Minister was requested to appoint a Chairperson in order to ensure have a standing invitation to attend meetings of the various Committees. the separation of roles between the two Offices. The Minister appointed Membership of the Committees is outlined on pages 62-63 of the Integrated the current Chairperson in an acting capacity in December 2012. This Report. appointment was made permanent on 30 June 2013. During January 2013 the then Acting CEO was replaced by the CEO of Mango Airlines SOC Audit Committee (AC) Limited as Acting CEO until a permanent CEO could be recruited. The newly This committee comprises the following members: appointed CEO of SAA took up office on 1 June 2013 and was appointed to • Ms Y Kwinana (Chairperson); the Board on that date. • Mr A Khumalo; • Adv LG Nkosi-Thomas; All Board members have separate and independent access to the Company • Ms C Roskruge; Secretary for any information they require. The appointment and removal of • Ms R Lepule; and the Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole. • Ms N Kubeka. Independent professional advice is available to Directors, in appropriate This Committee performs the duties prescribed in Section 94(7) of the circumstances, at the company’s expense. 2008 Companies Act and Regulation 27 of the PFMA in respect of the audit requirements of the company. None of the Non-Executive Directors participate in any bonus, share option or pension scheme of the company. The Committee meets at least four times a year and is primarily responsible for assisting the Board in carrying out its duties relating to the appointment of Every financial year the performance of the Board and individual Directors auditors, the functions of the auditors, the non-audit services that the auditors is evaluated with the assistance of an independent body. In the year under may provide, annual financial statements, accounting policies and procedures, review, the evaluation was facilitated by the Institute of Directors. The internal controls, and the internal audit and risk management functions. outcome of the assessment indicated that most areas of board governance are satisfactory or good. A remedial plan has been developed with a view to During the period under review, the Committee performed all its duties and addressing areas for improvement. responsibilities in terms of its terms of reference. Delegation of authority The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, representatives of the The ultimate responsibility for the company’s operations rests with the external auditors, internal audit, risk management team and members of the Board. The Board discharges its obligations in this regard through Board Finance Division attend every meeting of the Committee by invitation. Committees and necessary delegations to the CEO, subject to the statutory and legal provisions applicable to SAA. The company’s Group Executive The external and internal auditors have unrestricted access to the Chairperson Committee assists the CEO in managing the business of the company when of the Committee, the Chairperson of the Board and Non-Executive Directors. the Board is not in session, subject to the statutory limits and the Board’s The Committee always met separately with the external auditors, the internal limits on the delegation of authority to the CEO. auditors and management after every meeting of the Committee to discuss any matters of concern. Meetings and related matters The Board meets regularly and retains full and effective management and The Committee had four scheduled meetings and four ad hoc meetings during control over the company. It, among other things, approves and monitors the year under review. Information regarding the attendance of the meetings development and the implementation of policies, strategies and the Board can be found on page 64. work plan. Procurement and Tender Processes Committee (PTPC) The Board agenda is designed in such a manner as to enable the Board to This Committee comprises the following members: focus on policies, strategy, performance monitoring, governance of risks, IT, • Mr B Mpondo (Chairperson); stakeholders and related matters. The Directors have unrestricted access to • Dr R Naithani; all information, records and documents of the company to enable them to • Adv LG Nkosi-Thomas; discharge their responsibilities and make informed decisions. • Ms Y Kwinana; and • Ms C Roskruge. The Board had four scheduled and six ad hoc meetings during the year under review. Information regarding the attendance of the meetings can be This Committee is responsible for ensuring that there are systems and found on page 64. procedures in place so that goods and services are procured in a manner 62 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 that is cost-effective, equitable, transparent and fair. The Committee is Strategy (LTTS) and ensuring its successful implementation in accordance responsible for ensuring that the supply chain management process is with the approved implementation plan. compliant from start to finish. The Committee was established during the third quarter and managed to The Committee has terms of reference that sets out its functions and facilitate and oversee the development of the LTTS and the approval thereof discharged all its duties in accordance with its terms of reference during by the Board during March 2013. the year under review. The Committee had four scheduled and three ad hoc meetings during the year under review. The information regarding the Due to the need to have the strategy developed within very tight timelines, the attendance of the meetings can be found on page 64. Committee had its meetings scheduled weekly during the last quarter. The Committee had 10 meetings. The information regarding the attendance of the Ad Hoc Committee on Litigation (AD HOC) meetings can be found on page 64. This Committee comprises the following members: • Adv LG Nkosi-Thomas (Chairperson); Social, Ethics, Governance and Nominations Committee (SEGNCO) • Mr A Khumalo; and This Committee comprises the following members: • Mr B Mpondo. • Ms DC Myeni (Chairperson); • Ms R Lepule; This Committee was formed in pursuance of the general responsibilities of • Ms N Kubeka; accounting authorities under the PFMA to, on behalf of the Board, provide • Mr A Mabizela; and strategic oversight and guidance in respect of civil and criminal proceedings • Ms Y Kwinana. emanating from allegations against a former Chief Executive Officer of the company to ensure that legal proceedings are conducted effectively and This Committee performs the duties prescribed in Section 72(4) and efficiently. Regulation 43(5) of the Companies Act No 71 of 2008 pertaining to social and economic development, good corporate citizenship, the environment, The Committee has its terms of reference and all its duties as set out in health and public safety issues, and consumer relationships, as well as the terms of reference were performed during the year under review. The labour and employment issues, transformational and compliance matters. It Committee had five meetings during the year under review. The information also assists the Board with the appointment, induction and development of regarding the attendance of the meetings can be found on page 64. directors and other governance-related matters. Remuneration and Human Resources Committee (REMCO) The Committee has terms of reference. All its duties as set out in the terms of This Committee comprises the following members: reference were discharged during the year under review. It had four scheduled • Adv LG Nkosi-Thomas (Chairperson); meetings during the year under review. The information regarding the • Mr A Mabizela; attendance of the meetings can be found on page 64. • Dr R Naithani; and • Mr B Mpondo. Board remuneration The remuneration of the Board members is determined in accordance with This Committee has terms of reference that are reviewed annually. The the remuneration guidelines issued by the Minister of Public Enterprises. The main duties of the Committee include formulation, development and remuneration is only made up of a monthly retainer that is paid to the Board implementation of remuneration and human capital strategies, policies, members for the services rendered to the company. The details of the Board plans and programmes for the entire SAA Group, excluding Mango. All its members’ remuneration for the year under review are stated in Note 36 to the duties as set out in the terms of reference were discharged. annual financial statements on page 109. The Committee had four scheduled meetings and two ad hoc meetings Independence of the Board during the year under review. The information regarding the attendance of The independence of the Board is achieved and maintained through a number the meetings can be found on page 64. of measures, including but not limited to the following: • Board members are remunerated by paying them a retainer only. This Long-Term Turnaround Strategy Committee (LTTS) discourages the members from having numerous meetings that may This Committee comprises the following members: compromise their independence; • Mr A Khumalo (Chairperson); • Separation of the positions of the Chief Executive Officer and the • Ms Y Kwinana; Chairperson; • Mr A Mabizela; • The Board Committees are chaired by Non-Executive Directors with only • Dr R Naithani; one committee being chaired by the Chairperson of the Board, namely • Ms R Lepule; and SEGNCO, in accordance with the King Code of Governance for South • Mr B Mpondo. Africa; • The Board has access to independent external advice at the cost of the This Committee is relatively new. It was established during the year under Company; and review and has approved Terms of Reference. It is in this Committee • The Board members are appointed for a period of three years, reviewable that strategic conversation takes place at SAA. The key functions of this annually. The terms are limited to three terms of three years each – Committee include overseeing the development of the Long-Term Turnaround which is not regarded as too long to impact on their independence. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 63 Directors’ Report For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) Directors’ meetings The following table sets out the number of directors’ meetings (including meetings of Committees of directors) held during the year, indicating the number of meetings attended by each director. Composition of the Board and changes during the year were as follows: SAA Board of Directors at Date of appointment (A)/ Board AC PTPC REMCO SEGNCO AD HOC LTTS 31 March 2013 Resignation (R) Total number of meetings 10 8 7 6 4 5 10 held Ms CA Carolus N 28 September 2012 (R) 3 2 1* (Chairperson) Ms DC Myeni N 28 September 2009 (A) 8 2 1 (Chairperson) Mr T Daka N 28 September 2012 (R) 3 3 Mr TC Jantjies N 29 September 2012 (R) 3 3 Mr RM Loubser N 26 September 2012 (R) 3 3 2 Mr BF Mohale N 28 September 2012 (R) 3 2 Ms MM Whitehouse N 28 September 2012 (R) 2 4 4 Mr ZJ Sithole N 8 August 2012 (R) 1 4 2 2 Mr LJ Rabbets N 27 September 2012 (R) 2 3 4 Mr JP Ndhlovu N 28 September 2012 (R) 2 3 Prof DH Lewis N 28 September 2012 (R) 3 3 2 Adv L Nkosi-Thomas N 28 September 2009 (A) 8 5 1 2 5 Ms Y Kwinana N 2 December 2009 (A) 8 7 3 8 Mr A Mabizela N 28 September 2012 (A) 6 3 3 8 Mr A Khumalo N 28 September 2012 (A) 6 3 9 Dr R Naithani N** 28 September 2012 (A) 3 2 1 4 Ms C Roskruge N 28 September 2012 (A) 6 4 3 Ms B Mpondo N 28 September 2012 (A) 7 3 1 10 Ms R Lepule N 28 September 2012 (A) 7 4 1 9 Ms N Kubeka N 28 September 2012 (A) 7 4 2 Ms SP Mzimela E 8 October 2012 (R) 2 4* 4* 3* 2* (CEO) Mr V Kona E 28 September 2012 (A) 5 3* 1* 2* 2* (Acting CEO) 11 March 2013 (Removed) Mr N Bezuidenhout E 11 February 2013 (A) 2 1* (Acting CEO) Mr WH Meyer E 13 June 2011 (A) 10 7* (CFO) Legend N Non-executive Director LTTS Long Term Turnaround Strategy Committee E Executive Director CEO Chief Executive Officer REMCO Remuneration and Human Resources Committee CFO Chief Financial Officer SEGNCO Social, Ethics, Governance and Nominations Committee * Attendance by invitation AC Audit Committee ** Indian national PTPC Procurement and Tender Processes Committee AD HOC Ad Hoc Committee on Litigation 64 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Directors’ interests in contracts The Directors have every reason to believe that the company and the Directors’ and employees’ declarations of interests is a standing item at Group have adequate resources in place to continue in operation for the all meetings of the Board and its Committees. Directors and employees foreseeable future, subject to the comments noted above. are obliged to submit updated declarations once a year. The Directors have continued to adopt the going-concern concept in Approval of the annual financial statements preparing the annual financial statements. (Refer to going-concern The Directors confirm that the annual financial statements present fairly paragraph on page 58 of the Director’s Report and Note 42 of the annual the financial position of the company and the Group at 31 March 2013 financial statements). and the results of their operations and cash flows for the year then ended. In preparing these annual financial statements, the Directors are required The joint external auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc and Nkonki to: Inc, are responsible for independently auditing and reporting on the • Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently; annual financial statements in conformity with International Standards • Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; on Auditing (ISA). Their report on the annual financial statements is in • State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed; accordance with the terms of the Companies Act and the PFMA, and and appears on page 68. • Prepare the annual financial statements on the going-concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and/or the In preparing the Company and Group annual financial statements set company will continue in business for the foreseeable future. out on pages 70 to 126, unless otherwise disclosed, the company and Group have complied with International Financial Reporting Standards, The Directors are of the opinion that they have discharged their the Companies Act and the reporting requirements of the PFMA, and responsibility for keeping proper accounting records that disclose the has used the appropriate accounting policies supported by reasonable financial position of the Group and the company, with the exception and prudent judgements and estimates. The Directors confirm that these of matters disclosed elsewhere in this report with respect to PFMA financial statements present fairly the financial position of the company compliance. and the Group as of 31 March 2013, and the results of their operations and cash flows for the year then ended. Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: Duduzile Myeni Monwabisi Kalawe Chairperson Chief Executive Officer 22 January 2014 22 January 2014 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 65 Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is pleased to present its report in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2013 in terms of its obligations according to Paragraph 3.1.13 of the Treasury Regulations issued in terms of section 51(1)(a)(ii) of the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), Act 1 of 1999, as amended by Act 29 of 1999. COMMITTEE MEMBERS, MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE to fraud and corruption. While there has been general improvement in South African Airways SOC Limited (SAA) established the Committee in the management of corruption and fraud, the Committee is of the opinion accordance with the provisions of section 77 of the PFMA. The Committee that there should be regular feedback on the results of investigations to is a statutory committee and meets at least four times a year and is senior management and the Committee. Furthermore, it is recommended primarily responsible for assisting the Board in carrying out its duties that Internal Audit and Group Security Services should guide senior relating to appointment of auditors, the functions of the auditors, the nonmanagement on the preventative and detective procedures to curb the audit services that the auditors may provide, annual financial statements, financial losses from fraud and corruption. It is essential that prompt and accounting policies and procedures, internal controls, and the internal decisive action is taken against offenders to demonstrate a zero-tolerance audit and risk management functions. approach towards fraud and corruption. The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, representatives EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROLS of the external auditors, internal audit, risk management team and The Committee has observed that the overall control environment has members of the Finance Division attend every meeting of the Committee continued to improve during the year under review, in line with the trend by invitation. observed in the previous reporting period. The Committee’s assessment is that the overall control environment of the Group is effective. However, The external and internal auditors have unrestricted access to the there are still some concerns regarding the level of internal controls Chairperson of the Committee, the Chairperson of the Board and nonwithin the operations, where evidence of lapses of effective monitoring executive directors. The Committee always met separately with the external and enforcement by management was observed. auditors, the internal audit and management after every meeting to discuss various matters of concern, if any. Any control deficiencies identified by the internal auditors were brought to the attention of the Committee and corrective action was The Committee had four scheduled meetings and four ad hoc meetings committed to by management. Where internal controls did not during the year under review. Information regarding the attendance of the operate effectively throughout the year, compensating controls and/or meetings can be found on page 64. corrective action were implemented to eliminate or reduce the risks. This ensured that the Group’s assets were safeguarded and proper The Committee charter requires that the Committee be comprised of accounting records maintained. a minimum of five members who shall be independent non-executive directors. The effectiveness of the implemented measures to improve the control environment continues to improve. Where irregular, fruitless or wasteful The Committee continued to meet with the Chief Executive Officer, senior expenditure has occurred, this has been mainly as a result of legacy management and Internal Audit, collectively and individually, to address tender processes and administrative delays. Since none of the reported risks and challenges facing SAA. breaches resulted in expenditure greater than the materiality threshold agreed with the shareholder, the Committee is confident that legacy areas THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE of non-compliance are progressively eliminated towards full compliance. The Committee has a number of responsibilities grouped under four main The Committee has resolved to ensure that the comprehensive categories. The four categories are: Audit, Risk, Financial and Governance. implementation of and adherence to the internal control environment The Committee complied with its responsibilities arising from section reforms be expedited. 51(1)(a)(ii) of the PFMA and Treasury Regulation 3.1.13, and also reports that it operated in terms of the Audit Committee charter read in The 2012/13 audits of SAA’s information technology (IT) environment conjunction with the Internal Audit charter, as its terms of reference in has highlighted some improvements compared with the previous discharging all its responsibilities as regulated therein. SAA has adopted reporting period. However, there were reported areas that still need an aggressive anti-corruption position in response to its inherent exposure further improvement to ensure that governance of IT is strengthened. The 66 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Committee is satisfied that the Internal Audit Plan provides for sufficient however, require building the necessary capacity. IT audit coverage in the next three years. While most of the 2012/13 IT internal audits were outsourced to private audit firms, the SAA Internal RISK MANAGEMENT Audit function is building its in-house IT audit capacity. The Committee also has an oversight responsibility for the risk management function. The Audit Committee acknowledges the The audits of SAA international outstations have also highlighted improvement in SAA’s risk management; however, going forward, there some improvements compared with the previous reporting period. needs to be more demonstrable evidence that the actual management of The other specific focus area was the control environment in the the key risks is receiving timely and sufficient attention. baggage-handling area. EXTERNAL AUDIT REPORT AND EVALUATION OF ANNUAL The internal audits and management reports regarding controls to FINANCIAL STATEMENTS curb baggage pilferage have highlighted significant improvements The Committee is satisfied that the annual financial statements are based compared with the previous period. However, there were reported on appropriate accounting policies and are supported by reasonable and areas that still need further improvement to ensure baggage pilferage prudent judgements and estimates. The Committee evaluated the SAA is eradicated. Group’s annual financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 and, based on the information provided therein, believes that the financial The audit of pre-determined objectives is a specific focus area for the statements comply, in all material respects, with the relevant provisions of Auditor-General and the Committee. The audits in this area indicated that the PFMA and International Financial Reporting Standards. there is still a need for improvement. The Committee is satisfied that the Internal Audit Plan provides for sufficient audit coverage of this area in The Committee has noted the report of the external auditors and the next three years. appreciates the quality of the audit performed and the management report issued. SPECIFIC FOCUS AREAS GOING FORWARD • The implementation of the Long-Term Turnaround Strategy (LTTS). DISCHARGE OF RESPONSIBILITIES • Audit of pre-determined objectives. The Committee agrees that the adoption of the going-concern premise • IT control environment. is appropriate in preparing the annual financial statements, with the • Baggage pilferage. consideration of the factors highlighted on page 58 of the Directors’ • Anti-corruption activities and feedback on investigations. Report. The Committee has therefore recommended the adoption of the annual financial statements by the Board of Directors on 16 August 2013. THE QUALITY OF IN-YEAR MANAGEMENT AND MONTHLY/ QUARTERLY REPORTS SUBMITTED IN TERMS OF THE PFMA On behalf of the Audit Committee The Committee has noted and is satisfied with the content and quality of quarterly financial reports prepared and issued by SAA during the year under review, in compliance with the statutory reporting framework. INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION The Committee has an oversight responsibility for the Internal Audit function. This was the first year of the SAA in-house Internal Audit function, after many years of it being outsourced. The Committee is Y Kwinana satisfied with the progress made in building an effective in-house internal Chairperson audit function and will continue working closely with the Chief Audit 22 January 2014 Executive to ensure that the momentum is not lost. The 2012/13 Internal Audit plan and the Internal Audit Charter were approved timeously before the start of the financial year. Approximately 90% of planned audits were executed successfully. The very few internal audits not conducted were due to management not being ready for them. These audits have been rolled over to the 2013/14 financial year. Over and above the 90% of planned audits being conducted, a number of special ad hoc audit requests were conducted by Internal Audit. The Committee is satisfied with the three-year rolling internal audit plan in that there is a clear alignment with the major risks, adequate information systems coverage and a good balance between different categories of audits, ie risk-based audits, mandatory and follow-up audits. This will, south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 67 Independent Auditors’ Report For the year ended 31 March 2013 Independent auditors’ report to Parliament and the present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of South Directors of South African Airways SOC Limited African Airways SOC Limited and its subsidiaries as at 31 March 2013, and their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended Introduction in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the We have audited the consolidated and separate financial statements of requirements of the Public Finance Management Act of South Africa and South African Airways SOC Limited and its subsidiaries as set out on the Companies Act of South Africa. pages 70-126, which comprise the consolidated and separate statement of financial position as at 31 March 2013, the consolidated and separate Emphasis of matter statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity We draw attention to the matter below. Our opinion is not modified in and the statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and the notes, respect of this matter. comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Irregular or fruitless and wasteful expenditure As disclosed in the Directors’ Report to the consolidated and separate Accounting Authority’s responsibility for the consolidated and financial statements on page 57, irregular expenditure to the value of separate financial statements R33,8 million and fruitless and wasteful expenditure of R19,9 million has The board of directors which constitutes the accounting authority is been identified and reported in terms of section 40 of the Public Finance responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated Management Act. The reasons for the irregular or fruitless and wasteful and separate financial statements in accordance with International expenditure has been fully disclosed in the Directors’ Report. Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Public Finance Management Act of South Africa and the Companies Act of South Africa, Other reports required by the Companies Act and for such internal control as the accounting authority determines is As part of our audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated and separate financial for the year ended 31 March 2013, we have read the Directors’ Report, statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud the Audit Committee’s Report and the Statement by the Company or error. Secretary for the purpose of identifying whether there are material inconsistencies between these reports and the audited consolidated and Auditors’ responsibility separate financial statements. These reports are the responsibility of Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated and the respective preparers. Based on reading these reports, we have not separate financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit identified material inconsistencies between these reports and the audited in accordance with the Public Audit Act of South Africa, the General consolidated and separate financial statements. However, we have not Notice issued in terms thereof and International Standards on Auditing. audited these reports and accordingly do not express an opinion on Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and these reports. plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated and separate financial statements are free from material REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS misstatement. In accordance with the Public Audit Act and the General Notice issued in terms thereof, we report the following findings relevant to performance An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about against predetermined objectives, compliance with laws and regulations the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated and separate financial and internal control, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion. statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Predetermined objectives consolidated and separate financial statements, whether due to fraud or We performed procedures to obtain evidence about the usefulness and error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal reliability of the information in the consolidated annual performance report control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the as set out on pages 59-61 of the integrated report. consolidated and separate financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the The reported performance against predetermined objectives was evaluated purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s against the overall criteria of usefulness and reliability. The usefulness internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of of information in the annual performance report relates to whether it is accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates presented in accordance with the National Treasury’s annual reporting made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the principles and whether the reported performance is consistent with the consolidated and separate financial statements. planned objectives. The usefulness of information further relates to whether indicators and targets are measurable (i.e. well defined, verifiable, We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and specific, measurable and time bound) and relevant as required by the appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. National Treasury Framework for managing programme performance information. Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated and separate financial statements The reliability of the information in respect of the selected objectives is 68 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 assessed to determine whether it adequately reflects the facts (i.e. whether Internal control it is valid, accurate and complete). We considered internal control relevant to our audit of the financial statements, the consolidated annual performance report and compliance There were no material findings on the consolidated annual performance with laws and regulations. We did not identify any deficiencies in internal report concerning the usefulness and reliability of the information. control that we considered sufficiently significant for inclusion in this report. Additional matter Although no material findings concerning the usefulness and reliability of the performance information was identified in the consolidated annual performance report, we draw attention to the following matter below. This matter does not have an impact on the predetermined objectives audit findings reported above. Achievement of planned targets Of the total number of planned targets, 15 of the 25 targets were achieved PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc Nkonki Inc during the year under review. This represents 60 percent of total planned N Mtetwa M Patel targets that were achieved during the year under review. Registered Auditor Registered Auditor Johannesburg Johannesburg Compliance with laws and regulations 3 February 2014 3 February 2014 We performed procedures to obtain evidence that the entity has complied with applicable laws and regulations regarding financial matters, financial management and other related matters. We did not identify any instances of material non-compliance with specific matters in key applicable laws and regulations as set out in the General Notice issued in terms of the PAA. PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc, 2 Eglin Road, Sunninghill 2157, Nkonki, 3 Simba Road, cnr Nanyuki Road, Sunninghill, Johannesburg, 2157, Private Bag X36, Sunninghill 2157, South Africa PO Box 1503, Saxonwold, 2132 Reg. no. 1998/012055/21, T: +27 (11) 797 4000, F: +27 (11) 797 5800, T: +27 (11) 517 3000, F: +27 (11) 807 8630, www.pwc.com.za www.nkonki.com Africa Senior Partner: S P Kana Directors: Mzi Nkonki CA (SA), Sindi Zilwa CA (SA) Management Committee: H Boegman, T P Blandin de Chalain, Partners: Mitesh Patel CA (SA), Mvume Sihele MSC Computer Science (US), B M Deegan, J G Louw, P J Mothibe, N V Mtetwa, T D Shango, Brian Mungofa CA (SA), Nyarai Muzarewetu CA (SA), S Subramoney, A R Tilakdari, F Tonelli Peter K Njinu KPA (K) MBA (Wits), Prof Steven Firer DSA (SA) IFRS, ACCA RA, Ahmed Pandor CA (SA), CISA, MBA, Sangeeta Kallen CA (SA), The Company’s principal place of business is at 2 Eglin Road, Sunninghill Emma Mashilwane CA (SA), Thuto Masasa CA (SA), Morne Kermis CA (SA) where a list of directors’ names is available for inspection. Reg. no. 2002/017422/21, VAT reg.no. 4850211865 Reg. no. 1998/012055/21, VAT reg.no. 4950174682 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 69 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income For the year ended 31 March 2013 Group Company R Million Notes 2013 2012 2013 2012 Total income 27 098 23 861 25 389 22 445 Airline revenue 5 25 566 22 593 23 872 21 174 Other income 6 1 532 1 268 1 517 1 271 Operating costs 27 523 24 564 25 886 23 161 Aircraft lease costs 7 2 097 1 797 2 081 1 795 Accommodation and refreshments 878 793 1 233 1 114 Commissions and network charges 1 390 1 231 1 329 1 178 Electronic data costs 495 557 491 553 Fuel and other energy costs 9 579 8 302 9 053 7 882 Employee benefit expenses 9 4 848 4 711 3 242 3 129 Maintenance costs 2 310 1 739 3 387 2 735 Navigation, landing and parking fees 1 748 1 476 1 612 1 368 Fair value and translation movements 11 (95) (63) (115) (62) Other operating costs 4 273 4 021 3 573 3 469 Operating loss before interest, tax, depreciation and 7 (425) (703) (497) (716) amortisation Depreciation and amortisation 8 (565) (530) (506) (474) Net impairment (write‑off)/reversal 10 (23) (44) 391 228 Net gain on disposal of property, aircraft and equipment 7 22 25 24 25 Operating loss (991) (1 252) (588) (937) Finance costs 12 (191) (147) (212) (172) Interest income 13 12 42 11 42 Loss before taxation (1 170) (1 357) (789) (1 067) Taxation 14 2 514 – – Loss for the year (1 168) (843) (789) (1 067) Other comprehensive (loss)/income: Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit plans (24) 80 (24) 80 Gains and losses on property revaluations (12) 935 11 433 Taxation related to components of other comprehensive income – (112) – – Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year net of taxation 15 (36) 903 (13) 513 Total comprehensive (loss)/income (1 204) 60 (802) (554) Total comprehensive (loss)/income attributable to: Owners of the parent (1 292) (32) (890) (646) Subordinated loan provider 88 92 88 92 (1 204) 60 (802) (554) 70 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position As at 31 March 2013 Group Company R Million Notes 2013 2012 2013 2012 Assets Non‑current assets Property, aircraft and equipment 16 7 582 7 292 6 345 6 031 Intangible assets 17 111 91 99 83 Investments in subsidiaries 18 – – 1 244 830 Deferred taxation asset 19 417 419 – – Retirement benefit asset 29 35 31 35 31 8 145 7 833 7 723 6 975 Current assets Inventories 20 931 910 119 92 Amounts receivable from subsidiaries 21 – – 1 463 1 305 Derivatives 22 148 262 148 262 Trade and other receivables 23 4 480 4 506 4 250 4 355 Investments 24 10 9 10 9 Cash and cash equivalents 25 1 536 1 536 1 060 1 139 7 105 7 223 7 050 7 162 Non‑current assets held for sale and assets of disposal groups 16 6 – – – Total assets 15 256 15 056 14 773 14 137 Equity and liabilities Equity Equity attributable to equity holders of parent Share capital 26 12 892 12 892 13 126 13 126 Reserves 928 989 561 599 Accumulated loss (15 969) (14 738) (16 042) (15 190) (2 149) (857) (2 355) (1 465) Subordinated loan guaranteed by government 27 1 300 1 300 1 300 1 300 (849) 443 (1 055) (165) Liabilities Non‑current liabilities Long-term loans 28 1 020 1 305 996 1 287 Retirement benefit obligation 29 43 46 43 46 Provisions 30 1 239 1 682 1 230 1 682 Other long‑term liabilities 31 63 63 – – Deferred revenue on ticket sales 32 900 983 900 983 3 265 4 079 3 169 3 998 Current liabilities Derivatives 22 4 11 4 11 Trade and other payables 33 5 809 4 819 5 783 4 696 Provisions 30 214 290 214 290 Current portion of long-term loans 28 403 490 403 490 Deferred revenue on ticket sales 32 3 774 3 355 3 684 3 282 Bank overdraft 25 2 636 1 569 2 571 1 535 12 840 10 534 12 659 10 304 Total liabilities 16 105 14 613 15 828 14 302 Total equity and liabilities 15 256 15 056 14 773 14 137 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 71 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity For the year ended 31 March 2013 Sub‑ ShareTotal ordinated Non‑ holder share loan distribuRevaluarestruccaptial AccumuShareguaranteed Share table tion turing and lated holder’s by governTotal R Million capital reserve reserve fund reserves loss interest ment equity Group Balance at 1 April 2011 12 892 (132) – 653 13 413 (14 238) (825) 1 300 475 Total comprehensive income for the year – 80 823 – 903 (843) 60 – 60 Transfer of utilised portion of labour restructuring fund – – – (435) (435) 435 – – – Dividends paid on government subordinated loan classified as an equity instrument – – – – – (92) (92) – (92) Balance at 1 April 2012 12 892 (52) 823 218 13 881 (14 738) (857) 1 300 443 Total comprehensive income for the year – (24) (12) – (36) (1 168) (1 204) – (1 204) Transfer of utilised portion of labour restructuring fund – – – (25) (25) 25 – – – Dividends paid on government subordinated loan classified as an equity – – – – – (88) (88) – (88) instrument Balance at 31 March 2013 12 892 (76) 811 193 13 820 (15 969) (2 149) 1 300 (849) 72 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Sub‑ ordinated ShareTotal loan Non‑ holder share guaranteed distribuRevarestruccapital AccumuShareby R Million Share table luation turing and lated holder’s governTotal capital reserve reserve fund reserves loss interest ment equity Company Balance at 1 April 2011 13 126 (132) – 653 13 647 (14 466) (819) 1 300 481 Total comprehensive income for the year – 80 433 – 513 (1 067) (554) – (554) Transfer of utilised portion of labour restructuring fund – – – (435) (435) 435 – – – Dividends paid on government subordinated loan classified as an equity instrument – – – – – (92) (92) – (92) Balance at 1 April 2012 13 126 (52) 433 218 13 725 (15 190) (1 465) 1 300 (165) Total comprehensive income for the year – (24) 11 – (13) (789) (802) – (802) Transfer of utilised portion of labour restructuring fund – – – (25) (25) 25 – – – Dividends paid on government subordinated loan classified as an equity instrument – – – – – (88) (88) – (88) Balance at 31 March 2013 13 126 (76) 444 193 13 687 (16 042) (2 355) 1 300 (1 055) south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 73 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows For the year ended 31 March 2013 Group Company R Million Notes 2013 2012 2013 2012 Cash flows from operating activities 37 Cash generated from/(used in) operations 37 161 (1 126) 231 (1 119) Interest income 37 12 42 11 42 Finance costs 37 (191) (147) (212) (172) Realised gains from derivative financial instruments 37 181 211 181 211 Amounts spent on option premiums 37 (158) (115) (158) (115) Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 37 5 (1 135) 53 (1 153) Cash flows from investing activities 37 37 37 Additions to property, aircraft and equipment 16 (1 029) (741) (962) (674) Proceeds on disposal of property, aircraft, equipment and intangible assets 16 & 17 278 205 245 201 Additions to intangible assets 17 (55) (16) (48) (10) Loans (advanced)/repaid by subsidiaries 37 – – (158) 8 Increase in investments 37 (1) (3) (1) (3) Acquisition of shares in subsidiary 37 – – – (34) Net cash outflow from investing activities 37 (807) (555) (924) (512) Cash flows from financing activities 37 37 37 External borrowings repaid 37 (208) (644) (190) (656) Dividends paid 37 (88) (92) (88) (92) Net cash outflow from financing activities 37 (296) (736) (278) (748) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 37 (1 098) (2 426) (1 149) (2 413) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 37 (33) 2 252 (396) 1 875 Foreign exchange effect on cash and cash equivalents 37 31 141 34 142 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 25 (1 100) (33) (1 511) (396) 74 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 1. Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Statement of compliance On disposal of a subsidiary or jointly controlled entity, the attributable The consolidated annual financial statements of South African goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal. Airways SOC Limited (the Group and the Company), have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Foreign currency transactions Standards (IFRS), the Companies Act No. 71 of 2008 and the Public For the purpose of the consolidated annual financial statements, the Finance Management Act No. 1 of 1999 (as amended) (PFMA). results and financial position of each entity are expressed in South National Treasury has exempted major public entities under Schedule African Rand, which is the presentation currency for the consolidated 2 of the PFMA from preparing financial statements according to SA annual financial statements. GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) in terms of Treasury Regulation 28.1.6 and section 79 of the PFMA until further notice. In preparing the annual financial statements of the individual entities, The Group annual financial statements are presented in South transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency African Rand, which is the Group’s reporting currency, rounded to the (foreign currencies) are recorded at the ruling rates of exchange, which nearest million. The Group annual financial statements have been are taken as being the International Air Transport Association (IATA) prepared on an historical cost basis, except for measurement at fair five day average rate applicable to the transaction month. At each value of certain financial instruments and the revaluation of land and statement of financial position date, monetary items denominated buildings as described further in the accounting policy notes below. in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the statement of financial position date. Non‑monetary items carried at The financial statements are prepared on the basis of the accounting fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated policies applicable to a going concern. This basis presumes that the at the rates prevailing on the date when the fair value was determined. company will continue to receive the support of its Shareholder and Non‑monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a that the realisation of assets and settlement of liabilities will occur foreign currency are not retranslated. in the ordinary course of business. Full disclosure relating to the Directors’ going concern assessment can be found in note 42. Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items and on the retranslation of monetary items are included in profit or loss These accounting policies are consistent with the previous period. for the period. Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these non‑monetary items carried at fair value are included in profit or loss annual financial statements are set out below: for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non‑monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised Basis of consolidation directly in other comprehensive income. Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities (including special purpose entities) For the purpose of presenting consolidated annual financial statements, over which the Group has the power to govern their financial and the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations (including operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more comparatives) are expressed in rand using exchange rates prevailing than one half of the voting rights. The existence and effect of on the statement of financial position date. Income and expense potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible items (including comparatives) are translated at the average exchange are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuated significantly entity. The Group also assesses existence of control where it does during that period, in which case the five day average exchange rates not have more than 50 percent of the voting power but is able to are used. Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as other govern the financial and operating policies by virtue of de‑facto comprehensive income and transferred to the Group’s translation control. De‑facto control may arise in circumstances where the size reserve. Such translation differences are recognised in profit or loss in of the Group’s voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of the period in which the foreign operation is disposed of. holdings of other shareholders give the Group power to govern the financial and operating policies, etc. Goodwill and fair value adjustments on identifiable assets and liabilities acquired arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the rate transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that of exchange prevailing at the end of each reporting period. control ceases. Revenue Goodwill Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the receivable. Revenue is reduced for estimated customer returns, rebates net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent and other similar allowances. liabilities recognised at the acquisition date. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost Sale of goods less any accumulated impairment losses. The goodwill arising on Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when all the following the acquisition of associates is included within the carrying amount conditions are satisfied: of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of the investment. • the Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 75 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) rewards of ownership of the goods; and payable. The deferred revenue method has been adopted for revenue • the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the recognition relating to the sale of airline miles to airline and non‑airline degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control over partners. Income arising from the sale of miles to airline and non‑airline the goods sold; partners is accounted for as deferred revenue in the statement of • the amount of revenue can be measured reliably; financial position and only recognised as revenue when SAA fulfils • it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the its obligations by supplying free or discounted goods or services on transaction will flow to the Group; and redemption of the accrued miles. • the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably. SAA accounts for award credits issued on SAA flights as a separately identifiable component of the sales transaction in which they are Specifically, revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when goods earned. The consideration in respect of the initial sale is allocated to are delivered and legal title has passed. award credits based on their fair value and is accounted for as a liability (deferred revenue) in the consolidated statement of financial position. Rendering of services The fair value is determined with reference to the value of the awards Revenue from the rendering of services shall be recognised by reference for which miles have been redeemed during the last 12 months and is to the stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting not adjusted for future changes in fair value. Revenue is recognised on period. The outcome of a transaction can be estimated reliably when all unredeemed miles when they expire. the following conditions are satisfied: Technical maintenance • the amount of revenue can be measured reliably; Revenue from maintenance services rendered external to the Group on • it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the a power by the hour basis is recognised as revenue when services are transaction will flow to the entity; rendered based on maintenance events. Revenue is deferred until the • the stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting maintenance event takes place. Other maintenance services rendered on period can be measured reliably; and a time and material basis are recognised as revenue when services are • the costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete the rendered by reference to the stage of completion of the transaction. transaction can be measured reliably, recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting Interest Income date. Interest earned on arrear accounts and bank/other investment balances are accrued on a time‑proportionate basis. Revenue consists of passenger airline revenue, freight and mail revenue, revenue from technical services, Voyager income, commission Commission received received, the release of unutilised air tickets and fuel levies. SAA provides a ticketing service to other airlines. Commission is earned on interline transactions but is only recognised as revenue when the Passenger air ticket and cargo air waybill sales, net of discounts, are passenger utilises the ticket. initially recognised as current liabilities in the Air Traffic Liability account and only recognised as revenue when the transportation service Maintenance costs is provided. Commission costs are recognised in the same period as the Owned aircraft: revenue to which they relate. Major overhaul expenditure, including replacement spares and labour costs, is capitalised and amortised over the expected life between major Air tickets that remain unutilised after a 12 month period in respect overhauls. All other replacement spares and other expenditure relating of International and Regional tickets or a 6 month period in respect to maintenance of owned fleet assets is charged to profit or loss on of Domestic tickets are released to revenue. The estimate is based on consumption or as incurred. historical statistics and data that takes into account the terms and conditions for various ticket types. Refer to Note 3 ‑ Critical judgements Leased aircraft: in applying the entity’s accounting policies, for more information. Provision is made for aircraft maintenance expenditure which the Group incurs in connection with major airframe and engine overhauls Frequent flyer programme on operating leased aircraft, where the terms of the lease imposes SAA operates a frequent flyer programme, SAA Voyager, which provides obligations on the lessee to have these overhauls carried out. Provision a variety of awards to programme members based on a mileage credit for expenditure to meet the contractual return conditions is also for flights on SAA and other airlines that participate in the programme. included. The actual expenditure on the overhauls is charged against Members can also accrue and redeem miles with non‑airline the provision when incurred. Any residual balance is transferred to profit programme partners. Cargo users accumulate equivalent awards or loss. All other replacement spares and other expenditure relating relating to freight transported. to maintenance of leased fleet assets is charged to profit or loss on consumption or as incurred. Consideration for the provision of Voyager awards consists of annual participation fees, service fees and the sale of miles to Voyager airline Power by the hour: and non‑airline partners, as well as a portion of the ticket price of SAA Expenditure for engine overhaul costs covered by power by the hour flights sold to Voyager members. The participation fees and service (fixed rate charged per hour) maintenance agreements is charged to fees are recognised as revenue immediately when they become due profit or loss over the life of the contract. 76 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Maintenance reserve: Group as lessee Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences Maintenance reserves are payments made to certain lessors in terms associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests of the aircraft lease contract. The lessors are contractually obligated in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of to reimburse the Group for the qualifying maintenance expenditure the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference incurred on aircraft if the Group has a maintenance reserves credit. will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets arising from Maintenance reserves are recognised as an asset. The recoverability deductible temporary differences associated with such investments and of the asset is assessed annually against the entity’s ability to claim interests are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that there against future maintenance events. Where it is deemed that the will be sufficient taxable profits against which to utilise the benefits entity will be unable to claim for a future maintenance event, the of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the maintenance reserve payments are expensed accordingly. foreseeable future. Reimbursement amounts are only recognised as assets in respect of The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each maintenance costs to be reimbursed if the work has been performed reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable and it appears reasonable that the amounts claimed are recoverable in that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the terms of the aircraft lease contract and based on the available balance asset to be recovered. in the maintenance reserve account. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that The reimbursement amounts claimed from lessors in respect of are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or qualifying maintenance are transferred to trade and other receivables the asset realised, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been until actually received. enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax Maintenance reserve: Company as lessor consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group Where the company leases aircraft to a subsidiary company, expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the appropriate maintenance payments are included in the lease carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. agreements. The maintenance amounts received by the company are recognised as revenue as and when they become due from the lessee. Current and deferred tax for the year Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when The provision for maintenance claim liability, limited to the they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income, maintenance reserves credits, is raised by the company on receipt of in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other a valid claim for reimbursement in respect of qualifying maintenance comprehensive income. Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the costs by the lessee. initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting for the business combination. Taxation Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable Property, aircraft and equipment and deferred tax. Owned assets Land and buildings Current tax Land and buildings are shown at fair value based on valuations The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. performed by external independent valuers, less subsequent accumulated Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the consolidated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses for buildings. Valuations statement of comprehensive income because of items of income or are performed with sufficient regularity to ensure that the fair value of a expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and items that revalued asset does not differ materially from its carrying amount. Any are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses at the is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively date of revaluation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the enacted by the end of the reporting period. asset and the net amount is restated to the revalued amount of the asset. Deferred tax Aircraft Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the Aircraft are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated recognised impairment losses. Cost includes Buyer Furnished Equipment financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the (BFE) costs and is net of manufacturer’s discount/credits, with computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally subsequent additions to or renewal of exchangeable units also stated at recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets cost. Cost includes any fair value gains or losses resulting from hedging are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to instruments used to hedge the acquisition of the underlying asset, which the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available qualify for hedge accounting. Where there are deferred payment terms, against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilised. the cost is the cash price equivalent. Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises on the initial recognition of goodwill or Other property, machinery and equipment from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) All other property, machinery and equipment, including unit leading of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the devices, are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any taxable profit nor the accounting profit. recognised impairment losses. Equipment includes major spare parts and south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 77 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) standby equipment to the extent that SAA is expected to use them in Disposal of assets more than one accounting period. The gain or loss arising from the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the Depreciation carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in profit or loss when the Depreciation is not provided on assets in the course of construction or risks and rewards related to the assets are transferred to the buyer. on land. All other property and equipment are depreciated by recording a charge to profit or loss, computed on a straight‑line basis so as to Leasehold improvements write off the cost of the assets less the anticipated residual value over Land and buildings their estimated useful lives.When parts of an item of property, aircraft Improvements to leased premises are recognised as an asset and and equipment have different useful lives, those components are depreciated over the period of the lease term, or the useful life of the identified and the useful life and residual values are estimated for each improvements, whichever is shorter. component. Where the useful lives for the identified components are similar, those are aggregated and depreciated as one component by Aircraft applying the useful life relevant to that significant component. In cases where the aircraft held under operating leases are fitted with BFE at the cost of the company, the BFE acquired is recognised as an The residual value, depreciation method and the useful life of each asset (leasehold improvements) and depreciated over its useful life or asset or component thereof is reviewed at least at each financial year over the period of the lease term, whichever is shorter. end and any difference is treated as a change in accounting estimate in accordance with IAS 8. Accounting for leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease The following annual rates are applicable: transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. Asset class Useful lives Aircraft and simulators 5‑20 years Group as lessee Buildings and structures 10‑50 years Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as assets of Furniture 10 years the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at Office equipment 5‑10 years the present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding Computer equipment 3‑5 years liability to the lessor is included in the consolidated statement of Light motor vehicles 5 years financial position as a finance lease obligation. General purpose vehicles 10 years Containers 5 years Lease payments are apportioned between finance expenses and Machinery 15‑20 years reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of Cabin loaders 10‑20 years interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance expenses Leased assets Shorter period of lease or useful life are recognised immediately in profit or loss. Contingent rentals are recognised as expenses in the periods in which they are incurred. Residual values The aircraft and its components have useful lives ranging from five Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a to twenty years, with residual values of 20 percent on structures and straight‑line basis over the lease term, except where another systematic engines. All other property and equipment and their components have no basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic residual value. benefits from the leased asset are consumed. Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are recognised as an expense in the period in Capital work in progress which they are incurred. Capital work in progress relates to buyer furnished equipment (BFE) and pre-delivery payments (PDPs) relating to aircraft still being In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating constructed. These amounts are released from capital work in progress leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability. The aggregate and recognised as part of the asset when the construction is complete. benefit of incentives is recognised as a reduction of rental expense on For further details on PDPs refer “Pre‑delivery payments and other a straight‑line basis, except where another systematic basis is more aircraft deposits”. representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased assets are consumed. Exchangeable units Exchangeable units are high value components that are classified as Manufacturers’ credits that represent a portion of manufacturers’ cash equipment and are depreciated accordingly. The cost of repairing such incentives which have not been taken into account in determining the units is charged to profit or loss as and when incurred. lease rentals payable on operating leased aircraft are initially recognised as liabilities and are amortised on a straight‑line basis over the lease Non‑current assets held-for-sale term to reduce the net rental expense payable. Disposal or retirement of property, aircraft and equipment which the Group has identified as held-for-sale immediately and in their present Initial rentals represent amounts paid to the lessor in advance. condition, subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales These are recognised as prepaid lease payments at the of such assets and where their sale is highly probable, are reclassified as commencement of the lease and are amortised on a straight‑line basis non‑current assets held-for-sale. over the lease term. 78 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Group as lessor accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recognised as that are acquired separately. receivables at the amount of the company’s net investment in the leases. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so Amortisation as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the company’s net Amortisation is recognised on a straight‑line basis over their estimated investment outstanding in respect of the leases. useful lives. The estimated useful life and amortisation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight‑line changes in estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis. basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial direct costs incurred in Intangible assets assessed to have indefinite useful lives and goodwill are negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying not amortised but are tested for impairment at each reporting period. The amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight‑line basis over intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortised from the date they the lease term. are available for use applying the following rates: Non‑current assets held-for-sale Intangible asset class Useful lives Non‑current assets and disposal groups are classified as held-forApplication software 3‑5 years sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a Internet booking site 5 years sale transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the Derecognition of intangible assets non‑current asset (or disposal group) is available for immediate sale An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal or when no future in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale, economic benefits are expected from use or disposal. Gains or losses which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed arising from derecognition of an intangible asset, measured as the sale within one year from the date of classification. difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised. When the Group is committed to a sale plan involving loss of control Any subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is of a subsidiary, all of the assets and liabilities of that subsidiary are capitalised only when it meets the recognition criteria of an intangible classified as held-for-sale when the criteria described above are met, asset. All other expenditure is expensed as incurred. regardless of whether the Group will retain a non‑controlling interest in its former subsidiary after the sale. Impairments Intangible assets Non‑current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held-for-sale are Intangible assets are tested for impairment wherever there are measured at the lower of their previous carrying amount and fair value circumstances that indicate that the carrying value may not be less costs to sell. recoverable. Intangible assets that have not yet been brought into use or have an indefinite useful life including goodwill will be reviewed for Discontinued operations impairment at least on an annual basis. A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of Tangible assets operations or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. The carrying amounts of the Group’s tangible assets, which mainly Classification as a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or consist of property, aircraft and equipment, are reviewed at each when the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held-for-sale, statement of financial position date to determine whether there is if earlier. any indication that those assets have been impaired. If there is any indication that an asset may be impaired, its recoverable amount is Assets that are to be abandoned are not classified as held‑for‑sale as estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss. they will not be recovered principally through a sale transaction, but Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an may be classified as discontinued operations. individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately Calculation of recoverable amount Intangible assets with finite useful lives that are acquired separately The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value less cost are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated to sell and its value in use. In assessing the value in use, the estimated impairment losses. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives that are future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre‑tax acquired separately are carried at cost less accumulated impairment discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time losses. value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash flows, the recoverable Intangible assets acquired in a business combination amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset Intangible assets acquired in a business combination and recognised belongs. separately from goodwill are initially recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date (which is regarded as their cost). Subsequent If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of combination are reported at cost less accumulated amortisation and the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 79 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately. receivables’. The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition. Reversal of impairments All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of and derecognised on a trade date basis. Regular way purchases or sales the asset (cash generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate of its are purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets recoverable amount. The increased carrying amount does not exceed the within the time frame established by regulation or convention in the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment marketplace. loss been recognised for the asset (cash generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately. An Loans and receivables impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods. Loans and receivables are non‑derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, such Pre‑delivery payments (PDPs) and other aircraft deposits as trade receivables, loans originated by the Group, fixed deposits and PDPs paid to the manufacturers of aircraft in terms of the contractual defeasance deposits. arrangements governing the purchase of aircraft are initially recognised as part of capital work in progress at the cost of the consideration delivered. In Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured the event that a decision is taken that it is likely that the underlying aircraft at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any will not be purchased at the expected delivery date, but will be leased under impairment. Interest income is recognised by applying the effective an operating lease, then the related PDPs will be remeasured to the present interest rate method, except for trade and other receivables when the value of the consideration expected to be received from the ultimate lessor. recognition of interest would be immaterial. This consideration will, if it is denominated in a foreign currency, be Available-for-sale financial assets translated to the measurement currency by applying the exchange rate ruling Available‑for‑sale financial assets are non‑derivative financial assets at the reporting date. that are designated as available‑for‑sale or that are not classified as at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables or heldIn calculating the value of the future consideration receivable, any benefit or to-maturity investments. This category includes listed and unlisted loss that will result as a consequence of the Group having secured the aircraft investments, except for investments in subsidiaries, associates and at the original contractual price as against the fair value of the aircraft at the joint ventures. date of delivery to the lessor, which is taken into consideration if the future operating lease payments form part of the consideration receivable. Any loss After initial recognition, available‑for‑sale financial assets are measured arising on remeasurement is classified as an impairment. at fair value with unrealised gains or losses being recognised directly in other comprehensive income. With disposal of financial assets, Once the operating lease agreement related to the aircraft has been formally the accumulated gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive concluded, the receivable amount so arising is transferred from capital work income resulting from measurement at fair value are recognised in in progress to refundable deposits. profit or loss. If a reliable estimate of the fair value of an unquoted equity instrument cannot be made, this instrument is measured at cost Where an aircraft is delivered under short‑term bridging finance, pending less any impairment losses. the finalisation of an operating lease, the related PDPs and the final installment paid to the manufacturer are again remeasured at the present Dividends received from these investments are recognised in profit or value of the expected consideration from the lessor in the same manner as loss when the right of payment has been established. Fair value is outlined above. Under these circumstances the full consideration receivable determined as stated in Note 40.1. is classified under refundable amounts. Held‑to‑maturity investments Financial instruments Held‑to‑maturity investments are non‑derivative financial assets with fixed Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when a Group entity or determinable payments and fixed maturity dates that the Group has becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity. Subsequent to initial recognition, held‑to‑maturity investments are measured at amortised cost Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. using the effective interest rate method less any impairment. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than financial assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are added to or Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, assets held‑for‑trading. These mainly include derivative financial assets as appropriate, on initial recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable and commodity derivatives. A financial asset is classified as held-forto the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value trading if it has been acquired principally for the purposes of selling in through profit or loss are recognised immediately in profit or loss. the near future, is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument and it is part of an identified portfolio of financial Financial assets instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: pattern of short‑term profit‑taking. financial assets ‘at fair value through profit or loss’ (FVTPL), ‘held-to-maturity’ investments, ‘available‑for‑sale’ (AFS) financial assets and ‘loans and After initial recognition, these financial assets are stated at fair value, 80 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss. The net gain assets that are assessed not to be impaired on an individual basis are or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest subsequently assessed for impairment on a portfolio basis. The assets on the financial asset. Fair value is determined as stated in Note 40.1. are grouped in a portfolio, taking into consideration similar credit risk characteristics. The objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of Derivative financial instruments receivables normally includes the Group’s past experience of collecting The Group uses derivative financial instruments, such as foreign payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the currency contracts, currency options, commodity derivative swaps, portfolio past the average credit period of between 60 to 90 days, options and collars, to manage its risks associated with foreign currency depending on the defined credit risk assessment for each type of debtor. fluctuations and underlying commodity fluctuations. The Group does Any dispute of amount receivable from the debtor is also considered as not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. part of impairment indicators. For more details refer to Note 23. Derivative financial instruments are classified as held‑for‑trading financial assets or financial liabilities. For loans and deposits carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and The Group’s derivatives normally have a maturity period of 12 months or the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the less and are therefore presented as current assets or current liabilities. financial asset’s original effective interest rate. Embedded derivatives in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade the host contracts are not measured at fair value with changes in fair receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced using an allowance value recognised in profit or loss. account. When a trade receivable is considered uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries Investments of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are recognised account. Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are on a trade date basis and are initially recognised at cost. After initial recognised in profit or loss. recognition, the company’s investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures continue to be held at cost, and are reviewed annually for For equity instruments held and classified as available‑for‑sale, a impairment. significant or prolonged decline in the fair value is the objective evidence for a possible impairment. Impairment losses previously recognised Cash and cash equivalents through profit or loss are not reversed through profit or loss. Any increase Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, cash in banks, in fair value subsequent to an impairment loss is recognised directly in short‑term deposits, bank overdrafts and highly liquid investments other comprehensive income. and are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Derecognition A financial asset is derecognised when the Group loses control over Hedge accounting the contractual rights of the asset. This occurs when the rights are The Group did not have any derivatives that qualified for hedge realised, expire or are surrendered. A financial liability is derecognised accounting in the current or prior year. when it is extinguished. When available‑for‑sale assets and assets held‑for‑trading are sold, they are derecognised and a corresponding Effective interest rate method receivable is recognised at the date the Group commits the assets. Loans The effective interest rate method is a method of calculating the and receivables are derecognised on the day the risks and rewards of amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest income ownership are transferred. over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees and If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated expected life of the debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group retains substantially period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition. all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises Income is recognised on an effective interest rate method basis for debt collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received. instruments other than those financial assets classified as at FVTPL. On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference Impairment of financial assets between the asset’s carrying amount and the sum of the consideration Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL are assessed for indicators received and receivable and the cumulative gain or loss that had been of impairment at each statement of financial position date. Financial recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity is assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, because of recognised in profit or loss. one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment On derecognition of a financial asset other than in its entirety (eg. have been impacted. For categories of financial assets, such as when the Group retains an option to repurchase part of a transferred trade receivables, impairment is assessed on an individual basis. Any asset or retains a residual interest that does not result in the retention south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 81 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) of substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and the Group Derecognition of financial liabilities retains control), the Group allocates the previous carrying amount of The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the the financial asset between the part it continues to recognise under Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire. The difference continuing involvement, and the part it no longer recognises on the basis between the carrying amount of the financial liability derecognised and the of the relative fair values of those parts on the date of the transfer. The consideration paid and payable is recognised in profit or loss. difference between the carrying amount allocated to the part that is no longer recognised and the sum of the consideration received for the part Inventories no longer recognised and any cumulative gain or loss allocated to it that Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. In had been recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in general, the basis of determining cost is the weighted average method. Net profit or loss. A cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in other realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated comprehensive income is allocated between the part that continues to costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and be recognised and the part that is no longer recognised on the basis of distribution. Redundant and slow moving inventories are identified on a the relative fair values of those parts. regular basis and written down to their realisable values. Consumables are written down with regard to their age, condition and utility. Financial liabilities and equity instruments Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or Provisions as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement. Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow Equity instruments of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. The Group’s equity obligation. The amount recognised as a provision will be reassessed at instruments primarily include a government guaranteed subordinated each statement of financial position date taking into account the latest loan and company shares issued. Equity instruments issued by the estimates of expenditure required and the probability of the outflows. Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are If the entity reacquires its own equity instruments, these instruments are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre‑tax classified as treasury shares and any consideration paid is recognised rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money as a direct reduction from equity. The gains or losses on purchase, sale, and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability except those issue or cancellation of treasury shares are recognised directly in other that have been taken into account in the estimate of future cash flows. comprehensive income. Where discounting is used, the increase in a provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense. Interest associated with liabilities classified as equity instruments, are accounted for as dividends. A provision is used only for the expenditures for which the provision was originally recognised. Financial liabilities Financial liabilities primarily include trade and other payables, bank Onerous contracts overdrafts, interest‑bearing borrowings from financial institutions Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognised and denominated in local and foreign currency and other liabilities such as measured as a provision. An onerous contract is considered to exist finance lease obligations. where the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost, expected to be received under it. with the exception of finance lease obligations, which are measured in terms of IAS 17 Leases (refer to “Accounting policy on leases”). Reimbursements Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are classified as Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed by a third party, held‑for‑trading. A financial liability is classified as held‑for‑trading if the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the it is a derivative not designated and effective as a hedging instrument. reimbursement is virtually certain. Financial liabilities held‑for‑trading are subsequently stated at fair value, with any gains and losses recognised in profit or loss. Fair value is Provision for lease liabilities determined in a manner described in Note 40.1. For aircraft held under operating lease agreements, SAA is contractually committed to either return the aircraft in a certain condition or to Interest‑bearing loans and borrowings compensate the lessor based on the actual condition of the airframe, All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, being the engines and life‑limited parts upon return. In order to fulfil such fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with conditions of the lease, maintenance in the form of major airframe the borrowing. overhaul, engine maintenance checks, and restitution of major life‑limited parts is required to be performed during the period of After initial recognition, interest‑bearing loans and borrowings are the lease and upon return of the aircraft to the lessor. The estimated subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest airframe and engine maintenance costs and the costs associated with the rate method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any restitution of major life‑limited parts are accrued and charged to profit or issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement. loss over the lease term for this contractual obligation. 82 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Employee benefits during the period in which the employee renders the related service. Pension benefits The Group’s net obligation in respect of long‑term service benefits, other The Group operates two defined benefit funds as well as various than pension plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees have defined contribution funds. The assets of each scheme are held earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. This separately from those of the Group and are administered by the obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is schemes’ trustees. The funds are actuarially valued by professional discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets is independent consulting actuaries. The Group’s contributions to the deducted. defined contribution fund are charged to profit or loss during the year in which they relate. Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable whenever an employee’s employment is The benefit costs and obligations under the defined benefit fund are terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee determined separately for each fund using the projected unit credit accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group method. The benefit costs are recognised in profit or loss. Actuarial gains recognises termination benefits when it has demonstrated its commitment and losses are recognised in the period in which they occur outside of either to terminate the employment of current employees according to profit or loss in other comprehensive income. a detailed formal plan without the possibility of withdrawal or to provide termination benefits because of an offer made to encourage voluntary Past‑service costs are recognised immediately in profit or loss. redundancy. When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased Related parties benefit relating to past services by the employees is recognised as an Parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the expense immediately in profit or loss. The amount recognised in the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the party or jointly control the party statement of financial position represents the present value of the in making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the defined benefit obligation reduced by the fair value of plan assets. Group and the party are subject to common control. Post‑retirement medical benefits Related parties also include key management personnel who are those Post-retirement medical benefits are provided by the Group to qualifying persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and employees and pensioners. The benefit medical costs are determined controlling the activities of the entity, directly or indirectly, including any through annual actuarial valuations by independent consulting actuaries Director (whether executive or otherwise) of the Group. using the projected unit credit method. Comparative figures Short‑ and long‑term benefits Where necessary, comparative amounts have been adjusted in order to The cost of all short‑term employee benefits, such as salaries, bonuses, improve comparability. There is no impact on the loss for the year or net housing allowances, medical and other contributions is recognised liabilities/assets as a result of these adjustments. 2. New Standards and Interpretations 2.1 Standards and interpretations effective and adopted in the current year In the current year, the Group has not adopted any new standards and interpretations that are effective for the current financial year as none of these are considered relevant to its operations. 2.2 Standards and interpretations not yet effective The Group has chosen not to early adopt the following standards and interpretations, which have been published and are mandatory for the Group’s accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2013 or later periods. The standards and interpretations included below only include those that the Directors believe may have an impact on the Group: Effective date: Standard/Interpretation: Years beginning on or after • IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2015 • IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2013 • IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2013 • IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2013 • IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013 • IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements 1 July 2012 • IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised 1 January 2013 • Government Loans (Amendment to IFRS 1) 1 January 2013 • Consolidated Financial Statements, Joint Arrangements and Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities: Transition Guidance 1 January 2013 • IFRIC 21 Levies 1 January 2014 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 83 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) 3. Critical judgements in applying the entity’s date. The useful lives of all assets, all residual values and the accounting policies depreciation method remained unchanged as they were deemed to Air traffic liability and revenue recognition be appropriate. The air traffic liability balance represents the proceeds from tickets and air waybills sold but not yet utilised. The balance includes the Maintenance reserves expensed value of coupons sold by SAA, which will be flown and claimed in Maintenance reserves prepayments unutilised at the expiry of the future periods by code‑share and interline partners. The liability is of a lease term are not refundable. The Group estimates the unutilised short‑term nature and is reflected as a current liability. balance that is likely to remain at the end of the lease term based on planned events and assumed consumed life of leased aircraft and SAA is able to accurately compute the forward sales liability on a their components between year end and the lease expiry date and ticket‑for‑ticket basis and management is using its revenue accounting uses this estimate as the basis for expensing maintenance reserve system in accounting for tickets sold but not yet flown. The system payments. The recognition of the maintenance reserves assets determines utilised air tickets that are released to income. and values thereof are subject to critical judgements followed by management. Unutilised air tickets and air waybills are released to income over a 12‑month rolling period. In making its judgement, management has 4. Key sources of estimation uncertainty considered the following: The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the statement of financial position date, that • The sales‑based revenue accounting system that makes it possible have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying to accurately determine what part of this liability could be taken amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are to revenue each financial year has now been in operation for more described below. than seven years. • The terms and conditions of the air tickets as stipulated in the SAA Frequent flyer programme Conditions of Carriage. In terms of the rules, an air ticket is valid SAA accounts for award credits as a separately identifiable component in respect of full fare tickets (no fare conditions) for a period of 12 of the sales transaction in which they are granted. The consideration months from the date of issue in respect of international travel and in respect of the initial sale is allocated to award credits based on six months from the date of issue in respect of domestic travel, their fair value and is accounted for as a liability (deferred revenue) subject to first travel occurring within 12 months or six months in the consolidated statement of financial position. Estimation from the date of issue of the ticket then 12 months or six months techniques are used to determine the fair value of award credits. The from the date of first travel. If it is not utilised within this period, it estimation technique applied considers the fair value of a range of expires. different redemption options by reference to their cash selling prices, • Interline settlement and rejections can, however, take longer than such as airfares on different routes and in different classes of travel as 12 months to be processed. well as flight upgrades and partner rewards. A weighted average value per mile is derived based on past experience of the mix of rewards The assumptions and judgement in estimating the forward sales selected by Voyager members. A 12 month historical trend forms the liability resulted in the release of R355 million to income in the basis of the calculations. The number of award credits not expected current year. The amount released to income in 2012 was R433 to be redeemed by members is also factored into the estimation of the million. fair value. Useful lives, depreciation method and residual values of Professional judgement is exercised by management due to the property, aircraft and equipment diversity of inputs that go into determining the fair value of the The Group assesses the useful lives, depreciation method and award credits and due to the possibility that the trend may residual values of property, aircraft and equipment at each reporting change over time. 84 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Group Company R Million Note 2013 2012 2013 2012 5. Airline revenue The analysis of airline revenue for the year is as follows: Passenger revenue 17 716 15 907 16 480 14 947 Freight and mail 1 484 1 388 1 484 1 388 Technical services 545 522 95 67 Voyager income 32 555 419 555 419 Commission received 85 214 77 210 Release from prescribed tickets 355 433 355 433 Fuel levies 4 826 3 710 4 826 3 710 25 566 22 593 23 872 21 174 6. Other income Other income is made up of the following items: Handling revenue 32 181 180 86 93 Income from leased assets 32 52 70 164 169 Other recoveries* 32 1 299 1 018 1 267 1 009 32 1 532 1 268 1 517 1 271 * Other recoveries comprise income associated with ticket cancellations, inter‑airline processing offsets and other miscellaneous income. 7. Operating loss before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation Operating loss before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation is stated after taking into account amongst others, the following: Operating lease payments 32 Aircraft 32 2 097 1 797 2 081 1 795 Buildings 32 84 89 70 78 Equipment and vehicles 32 25 22 18 13 Total operating lease payments 32 2 206 1 908 2 169 1 886 Net gain on disposal of property, aircraft and equipment 32 32 Profit on disposal of property, aircraft and equipment 32 134 286 127 286 Loss on disposal of property, aircraft and equipment 32 (112) (261) (103) (261) Net gain on disposal of property, aircraft and equipment 32 22 25 24 25 Auditors’ remuneration 32 Audit fees current year 32 14 12 9 10 Other regulatory audit services 32 1 1 1 1 Non‑audit services 32 4 3 4 3 Total auditors’ remuneration 32 19 16 14 14 Directors’ emoluments and executive management emoluments are disclosed in Note 36. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 85 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) Group Company R Million Notes 2013 2012 2013 2012 8. Depreciation and amortisation Aircraft and simulators 16 (392) (357) (387) (353) Buildings and structures 16 (71) (68) (47) (46) Machinery, equipment and furniture 16 (58) (57) (37) (37) Vehicles and cabin loaders 16 (9) (10) (3) (3) Containers 16 – (1) – (1) Total depreciation 16 (530) (493) (474) (440) Amortisation of intangible assets 17 (35) (37) (32) (34) Total depreciation and amortisation 16 (565) (530) (506) (474) 9. Employee benefit expenses 9.1 Short‑term employee benefit expenses 16 16 16 Personnel and labour costs 16 4 414 4 209 2 936 2 746 Contribution to medical funds 16 55 55 35 35 16 4 469 4 264 2 971 2 781 9.2 Post‑employment benefit expenses* 16 16 16 Contribution to pension funds 16 351 317 243 218 Contribution to provident funds 16 46 43 46 43 Current‑service cost 16 14 8 14 8 Interest cost 16 117 113 117 113 Expected return on plan assets 16 (149) (172) (149) (172) Past‑service cost 16 – 138 – 138 16 379 447 271 348 Total employee benefit expenses 16 4 848 4 711 3 242 3 129 *T  hese costs relate to other post‑employment and other long‑term employee benefit plans for the Group. The post‑employment benefit costs have been disclosed in Note 35. 10. Net impairment (write‑off)/reversal Impairment of loans and receivables held at amortised cost 16 16 16 Impairment of accounts receivable 16 (4) (47) (4) (38) Impairment of other assets 16 16 16 Net reversal of carrying value of investment in subsidiaries 18 – – 414 263 Impairment of buildings 16 (20) – (20) – Reversal of impairment of investments 16 1 3 1 3 16 (23) (44) 391 228 86 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Group Company R Million 2013 2012 2013 2012 11. Fair value and translation movements Foreign exchange (gain)/loss on translation of: 16 16 16 Foreign cash balances 16 (31) (141) (34) (142) Foreign currency‑denominated net receivables 16 (164) 125 (188) 119 Net monetary assets and liabilities 16 16 (65) 23 (57) Translation of foreign assets and liabilities 16 (179) (81) (199) (80) Fair value (gain)/loss on derivative instruments 16 16 16 held-for-trading: Realised gain on derivatives 16 (181) (211) (181) (211) Fair value loss on derivative financial instruments 16 265 229 265 229 Net fair value loss on derivative instruments 16 held-for-trading 84 18 84 18 Total fair value and translation movements 16 (95) (63) (115) (62) 12. Finance costs 16 The interest paid related to financial liabilities held at 16 16 16 amortised cost is detailed below: Interest paid on long‑term borrowings 16 (93) (122) (93) (122) Interest paid on overdraft 16 (98) (25) (96) (24) Other interest paid 16 1 – – (23) (26) 16 (191) (147) (212) (172) 16 16 16 Recognised directly in equity Interest paid on subordinated loan guaranteed by 16 government classified as a dividend 88 92 88 92 13. Interest income 16 16 16 Interest received was derived from: 16 16 16 Cash and bank balances 16 8 36 7 36 Loans and receivables 16 4 6 4 6 16 12 42 11 42 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 87 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) Group Company R Million 2013 2012 2013 2012 14. Taxation 16 16 Major components of the tax income 16 16 16 Current 16 16 16 Local income tax ‑ current period 16 – – – – Deferred 16 16 16 Deferred taxation ‑ current year 16 2 514 – – 16 2 514 – – Reconciliation of the tax income 16 16 16 Reconciliation between accounting loss and tax income. 16 16 16 Accounting loss 16 1 170 1 357 789 1 067 Tax at the applicable tax rate of 28% (2012: 28%) 16 328 380 221 299 Tax effect of adjustments on taxable income 16 Tax effect of non‑taxable income 16 102 144 – 72 Tax effect of non‑deductible expenses 16 (101) (50) (109) (48) Temporary differences not recognised 16 (352) 14 (137) (349) Interest classified as a dividend ‑ tax deductible 16 25 26 25 26 16 2 514 – – Estimated tax losses available to be utilised against future 16 13 367 13 194 11 432 11 340 taxable income R Million Gross Tax Net 15. Other comprehensive (loss)/income Components of other comprehensive loss Group ‑ 2013 Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit plans Loss on SAA German Pension Fund (17) – (17) Loss on SAA subfund of Transport Pension Fund (10) – (10) Gain on post‑retirement medical benefits 3 – 3 (24) – (24) Movements on revaluation Impairment on property revaluations (12) – (12) Total (36) – (36) 88 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 R Million Gross Tax Net Components of other comprehensive income Group ‑ 2012 Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit plans 6 6 6 Gain on SAA German Pension Fund 13 – 13 Gain on SAA subfund of Transport Pension Fund 72 – 72 Loss on post‑retirement medical benefits (5) – (5) 80 – 80 Movements on revaluation 6 6 6 Gains on property revaluations 935 (112) 823 Total 1 015 (112) 903 Components of other comprehensive loss Company ‑ 2013 Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit plans Loss on SAA German Pension Fund (17) – (17) Loss on SAA subfund of Transport Pension Fund (10) – (10) Gain on post‑retirement medical benefits 3 – 3 (24) – (24) Movements on revaluation Gains on property revaluations 11 – 11 Total (13) – (13) Components of other comprehensive income Company ‑ 2012 Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit plans Gain on SAA German Pension Fund 13 – 13 Gain on SAA subfund of Transport Pension Fund 72 – 72 Loss on post‑retirement medical benefits (5) – (5) 80 – 80 Movements on revaluation 6 6 6 Gains on property revaluations 433 – 433 Total 513 – 513 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 89 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) 2013 2012 Cost / Accumulated Carrying Cost / Accumulated Carrying R Million Valuation depreciation value Valuation depreciation value 16. Property, aircraft and equipment Group Land 453 – 453 453 – 453 Buildings and structures 1 779 (195) 1 584 1 756 (76) 1 680 Machinery, equipment and furniture 817 (510) 307 728 (466) 262 Vehicles and cabin loaders 115 (65) 50 100 (58) 42 Aircraft and simulators 9 523 (5 464) 4 059 9 584 (5 379) 4 205 Containers 31 (31) – 35 (35) – Capital work in progress 1 129 – 1 129 650 – 650 Total 13 847 (6 265) 7 582 13 306 (6 014) 7 292 Company Land 111 – 111 111 – 111 Buildings and structures 1 080 (168) 912 1 040 (73) 967 Machinery, equipment and furniture 430 (259) 171 364 (228) 136 Vehicles and cabin loaders 27 (20) 7 28 (19) 9 Aircraft and simulators 9 473 (5 454) 4 019 9 537 (5 368) 4 169 Containers 31 (31) – 35 (35) – Capital work in progress 1 125 – 1 125 639 – 639 Total 12 277 (5 932) 6 345 11 754 (5 723) 6 031 Classified RevalImpairOpening as helduations Deprement R Million balance Additions Disposals for-sale Transfers of PDPs ciation loss Total Group ‑ 2013 Reconciliation Land 453 – – – – – – – 453 Buildings and structures 1 680 86 (85) (6) – – (71) (20) 1 584 Machinery, equipment and furniture 262 32 (2) – 73 – (58) – 307 Vehicles and cabin loaders 42 17 – – – – (9) – 50 Aircraft and simulators 4 205 405 (163) – 4 – (392) – 4 059 Containers – – – – – – – – – Capital work in progress 650 422 – – (10) 67 – – 1 129 7 292 962 (250) (6) 67 67 (530) (20) 7 582 Opening Revaluations R Million balance Additions Disposals Transfers Revaluations of PDPs Depreciation Total Group ‑ 2012 Reconciliation Land 186 – – – 267 – – 453 Buildings and structures 1 068 6 (7) 13 668 – (68) 1 680 Machinery, equipment and furniture 268 48 – 3 – – (57) 262 Vehicles and cabin loaders 28 27 (3) – – – (10) 42 Aircraft and simulators 4 208 491 (170) 33 – – (357) 4 205 Containers 1 – – – – – (1) – Capital work in progress 492 131 – (11) – 38 – 650 6 251 703 (180) 38 935 38 (493) 7 292 90 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Opening Revaluations Impairment R Million balance Additions Disposals Transfers of PDPs Depreciation loss Total 16. Property, aircraft and equipment (continued) Company ‑ 2013 Reconciliation Land 111 – – – – – – 111 Buildings and structures 967 78 (66) – – (47) (20) 912 Machinery, equipment and furniture 136 4 – 68 – (37) – 171 Vehicles and cabin loaders 9 1 – – – (3) – 7 Aircraft and simulators 4 169 387 (155) 5 – (387) – 4 019 Containers – – – – – – – – Capital work in progress 639 425 – (6) 67 – – 1 125 6 031 895 (221) 67 67 (474) (20) 6 345 Opening Revaluations R Million balance Additions Disposals Transfers Revaluations of PDPs Depreciation Total Company ‑ 2012 Reconciliation Land 8 – – – 103 – – 111 Buildings and structures 679 5 (9) 8 330 – (46) 967 Machinery, equipment and furniture 146 26 – 1 – – (37) 136 Vehicles and cabin loaders 10 2 – – – – (3) 9 Aircraft and simulators 4 171 485 (167) 33 – – (353) 4 169 Containers 1 – – – – – (1) – Capital work in progress 487 118 – (4) – 38 – 639 5 502 636 (176) 38 433 38 (440) 6 031 A register of land and buildings and of leased assets is available for inspection at the registered office of the Group. Certain aircraft are encumbered as security for the financing thereof. The carrying value of capitalised aircraft encumbered in respect of financing raised by the Group amounts to R2,7 billion (2012: R2,8 billion). Certain aircraft are held under suspensive sale agreements with title only passing to SAA once all obligations to the seller have been settled and the seller in turn has settled all its obligations under a finance lease. These events are expected to occur simultaneously. The category of aircraft includes the refurbishment costs of both the owned and leased aircraft. This refurbishment is amortised over the shorter of the useful life of the refurbished equipment or the lease term of the leased aircraft. Asset and disposal groups held for sale are as follows: Group Company R Million 2013 2012 2013 2012 Non‑current assets held for sale Carrying value of buildings held for sale 6 – – – 6 – – – south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 91 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) 2013 2012 Cost / Accumulated Carrying Cost / Accumulated Carrying R Million Valuation amortisation value Valuation amortisation value 17. Intangible assets Group Software development 503 (395) 108 449 (361) 88 Internet booking site 39 (36) 3 39 (36) 3 Goodwill* 35 (35) – 35 (35) – Total 577 (466) 111 523 (432) 91 Company Software development 480 (384) 96 433 (353) 80 Internet booking site 39 (36) 3 39 (36) 3 Total 519 (420) 99 472 (389) 83 R Million Opening balance Additions Amortisation Total Group ‑ 2013 Reconciliation Software development 88 55 (35) 108 Internet booking site 3 – – 3 Goodwill* – – – – 91 55 (35) 111 R Million Opening balance Additions Amortisation Total Group ‑ 2012 Reconciliation Software development 109 16 (37) 88 Internet booking site 3 3 Goodwill* 112 16 (37) 91 R Million Opening balance Additions Amortisation Total Company ‑ 2013 Reconciliation Software development 80 48 (32) 96 Internet booking site 3 – – 3 83 48 (32) 99 R Million Opening balance Additions Amortisation Total Company ‑ 2012 Reconciliation Software development 104 10 (34) 80 Internet booking site 3 – – 3 107 10 (34) 83 * The goodwill arose from the acquisition of Air Chefs SOC Limited and has been impaired in full. 92 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 COMPANY R Million 2013 2012 18. Investments in subsidiaries Shares at cost 2 404 2 404 Impairment of investments in subsidiaries (1 160) (1 574) 1 244 830 Subsidiary Place of incorporation Nature of business Mango Airlines SOC Limited South Africa Airline business SAA Technical SOC Limited South Africa Maintenance of aircraft Air Chefs SOC Limited South Africa Airline catering SA City Centre SOC Limited South Africa Travel agency R Million Percentage holding Shares at cost Name of company Shares 2013 2012 2013 2012 Mango Airlines SOC Limited 1 120 100 100 336 336 SAA Technical SOC Limited 200 100 100 1 960 1 960 Air Chefs SOC Limited 100 100 100 106 106 SA City Centre SOC Limited 1 000 100 100 2 2 2 404 2 404 Impairment of investment in subsidiaries (1 160) (1 574) 1 244 830 The net aggregate losses in subsidiaries for the year amounted to R16 million (2012: profits of R485 million). south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 93 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) Group Company R Million 2013 2012 2013 2012 19. Deferred taxation asset Temporary differences in respect of property, aircraft 16 and equipment (1 194) (957) (1 121) (883) Doubtful debts 16 39 48 39 36 Air traffic liability and other deferred income 16 863 699 819 650 Provisions 16 1 207 1 330 1 121 1 271 Prepayments 16 (56) (46) (41) (46) Maintenance reserve payments 16 – 101 – 101 Differences due to changes in fair value of financial 16 instruments (40) (70) (40) (70) Leased assets 16 7 – – – Computed tax loss 16 3 743 3 689 3 201 3 175 16 4 569 4 794 3 978 4 234 Deferred tax asset not recognised 16 (4 152) (4 375) (3 978) (4 234) Deferred tax asset recognised 16 417 419 – – Recognition of deferred tax asset 16 Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry forwards to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable income is probable. The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of R4,2 billion (2012: R4,4 billion) in respect of losses amounting to R13,4 billion (2012: 13,2 billion) that can be carried forward against future taxable income. Group Company R Million 2013 2012 2013 2012 20. Inventories Maintenance inventories 16 1 036 1 024 – – Work in progress 16 13 38 – – Consumables 16 171 149 119 92 16 1 220 1 211 119 92 Impairment of Inventories 16 (289) (301) – – 16 931 910 119 92 Reconciliation of impairment of inventories 16 Opening balance 16 (301) (417) – – Reversal of previous write‑downs to NRV 16 51 122 – – Write‑down of Inventories recognised as an expense 16 during the period (39) (6) – – 16 (289) (301) – – The reversal of impairment in the current year relates primarily to the consumption of C class consumables previously fully provided for. The write down of inventories in the current year relates to the impairment of obsolete aircraft spares. This stock has been impaired to its net realisable value. 94 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Company R Million 2013 2012 21. Amounts receivable from subsidiaries Subsidiaries SAA Technical SOC Limited 1 306 1 228 Air Chefs SOC Limited 148 74 SA City Centre SOC Limited 9 3 1 463 1 305 The amounts receivable from subsidiaries are interest free. These balances fluctuate in line with the financing requirements of the subsidiaries and are repayable on demand. Forward exchange Jet fuel Currency contracts and R Million options derivatives swaps Total 22. Derivatives Group and Company Fair value at 1 April 2012 79 32 140 251 Assets 79 32 151 262 Liabilities – – (11) (11) Amounts spent on premiums 110 48 – 158 Fair value movements for the year ended 31 March 2013 (136) (8) (121) (265) Fair value at 31 March 2013 53 72 19 144 Assets 53 72 23 148 Liabilities – – (4) (4) Group Company R Million 2013 2012 2013 2012 23. Trade and other receivables Gross accounts receivable 2 666 1 914 2 536 1 804 Allowance for impairment (128) (197) (125) (153) 2 538 1 717 2 411 1 651 Prepayments 1 942 2 789 1 839 2 704 4 480 4 506 4 250 4 355 Reconciliation of impairment of trade and other receivables Opening balance (197) (226) (153) (189) Trade and other receivables (impairments) (4) (47) (4) (38) Amounts utilised for write‑offs 73 76 32 74 Closing balance (128) (197) (125) (153) The trade receivables portfolio impairment loss relates to: • debtors in dispute which are provided for when they become known; • defaulting Billing and Settlement Plan (BSP) and General Sales Agents (GSA) that have exceeded 90 days past their due date; and • errors due to differences identified when capturing sales. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 95 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) The gross accounts receivable is analysed below based on the risk profile group linked to the nature of the distribution network and the nature of operations within the group. The anaysis is based on period past due. Gross Current not yet Past due but Impaired R Million amount past due not impaired amount 23. Trade and other receivables (continued) Group 2013 BSP 1 004 980 4 20 Credit card 248 245 1 2 GSA 65 49 7 9 Stations 5 3 – 2 Cargo freight and mail 370 306 35 29 Airline catering 19 15 2 2 Travel services 1 1 – – Technical maintenance 127 88 38 1 Alliance partners 262 213 36 13 Voyager and Galileo 146 82 64 – Default debtors 47 – – 47 Other trade debtors 372 369 – 3 2 666 2 351 187 128 Company 2013 BSP 1 004 980 4 20 Credit card 248 245 1 2 GSA 65 49 7 9 Stations 5 3 – 2 Cargo freight and mail 370 306 35 29 Alliance partners 262 213 36 13 Voyager and Galileo 146 82 64 – Default debtors 47 – – 47 Other trade debtors 389 386 – 3 2 536 2 264 147 125 Group 2012 BSP 798 783 11 4 Credit card 219 219 – – GSA 51 42 – 9 Stations 5 4 – 1 Cargo freight and mail 337 302 – 35 Airline catering 19 19 – – Travel services 1 1 – – Technical maintenance 108 66 – 42 Alliance partners 99 79 – 20 Voyager and Galileo 76 76 – – Default debtors 86 – – 86 Other trade debtors 115 115 – – 1 914 1 706 11 197 Company 2012 BSP 798 783 11 4 Credit card 219 219 – – GSA 51 42 – 9 Stations 5 4 – 1 Cargo freight and mail 337 302 – 35 Alliance partners 99 79 – 20 Voyager and Galileo 78 78 – – Default debtors 84 – – 84 Other trade debtors 133 133 – – 1 804 1 640 11 153 96 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Group Company R Million 2013 2012 2013 2012 23. Trade and other receivables (continued) Past due but not impaired can be analysed further in terms of aging as follows: 30‑60 days – – – – 61‑90 days 72 – 57 – 91‑120 days 38 – 26 – + 120 days 77 11 64 11 187 11 147 11 Included in other receivables are amounts in respect of maintenance payments made to lessors. Refer to the accounting policies section for details of the treatment of these claims. Maintenance reserve receivable 2 479 1 770 2 479 1 770 Maintenance reserve payments expensed (1 866) (361) (1 866) (361) 613 1 409 613 1 409 Credit quality of trade and other receivables Trade receivables can be analysed based on historical collections performance as follows: Trade receivables Trade debtors with no history of default 2 259 1 569 2 172 1 503 Trade debtors where there have been isolated instances of default but no loss suffered 92 137 92 137 2 351 1 706 2 264 1 640 Collateral held BSP debtors are credit‑vetted by IATA, which holds a guarantee appropriate to the level of risk identified. Should an agent be in default with IATA, the guarantee is encashed and apportioned between the creditor airlines. SAA holds guarantees of R55 million in respect of local GSA debtors and R111 million in respect of Cargo GSAs. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 97 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) Group Company R Million 2013 2012 2013 2012 24. Investments Investment in unlisted shares at cost SA Airlink (Pty) Limited 35 35 35 35 Impairment of unlisted investment (25) (26) (25) (26) 10 9 10 9 Investment in share trust South African Airways Employee Share Trust – – 157 157 Impairment of the loan to South African Airways Employee Share Trust – – (157) (157) – – – – 25. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of: Foreign bank accounts 845 627 899 627 Domestic bank accounts (1 945) (1 098) (2 410) (1 461) Short‑term investments ‑ call deposits (US$ and EURO denominated) – 438 – 438 Total cash and cash equivalents (1 100) (33) (1 511) (396) Current assets 1 536 1 536 1 060 1 139 Current liabilities (2 636) (1 569) (2 571) (1 535) (1 100) (33) (1 511) (396) Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, balances with banks and short‑term deposits which can be accessed within 3 months at most. Cash and cash equivalents included in the cash flow statement are as detailed above. 26. Share capital Authorised 9 000 000 000 Class A ordinary shares of R1 each 9 000 9 000 9 000 9 000 3 000 000 000 Class B ordinary shares of R1 each 3 000 3 000 3 000 3 000 1 500 000 000 Class C ordinary shares of R1 each 1 500 1 500 1 500 1 500 750 000 000 Class D ordinary shares of R1 each 750 750 750 750 750 000 000 Class E ordinary shares of R1 each 750 750 750 750 15 000 15 000 15 000 15 000 Reconciliation of number of shares issued: 6 6 6 6 Opening balance 12 892 12 892 13 126 13 126 Issued 8 786 771 465 Class A ordinary shares of R1 each 8 787 8 787 8 787 8 787 2 412 563 822 Class B ordinary shares of R1 each 2 413 2 413 2 413 2 413 1 206 281 911 Class C ordinary shares of R1 each 1 206 1 206 1 206 1 206 603 140 956 Class D ordinary shares of R1 each 603 603 603 603 117 578 806 Class E ordinary shares of R1 each 117 117 117 117 Less: Treasury shares held in Employee Share Trust (234) (234) – – 12 892 12 892 13 126 13 126 All shares in the classes A to D are held by the South African Government, represented by the Department of Public Enterprises, and enjoy the same rights. The E class shares are held by the South African Airways Employee Share Trust. 98 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Group Company R Million 2013 2012 2013 2012 27. Subordinated loan guaranteed by government Balance at the beginning of the year 1 300 1 300 1 300 1 300 Repaid during the year – – – – Balance at the end of the year 1 300 1 300 1 300 1 300 The loan was obtained from a domestic market source and is secured by a government guarantee. This is a perpetual loan repayable only at the issuer’s (SAA) option. The Group has no obligation to repay the capital or the interest on the loan except on final liquidation after all the creditors have been paid but ranking prior to the ordinary shareholders’ right to participation. Should SAA elect not to make payment, the government guarantee will become effective. The loan of R1,3 billion bears interest at an aggregate of three months JIBAR plus 150 basis points and is payable quarterly from June 2007 at the sole discretion of the issuer. This loan has been classified as an equity instrument and interest paid accounted for as a dividend. Group Company R Million 2013 2012 2013 2012 28. Long‑term loans Secured loans External loans 1 423 1 795 1 399 1 777 The loans are repayable as follows: On demand or within one year 403 490 403 490 Two to five years 1 013 1 305 996 1 287 Later than five years 7 – – – 1 423 1 795 1 399 1 777 Less: current portion repayable on demand (403) (490) (403) (490) 1 020 1 305 996 1 287 The carrying amounts of long‑term loans are denominated in the following currencies: Rand‑denominated domestic loans* 737 1 048 713 1 030 US$‑denominated foreign loans** 686 747 686 747 1 423 1 795 1 399 1 777 * Domestic secured loans bear interest at JIBAR plus a margin ranging from 1.48% to 2.44% and are secured over aircraft (Note 16). ** The foreign secured loans in US$ bear interest at a fixed interest rate ranging from 4.17% to 4.33% and are secured over aircraft (Note 16). 29. Retirement benefits Post‑retirement medical benefits (43) (46) (43) (46) Retirement benefit asset 35 31 35 31 (8) (15) (8) (15) Non‑current assets 35 31 35 31 Non‑current liabilities (43) (46) (43) (46) (8) (15) (8) (15) south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 99 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) Utilised Reversed Currency Non‑ Opening during during revalCurrent current R Million Balance Additions the year the year uation Total portion portion 30. Provisions Reconciliation of provisions GROUP 2013 Provision for lease liabilities 1 1 854 9 (648) (318) 364 1 261 214 1 047 Other provisions 2 118 75 – (1) – 192 – 192 1 972 84 (648) (319) 364 1 453 214 1 239 GROUP 2012 Provision for lease liabilities 1 1 944 504 (802) – 208 1 854 290 1 564 Other provisions 2 12 108 – (2) – 118 – 118 1 956 612 (802) (2) 208 1 972 290 1 682 COMPANY 2013 Provision for lease liabilities 1 1 854 – (648) (318) 364 1 252 214 1 038 Other provisions 2 118 75 – (1) – 192 – 192 1 972 75 (648) (319) 364 1 444 214 1 230 COMPANY 2012 Provision for lease liabilities 1 1 944 504 (802) – 208 1 854 290 1 564 Other provisions 2 12 108 – (2) – 118 – 118 1 956 612 (802) (2) 208 1 972 290 1 682 1 For aircraft held under operating lease agreements, SAA is contractually committed to either return the aircraft in a certain condition or to compensate the lessor based on the actual condition of the airframe, engines and life‑limited parts upon return. In order to fulfil such conditions of the lease, maintenance in the form of major airframe overhaul, engine maintenance checks, and restitution of major life‑limited parts, is required to be performed during the period of the lease and upon return of the aircraft to the lessor. The estimated airframe and engine maintenance costs and the costs associated with the restitution of major life‑limited parts, are accrued and charged to profit or loss over the lease term for this contractual obligation. 2 Other provisions include, but are not limited to, amounts set aside to settle claims against the Group / Company arising in the course of its operations. The amounts provided are unlikely to differ materially from the anticipated final settlement amounts. Further information regarding individual claim amounts have not been provided as they may prejudice the Group / Company in it’s ongoing litigation. Group Company R Million 2013 2012 2013 2012 31. Other long‑term liabilities Shareholder loan to South African Airways Employee Share Trust 63 63 – – The Shareholder loan to the South African Airways Employee Share Trust was created when the E class shares were transferred into the South African Airways Employee Share Trust from the Shareholder. The loan is interest free and is repayable on the winding up of the South African Airways Employee Share Trust. The intention is to wind up the South African Airways Employee Share Trust and the process is expected to take longer than 12 months with the result that it has been classified as long term. 100 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Group Company R Million 2013 2012 2013 2012 32. Deferred revenue on ticket sales Frequent flyer deferred revenue ‑ long term 900 983 900 983 Net air traffic liability ‑ short term 3 007 2 409 2 917 2 336 Frequent flyer deferred revenue ‑ short term 767 946 767 946 3 774 3 355 3 684 3 282 Air traffic liability This balance represents the unrealised income resulting from tickets and air waybills sold, but not yet utilised. The balance includes the value of coupons sold by SAA, which will be flown and claimed in future periods by code‑share and interline partners. The liability is of a short‑term nature and is reflected as a current liability. Refer to Note 3 for the critical judgements applied by management to the value and recognition of this liability. Frequent Flyer deferred revenue Deferred revenue relates to the frequent flyer programme and represents the fair value of the outstanding credits. Revenue is recognised when SAA fulfils its obligations by supplying free or discounted goods or services on the redemption of award credits. Refer to Notes 1 and 4 for more information. Group Company R Million 2013 2012 2013 2012 33. Trade and other payables Trade payables 1 183 1 121 1 442 1 211 Other payables* 4 626 3 698 4 341 3 485 5 809 4 819 5 783 4 696 * Other payables comprise accruals processed in the normal course of business and ticket taxes received in advance. Group Company R Million 2013 2012 2013 2012 34. Commitments Authorised capital expenditure Already contracted for but not provided for Capital commitments ‑ contracted in US$ 942 910 942 910 942 910 942 910 Capital commitments relate to the Airbus A320 orders and the amount disclosed includes escalations to the 2018 financial year. The first delivery is expected during the second quarter of the 2014 financial year. Operating leases – as lessee (expense) (Rand million) Operating lease commitments for property, aircraft, equipment and vehicles are expected to be incurred as follows: ‑ within one year 2 119 1 835 2 119 1 835 ‑ in second to fifth year inclusive 5 338 5 721 5 338 5 721 ‑ later than five years 1 594 2 096 1 594 2 096 9 051 9 652 9 051 9 652 Included in the operating lease commitments are the following US$‑based lease commitments. Currency risks associated with these commitments are not hedged. The table below sets out the foreign denominated lease commitments. Uncovered lease commitments (US$ million) ‑ within one year 210 198 210 198 ‑ in second to fifth year inclusive 513 628 513 628 ‑ later than five years 176 241 176 241 899 1 067 899 1 067 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 101 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) 35. Employee benefit information 35.1 SAA Group pension benefits The Group offers pension benefits through two defined benefit pension funds and various defined contribution funds. The Transport Pension Fund was previously known as the Transnet Pension Fund, the name was amended in November 2005. The Transnet Pension Fund Amendment Act restructured the Transport Pension Fund into a multi‑employer pension fund. From the date this Act came into operation, all existing members, pensioners, dependant pensioners, liabilities, assets, rights and obligations of the Transport Pension Fund are attributable to a subfund, with Transnet as the principal employer. The amended Rules of the Fund establish a subfund in the name of South African Airways SOC Limited (SAA Group) from 1 April 2006. A further subfund in the name of South African Rail Commuter Corporation Limited was established with effect from 1 May 2006. The third subfund currently in existence is the Transnet subfund. The SAA Group also offers post‑retirement medical benefits to its employees through various funds of its own. 35.1.1 Transnet Retirement Fund (TRF) The fund was structured as a defined contribution fund from 1 November 2000. All employees of SAA are eligible members of the fund. There were 5 702 members (2012: 5 872) at 31 March 2013. Actuarial valuations are done, at intervals not exceeding three years, to determine its financial position. The last actuarial valuation was performed at 31 October 2010. The actuaries were satisfied with the status of the members’ credit account then. The Group’s contributions for the period to 31 March 2013 amounted to R378 million (2012: R358 million). 35.1.2 SAA subfund of the Transport Pension Fund The fund is a closed defined benefit pension fund. Members are current employees of the SAA Group who elected to remain as members of the fund at 1 November 2000 and pensioner members who retired subsequent to that date. There were 116 active members (2012: 126) and 281 pensioners (2012: 274) at 31 March 2013. An actuarial valuation was done as at 31 March 2013 based on the projected unit credit method. The benefits for the members of the fund are determined based on the formula below: A member with at least 10 years’ pensionable service is entitled to the following benefits on attaining the minimum retirement age: An annual pensionable salary equal to average pensionable salary multiplied by pensionable service multiplied by accrual factor plus a gratuity equal to 1/3 of annual pension multiplied by gratuity factor. A member with less than 10 years of pensionable service is entitled to a gratuity equal to twice the member’s own contributions without interest on attaining the age limit. The asset splits between the three subfunds were calculated, based on the proportional allocation of benefit liabilities to be transferred to each subfund, and presented to the Board of the fund. The physical split has been agreed by the principal employers and the subfunds’ Boards. The Group expects to make a contribution of R7,8 million (2013: R7,3 million) to the defined benefit plan during the next financial year. PERCENT 2013 2012 Principal actuarial assumptions used: Discount rate 7,19 8,28 Inflation 5,75 5,62 Salary increases Inflation 6,75 6,62 Pension increases First three years 1,60 2,64 After three years 1,60 2,64 Expected return on assets 8,00 9,00 102 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 R Million 2013 2012 35. Employee benefit information (continued) Benefit asset/(liability) Present value of obligation (1 380) (1 296) Fair value of plan assets 1 827 1 598 Surplus 447 302 Asset not recognised (399) (277) Net asset per the statement of financial position 48 25 Reconciliation of movement in present value of obligation Opening benefit liability at the beginning of the year (1 296) (1 119) Service cost (10) (4) Interest cost (105) (101) Actuarial loss (79) (71) Benefits paid 115 142 Past‑service cost – (138) Member contributions (5) (5) Closing present value of obligation (1 380) (1 296) Reconciliation of fair value of plan assets Opening fair value of plan assets 1 598 1 610 Expected return 141 163 Actuarial gain/(loss) 190 (45) Employer’s contributions 7 7 Benefits paid (114) (142) Member contributions 5 5 Closing fair value of plan assets 1 827 1 598 R Million 2013 2012 The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are: Equity 35 37 Property 8 5 Bonds 32 37 Cash 4 2 International 21 19 Total 100 100 R Million 2013 2012 Current‑service cost 10 4 Interest on obligation 105 101 Past‑service cost – 138 Expected return on plan assets (141) (163) (26) 80 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 103 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) 35. Employee benefit information (continued) 35.2 Medical benefits 35.2.1 SAA Group employees’ post‑retirement medical benefits The Group has an arrangement with its employees whereby SAA subsidises its members for post‑retirement medical benefits. The post‑retirement medical benefits obligation relates to SAA Group continuation and in‑service members who are members of Transnet, and who retired after 31 March 1990 or are still employees of SAA; employees who participate in the Discovery Health Medical Scheme; and those who do not belong to a medical scheme. SAA subsidises continuation and in‑service members with a fixed amount of R213 (2012: R213) per month in retirement. The amount is fixed irrespective of the number of dependents on the medical scheme. Dependants of members who die while in service continue to receive this amount. To enable the SAA Group to fully provide for such post‑retirement medical aid liabilities, since April 2000 actuarial valuations are obtained annually, as required by IAS 19: Employee Benefits. There are no assets held to fund the obligation. Allocation of liability to SAA Group The net benefit costs are allocated to subsidiaries of Transnet based on the demographic distribution of the Transnet Medical Scheme members across units. Any deficit or liability for post‑retirement medical benefits, incurred prior to 31 March 1999, is by agreement between Transnet Limited and SAA, for the account of Transnet Limited. Any liability directly attributable to the airline after 1 April 1999 will be for SAA’s account. The projected unit credit method has been used for the purposes of determining an actuarial valuation of post‑retirement medical benefits as at 31 March 2013. The table below summarises the components of net benefit expense recognised in both the statement of comprehensive income and the statement of financial position for the SAA Group as at 31 March 2013 for SAA Group employees. The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows: percent 2013 2012 Discount rate 8,00 8,28 R Million 2013 2012 Net benefit liability Present value of unfunded benefit obligations 43 46 Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows: Opening liability 46 39 Service cost 1 1 Interest cost 3 3 Actuarial (gain)/loss (4) 5 Benefits paid (3) (2) Benefit liability at year‑end 43 46 Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income Current‑service cost 1 1 Interest on obligation 3 3 4 4 104 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 35. Employee benefit information (continued) 35.3 SAA UK Pension Fund benefits SAA operates the SAA UK Pension Fund for employees based in the United Kingdom. The fund used to have both a defined benefit (final salary) and defined contribution (money purchase) sections. In view of the risks associated with defined benefits, at the request of the Company, this section was closed to new members in 1996, to existing members under the age of 53 in 2003 and to the remaining members in December 2009. The rationale for this was to remove future liabilities from the Company and to reduce annual running costs. The Trustees arranged a buy‑out of the liabilities for members (active, deferred and pensioners) and completed the exercise in February 2010. Benefits for a money purchase member are determined by the contributions paid into a member’s pension account, the investment returns on those contributions and the cost of purchasing an annuity at retirement. Actuarial valuations Actuarial valuations were carried out, at intervals not exceeding three years, to determine the financial position of the final salary section. The fund was valued using the projected unit credit method as required by IAS 19: Employee Benefits in March 2009, but has not been valued at 31 March 2013 due to it being bought out. 35.4 SAA German Pension Fund benefits SAA operates a retirement plan for its permanent employees based in Germany. The scheme is a defined benefit fund. The scheme consists of three groups which are entitled to different benefits as follows: Group 1: Those in the employment of SAA before 1976. All employees who were members in this group have retired and the scheme has therefore been closed with effect from March 2004. Group 2: Those in the employment of SAA from April 1976 to December 1988. Group 3: All new employees who joined SAA after 1 January 1989. The benefits payable to groups 2 and 3 are determined with reference to the rules of the scheme and are based on the percentage of the average salary for the last 12 months multiplied by the number of years of pensionable service plus a cash lump sum. The retirement age for all employees is 63 years. The Group expects to make a contribution of R2,7 million (2013: R2,5 million) to the defined benefit plan during the next financial year. Actuarial valuation Actuarial valuations in terms of the rules of the scheme are done at intervals not exceeding three years to determine its financial position. The most recent actuarial valuation of plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation were carried out in March 2013 using the projected unit credit method. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 105 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) VALUATION PERCENT 2013 2012 35. Employee benefit information (continued) Principle actuarial assumptions used: Discount rate 3,8 4,7 Inflation 1,5 1,5 Salary increases 2,0 2,0 Pension increases per three years 4,5 4,5 Expected return on assets 3,8 3,8 R Million 2013 2012 Benefit (liability)/asset Present value of obligation (246) (185) Fair value of plan assets 234 191 Net (liability)/asset per the statement of financial position (12) 6 Reconciliation of movement in present value of obligation Opening benefit liability at the beginning of the year 185 159 Service cost 3 3 Interest cost 9 9 Exchange differences on foreign plans 31 11 Benefits paid (9) (9) Actuarial loss 27 12 Closing present value of obligation 246 185 Reconciliation of fair value of plan assets Opening fair value of plan assets 191 176 Exchange differences on foreign plans 31 11 Expected return 8 10 Actuarial gain 10 – Benefits paid (8) (8) Employer’s contribution 2 2 Closing fair value of plan assets 234 191 The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are: Equity 25 27 Bonds 50 43 Other 25 30 Total 100 100 Current‑service cost 3 3 Interest on obligation 9 9 Expected return on plan assets (8) (10) 4 2 106 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 35. Employee benefit information (continued) 35.5 Flight deck crew (FDC) disability benefit SAA has an agreement with FDC members who are on permanent employment to top up the disability benefits payable by the Transnet Retirement Fund and the SAA Retirement Fund. In terms of the rules of the Transnet Retirement Fund all employees are entitled to 75 percent of the members’ pensionable salary payable when a member becomes disabled before the normal retirement age of 63. The agreement with FDC members is for SAA to pay a further 25 percent in addition to what the member would receive from the pension fund in the case of disability. The members or SAA make no additional contribution towards these benefits, and these benefits are therefore unfunded. In the past, SAA has recognised the full obligation in the financial statements as there were no plan assets or an insurance cover in place of these promised benefits. In 2007, SAA took an insurance policy to cover the 25 percent additional benefit to pilots, which resulted in SAA no longer having a legal or constructive obligation to fund the disability benefit. Number of shares 2013 2012 35.6 Share‑based payments 35.6.1 FDC Share Scheme The FDC Share Scheme was created for flight deck crew members and Transnet Limited allocated 40 150 000 E class ordinary R1,00 shares of SAA to the scheme. These shares are held as follows: South African Airways Employee Share Trust 3 431 418 3 431 418 3 431 418 3 431 418 35.6.2 Share incentive scheme The scheme granted two types of shares, ie. joining and promotional shares to management. The promotional shares had a 12‑month vesting period and the joining shares had a 24‑month vesting period. Vesting was calculated from 1 April 1999 or when the employee joined the company. The employees could exercise these options at 25% per annum after vesting took place. These shares are held as follows: South African Airways Employee Share Trust 23 005 660 23 005 660 23 005 660 23 005 660 35.6.3 Employee Share Ownership Programme (ESOP) This scheme was implemented in March 2001, granting employees in service of SAA on or before 1 April 1999 options to purchase shares at R1,00 per share. These shares vested over a three‑year period and were fully vested as at 31 March 2004. These shares are held as follows: South African Airways Employee Share Trust 91 141 728 91 141 728 91 141 728 91 141 728 35.7 Employee Wellness Programme The Group offers employees and their immediate families access to a holistic health and wellness programme, providing life skills, awareness, counselling and education programmes to promote healthy lifestyles and coping skills. The programme is aimed at providing support covering a whole range of health and medical conditions, including HIV and Aids. 35.8 Travel benefits The Group offers certain air travel benefits to both current employees and retirees. A percentage of the face value of the air ticket is normally paid in respect of the benefit (with such percentage exceeding the marginal cost of supplying the service) and the ticket is only issued on a “standby” basis, with fare‑paying passengers always having preference. Employees or retirees may only fly if there is available space on the flight. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 107 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) 36. Related parties The SAA Group has applied the exemption under paragraph 25 of IAS 24 to government related entities. South African Airways SOC Limited (SAA) is wholly owned by the Department of Public Enterprises (DPE), a South African Government National Department. SAA is a Schedule 2 Public Entity in terms of the Public Finance Management Act No.1 of 1999 (as amended) (PFMA). Its related parties therefore constitute DPE, its subsidiaries, some major public entities falling under Schedule 2 of the PFMA and key management personnel. Public entities that are classified as major public entities which fall under DPE are omitted from detailed disclosure as per paragraphs 25 and 26 of IAS 24. The exemption also applies to DPE. The only significant transaction that was entered with DPE was a R1,3 billion subordinated loan guaranteed by government. Refer to Note 27 for more details. The revenue from the sale of tickets to related parties has been quantified based on the information available from frequent flyer corporate contracts entered into with the Group. The frequent flyer participants qualify for the same benefits as all other third parties who participate in this frequent flyer programme for corporates. Other ticket sales with related parties were made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arms’ length transactions. The revenue from the sale of tickets that are not reported in terms of these contracts has not been disclosed as it is, and will continue to be, impossible to quantify these sales due to the nature of the distribution network. In addition, there is no requirement or obligation for any related party to purchase its tickets from SAA with the result that SAA’s relationship with these parties has no impact on related party sales and would not negatively impact results should the relationship be terminated. Liabilities include an amount of R122 million (2012: R118 million) relating to leases entered into with a subsidiary of SAA. The Group and its subsidiaries, in the ordinary course of business, enter into various other sales, purchase and service agreements with other parties within the SAA Group. The transactions entered into by entities within the Group are eliminated on consolidation. Group Company R tHOUSAND 2013 2012 2013 2012 Related party balances Amounts receivable from related parties* Subsidiaries – – 1 463 182 1 305 194 Public entities 14 20 14 20 14 20 1 463 196 1 305 214 Amounts payable to related parties** Subsidiaries – – 757 771 584 705 Public entities 46 054 46 131 46 029 46 110 46 054 46 131 803 800 630 815 * Amounts receivable represent short‑ and long‑term amounts receivable. ** Amounts payable represent short‑ and long‑term amounts payable. Sales of goods/services Subsidiaries – – 282 900 247 053 Public entities 14 94 14 94 14 94 282 914 247 147 Purchases of goods/services Subsidiaries – – 3 443 855 3 273 896 Public entities 415 526 738 677 92 323 510 255 415 526 738 677 3 536 178 3 784 151 Other transactions Shareholder * 88 280 91 796 88 280 91 796 Subsidiaries – – 22 598 26 376 Key management personnel ** 40 698 31 525 27 626 20 579 128 978 123 321 138 504 138 751 * Interest paid on government subordinated loan classified as a dividend. ** Long‑ and short‑term employee benefits paid to executive members. Executive members’ emoluments of subsidiaries that form part of SAA Group Executive Committee are disclosed in Note 41.The short‑term employee benefits reflected below refer to members of the SAA Company who are also members of the SAA Group Executive Committee. 108 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 2013 2012 R THOUSAND Fees Fees Key management personnel compensation is set out below: Board of Directors Non‑executive Whitehouse MM1 371 733 Loubser RM2 175 349 Nkosi‑Thomas L 402 368 Myeni DC 505 365 Jantjies TC3 167 334 Mohale BF1 306 612 Daka T1 435 870 Carolus CA1 414 828 Kwinana Y 477 421 Rabbets LJ4 190 380 Sithole ZJ6 175 416 Ndhlovu J1 214 429 Lewis DH1 175 349 Mabizela A5 250 – Khumalo A5 205 – Naithani R5 184 – Roskruge C5 296 – Mpondo B5 436 – Lepule R5 190 – Kubeka N5 375 – Kona V7 147 – 6 089 6 454 1 Resigned 28 September 2012. 2 Resigned 26 September 2012. 3 Resigned 29 September 2012. 4 Resigned 27 September 2012. 5 Appointed 28 September 2012. 6 Deceased 8 August 2012. 7 Appointed 28 September 2012, removed 11 March 2013. In terms of the Group’s travel benefits policy as referred to in note 35.8 above, key management personnel and board members are entitled to utilise surplus capacity on flights at a nominal cost to the beneficiaries and at no loss of revenue to the Group. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 109 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) Fund AllowcontriR THOUSAND Salaries ances butions Other Total 36. Related parties (continued) Short-term employee benefits 2013 Executive directors1 Mzimela SP2 2 248 90 205 2 418 4 961 Kona V3 1 521 – – – 1 521 Bezuidenhout N4 60 – – – 60 Meyer WH 3 271 – – – 3 271 Total 7 100 90 205 2 418 9 813 Executive Committee Parsons BK 2 713 – – – 2 713 Coetzee SJH2 1 420 – 130 2 056 3 606 Mpshe ME 2 103 – 193 – 2 296 Potgieter TG2 1 402 – 128 2 047 3 577 Makhetha TP 2 400 – – – 2 400 Thabethe F5 677 104 62 – 843 Papa M6 701 106 55 – 862 Ramasia Z7 1 272 – 97 – 1 369 Total 12 688 210 665 4 103 17 666 1 Executive directors of the Board are also members of the Executive Committee. 2 Resigned 8 October 2012. 3 Appointed as Acting CEO effective from 08 October 2012 until 11 February 2013. 4 Appointed as Acting CEO effective from 11 February 2013. 5 Appointed 1 October 2012. 6 Appointed 12 November 2012. 7 Appointed 15 May 2012. Fund AllowcontriR THOUSAND Salaries ances butions Other Total Short-term employee benefits 2012 Executive directors1 Mzimela SP 4 010 – 372 257 4 639 Meyer WH2 2 639 – – 400 3 039 Total 6 649 – 372 657 7 678 Executive Committee Parsons BK3 1 944 – – – 1 944 Coetzee SJH 2 629 – 241 154 3 024 Mpshe ME 2 042 – 254 78 2 374 Potgieter TG 2 480 – 265 68 2 813 Makheta TP 2 357 – – 45 2 402 Mellet GE4 259 63 22 – 344 Total 11 711 63 782 345 12 901 1 Executive directors of the Board are also members of the Executive Committee. 2 Appointed 13 June 2011. 3 Appointed 1 July 2011. 4 Appointed as Acting CFO until 12 June 2011. 110 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Group Company R Million 2013 2012 2013 2012 37. Cash generated from/(used in) operations Loss before taxation (1 170) (1 357) (789) (1 067) Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation on property, aircraft and equipment 530 493 474 440 Profit on sale and scrapping of property, aircraft and equipment (22) (25) (24) (25) Amortisation of intangible assets 35 37 32 34 Impairment of buildings 20 – 20 – Impairment of subsidiaries – – – 2 Derivative market movements 84 18 84 18 Reversal of impairment of subsidiaries – – (414) (263) Interest income (12) (42) (11) (42) Finance costs 191 147 212 172 Release from air traffic liability (355) (433) (355) (433) Movement in employee benefit obligations (3) 7 (3) 7 Impairment of accounts receivables 4 47 4 38 Non‑cash movement on retirement benefit plans (24) 80 (24) 80 Other non‑cash movements (12) – 11 – Movement in non‑current assets classified as held-for-sale (6) – – – Release from passenger tax levies (133) (237) (133) (237) Unrealised foreign exchange gain on PDPs (67) (38) (67) (38) Unrealised foreign exchange (gain)/loss on revaluation of loans (164) 342 (188) 336 Unrealised foreign exchange gain on cash and cash equivalents (31) (141) (34) (142) Movement in retirement benefit asset (4) (31) (4) (31) Changes in working capital: Inventories (21) (177) (27) (12) Trade and other receivables 22 (159) 101 (196) Trade and other payables 1 127 300 1 220 213 Air traffic liability 953 404 936 388 Frequent flyer deferred revenue (262) (271) (262) (271) Provisions (519) (90) (528) (90) 161 (1 126) 231 (1 119) south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 111 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) Financial Fair value liabilities through profit at amortised or loss R Million Notes cost held-for-trading1 Total 38. Financial liabilities by category Set out below is an analysis of all of the Group’s financial liabilities that are carried at either fair value or amortised cost in the annual financial statements depending on their classification: Group ‑ 2013 Long‑ and short‑term liabilities 28 1 423 – 1 423 Shareholder loan to share trust 31 63 – 63 Trade and other payables 33 5 809 – 5 809 Forward exchange contracts and swaps 22 – 4 4 Bank overdraft 25 2 636 – 2 636 9 931 4 9 935 Group ‑ 2012 Long‑ and short‑term liabilities 28 1 795 – 1 795 Shareholder loan to share trust 31 63 – 63 Trade and other payables 33 4 819 – 4 819 Forward exchange contracts and swaps 22 – 11 11 Bank overdraft 25 1 569 – 1 569 8 246 11 8 257 1 Financial instruments held at fair value are level two instruments. Fair value through profit Loans and or loss heldAvailable-forR Million Notes receivables for-trading1 sale Total 39. Financial assets by category Set out below is an analysis of all of the Group’s financial assets that are carried at either fair value or amortised cost in the annual financial statements depending on their classification: Group ‑ 2013 Forward exchange contracts and swaps 22 – 23 – 23 Currency derivatives 22 – 72 – 72 Jet fuel options 22 – 53 – 53 Trade and other receivables 23 4 480 – – 4 480 Cash and cash equivalents 25 1 536 – – 1 536 Investment in SA Airlink (Pty) Limited 24 – – 10 10 6 016 148 10 6 174 Group ‑ 2012 Forward exchange contracts and swaps 22 – 151 – 151 Currency derivatives 22 – 32 – 32 Jet fuel options 22 – 79 – 79 Trade and other receivables 23 4 506 – – 4 506 Cash and cash equivalents 25 1 536 – – 1 536 Investment in SA Airlink (Pty) Limited 24 – – 9 9 6 042 262 9 6 313 1 Financial instruments held at fair value are level two instruments. 112 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 40. Risk management 40.1 Financial instruments categories: Fair value of financial instruments The Group has estimated fair values where appropriate, by using the following methods and assumptions: Investment in unlisted shares classified as available-for-sale financial assets The investment in the unlisted shares is held as an ancillary investment, and is not considered a material holding to the Group. The value of the shares was impaired to zero but in the previous two financial years, the impairment was reversed by R9 million in 2012 and by a further R1 million in the current financial year. Derivative assets and liabilities The derivative assets and liabilities are entered into to manage Group exposure to foreign currency, interest rates and jet fuel price risks. The Group derivatives include Fixed contracts, Vanilla European and Asian options, Swaps, Call Spreads and Collars, which are entered into mainly to manage foreign currency exchange risk and jet fuel price risk. The fair values of the derivative instruments are determined based on observable inputs into valuation models. Foreign currency forward contracts are mainly entered into to manage foreign currency exchange risk and are measured using the quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts. All other financial assets and liabilities are measured at amortised cost. Fixed swaps are valued using a simple discounted cash flow calculation. Asian options are valued using the Black‑Scholes formula, where the inputs into the pricing model are the expected arithmetic average and the variance of the expected arithmetic average of the underlying. The treasury system used for the foreign currency hedges is SunGard Quantum and SunGard Kiodex for the Fuel commodity derivatives. 40.2 Governance structure The SAA Board is charged with the responsibility of managing the airline’s financial risks. It is assisted by the Audit Committee, which reviews all the financial risks of the organisation, as well as key financial decisions. The Audit Committee is a committee of the Board and it meets at least once per quarter, and is supported by the Financial Risk Subcommittee (FRSC), which meets on a monthly basis. The FRSC is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and its membership is made up of key representatives: Chief Risk Officer, Group Treasurer, Corporate Finance, Head Cash Management, Chief Dealer, Risk Manager, Financial Risk Manager, Fuel Management, Head Financial Accounting and CFO’s of all the subsidiaries. Risk management department SAA has established an independent enterprise-wide risk management department. This department is headed by the Chief Risk Officer who also oversees SAA’s compliance and internal audit functions. SAA Group Treasury has a separate financial risk management department, which oversees day-to-day risk measurement and monitoring and treasury operations. Risk management systems SAA has implemented a Treasury risk management system with advanced analytics to assist SAA’s Front Office in the hedging decisions in the hedging portfolios. The key for this tool is its ability to handle jet fuel price risk exposures using commodity pricing models and the aggregation of all the other risks to enable SAA to have a view of its financial risks in the treasury environment. The capital risk and financial risk management is described below. 40.3 Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of share capital and a government subordinated guaranteed loan that is classified as an equity instrument. The non‑distributable reserves include general reserves and government restructuring funds, which are ring‑fenced for funding of the Group’s restructuring activities to ensure that the entity returns to profitability with financial performance metrics similar to those of its world class peers. The debt includes long‑term interest bearing borrowings and short‑term borrowings, including accounts payable and bank overdrafts. The Group uses short‑term investment instruments to ensure continued funding of operations. Refer to the going concern details as per the Directors’ Report, which notes the concern in respect of the risk that SAA is largely undercapitalised. Aircraft and engine financing Aircraft financing is typically conducted using specialised finance transactions, which are structured through bankruptcy remote special purpose vehicles (SPVs) that further syndicates the debt to a range of possible lenders. The SPV itself is simply a legal entity with an administrator and a single asset offset by the financing structure. In addition to the above, aircraft financing facilities tend to be concluded a short time before delivery of the aircraft and then become fully drawn when the aircraft is delivered. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 113 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) 40. Risk management (continued) Gearing ratio The Board, through its Audit Committee is responsible for the capital risk management of the Group. This committee meets regularly to review the capital risks and their review includes considering the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital. This committee sets targets and policies within which the Financial Risk Subcommittee, and the Group Treasury, operates to execute the Board’s mandate. The gearing ratios in 2013 and 2012 respectively were as follows: R Million Note 2013 2012 Debt* 6 14 652 12 641 Less: Cash and cash equivalents 25 1 100 33 Net debt 6 15 752 12 674 Equity (849) 443 Net debt to equity ratio 6 (19):1 29:1 * Debt includes all current and non‑current liabilities and excludes all provisions. 40.4 Financial risk management The fundamental objective of financial risk management at SAA is to protect and, where possible, improve on future budgeted and forecast cash flows, and the financial performance and financial position of the Group, by: • Protecting the Group from adverse market movements that manifest as financial downside for the business and endanger stakeholders (shareholder, employees and the community), and threaten the sustainability and competitive position and reputational risk of the SAA Group in the market; • Reducing the volatility and resultant uncertainty of operating revenues and cash flows that result from financial market volatility; and • Providing some price stability through improving the transparency of price mechanisms. The main financial market risks faced by the Group are liquidity risk, credit risk and market risk which consist of interest rate risk, currency risk and commodity price risk. The Board has a clear financial risk management policy with clearly defined objectives. This policy presents a framework and control environment that sets the limits within which management can leverage their experience and knowledge of the business together with financial risk management skills and a degree of innovation, to manage and mitigate financial risk on a day-to-day basis. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does not meet its financial obligations on a cost effective and a timeous basis, and could result in reputational damage should a default occur. The cash management and liquidity risk management processes are aimed at ensuring that the Group is managing its cash resources optimally, has sufficient funds to meet its day-to-day financial obligations, has established prudent limits on the percentage of debt that can mature in any financial year, is investing any cash surpluses in an appropriate and authorised way and has sufficient facilities in place to provide its relevant forecast liquidity requirement. The principles for cash and liquidity management at SAA are as follows: • Transactional banking relationships must be reviewed every five years. SAA Treasury is responsible for the recommendation of bankers, and the Board must through the Bid Adjudication Committee (BAC), the Procurement and Tender Processes Committee (PTPC) and the normal tendering process approve the appointment of bankers; • All requests for the opening and closing of bank accounts and the management of bank account signatories are to be reviewed and approved by the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Treasurer; and • Prudent cash management practices must be implemented, including the use of a centralised, pooled cash management bank account structure and systems, and the maintenance of minimum cash balances at operational level. All companies within the Group are included in the cash management structure and form part of the cash and liquidity management practices of the Group. Committed funding facilities SAA is dependent on funding in the form of leases and loans in foreign currency and local currency, mainly for the purchase of aircraft and aircraft components. The volatility of the financial markets, SAA’s financial standing and the difficulties experienced by the airline industry in general affect the availability of funding to airlines. Funding can sometimes be constrained to a limited number of counterparties at any given time. The underlying risk manifests in three forms: • SAA loses committed funding from a particular counterparty due to that counterparty defaulting on an existing funding arrangement; • SAA is unable to secure new funding at a particular time; and • SAA loses assets deposited as security deposits, defeasance deposits, or cash collateral on funding structures. Cash and liquidity management takes into account the mediumto long‑term funding plans of SAA as developed by the Funding Committee. 114 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities based on undiscounted cash flows, excluding the impact of netting agreements and the derivative financial instruments that are out of the money at year end. The derivative financial instruments that are in the money are reflected as financial assets. Carrying ContracLess principal tual than 1‑3 3‑6 6‑12 1‑5 Over R Million amount* amount* 1 month months months months years 5 years Group 31 March 2013** Non‑derivative financial liabilities US$‑denominated secured loans (in ZAR) 686 720 – 121 – 116 483 – Total US$‑denominated loans (in ZAR) 686 720 – 121 – 116 483 – ZAR‑denominated secured loans 737 746 – 67 38 93 541 7 Accounts payable 5 809 5 809 – 5 709 – – 100 – Shareholder loan to share trust 63 63 – – – – 63 – Total (ZAR) 6 609 6 618 – 5 776 38 93 704 7 Derivative financial instruments Fuel ‑ Asian options 53 53 2 22 18 11 – – FX ‑ Currency options 57 57 – 44 10 3 – – Forward exchange contracts ‑ Assets 15 203 – 83 74 46 – – Fuel ‑ Swap Assets 23 23 – 11 6 6 – – Fuel ‑ Swap Liabilities (4) (4) (4) – – – – – Total (ZAR) 144 332 (2) 160 108 66 – – Group 31 March 2012** Non‑derivative financial liabilities US$‑denominated secured loans (in ZAR) 747 800 – 103 – 102 595 – Total US$‑denominated loans (in ZAR) 747 800 – 103 – 102 595 – ZAR‑denominated secured loans 1 048 1 334 – 123 107 230 874 – Accounts payable 4 819 4 819 – 4 719 – – 100 – Shareholder loan to share trust 63 63 – – – – 63 – Total (ZAR) 5 930 6 216 – 4 842 107 230 1 037 – Derivative financial instruments Fuel Asian options 79 147 41 31 55 20 – – FX ‑ Currency options 32 692 22 189 209 272 – – Forward exchange contracts ‑ Assets 142 154 40 35 79 – – – Forward exchange contracts ‑ Liabilities (11) (239) (20) (20) (104) (95) – – Fuel ‑ Swap assets 9 19 4 6 5 4 – – Total (ZAR) 251 773 87 241 244 201 – – * The carrying principal amount excludes interest while the contractual amount includes interest. This is applicable to non‑derivative financial liabilities. ** A separate liquidity analysis has not been provided for the Company, as the numbers do not differ significantly from the Group numbers. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 115 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) 40. Risk management (continued) Other risks Undrawn commitment SAA issued a R100 million debt facility to Mango, a wholly-owned subsidiary, in 2007. This facility remains open for Mango to utilise at its own discretion as and when it needs cash funding. SAA does not expect Mango to utilise this facility within the next 12 months. There were no other undrawn commitments at year end. Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk of increased financing cost due to adverse movements in market interest rates. Interest rate risk impacts SAA in the following forms: • Increased cash costs in an increasing interest rate environment due to the Group’s floating aircraft funding structures; • The opportunity cost of funding at a higher rate in a declining interest rate environment due to the Group’s fixed funding structures; and • The bulk of the Group’s interest rate exposure is as a result of US$‑denominated aircraft financing structures. This portfolio is made up of operating leases, finance leases and loans. The portfolio is highly sensitive to the movement of US interest rates. The Group is continually monitoring and adjusting its fixed/floating ratio to adapt to the changing dynamics of its business operations and to protect its statement of comprehensive income and statement of financial position. The objectives of managing interest rate risk are to: • design appropriate funding structures (fixed versus floating, and local versus foreign currency) through the Funding and Capex Committee; • reduce the cost of capital; • minimise the effect of interest rate volatility on the Group’s financing expenditure; • manage the ratio of floating rate exposures to fixed rate exposures; • obtain optimal investment returns on surplus cash, while ensuring that credit risk is managed; • ensure that appropriate levels of liquidity are maintained, while remaining within the guidelines set by this policy; and • ensure efficiency by restructuring interest rate exposure as and when necessary. The Group is exposed to changes in interest rates on floating rate debt and cash deposits. Interest rate risk on borrowings and leases is managed through determining the right balance of fixed and floating debt within the financing structure. To manage the interest rate exposure, the Group Treasury keeps a reasonable amount of foreign cash deposits to offset to some degree the finance charges. The current SAA Group policy limits the maximum interest rate exposure to fixed debt at 75 percent and floating debt at 50 percent. As at 31 March 2013, the current interest rate exposure to fixed debt is 64 percent and 36 percent in respect of floating debt. Market conditions are considered when determining the desired balance of fixed and floating rate debt. The sensitivities of the Group’s floating interest rate debt and cash deposits are calculated using the annualised volatility over the last five years. 40.5 Credit risk management Credit risk is the risk of losses (realised or unrealised) arising from a counterparty defaulting on a financial market instrument where the Group is a party to the transaction or failure to service debt according to contractual terms. Credit risk encompasses both the direct risk of default and the risk of deterioration of creditworthiness and the respective concentration risk. The objectives of managing counterparty risk are to avoid contracting with any party that is not of an acceptable credit standing, formulate evaluation criteria of potential counterparties and implementing monitoring measures and control processes for counterparty risk. The Group is exposed to a number of types of counterparty risk as part of its normal business operations as described below: Investment risk Cash balances and investments held in a range of local and offshore bank accounts, in a range of currencies, which form part of SAA’s cash management and revenue collection infrastructure. Marginal risk The Group makes use of derivative instruments in the foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity markets to mitigate the risk of adverse changes in cash flow and earnings that result from fluctuations in the financial markets. Counterparty risk arises on these derivative instruments when the hedging positions with counterparties have a positive net present value to SAA and are providing SAA with protection against adverse market movements in future. In this scenario SAA would lose the protection if the counterparty defaults on its obligation and SAA will have to replace this protection with similar hedging transactions at a higher cost. It is also important to note that, in the event that a counterparty goes into liquidation and its marginal risk position (net present value) is positive (an asset to the counterparty) with SAA, the Company may be called on by the creditors of the counterparty to crystallise and settle the positions in question earlier than anticipated. Counterparties are grouped in two major groups from a credit risk perspective: Rated counterparties Local and international banking and financial institutions, which are rated by major ratings agencies, and whose financial information is readily available. Unrated counterparties SAA needs to deal with and hold bank accounts in various locations with local banking institutions that may not be rated and for which there is very little or no financial information available. This is typically the case where there is no representation of any of the rated counterparties in such location and SAA has to use an unrated counterparty to fulfil normal operational banking requirements, or where it is agreed by the Board as a prerequisite for specific operating bases. The Group has therefore a very restricted mandate when dealing with any unrated counterparties. The Group has operating accounts in some African countries which are not rated. The exposure to these banks is kept at a minimum. 116 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Loans and receivables credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk relating to the nature of the distribution network for airline operations. The Group airline distribution network includes BSPs (these are IATA accredited travel agents) and general sales agents (GSAs) who are used in countries where there are no IATA accredited travel agents. Credit card debtors arise from the customers paying their fares using credit cards and the Group has to recover the money through the credit card financial institutions clearing houses globally. Other debtors mainly consist of loans receivable and fuel trading debtors. These are classified as other because they do not form part of the Group’s normal operating activities. The Group manages its credit risk from trade receivables on the basis of an internally developed credit management policy. This policy sets out the credit limits and requirements for any credit enhancements. The Group holds a guarantee from a GSA as a prerequisite before it can accredit it to be part of its distribution network. The Group also requires some counterparties to provide guarantees in the form of cash and letters of credit as security for exposure. This is prevalent mainly on GSAs. The amount of guarantees is agreed upon based on the risk profile of the counterparty. The guarantees relating to BSP debtors are held directly by IATA for the benefit of all airlines exposed to a particular BSP. Maximum exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit risk exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was as follows: Group Company R Million 2013 2012 2013 2012 Financial instruments 6 Cash and cash equivalents 6 1 536 1 536 1 060 1 139 Amounts receivable from subsidiaries* 6 – – 1 463 1 305 Derivative assets held‑for‑trading 6 148 262 148 262 Trade and other receivables 6 4 480 4 506 4 250 4 355 Investments 6 10 9 10 9 * These amounts are not past due or impaired. Impact on other components of equity in Rand * Foreign +33%* +22%* +16%* currency Carrying ‑33% ‑22% ‑16% amount amount US$ Euro GBP ‘000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 Financial instruments Accounts receivable 31 March 2013 US$‑denominated 189 213 1 747 536 576 686 – – EUR‑denominated 34 992 414 296 – 91 158 – GBP‑denominated 8 319 116 779 – – 18 684 576 686 91 158 18 684 Foreign +16%* +13%* +9%* currency Carrying ‑16% ‑13% ‑9% amount amount US$ Euro GBP ‘000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 Financial instruments Accounts receivable 31 March 2012 US$‑denominated 176 659 1 354 735 217 962 – – EUR‑denominated 13 015 133 189 – 17 324 – GBP‑denominated 7 848 96 352 – – 8 676 217 962 17 324 8 676 * The percentages used are based on the average movement over the past four years. The Group does not charge interest on any overdue accounts, therefore the accounts receivable are mainly sensitive to movements in major foreign currencies as detailed above. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 117 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) 40. Risk management (continued) 40.6 Market risk management Market risk comprises currency risk, interest rate risk and price risk. Set out below is the impact of market risk on the Group’s annual financial statements: Currency risk Foreign exchange risk is the risk of loss as a result of adverse movements in currency exchange rates. The biggest contributors to currency risk for the Group are foreign revenues earned at operating unit level, aircraft financing transactions and the covariance risks inherent in the Group’s revenue and cost streams. The Group’s approach to foreign currency risk management is to protect itself against exchange rate volatility and adverse movements in the exchange rate of the Rand in relation to other currencies that the Group is exposed to. The Board made a decision to manage its foreign exchange risk exposures on a net exposure basis, ie. taking into account the different currencies it receives in its revenue stream, the different currencies in which its cost base is denominated, and the underlying natural hedges that exist in its business operations. Foreign exchange risk management is managed through the use of cash collection and conversion strategies and approved derivative financial instruments which are mark‑to‑market on a daily basis. The Group’s policy on foreign exchange risk management is to hedge between 50 percent and 75 percent of its exposure on a 12‑month rolling basis. The Group’s currency risk is represented by the increased financial cost and/or cash requirements due to the net exposure between foreign revenue generated, foreign expenditure commitments and domestic revenues and expenditure commitments. The main objective of the currency risk management policy is to mitigate the potential for financial loss arising through unfavourable movements in exchange rates relative to the budget. Foreign exchange risk will be managed on a net basis, including operating and capital exposures after taking the following into consideration: • Source currencies for revenue and costs (US$, GBP and EUR); • Both direct and indirect foreign exposure. Indirect foreign exposure is where SAA pays in ZAR, but the exposure is determined by using a US$ price, for example jet fuel uplifted in South Africa; • Volatility of the Rand versus US$, GBP and EUR and the correlation between these currencies; and • Foreign currency exposures are determined from the 12‑month rolling ZAR and foreign cash budget. Foreign currency risk will be monitored and managed under the following principles: § The net foreign currency position will be monitored on a monthly basis, by obtaining the net foreign currency position in all currencies from the 12‑month rolling cash budget, including forecast foreign cash balances; § The accuracy of forecast revenues and costs are of critical importance when determining net foreign currency exposure. Management should take care to establish the levels of confidence in achieving forecast revenues and costs on an ongoing basis when designing hedging strategies; and § The foreign versus domestic currency funding decision (loans/leases) should always consider current foreign currency risk management position and practices, since these decisions are a significant source of foreign currency exposure for the Group. The decision to manage capital foreign currency exposures (such as leases and loans) should be combined with the business strategy, route planning and funding decisions (as appropriate), to ensure that funding and foreign currency risk management strategies are complementary to the business strategy and present the most relevant overall solution to the Group. The Group collects revenues in approximately 30 currencies other than ZAR, EUR, GBP and US$. The foreign risk of exotic currencies cannot be practically managed at the local currency level, therefore the cash management structure rolls local currency balances up into hard currency pool accounts on a weekly basis. Currency risk exposures are managed at the hard currency level, ie. in US$, GBP and EUR versus ZAR. The Group did not have any derivatives that qualified for hedge accounting in the current or prior year. ` 2013 2012 The year end exchange rates applied in the translation of the Group’s foreign monetary assets and liabilities are as follows: Exchange rates used expressed in the number of Rands per unit of foreign currency: United States dollar (US$) 9,24 7,67 Euro 11,84 10,23 Pounds sterling (GBP) 14,04 12,28 118 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 FOREIGN AMOUNT RAND AMOUNT R Million 2013 2012 2013 2012 Foreign currency exposure at statement of financial position date The following debtors and creditors amounts included in the statement of financial position have not been covered by forward exchange contracts: Accounts receivable US$ 189 177 1 748 1 355 Euro 35 13 414 133 UK Pound 8 8 117 96 Hong Kong Dollar 18 20 21 19 Danish Krone 4 3 6 4 Swiss Franc 2 1 19 7 Australian Dollar 5 4 45 31 Brazilian Real 24 16 111 68 Thai Baht 7 9 2 2 Malawian Kwacha 705 576 17 27 Other – – 449 246 2 949 1 988 Accounts payable US$ 45 63 418 482 Euro 16 16 185 166 UK Pound 2 2 22 24 Australian Dollar 3 3 31 21 Benin CFA Franc BCEAO 293 190 5 3 Other – – 127 70 (788) (766) Accounts receivable as above 2 949 1 988 Net exposure 2 161 1 222 The Group reviews its foreign currency exposure, including commitments on an ongoing basis. The Group expects to hedge foreign exchange exposure with foreign exchange contracts and currency options. Price risk associated with commodities Jet fuel consumption is SAA’s biggest cost contributor, representing approximately 35 percent of the Group’s cost base. Jet fuel prices have a high level of uncertainty caused by supply shocks, demand patterns, currency fluctuations, market sentiment and political events. Jet fuel price risk is the risk of increased cash cost of jet fuel due to an increase in the prices of the various jet fuel product prices that the Group pays for physical jet fuel purchased around the globe. SAA currently consumes approximately 129 million litres (2012: 126 million litres) of jet fuel per month. This means that any change in price will have a significant impact on the Group’s performance. The objectives of managing jet fuel price risk are to: • reduce the volatility of jet fuel costs and the effect of this volatility on cash flows and earnings, ie. price stability; • limit the impact of derivative instruments on the Group’s financial position and performance; • occupy a competitive position in the airline industry in terms of jet fuel price risk management, negating the competitive advantage that competitors derive from their jet fuel risk management strategies; • utilise any backwardation in the energy forward curves to reduce future jet fuel costs; • provide a protection buffer during times of elevated jet fuel prices; • continually and dynamically transact a minimum amount of hedging in the financial markets; and • ensure that hedging prices are averaged into the market and that large hedges are not transacted at single points in time, which may represent the peak of the market. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 119 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) 40. Risk management (continued) 40.6 Market risk management (continued) The Group manages its jet fuel price risk exposures using derivative financial instruments. All derivative contracts are mark‑to‑market and are cash settled. The Group’s risk policy permits the organisation to manage its jet fuel price risk exposures using the underlying products such as International Crude Exchange (ICE) Brent Crude Oil, ICE Gas Oil 0,5 percent, Gas Oil, Western Texas Intermediate (WTI), FOB ARAB Gulf 0,5 percent and Jet Kerosene (North West Europe) NWE. It is SAA’s policy to hedge a maximum of 60 percent of its jet fuel price risk exposures on a 12‑month rolling basis, with no minimum hedge percentage. Sensitivity analysis The Group sensitivity analysis would include the sensitivity of annual financial statements to currency risk based on US$, which carries a greater impact on the Group, the interest rate risk sensitivity to LIBOR and JIBAR, the other price risk sensitivity mainly driven by the price per barrel of oil‑based commodity derivatives. The following sensitivity analysis was determined based on the 12‑month horizon with reasonable possible change at year end. Management has determined the reasonable possible change using market input and historical data. The 12 months was considered appropriate as the Group only publishes its results annually and has reasonable expectations for uncertainties in the 12-month horizon. For internal reporting to Audit Committee, a one month horizon is utilised. Commodity price Currency* derivatives* Loss impact Profit impact ‑22% Brent +22% Brent Foreign Profit/(loss) Profit/(loss) ‑26%WTI +26%WTI currency Carrying impact impact ‑20%Gas oil +20%Gas oil amount amount ‑33% US$ +33% US$ ‑21%Jet fuel +21%Jet fuel ‘000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 GROUP AND COMPANY Derivative financial instruments 31 March 2013** ICE Brent commodity derivatives Fixed swaps 2 032 18 764 (6 129) 6 129 (162 352) 162 351 Asian call options 406 3 750 (1 225) 1 225 (3 739) 21 993 Collars 482 4 455 (1 455) 1 455 (64 827) 76 002 Call spreads 4 621 42 682 (13 942) 13 942 (42 042) 79 062 ICE gas oil commodity derivatives Call spreads 223 2 063 (673) 673 (1 997) 2 253 US$ foreign exchange derivatives Forward exchange contracts ‑ Assets – 12 905 (66 440) 66 440 – – European call options – 59 245 (59 245) 211 915 – – 143 864 (149 109) 301 779 (274 957) 341 661 120 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Commodity price Currency* derivatives* Loss impact Profit impact ‑23% Brent +23% Brent Foreign Profit/(loss) Profit/(loss) ‑26%WTI +26%WTI currency Carrying impact impact ‑22%Gas oil +22%Gas oil amount amount ‑16% US$ +16% US$ ‑20%Jet fuel +20%Jet fuel ’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 GROUP AND COMPANY Derivative financial instruments 31 March 2012** ICE Brent commodity derivatives Fixed swaps 14 902 114 276 (18 386) 18 386 (235 729) 235 726 Asian call options 7 767 59 565 (9 583) 9 583 (41 888) 102 044 Asian put options 1 493 11 452 (1 843) 1 843 (40 122) 8 267 NYMEX WTI commodity derivatives Fixed swaps (306) (2 345) 377 (377) (20 620) 20 620 Asian call options 269 2 062 (332) 332 (1 973) 14 651 ICE gas oil commodity derivatives Fixed swaps 3 608 27 671 (4 452) 4 452 (22 027) 22 027 Asian call options 780 5 979 (962) 962 (5 966) 20 641 US$ foreign exchange derivatives Forward exchange contracts ‑ Assets – 8 766 (22 825) 22 825 – – Forward exchange contracts ‑ Liabilities – (8 241) 39 481 (39 481) – – European call options – 31 567 (55 047) 59 712 – – 250 752 (73 572) 78 237 (368 325) 423 976 * The percentages are based on the average movement over the past four years. ** A separate sensitivity analysis has not been provided for the Company, as the numbers do not differ significantly from the Group numbers. Fair Value hierarchy of all financial assets and liabilities held at fair value: With significant Quoted market Using observable unobservable price inputs inputs R Million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total GROUP AND COMPANY As at 31 March 2013 Assets Jet fuel options – 53 – 53 Currency derivatives – 72 – 72 Forward exchange contracts and swaps – 23 – 23 Liabilities Forward exchange contracts and swaps – 4 – 4 GROUP AND COMPANY As at 31 March 2012 Assets Jet fuel options – 79 – 79 Currency derivatives – 32 – 32 Forward exchange contracts and swaps – 151 – 151 Liabilities Forward exchange contracts and swaps – 11 – 11 Fair value hierarchy The table above analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels have been defined as follows: • Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identifiable assets and liabilities; • Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included in level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. from prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and • Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 121 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) CURRENCY* INTEREST RATE* Profit/(loss) (Loss)/profit Foreign Profit/(loss) (Loss)/profit impact impact currency Carrying impact impact ‑12 bps US$ +12 bps US$ amount amount ‑33% US$ +33% US$ ‑36 bps ZAR +36 bps ZAR ‘000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 40. Risk management (continued) 40.6 Market risk management (continued) GROUP AND COMPANY Non-derivative financial instruments 31 March 2013 Secured borrowing ‑ LIBOR floating debt (US$ denominated) 74 251 685 771 224 006 (224 006) 819 (819) Secured borrowing ‑ JIBAR floating debt (ZAR denominated) – 736 979 – – 2 652 (2 652) ZAR based cash and cash equivalents (net overdraft) – 1 945 572 – – 7 004 (7 004) Accounts payable (US$ denominated) 45 260 418 012 137 944 (137 944) – – Total financial liabilities 119 511 3 786 334 361 950 (361 950) 10 475 (10 475) Foreign cash and cash equivalents (Favourable cash US$ equivalent) 91 471 844 806 (278 787) 278 787 (1 014) 1 014 Total financial assets 91 471 844 806 (278 787) 278 787 (1 014) 1 014 CURRENCY* INTEREST RATE* Profit/(loss) (Loss)/profit Foreign Profit/(loss) (Loss)/profit impact impact currency Carrying impact impact ‑25 bps US$ +25 bps US$ amount amount ‑16% US$ +16% US$ ‑48 bps ZAR +48 bps ZAR ‘000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 GROUP AND COMPANY Non-derivative financial instruments 31 March 2012 Secured borrowing ‑ LIBOR floating debt (US$ denominated) 96 330 738 723 118 852 (118 852) 1 879 (1 879) Secured borrowing ‑ JIBAR floating debt (ZAR denominated) – 1 056 101 – – 5 089 (5 089) ZAR based cash and cash equivalents (net overdraft) – 1 097 961 – – 4 477 (4 477) Accounts payable (US$ denominated) 62 811 481 680 77 497 (77 497) – – Total financial liabilities 159 141 3 374 465 196 349 (196 349) 11 445 (11 445) Foreign cash and cash equivalents (Favourable cash US$ equivalent) 138 812 1 064 510 (171 267) 171 267 (353) 353 Total financial assets 138 812 1 064 510 (171 267) 171 267 (353) 353 122 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Impact on other components of equity in Rand* Foreign +22% +16% currency Carrying ‑22% ‑16% amount amount Euro/US$ GBP/US$ ’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 GROUP AND COMPANY Non-derivative financial instruments 31 March 2013 Denominated in Euro and GBP** Accounts payable ‑ EUR 15 590 184 590 40 610 – Accounts payable ‑ GBP 1 584 22 235 – 3 558 206 825 40 610 3 558 Impact on other components of equity in Rand* Foreign +13% +9% currency Carrying ‑13% ‑9% amount amount Euro/US$ GBP/US$ ’000 R’000 R’000 R’000 GROUP AND COMPANY Non-derivative financial instruments 31 March 2012 Denominated in Euro and GBP** Accounts payable ‑ EUR 16 203 165 810 21 567 – Accounts payable ‑ GBP 1 919 23 560 – 2 122 189 370 21 567 2 122 * The percentages used are based on the average movement over the past four years. ** The Group does not incur any interest on accounts payable. Lease commitments The Group lease commitments are mainly denominated in US$. Some of these commitments are fixed while some have a floating LIBOR rate linked component. SAA is therefore through its lease commitments exposed to both interest rate risk and foreign currency risk. Interest rates on these leases are linked to 1,3 and 6 months LIBOR rates. These are not specifically hedged, but are considered part of the net exposure for hedging purposes on foreign exchange. Foreign defined benefit obligations The Group is also exposed to foreign currency risk relating to its foreign defined benefit obligations. The German Pension Fund obligation is denominated in Euro. Any movement is currency based on this fund and reasonable possible changes in the Euro would further impact the Group exposure to foreign currency risk and SAA hedges this exposure on a net portfolio hedge basis. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 123 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) R THOUSAND 2013 2012 41. Director’s emoluments for SAA subsidiaries Executive directors’ emoluments Mango Airlines SOC Limited Mr N Bezuidenhout 6 Salary 6 1 893 1 747 Ms M Ebersohn1 6 Salary 6 1 278 – 1 Appointed 28 June 2012. SAA Technical SOC Limited Mr M Zwane Salary 2 941 2 929 Allowance 360 360 Performance gratuity/other 146 79 3 447 3 368 Mr S Zulu2 Salary 1 558 856 Performance gratuity/other 37 37 Retirement fund contributions 75 – 1 670 893 2 Appointed 1 November 2011. Air Chefs SOC Limited Ms A Crooks Salary 1 907 1 836 Performance gratuity/other – 43 1 907 1 879 Mr M Muller3 Salary 1 049 874 Retirement fund contributions 97 81 1 146 955 3 Appointed 1 June 2011. SA City Centre SOC Limited Ms GB Koyana4 Salary 1 300 758 Mr F Peer5 Salary 421 722 Allowance 53 90 Retirement fund contributions 32 64 Leave pay paid out 72 – 578 876 Mr TFB Lehasa6 Salary – 470 4 Appointed as CEO of SATC effective 1 September 2011. 5 Resigned 31 October 2012. 6 Appointed as Acting CEO of SATC until 31 August 2011. 124 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 R THOUSAND 2013 2012 41. Director’s emoluments for SAA subsidiaries (continued) Non‑executive directors’ emoluments Mango Airlines SOC Limited 6 Dr C Wiese 7 6 – 425 Mr P Krusche 6 112 105 Mr R Wally 485 146 Mr T Adams 145 122 Adv L Nkosi‑Thomas8 49 24 Mr A Khumalo9 34 – Dr R Naithani10 – – 825 822 7 Resigned 14 March 2012. 8 Resigned 8 March 2013. 9 Appointed 10 October 2012. 10 Appointed 8 March 2013. SAA Technical SOC Limited Ms SP Mzimela13 – – Mr T Daka12 300 601 Ms Y Kwinana 118 128 Mr JP Ndhlovu11 64 128 Mr B Mpondo14 250 – Mr A Mabizela14 53 – 785 857 11 Resigned 27 September 2012. 12 Resigned 28 September 2012. 13 Resigned 8 October 2012. 14 Appointed 1 November 2012. Air Chefs SOC Limited Ms SP Mzimela13 – – Ms MM Whitehouse12 222 445 Ms DC Myeni15 82 96 Ms N Kubeka14 185 – Mr A Mabizela16 6 – Adv L Nkosi‑Thomas16 6 – 501 541 15 Resigned 8 March 2013. 16 Appointed 9 March 2013. SA City Centre SOC Limited Ms SP Mzimela13 6 – – Mr BF Mohale12 6 160 320 Mr TC Jantjies17 6 32 65 Ms C Roskruge14 6 133 – Dr R Naithani16 6 4 – Ms N Kubeka14 6 27 – 6 356 385 17 Resigned 29 September 2012. south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 125 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 (continued) 42. Going concern As with previous years, SAA remains undercapitalised. Two consecutive years of operating losses have further eroded the capital base and this continues to impact on the ability of the business to operate in a highly demanding and competitive environment. The lack of capital has hindered the Directors’ ability to invest in newer and more efficient aircraft and left the company less able to cope with the significant volatility in foreign exchange rates and the price of jet fuel. During the financial year SAA received a R5 billion guarantee from its Shareholder in terms of which SAA had the right to utilise R1,5 billion for working capital requirements while the remaining R3,5 billion could only be accessed should certain pre-determined critical economic thresholds be met. To assist with its ongoing working capital requirements and to strengthen its balance sheet, the Shareholder gave an assurance to the company on 29 November 2013 that this guarantee, which was previously scheduled to expire on 30 September 2014, has been converted to a perpetual guarantee, which would, in the event of future capitalisation, reduce proportionately. The full terms and conditions of this extension are yet to be finalised, but the Directors believe this process to be perfunctory. This guarantee is in addition to the existing R1,6 billion perpetual guarantee. Any future utilisation against these guarantees is conditional upon the approval of both the Minister of Public Enterprises and the Minister of Finance. These guarantees provide reasonable comfort that SAA will have the ability to continue as a going concern in the foreseeable future. In addition, certain cost-cutting programmes set out in the Long-Term Turnaround Strategy have already been implemented successfully. The positive impact that these actions have already had on the income statement gives the Directors further comfort over the going concern status. In their assessment, the Directors have taken the future cash flow requirements of the airline into account and are of the view that the financial support extended by its Shareholder through the two guarantees is adequate for the going concern requirement in the short term, being 12 months from the date of approval of these annual financial statements. The Directors, however, remain of the view that a more permanent appropriate capital structure is required for the airline and set out their proposals to the Shareholder in the LongTerm Turnaround Strategy which was presented in April 2013. 43. Subsequent events Subsequent to the end of the reporting period, in April 2013, SAA completed its Long-Term Turnaround Strategy and presented its proposals to its Shareholder. In addition, on 29 November 2013, SAA received an assurance from its Shareholder that the R5 billion financial guarantee, previously due to expire on 30 September 2014, has been converted to a perpetual guarantee. Full terms and conditions associated with this extension are still to be finalised, but the Directors believe this process to be perfunctory. For a full description of how these events support the going concern status of the company, please refer to note 42. 126 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 Corporate Information Country of incorporation and domicile The Republic of South Africa Company registration number 1997/022444/30 Bankers Directors Standard Bank Limited Resigned Nedbank, a division of Nedbank Group Limited 10 resignations from the Board in 2012/13 Citibank of South Africa (Pty) Limited Directors during the reporting period MM Whitehouse* Auditors CA Carolus* PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc RM Loubser* Private Bag X36 Adv L Nkosi-Thomas Sunninghill, DC Myeni 2157 TC Jantjies* BF Mohale* Nkonki Inc T Daka* PO Box 1503 LJ Rabbets* Saxonwold, Y Kwinana 2132 ZJ Sithole** JP Ndhlovu* REGISTERED OFFICE SP Mzimela* Airways Park, Jones Road, DH Lewis* OR Tambo International Airport WH Meyer Kempton Park, 1619 V Kona*** B Mpondo Postal Address C Roskruge Private Bag X13, OR Tambo International Airport R Lepule Kempton Park, 1627 A Khumalo R Naithani WEBSITE A Mabizela www.flysaa.com N Khubeka Y Kwinana N Bezuidenhout *Resigned 2012 ** Deceased 2012 *** Removed 2013 Company Secretary CS Dlamini south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013 127 Notes 128 south african airways group INTEGRATED report 2013
