Article 13 Communication on Progress 2014 Period covered by Article 13 Communication on Progress (COP) From 01/09/2013 To: 01/09/2014 About Article 13 Founded in 1998, today, we identify social, environmental, ethical and sustainability risks and both develop and embed them in organisational strategies to mitigate those risks and drive innovation. Statement of continued support by Article 13 Director and Co-Founder To our stakeholders, On behalf of Article 13, I am delighted to reaffirm our support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. To this we add a further commitment promote the application of the Ten Principles with our clients as well as to a wider audience through our social media and website advocacy. We strongly believe in multi-stakeholder work and were privileged, for example, to be involved in the design of a Creating Shared Value strategy for a significant business-government and not-for-profit alliance in the Middle East, including materiality refresh, options appraisal, change assessment and co-production of strategic tools as a lever of change at scale. Yours sincerely Jane Fiona Cumming The UNGC Principles Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Article 13’s goal is to influence our employees, suppliers and associates to respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This is made explicit in our company policy: ‘Article 13, in all its operations, fully supports the human rights outlined in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the principles concerning fundamental rights set out in the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work … The co-operation of all employees is essential for the success of this policy. Every employee is required to avoid any breach of human rights in their own behaviour. Article 13 wishes to avoid causing or contributing to adverse human rights impacts directly or through its business relationships and will address such impacts where they occur. Management will ensure that reports of human rights abuses are considered and followed up.’ Article 13 will continue to advocate for human rights and to raise it as an area of risk for current clients and prospective clients. Implementation Article 13 has taken the following measures in 2013/14 to broaden human rights advocacy:  Employees attended the ‘Sedex Global Responsible Sourcing Conference & AGM’ to engage and report back to Article 13 with their shared learning  Worked with a multi-national food service company and developed a human rights policy and escalation process  Working with a European Trade Union organisation on human and labour rights and the link with companies’ CSR strategies  Updated our own policies and made an explicit company policy on human rights  Continued work on a supply chain audit for a multinational retailer encompassing human rights issues and advising their suppliers on how they could improve their stance and reduce risk  Continued advocacy and blogs on human rights through our social media channels Outcomes In Article 13 we have a formal policy on Human Rights which has been shared with our employees, associates and interested parties. We monitor all our own as well as upstream and downstream activities for potential ethical as well as human rights issues. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Article 13 has a Staff Handbook which incorporates the labour principles. The written company policy on Diversity and Equal Opportunities seeks to eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, as described in our company policy: ‘Article 13 believes in the fair and equal treatment of all employees and that encouraging diversity is critical to our future success. This means we are committed to encouraging diversity in the work place and in doing so hope to reflect, where practical, the make-up of the local community within which we operate.’ Where appropriate, our procurement assessments review these issues and our work with clients actively includes these principles. Our particular focus is on building equity of access to jobs and skills for Generation Y. As part of this, we will continue our Generation Y Futures programme, conducted in collaboration with SAMI Consulting. Implementation Article 13 took a decision in 2013 to proactively build opportunities for Generation Y through employment and intern programmes, and to continue our advocacy with clients to employ and upskill this demographic.  Members of the team attended a Sedex webinar: ‘Human Trafficking and Forced Labour – A modern day slavery’  Employees attended the ‘Sedex Global Responsible Sourcing Conference & AGM’ to engage and report back to Article 13 with their shared learning  Continued work on a supply chain audit for a multinational retailer encompassing labour principles and advising their suppliers on how they could improve their stance from reactive to proactive  We have enabled and facilitated the inclusion of a Generation Y perspective in wider policy discussions (including the participation of members of Generation Y themselves who are often missing from these discussions)  Working with a European Trade Union organisation on human and labour rights and the link with companies’ CSR strategies  Continued advocacy and blogs on labour rights through our social media channels Outcomes Two members of the team at Article 13 are from Generation Y and actively trained and given real opportunity to work with clients globally, and attend workshops and conferences. Article 13 team members are also actively encouraged to engage in health and fitness. A team member competed in the Prudential RideLondon cycle event and raised £653 for the charity, Shelter. Environmental principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Article 13 has a written environmental policy, stating summarily that ‘Article 13 recognises its operations and client projects have an effect on the local, regional and global environment. We are committed to providing a quality service in a manner that reduces this potential impact. As a result, Article 13 seeks to continually improve its environmental performance. Environmental regulations, laws and codes of practice will be adhered to and regarded as setting the minimum standards of environmental performance. Article 13 seeks to demonstrate active leadership in environmental management, and inspire clients, partners and its wider networks to do the same.’ Article 13 is a predominantly office-based organisation, and so the nature of our impact is relatively small. Our main focus, therefore, is on raising environmental awareness with our stakeholders and our clients. Nonetheless, we do maintain a record of the environmental impacts of our office and operations. Article 13 has conducted leading work into planetary boundaries research and our key goal is to advocate the sustainability context principle among clients so they can truly measure their respective impact and coordinate a strategy to reduce it. We are committed to releasing the report and research we have been conducting in this area. Implementation  Advocacy for environmental measures to clients continued  Article 13 undertook research into planetary boundaries, interviewing leading sustainability practitioners to build a detailed understanding of emerging practices. The research adopts a practitioner perspective to understand what organisations are doing in relation to planetary boundaries, what the drivers and barriers are and what are the emerging methodologies.  Continued advocacy and blogs on environmental issues through our social media channels  Two team members have opted to cycle to and from work  During the year, Article 13 recycled all paper and card waste and set mutual targets to reduce the level of printing  Article 13 recycled all printer toners Outcomes Article 13 encourages the use of more sustainable transport and two team members now regularly opt to cycle to and from work. Article 13’s printing records were disrupted as we transitioned to a new printer in mid-2013 but on the basis of the comparative months for which we have accurate records (Jan-March; June-July 2013 and Jan-March; JuneJuly 2014) we can report a reduction in our printing of over 15%. Anti-corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Article 13 has a zero tolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion, as detailed in our ‘Integrity Policy’: “Article 13 Ltd believes that integrity is central to the ethical performance of its business in all its dealings with clients, suppliers (including associates) and staff. For Article 13 integrity means that it seeks to: manage its own activities so that organisations working with Article 13 can be confident that it meets the ethical supply chain standards set by itself for others; work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery’. Implementation We maintain our accreditation to the ISO 9001 quality management system. We are also committed to meeting our legal and societal responsibilities through our internal policies (Fair Commercial Terms and Integrity). Our financial records are subject to external audit annually. Outcomes Article 13 has not been involved in any legal proceedings, rulings or events of any nature related to any UNGC principle. Our books and accounts are subject to annual external audit and these are used as one method to determine if there has been any corrupt behaviour. There has been no such reported incident. Article 13 did not produce a Communication on Progress for the year 2012-13 but are pleased to be rectifying this omission this year. CONTACT: Jane Fiona Cumming E: janefionac@article13.com Alex Hughes E: alexh@article13.com T: +44 (0)20 8840 4450 W: www.article13.com This CoP covers our activities from September 2013 to September 2014 and will be available on www.unglobalcompact.org and on our website. We are committed to communicating it to Article 13 employees, board members, clients, potential clients, suppliers, associates and other members of the Article 13 network as appropriate.
