United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 2 About the United Nations Global Compact The United Nations (UN) Global Compact is a call Contents to companies everywhere to voluntarily align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact ......................................... 3 principles in the areas of human rights, labour, Chairman’s Statement ...................................................................... 4 environment and anti-corruption, and to take action in support of UN goals, including the Millennium Team’s Core Values: Excalibur ......................................................... 5 Development Goals. About Team Relocations ................................................................... 6 The UN Global Compact is a leadership platform for the development, implementation, and disclosure of UN Human Rights Principles ........................................................ 7 responsible corporate policies and practices. Launched UN Labour Principles ..................................................................... 13 in 2000, it is the largest corporate responsibility initiative UN Environment Principles ........................................................... 19 in the world, with over 10,000 signatories based in 140 UN Anti-Corruption Principles ...................................................... 25 countries. Team Relocations has been following these principles since 2007 and, in 2013, formally affirmed its commitment to, and integration of, the principles. Supplementary Reading & Compliance Team ................................ 29 The Commitment • Make the UN Global Compact and its principles an integral part of business strategy, day-to-day operations, and organisational culture; • Incorporate the UN Global Compact and its principles in the decision-making processes of the highest-level governance body (e.g., Board); • Take actions in support of UN goals and issues, By participating in the Global Compact, including the Millennium Development Goals; • Communicate annually with its stakeholders on Team Relocations makes a public progress made to implement the principles, ideally commitment to the implementation, integrated into the annual report or similar public document (known as the Communication on Progress disclosure and promotion of the ten – COP); and universal principles • Advance the UN Global Compact and the case for responsible business practices through advocacy and active outreach to peers, partners, clients, consumers, and the public at large. www.unglobalcompact.com 3 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-Corruption 1. Businesses should support 3. Businesses should uphold the 7. Businesses should support 10. Businesses should work against and respect the protection freedom of association and the a precautionary approach to corruption in all its forms, of internationally proclaimed effective recognition of the right environmental challenges; including extortion and bribery. human rights; and to collective bargaining; 8. undertake initiatives to 2. make sure that they are not 4. the elimination of all forms of promote greater environmental complicit in human rights forced and compulsory labour; responsibility; and abuses. 5. the effective abolition of child 9. encourage the development labour; and and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 4 A Statement from the Chairman and Founder To All Stakeholders, For some 40 years, our growth and success has been I am pleased to confirm that Team Relocations based upon a strongly held set of core business values. enthusiastically reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles From the early days, as a path-finding corporate moving of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of company, to our present day position as one of Europe’s Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. leading global mobility services providers, we have empowered our people to deliver the highest professional In this first annual Communication on Progress, we and ethical services possible. describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business Much has changed over four decades, but the six core strategy, culture and daily operations, which Excalibur and values, upon which our business is based, have not: its associated policies exemplifies also. Excellence, Responsibility, Integrity, Security, Synergy and Resourcefulness. They have developed, of course, We also commit to share this information with to keep pace with the demands of 21st century business our stakeholders using our primary channels of and, more recently, we have uniquely brought all these communication, including Team Extranet, web, blog and elements together under our Excalibur ‘core values’ social media platforms. programme. Excalibur unites our values into one clear integrated strategy by which we might drive the pursuit of our goal to provide our clients with excellence in global relocation and move management services. The success of this mission is further supported by our commitment to, and support of, the United Nations Global Compact which we Yogesh B. Mehta formally subscribed to in August 2013. Chairman 5 INTEGRITY Incorporating corporate social responsibility RESOURCEFULNESS in everything we do Respect for nature and the environment ISO 26000 ISO 14001:2004 Diversity Carbon Neutral Community Recycling & Refuse Transparency & Trust UN Global Compact Ethics & Compliance Corporate Social Responsibility EXCELLENCE Dedicated to quality management EXCALIBUR UN Global Compact SYNERGY Building mutually beneficial relationships ISO 9001:2008 ISO 28001:2007 Quality FAIMplus AEO Certified Training & Competence our core values Security Processes Customer Satisfaction Monitoring Supply Flows UN Global Compact RESPONSIBILITY SECURITY Prioritising health and safety in the workplace Ensuring the best management of information security OHSAS 18001:2007 ISO 27001:2005 Health & Safety Risk Assessment Risk Management Client Policy Integration Data Protection Business Continuity 6 About Team Relocations Team Relocations is a leading independent company specialising in the delivery of fully integrated global OUR MISSION relocation services within the corporate market place, To provide our clients with excellence in global relocation management through: supporting in the region of 48,000 cases per annum. We deliver end-to-end services that span policy consultation, predeparture counselling, destination and moving services, assignment management, expense reporting, repatriation, and transition. Recruiting Creating Delivering Applying Partnering Being and developing relocation levels of vigorous const with only excellent talented people solutions which service which controls to the the very best corporate Our partner network is central to our goal of delivering meet the needs exceed client mobility process citizens excellence in mobility solutions and supports our ability to of each client expectations maintain consistently high service standards from home to host location, even in the most remote and inhospitable regions. Team remains privately owned and our portfolio of clients includes some of the industry’s largest contracts currently in operation within the marketplace. A substantial percentage of our major corporate relationships have come about due to numerous contract extensions over many decades, as these companies have recognised our unique ability to handle their most challenging mobility requirements, whilst remaining small enough as a company to really care about what we do. 7 Human Rights 7 Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 8 Hu H ma Human man n Ri Righ Rights ghts ts Assessment, Policy and Goals Although already enshrined within our core values Excalibur and our individual Integrity Policy have been declaration policy document, Excalibur, Team has effected significantly amended to firmly establish our total several changes throughout 2013/14 to further embody commitment to: the two essential human rights principles within the fabric of its everyday operational working. • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights • The International Labour Organisation’s Declaration Furthermore, we have comprehensively broadened our on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work approach to Human Rights to include not only our own working environment but also wherever our business Our Mission Statement has also been adjusted to include activities touch other communities. This has been a final principle that states: achieved in our approach to the supply chain as detailed in our Synergy Policy and with regards to Ethics and • Being excellent corporate citizens Compliance as covered in the Integrity Policy. These actions are best shown by clauses 1.2, 2.1, 3.8 and 3.9 of the Integrity Policy. Team recognises its responsibility under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to promote and protect human rights throughout its business operations Human Rights 9 clause 1.2 clause 2.1 clause 3.8 clause 3.9 1.2 Managing Equality and Diversity 2.1 Corporate Governance 3.8 Mutual Respect and Dignity at Work 3.9 Implementation of Excalibur In addition to complying with all legal Good Corporate Governance is at the core Team aims to create a working environment This Integrity Policy sits as one part of requirements and the UN Global Compact of our Integrity Policy and is best encapsuthat allows the full potential of employees to Team’s overall Core Values program, initiatives, Team employs a Diversity and lated by our approach to transparency and be realised, in a happy and positive Excalibur. The implementation of this policy Equality management strategy that is a trust. As a result of recent well publicised atmosphere. It is our wish to develop and should be viewed together with the other more effective way of dealing with these corporate scandals, public opinion in the maintain a working environment that is free five policies: Excellence, Responsibility, issues, by emphasising the business and honesty of ‘business’ has taken a knock. from harassment or bullying and where all Security, Synergy, Resourcefulness and the personal benefits that accrue from valuing Within Team we have a clear framework, employees feel able to speak freely. 10 UN Global Compact Principles. the differences between people. supported by Excalibur, for a code of business ethics which we believe will Excalibur and its associated policies form demonstrate greater transparency and and integral part of the life-blood of Team accountability, not only in our financial Relocations and as such the exposure of reporting, but in all areas of activity touched these Core Values principles to all new staff by our business. is vital. Exposure and familiarisation should be undertaken during initial induction with We support the ten principles of the United HR and further expanded upon at annual Nations Global Compact as a public management review. On-going update and commitment to leadership in social and refresher activity will be carried out via environmental responsibility. A part of this means of the Team Extranet is to address the impact of our business on communications site, regular review our communities, on society and the meetings and staff appraisal sessions. environment more widely. This responsibility extends beyond our own operations, to those of our suppliers. Our desire is to perform ourselves and to engage with our suppliers of goods and services to ensure: The maintenance of human rights An ethical basis to business practice Environmental impact management Anti-corruption Team recognises its responsibility under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to promote and protect human rights throughout our business operations. We do this by having our own human rights principles. We recognise international labour standards as set out by the seven core International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions and recommendations. We encourage all our suppliers to adopt a similar approach. 10 Human Rights Implementation and Outcomes Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Policy Changes In addition to those policy changes noted, an additional clause, Clause 3.9, was Throughout the period under review, Team has continued to ensure introduced into the Integrity Policy, covering the implementation of Excalibur as the implementation of its Human Rights policies as embraced a whole, the six core values policies and specifically the 10 UN principles. within the Integrity Policy. We have extended our web-based internal communication tool, the Extranet, to now include a dedicated Excalibur section covering the entire Group policies with notification of any policy changes. HR HR has effected several changes to both employment Terms & Conditions We have seen a greater awareness within our employees of the and the Team Relocations Induction Programme to reflect specifically our subject and have not recorded any significant breaches or noncommitment to the UN Global Compact. As an accredited Investor in People conformances. Company, we have now included within the staff annual assessment review, specific re-appraisal of staff’s understanding and knowledge of the Company’s core value policies. Whistle Blowing A new ‘Whistle Blowing’ procedure has been introduced to allow any member of Our ‘Whistle Blowing’ procedure has not had any issues raised by staff to raise an issue or concern without fear of recrimination. members of staff concerning breaches of Human Rights during the reporting period. Group Compliance Team A compliance team was formed with nominated members from each of the 13 A significant strengthening of the Team Relocations Group Compliance Team operating countries. team has taken place over the past 5 months, including a Quality & Compliance meeting in March 2014 where knowledge and lessons learned were exchanged among the team. Supply Chain An integral role of our dedicated Supply Chain Manager is the responsibility for Operationally, we have continued to select partners who share ensuring that all network partners within the Team Relocations supply chain our core values and have not engaged in work in areas, or with have a clear understanding of our approach to human rights. The Supply Chain organisations, who abuse the two Human Rights principles. Manager reviews and audits the performance of all suppliers in respect of Human Rights. Human Rights 11 The Team staff Extranet is a user-friendly and comprehensive online tool providing employees with a wealth of useful up-to-date information including access to key business information and all company policies. 2011 2012 2013 % Staff Registered % Extranet Usage Overall % Policies Acess Usage 0 20 40 60 80 100 Our web-based internal communication tool, the Extranet, includes a dedicated Excalibur section covering all Team group policies, commitments and initiatives 12 Human Rights Our global partner network, SUREFAST©, is central to our goal of delivering excellence in mobility solutions. Our ability to maintain consistently high service standards from home to host location, without the need for multiple agencies, provides many positive benefits for both relocating employees and clients alike. 2011 2012 2013 Partner Performance Relative to Team SLA Partner Performance Relative to Team CSR Partner Overall Performance Complaints Relative to Partner Network as a % of all Cases 0 20 40 60 80 100 New Partners Partners Removed Training Sessions Countries Covered 0 50 100 150 200 13 13 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 14 Labour Assessment, Policy and Goals ur Although already enshrined within our core values Whilst complying with all legal requirements and the UN declaration policy document, Excalibur, Team has effected Global Compact initiatives, Team also utilises a Diversity several changes throughout 2013 to further embody the and Equality management approach that can be a more four essential labour principles within the fabric of its effective way of dealing with these issues, by highlighting everyday operational working. both business and personal benefits that accrue from valuing the differences between people. Companies that Both the summary policy document Excalibur and our grasp the additional business opportunities generated by individual Integrity Policy have been significantly amended managing diversity effectively are far more likely to enjoy to firmly establish our total commitment to: sustained competitive advantage than those who do not. • Equal employment opportunities • Removal of discrimination within and outwith its activities In addition, we have widened our approach to Labour Team aims to create a working Rights to include not only Team’s working environment environment that allows the full but also wherever our business activities interface with other communities. We have achieved this through our potential of employees to be approach to the supply chain as detailed in our Synergy realised Policy and with regards to Ethics and Compliance as covered within the Integrity Policy. These actions are clearly identified in clauses 3.1 and 3.2 of the Integrity Policy and clause 1.0 of the Synergy Policy. Labour 15 clause 3.1 clause 3.2 clause 1.0 3.1 Accountability – Individual and Group 3.2 Recruitment and Selection 1. Intent To comply fully with all aspects of this policy Every effort will be made to attract We expect our suppliers to do the same. employees from all sections of society and Behaving professionally, responsibly and To embrace diversity as a whole and to ensure fair treatment throughout the transparently means that we: specifically in our business as a means of recruitment process and are in line with this broadening the Team skill and talent pool, Diversity Policy as a whole. This will include: Comply with all applicable legislation achieving the highest levels of performance, and enabling all employees to maximise Ensuring that the vacant position and Maintain at all times our commitment to the their potential candidate specifications are accurate and UN Global Compact and its 10 abiding non-discriminatory principles and wherever possible encourage To be aware of discrimination, and a similar commitment throughout our understand the negative effect this can Ensure any vacancy advertisement reflects supply chain have on Team, its employees, suppliers and and appeal to all sections of society corporate clients Have accessible and documented Provide a clear outline of our policy to any processes for supplier selection To stand guardians over this policy and its and all third party suppliers such as application and to work towards removing recruitment and employment agencies Avoid conflicts of interest in our sourcing any discriminatory practices which may be and supplier selection processes preventing the company from achieving its Asking fair and consistent questions at overall CSR and business objectives. interview Conduct our business without the payment or receipt of unlawful incentives To ensure that the reputation of Team Maintain full records of the recruitment and Relocations as a fair and responsible selection process, including interviews Avoid applying pressure to engage in employer in the eyes of the employees, notes reciprocal trading clients, suppliers and the public Recognise the risks for suppliers who are To be sensitive to the potential impact of dependent on their business with Team one’s behaviour on colleagues, customers Relocations companies, and not abuse our and suppliers corporate position To work together in the elimination of any Ensure smaller suppliers are given fair discriminatory practices consideration in our award of contracts, and when they are awarded business, they are supported to meet our exacting performance standards 16 Labour Implementation and Outcomes Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Policy Changes In addition to those policy changes noted, an additional clause, Clause 3.9, was We are pleased to report that our support for the four labour introduced into the Integrity Policy covering the implementation of Excalibur as principles was strong during the reporting period and there were no a whole, the six core values policies and specifically the 10 UN principles. violations within Team Relocations or its partner network. Team is pleased to report that it has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to labour issues. Staff Suggestion Box Allied to the Whistle Blowing procedure, we introduced a Staff Suggestion Box Our ‘Whistle Blowing’ procedure has not had any issues raised by process within the Team Extranet, available to all staff and covering any and members of staff concerning labour principles during the reporting every aspect of employment with Team. period. We received seven Suggestions through the electronic staff Suggestion Box but none were related to any of the 10 Global Compact principles. HR HR has effected several changes to both employment Terms & Conditions Team expanded its employed personnel throughout the reporting and the Team Relocations Induction Programme to reflect specifically our period (totalling 678) and continued to enjoy a very diverse employee commitment to the UN Global Compact. demographic. This included a comprehensive range of ethnicity (18%), a strong split between genders (68%-32%, women to men), sexual orientation and disability. Project Saksham In late 2013, we embarked on a 3 year commitment to a major fundraising Regular communications specifically concerning the Plan Saksham initiative in support of Plan, the global children’s charity. Spearheaded by labour initiative are distributed across the organisation and Team’s Group Compliance Officer, the commitment to the project encompasses throughout social media platforms aimed at reporting on progress on all 35 locations across the 13 countries in which we are based, and includes the great work completed to date, whilst also continuing to encourage all staff in developing and executing significant fundraising initiatives aimed at even greater efforts in this worthwhile endeavour. contributing €50k to the project annually. Labour 17 Cees Zeevenhooven Founded more than 75 years ago, Plan is one of (Group Director, Team the oldest and largest children’s development Relocations) and Davina organisations in the world. Plan’s vision is of Feeleus (Account a world in which all children realise their full Manager, Corporate Partnerships) signing the potential in societies that respect people’s rights agrement with Plan and dignity. Project Saksham, operated by Plan in India, aims to achieve decent employment for young people living in poor urban and rural areas ensuring that all entering the workforce are equipped with the knowledge and life skills required for quality jobs and work their way out of poverty. During Team’s first year of commitment, our fundraising activities have assisted in the region of some 500 young people in realising their employment goals. “ We want to strengthen our core business 2013/14 2014/15 2013/14 2014/15 values by demonstrating our commitment ” 3 Year Target Achieved to helping shape society and economy Target Commitment* To Date in underprivileged locations in a positive and sustainable way. 2015/16 2015/16 Leonie Kerkelaan, Team Group Compliance Officer * €50,000 per year Excess achievement 18 Labour 1 3 4 5 2 1,2,4: Team fundraising eventss (Valentines gifts, Bake off, Yoga class) 3: Youth at Saksham centre ksham centre 5: Classroom in progress at Saksham 19 19 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly riendly technologies 20 Environment Assessment, Policy and Goals We recognise the world is changing and our approach Although already enshrined within our core values to business and its impact upon that world has to declaration policy document, Excalibur, Team has effected change too. We recognise that organisations of all some changes to further embody the three essential kinds are, increasingly, determined to achieve and environmental principles within the fabric of its everyday demonstrate sound environmental performance by operational working. controlling the impact on the environment by their activities, products and services. This is in the context of Both the summary policy document, Excalibur, and our growing environmental awareness, increasingly stringent individual Resourcefulness Policy (Environment) have been legislation and other factors promoting environmental subtlety amended to firmly reaffirm our total commitment protection and best practice. to the environment and the effect our operations may have on it directly or indirectly. This is best shown by clauses The basis upon which we approach an environmental 1.0, 7.0 and 8.0 of the Resourcefulness Policy. management system (EMS) is that of the international standard ISO 14001:2004, to which Team has gained certification. The intention of this standard is to provide a framework for a holistic, strategic approach to our organisation’s environmental policy, plans and actions. Our activities are designed ISO 14001 gives the generic requirements for an to reduce our harmful impact environmental management system. The underlying philosophy is that whatever the organisation’s activity, on the environment and the requirements of an effective EMS are the same. everyone working for Team Environment 21 clause 1.0 clause 7.0 clause 8.0 1. Intent 7. Carbon Neutral 8. Reduce, Recycle & Re-use As one of our six core elements within our As concerns about climate change grow, the A vital part of any environmental policy is Excalibur programme, the environment is concept of ‘carbon neutrality’ has captured the whole area of reduction, reuse and taken extremely seriously. Within the past the corporate imagination, being embraced recycling. Some of our services by their very five years, Team has embarked on a by a diverse range of organisations. This nature have the capacity to produce large meaningful drive to proactively do all we apparently simple concept however; that a amounts of waste. We have engaged in a can to reduce the impact that our business company, or one of its products or services, concerted drive through procurement to activities have on the environment, under can have no net impact on climate; is purchase, wherever possible, materials the leadership of our dedicated Compliance surrounded by controversy, and a wide manufactured from recycled materials, or Team. range of assumptions and actions lie indeed to purchase materials that in behind many of the claims that have been themselves are recyclable. This policy statement sets out our made. environmental commitments. It has been This programme is also directed at waste confirmed by the Board of Directors and is The ambition to have zero net impact on production and aims to reduce waste but consistent with our corporate policy and the climate is a powerful one, and a goal of also ensures that all materials, both office 3 environmental principles within the UN neutrality has the potential to drive ongoing and commercial, are capable of being Global Compact. Our activities are designed change within an organisation, whilst also recycled are suitably collected and to reduce our harmful impact on the promoting a shared responsibility with distributed to the appropriate authorities. environment and everyone working for suppliers and customers, for emissions Team or on Team’s behalf is asked to beyond the organisation’s immediate Changes to legislation will affect the way support this statement. control every business manages its waste products including the disposal of unwanted assets. In addition to implementing ISO 14001 Following a review of recent legislation, we standards across Team Relocations, we took the decision to develop a new have introduced local regional programmes approach to our environmental policy and to to reduce our carbon footprint in a change the way we looked at the challenges meaningful and measurable way. both in our daily business and the services provided to our clients. 22 Environment Implementation and Outcomes Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Policy Changes In addition to those policy changes noted, an additional clause, Clause 3.9, was Team is pleased to report that it has not been involved in any legal introduced into the Integrity Policy covering the implementation of Excalibur as cases, rulings or other events related to environmental issues. a whole, the six core values policies and specifically the 10 UN principles. HR HR has effected several changes to both employment Terms & Conditions A new initiative has been developed and introduced across the Group and the Team Relocations Induction Programme to reflect specifically our in terms of QHSSE by the means of a monthly newsletter, Newsflash, commitment to the UN Global Compact. which is electronically produced and distributed to all staff. Paradigm Project We supported The Paradigm Project which delivers improved efficient cooking With our contribution, we are supporting the people in Kenya where stoves in Africa. This targeted regional environmental project in Africa not only about 90% of rural households cook on open fires, the charcoal or assists in reducing the harmful effects of emissions on the environment, but wood for which produces toxic fumes harmful to the environment. In also work towards protecting the environment (see page 24). the project, Improved Cooking Stoves (ICS) are produced and sold through a participatory approach with local communities across Kenya. In 2013, we achieved a carbon neutral position by offset through the Carbon Neutral Company, utilising Gold Standard verified carbon credits. Environment-friendly Initiatives We produced significant improvements year-on-year on emissions, waste During 2013, we renewed our environmental certification and disposal and recycling. achieved a multi-site certification under ISO 14001:2004 for all Team global operations. • Purchasing vehicles conforming to the Euro 6 standard • Promoting the use of public transport amongst our employees • Promoting a national bicycle plan for employees, Where appropriate • Safe disposal of batteries and toners • Installation of catalytic converters Environment 23 In addition to implementing ISO14001 standards across 2011 2012 2013 Team Relocations, we Energy Consumption have introduced local (KWHs) regional programmes to reduce our carbon CO2 Emmissions footprint in a meaningful (Kgs) and measurable way. Waste Disposal (Kgs) 0 1000000 2000000 3000000 4000000 5000000 millions Paper and Card Recycling 591,776 kg 566,349 kg 523, 898 kg 2011 2012 2013 24 Environment REDUCED The Paradigm Project: Clean and Sustainable Wood Stoves in Kenya 10 tons SAVED of C02 emissions Nearly 3 billion people in the world cook each day on open fires or CREATED rudimentary cookstoves. The charcoal or wood that is burnt releases toxic 64 trees fumes and smoke as well as carbon dioxide and methane, two major 190 jobs greenhouse gases. Alarmingly, each year nearly 2 million people die prematurely from illness attributable to indoor air pollution. In Africa, about 90% of rural households cook on open fires. The situation is especially acute in Kenya, which suffers from very high deforestation SAVED rates. As a result, many women in rural areas have to travel great 1 stove IMPROVED distances to collect firewood, often more than 15km in a day! 1/2 cooking time to prepare meal time for child care The Paradigm Project aims to improve health and incomes throughout NO MORE Kenya by reducing time and money spent buying fuel for household cooking. 15 km walks for wood Photos and Reference: Climate Neutral Group 25 25 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 26 Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy and Goals Good corporate governance is at the core of our Integrity Although already enshrined within our core values Policy and is best encapsulated by our approach to declaration policy document, Excalibur, Team has transparency and trust. As a result of recent well effected some changes to further embody the essential publicised corporate scandals, public opinion in the anti-corruption principle within the fabric of its everyday honesty of ‘business’has taken a knock. Within Team, operational working. we have a clear framework for a code of business ethics which we believe will demonstrate greater transparency Both the summary policy document, Excalibur, and our and accountability, not only in our financial reporting, individual Integrity Policy have been subtlety amended but in all areas of activity touched by our business. to confirm our commitment both legal and otherwise to a corruption-free business environment. This is best shown With legislation as the backdrop, Team is committed to by clauses 6.1 and 7.0 of the Integrity Policy. conducting itself in an atmosphere that is open, fair and transparent with the aim of enhancing trust in all its business activities. Unless there are compelling reasons “ to the contrary, Team will provide clients, directors and staff, external bodies and the general public, relevant information affecting them and the actions of Team, speedily and in a manner consistent with our overall Integrity is what we do, Corporate Social Responsibility statements as defined within our ethical values programme. what we say, ” and what we say we do Don Galer Anti-Corruption 27 clause 6.1 clause 7.0 6.1. Bribery, Money Laundering and Fraud 7. Gross Misconduct Team staff must never offer, promise, give, Team is committed to complying with Any breach of our code of conduct may lead Flagrant failure to follow company documentary receive or demand a bribe or any other applicable anti-money laundering laws which to termination of employment through procedures and regulations undue advantage to obtain or retain exist in such parts of the world where Team is reason of gross misconduct. business. Team is equally committed to the active. We also recognise principle 10 of the Acts of incitement or actual acts of direct prevention of bribery by any contractor, UN Global Compact in relation to The following (non-exhaustive) list provides discrimination on the grounds of sex, race, supplier or agent acting on Team’s behalf. anti-corruption. We are also therefore examples of offences which are normally religion, colour or ethnic origin Remuneration to consultants, agents or committed to only work with Suppliers who regarded as gross misconduct: representatives will be appropriate if are reputable, legitimate business operators Misuse of electronic media, equipment or provided for legitimate services performed and whose funds come from legitimate Smuggling of any nature and any costs company vehicles only. sources. If you should find yourself in a incurred to Team as a result of any compromising position you are required to smuggling activity Any false verbal or written statements in Team staff should at all times use their report it immediately to your supervisor, employment application good judgment to also avoid giving the manager, HR or a director. Failure to do so is Serious or persistent breach of safety rules appearance of improper payments. a disciplinary offence. Theft, fraud, deliberate falsification of Any criminal conviction which has an adverse Particular care should be taken in all records affect on the ability to perform a job, where no relationships with government officials or other repositioning is available employees. Facilitation payments are illegal Disorderly or indecent conduct or threatenunder the UK’s Bribery Act. ing physical violence Failure to inform Team of any unspent criminal convictions Team staff should not participate in any Deliberate damage to Company property or type of fraud or fraudulent activity, such as that of other employees or clients or If driving a company vehicle failure to operate a taking action to conceal or convert profit suppliers or others associated with Team company vehicle safely and within the law e.g. from specific sources to others for personal failure to report an accident, suspension or gain or to the personal advantage of others. Serious incapability through alcohol or endorsement of a driving licence or failure to Should suspicion of fraud arise the being under the influence of illegal drugs report to Team a medical condition which could employee should contact their immediate result in the driving licence being withdrawn or Manager or the Team Personnel/HR Serious negligence which causes unacceptprevent the employee’s duties from being carried Manager. able loss, damage or injury out safely. Serious acts of insubordination 28 Anti-Corruption Implementation and Outcomes Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Policy Changes In addition to those policy changes noted, an additional clause, Clause 3.9, was Team is pleased to report that it has not been involved in any legal introduced into the Integrity Policy covering the implementation of Excalibur as cases, rulings or other events related to bribery or corruption. a whole, the six core values policies and specifically the 10 UN principles. Whistle Blowing A new ‘Whistle Blowing’ procedure has been introduced to allow any member Our new ‘Whistle Blowing’ procedure has not raised any issues by of staff to raise an issue or concern with respect to corruption without fear of member of staff concerning anti-corruption during the reporting recrimination. period. Audit Our financial accounts are naturally audited by a leading independent financial Such financial reports are publicly available and again we are specialist annually and audited reports submitted as legally required. pleased to report that they show a clean bill of health with no signs of impropriety. Supplementary Reading EXCELLENCE INTEGRITY RESOURCEFULNESS RESPONSIBILITY SECURITY SYNERGY EXCALIBUR | CORE VALUES EXCALIBUR | CORE VALUES EXCALIBUR | CORE VALUES EXCALIBUR | CORE VALUES EXCALIBUR | CORE VALUES EXCALIBUR | CORE VALUES Compliance Team Group Compliance Director Group Compliance Officer Global Supply Chain Manager Luc Oostendorp Leonie Kerkelaan Shelley Lloyd Regional Compliance Officers Belgium: Catherine Guns France: Alain Meriguet Luxembourg: Catherine Guns Norway: Finn-Petter Haugen Switzerland: Jean-Sylvain Nicoud Denmark: Steffen Scharff Germany: Heiko Thomas Netherlands: Leonie Kerkelaan Sweden: Christina Federspiel United Kingdom: David Boreham www.teamrelocations.com
