Nat ur al ly D i ffe r e n t atla ntic gru pa su sta inability re p ort 2013 CONTENTS letter of the president of the management board · 03 1. organizational profile · 08 About the company · 08 Atlantic Grupa’s supply chain · 15 Managing sustainability risks · 16 Commitements to external initiatives · 18 How we support un Global Compact principles · 18 2. about this report · 22 Report parameters · 22 Materiality · 24 Stakeholder engagement · 25 3. corporate management · 26 Governance structure of the organization · 28 Remuneration policy for management board members · 30 Ethics and integrity · 32 4. economic impacts · 36 5. product responsibility · 40 Integrated certification · 41 Product health and safety · 43 Product and service labelling · 45 6. workplace responsibility · 52 Employment · 54 Occupational health and safety · 57 Training and education · 59 7. environmental responsibility · 61 Energy consumption within the organization · 63 Biodiversity · 65 Waste · 66 8. gri index · 68 atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 LETTER OF THE PRESIDENT e mil tedeschi OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD Dear stakeholders, In the increasingly complex global circumstances of change and uncertainty, business sector, as a major driver of development, is challenged to be more responsible and more sustainable in all aspects of its operations. As Atlantic Grupa aspires to contribute to economic development and ensure both long-term business success and prosperity of the local communities, all our activities are deeply rooted in sustainability values. We strive to build a more secure future for our employees, customers, suppliers, consumers and society as a whole. The conditions in which we have been working over the past several years have become seriously challengatlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 3 ing, primarily due to the ongoing economic crisis and LETTER O F THE PRESIDEN T O F THE MAN AG EMEN T BOAR D the aftermath it leaves on the business and social environment. This is especially the case in Southeast Europe where Atlantic Grupa makes most of its revenues. However, by successfully implementing our strategy, in 2013, Atlantic Grupa continued with its organic growth in sales and improved profitability. We are particularly pleased that our business model is proven stable in these difficult economic times, as is demonstrated by the results we have achieved and the new investments we have instigated. Despite the challenges, we continue to generate growth in conditions of overall downfall or stagnation, including the region. Our results in Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) markets, as well as in major European markets corroborate our company’s inclination towards internationalization as our focal strategy. We are thus constantly working on building and developing highquality working conditions and an identifiable corporate culture, with added focus on strengthening our managerial team and developing managerial capacities. At the same time, the company is continuously dedicated to the risk management, liquidity maintenance and the management of financial liabilities. Our expectations are always as realistic as they are ambitious and aspiring. As a transparent company listed in the first quotation of the Zagreb Stock Exchange, we atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 4 continue to deliver the results we have promised for an LETTER O F THE PRESIDEN T O F THE MAN AG EMEN T BOAR D ongoing 25 quarter-periods. We are thus recognizable to capital market and to our shareholders as a conscientious and prospective company. Our vision, nevertheless, surpasses the parameters that are solely measureable in financial terms. Owing to a clear vision of our development, we have, since 1991, grown and matured from a local distributor with six employees, into one of the leading corporations in Southeast Europe. We engage nearly 4500 employees, with companies in 11 countries and revenues of over 670 million Euros – a regional multinational company, leader in the manufacturing and distribution of consumer goods. We have ambitious plans for development and above-average growth rates in Eastern and Western Europe; namely Germany, Austria, Italy, Great Britain, Sweden, Switzerland, and CIS countries. Russia and neighbouring countries are a particularly potent and prospective market for our products, into which we intend to significantly invest in the forthcoming future, and achieve our utmost growth. The progress we made in 2013 substantiates the claim for such a strategic focus. In terms of interaction with all stakeholders, our trustworthiness is constant from day one; while with the same dynamic, the growth and expansion of our business parallels the expansion and spectrum of responsibility towards the internal and external environment, as well as the awareness of the potentials and necessity of atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 5 our own impact on the improvement of overall circumLETTER O F THE PRESIDEN T O F THE MAN AG EMEN T BOAR D stances surrounding us. Responsibility, for us, signifies an attitude and belief, which as an integral part of our development strategy, parallels our continual growth. We are thus thoroughly committed to the social responsibility we abide by on all our business markets, aiming at always returning a portion of the profits we make to the community where we make it. In 2013 we made good progress across a number of areas of growing interest to stakeholders. Since our ultimate goal is to provide our consumers sustainable and quality products, our quality system is totally integrated and combines the requirements of business process management with the highest product safety and quality assurance principles and the environmental management requirements. Environmental awareness and the long-term sustainability of our business model oblige us to be concerned with the ecological impact of the industry. Within our company, care for the environment, consistent with the Environmental Management System, has developed from a local point all the way to the corporate level, with the main focus being on sustainability and protection for the future. Atlantic Grupa has taken a significant step towards sustainability through major activities in three areas – environment and energy efficiency, people and society, and management. The sustainable environmental management system is centred on the well-planned and economic use of natuatlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 6 ral resources, the utilization of environmentally-friendly LETTER O F THE PRESIDEN T O F THE MAN AG EMEN T BOAR D technologies in manufacturing, waste reduction, and reduced energy and water consumption. The ISO 14001 International Environmental Management Certification confirms that our environmental management system is in accord with the standards of best practice. Finally, in order to fully integrate sustainability into our business operations in 2013 we have adopted the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting methodology, which provides a globally recognised framework through which to monitor and improve our sustainability performance. Our sustainability reporting is constantly evolving and underpins our strategic priorities, shapes our values and influences the way we do business. We stay committed to making our sustainability principles part of the strategy, culture and day–to–day operations of our company, and to engaging as a reliable partner in collaborative projects with our stakeholders. Emil Tedeschi, President and CEO atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 7 o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e 1. ORGANIZATIONAL P R OFILE about the company Atlantic Grupa is a Croatian multinational company whose business operations include the production, development, sales and distribution of consumer goods with simultaneous market presence in over 30 countries around the world. Atlantic Grupa is one of the leading food companies in the region (Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia & Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia and Kosovo), whose product portfolio includes coffee, sports food, soft drinks, sweet and salted snacks, savoury spreads and baby food. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 8 Additionally, Atlantic Grupa has a wide portfotion to its own range of well-known brands, o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e lio of personal care products; it is the owner it also distributes a range of products from of the leading Croatian producer of vitamins, external partners. Moreover, Atlantic Grupa’s minerals, supplements and OTC medicines products have significant market presence in and the owner of one of the leading private Russia, Commonwealth of Independent States pharmacy chains united under the name Far(CIS) and Europe, and with its sports food asmacia. Atlantic Grupa has a strong regional sortment Atlantic Grupa is one of the leading distribution network through which, in addiEuropean producers in this segment. STRATEGIC BUSINESS UNIT BEVERAGES STRATEGIC BUSINESS UNIT COFFEE STRATEGIC BUSINESS UNIT SNACKS atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 9 STRATEGIC BUSINESS UNIT SAVOURY SPREADS o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e STRATEGIC BUSINESS UNIT PHARMA AND PERSONAL CARE STRATEGIC BUSINESS UNIT SPORTS AND FUNCTIONAL FOOD BUSINESS UNIT BABY FOOD atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 10 LEADING DISTRIBUTOR OF MULTINATIONAL BRANDS o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e The company’s headquarters is in Zagreb, Today, Atlantic Grupa is a company with: while production facilities are located in Croa→ sales revenues of HRK 5.1 billion tia, Germany, Slovenia, Bosnia & Herzegovina, Serbia and Macedonia. Atlantic Grupa has → over 4,200 employees and over companies and representative offices in 11 440 freelancers(FTE) in Serbia countries, while in those markets where it is not present with its own operating companies, → developed regional distribution Atlantic Grupa has developed partnerships with → 17 production facilities in 6 countries regional and national distributors. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 11 ‣ NATIONAL COMPANY o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e 1991 Incorporation of Atlantic Trade and the development of consumer goods distribution Establishing cooperation with the company Wrigley 1992 Opening of the distribution centre Split 1994 Opening of distribution centres Osijek and Rijeka 1996 Cooperation with Procter & Gamble 1997 Investment in the Ataco distribution system in B&H 1998 Launch of Montana, the first Croatian ready-made sandwich for broad distribution 1999 Establishing cooperation with Johnson & Johnson ‣ REGIONAL COMPANY 2001 Establishing a representative office in Bosnia & Herzegovina Start up of a distribution company Atlantic Trade d.o.o.* Serbia Acquisition of Cedevita d.o.o. Establishing cooperation with Ferrero 2002 Incorporation of Atlantic Grupa d.o.o. 2003 Acquisition of Neva d.o.o. Start up of a distribution company Atlantic Trade Skopje d.o.o. 2004 Start up of a distribution company Atlantic Trade d.o.o. Ljubljana Acquisition of the brand Melem atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 12 ‣ EUROPEAN COMPANY o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e 2005 Acquisition of a German sports food producer Multipower 2006 Establishing a representative office in Moscow Transformation of Atlantic Grupa into a joint-stock company 2007 Acquisition of Fidifarm d.o.o. Acquisition of Multivita d.o.o. Listing of Atlantic Grupa d.d. **shares on the official market of the Zagreb Stock Exchange 2008 Acquisition of pharmacies and forming of the pharmacy chain Farmacia 2010 Acquisition of Droga Kolinska d.d. 2013 Establishing cooperation with Unilever * d.o.o. Croatian abbreviation for “limited liability company” (Ltd) ** d.d. Croatian abbreviation for “joint-stock company” (Inc.) Following the completed capital increase in 2010, the total number of Atlantic Grupa shares is 3,334,300, which are quoted on the official market of the Zagreb Stock Exchange (ZSE) under the code ATGR-R-A. Ownership structure on 31/12/2013 EBRD 8.5% Pension funds DEG 18.2% 8.5% Lada Tedeschi Fiorio 5.8% 1.2% Management 7.7% Other Emil Tedeschi 50.2% atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 13 In 2013 Atlantic Grupa continued its intensive in Serbia (36%), Croatia (34%) and Slovenia o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e and dynamic business growth and develop(14%). In 2013, 98% of our employees had full ment, which was reflected in the number and time contracts while 2% were part time emstructure of our employees. The company ployees. In the same period, 7.5% of employees has 4,228* employees out of which 51% are had short-term contracts, while 92.5% had women. The majority of our employees work long-term contracts. Region No. of Age group M F (market) employees < 30 30 – 50 > 50 B&H 156 113 43 18 115 23 Croatia 1.521 644 877 272 1.006 243 Germany 173 94 79 29 97 47 Italy 8 3 5 1 6 1 Macedonia 163 107 56 38 112 13 Montenegro 2 1 1 0 2 0 Russia 53 19 34 15 24 14 Serbia** 1.542 759 782 70 1.211 260 Slovenia 588 311 278 81 352 156 Spain 10 7 3 2 8 0 UK 12 6 6 1 6 5 Total 4.228 2.064 2.164 527 2.939 762 Atlantic Grupa strongly supports the right of with international conventions, laws of the its employees to participate in decisions conRepublic of Croatia and union's statute. The cerning their economic and social rights, and union may work according to company union interests in accordance with the Labour Law. regulations. In 2013, 90% of our employees As a responsible employer, we have a tradiwere covered with collective agreements. Out tion of joining workers that are promoting of this number, 85% of employees have their the interests of the worker to the employer, own company's collective agreements and 15% either through a union or work council. Union are covered with industrial or federal collective alliance of Atlantic Grupa is in accordance agreements. * Without freelancers in Serbia ** Without freelancers atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 14 atlantic grupa ’ s tices that ensure sustainable sourcing and o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e supply chain procuring by helping reducing waste, improving environmental impact and protecting human and labour rights. Besides the criteria regarding quality and commercial terms and conditions, we require from all our suppliers to act with integrity, to comply with all applicable With our 17 production facilities present in 6 laws of their countries, including laws related European countries with a wide portfolio of to discrimination, employment, health, safety different feedstock, materials, services and and environment. Therefore, we actively seek equipment which we procure, Atlantic Grupa such suppliers who share our values and busioffers many opportunities and possibilities for ness principles, and promote the application of cooperation to its suppliers. From our supplihigh standards within their business environers we procure all the raw materials for our ment. These standards include: products, packaging, machines for producing and finishing the products, other equipment • compliance with the laws, including the and technical devices, as well as other services prohibition of giving or receiving bribe or that are necessary support to our processes. personal payment Our supply chain consists of both large multi• respecting human rights and employees’ national business corporations and local suprights pliers. From some of the suppliers we procure • health protection and work safety laws products and services in significant amounts, and standards compliance while with others we cooperate on an occa• prohibition of child work as well as bonded sional basis. In 2013, Atlantic Grupa cooperlabour ated with more than 200 suppliers. • prohibition of workers abuse, discrimination or harassment The strategy of the purchasing organization of • obeying applicable environmental laws, Atlantic Grupa is based on a careful selection rules and regulations and demonstrated of adequate suppliers capable to supply the commitment to preserving the environment company with goods and services of requested quality. Atlantic Grupa constantly encourages The purchasing organization of Atlantic Grupa suppliers to improve their own efficiency and to is committed to select only such suppliers that develop innovative products and technologies. comply with these standards for conducting the business with our company. Monitoring Basic principles for procurement and relations standards and performance of our suppliers is with suppliers are defined in the Purchasing challenging but crucial to protect our business Guidelines, the fundamental document of the and our company’s reputation, and most impurchasing organization of Atlantic Grupa, portantly our consumers who use our products. which is followed by the procedures, manuals and instructions describing in detail the speEvaluation of suppliers is conducted once a cific areas of purchasing activities in Atlantic year, and is generally based on two main criGrupa's operating companies. The Guidelines teria: quality and commercial terms and condiforesee that Atlantic Grupa’s purchasing ortions. Evaluation based on quality of delivered ganization takes only such actions and pracmaterials and suppliers’ quality systems is performed in Quality assurance department. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 15 Supplier proves his quality system with certificates o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e Other certificate: FSSC ISO 26000 Social HACCP 22000 / responsibility; ISO ISO 9001 ISO 14001 or GMP IFS / BRC 50001Energy managecertificate certificate certificate or adequate ment; OHSAS 18001; certificate Information security ISO 27001... Each evaluated supplier is assigned with one portal contains information on goods and serof the evaluation ratings: A – excellent, B – vices which Atlantic Grupa is procuring, selecgood, or C – conditionally acceptable/not action and awarding contracts procedures etc. ceptable. In addition, the portal provides the suppliers the opportunity to share their suggestions for Aimed at improving two-way communication, improving the relationship with Atlantic Grupa, Atlantic Grupa encourages the existing and quality and functionality of products and serpotential suppliers to use the online supplier vices, and other aspects of cooperation. portal available at the company’s website. The managing value for the community and help protect the sustainability risks environment for future generations. In addition to macroeconomic conditions that The corporate culture that Atlantic Grupa largely dictate the trends in the consumption nurtures is reflected in our Quality Policy, congoods industry, in particular personal consumpfirming our commitment to the principles of tion as a component of the GDP, our company sustainable development, economic efficiency, must consider major global risks such as the environmental responsibility and social responongoing financial crisis causing the recession sibility. This means that, beyond complying in Europe as well as in the region. While cliwith national laws and international standards, mate change and resource scarcity increasingwe are developing internal procedures and ly affect our business and social environment, policies concerning the most material issues we made a big step toward sustainability by for our company as well as for our stakeholdexpanding our concern for the environment ers, as we take into account local and global from a local approach to the corporate level sustainability trends. Having high quality within a consistent Environmental Managestandards as our fundamental commitment, ment System (EMS) based on three main we are operating in ways that generate shared pillars: environment and energy efficiency, atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 16 people and society, and governance. With the consumers’ expectations o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e constantly growing, the development of the consumer goods industry is also largely influenced by the ability of companies to adapt to consumer needs and market trends, which in turn requires investments in research and development, innovation and technology. Finally, as a company, we are best positioned to create shared value by promoting healthy lifestyles to our consumers and the community in which we operate. In response to the main challenges, our sustainability commitments are deeply implemented in our core business: • Risk control is implemented in the process of designing and developing or improving product when it comes to the use of raw materials, components or substances that may jeopardize or jeopardize human health. In Atlantic Grupa, procedures with the purpose to assure safety and conformity of any new or improved product are in place. There are many internal demands that must be followed in terms of legal and sustainable aspects in order to assure the production of safe foods. Furthermore, we are committed to developing new product recipes in order to improve our products and support healthy eating habits of our consumers. • When conceptualising, planning and designing new products, in addition to the aforementioned, the environmental aspect and the sustainable development aspect also have to be taken into account. Through the careful selection of raw materials and packaging materials, we can reduce environmental impacts throughout the entire life cycle of the product – from raw materials to final disposal of the waste packaging after the use of the product. • The extension of the principle of sustainable development is reflected in the relationship with our suppliers. By including environmental criteria in the process of selecting suppliers, we have expanded environmental care along our supply chain. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 17 commitements to this world’s largest corporate responsibility o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e external initiatives platform. Atlantic Grupa in Serbia is one of the founding members of the Business Leaders Forum the first and only network of companies in SerIn 2007, Atlantic Grupa joined the United Nabia dedicated to social responsibility – whose tions Global Compact by committing to support activities contribute to further development of the ten universally accepted principles with socially responsible projects and exchange of respect to human rights, labour, environment experience on the current practice. Since 2013, and anti-corruption. The UN Global Compact a representative of Atlantic Grupa holds a poand Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) signed an sition in the Governing Board of this network. agreement in May 2010 to align their work in In Croatia, Atlantic Grupa is a member of The advancing corporate responsibility and transCroatian Business Council for Sustainable parency. According to this agreement, GRI is Development (HR BCSD) since 2005. This busideveloping its reporting guidelines to integrate ness association gathers companies in a joint UNGC issue areas, while the UNGC adopts mission of seeking solutions for growth, by balGRI Guidelines as the recommended reporting ancing business success, social well-being and framework for the businesses that have joined environmental protection. how we support un global compact principles human rights The company's politics and procedures concerning human rights, equal opportuPrinciple 1 Businesses should support nities, safe and healthy working condiand respect the protection of internations. tionally proclaimed human rights and Ethical code of the purchasing organizaPrinciple 2 Businesses should make tion applying, among others, the criteria sure that they are not complicit in huof sustainable purchasing: when making man rights abuses. sourcing and purchasing decisions, Atlantic Grupa’s purchasing organization is committed to consider both environmental and social factors aiming at minimizing the environmental and social impact that the items we purchase have. Purchasing business must be conducted in such a way to respect social, ethnic, cultural, sexual and racial diversity, and business decisions must not be directed in a way that favours any of the categories of ethnic, sexual or racial criteria. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 18 o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e Purchasing Guidelines ensuring sustainable sourcing and procuring by helping protecting human rights in our value chain. A number of humanitarian actions supporting vulnerable social groups: blind and visually impaired persons, children without parental care, children with special needs etc. labor Atlantic Grupa strongly supports the right of association of its employees and the Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold work of its Union alliance. In 2013, 70.84% the freedom of association and the of our employees were covered with coleffective recognition of the right to collective agreements. lective bargaining. The company's politics and procedures Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold concerning human rights, equal opporthe elimination of all forms of forced tunities, safe and healthy working conand compulsory labor. ditions are available on the company's intranet and on all of our bulletin boards. Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Atlantic Grupa works in a way that respects all positive regulations which forbid Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold child labour, forced or obligatory work the elimination of discrimination in rethat protects the employees’ dignity in a spect of employment and occupation. way that the employee is protected from mobbing or sexual harassment from their employers, superiors, associates and others with whom they may work. Our corporate culture respects any type of individual diversity and fosters cooperation. Each tender stresses gender equality when hiring. 51% of our employees are women. All of our employees, regardless of the contract they have, are guaranteed equal rights and opportunities to develop and grow. Employee engagement ratio in 2013 increased to 2.02:1 compared to 2012 when it was 1.1:1 (engaged vs. not engaged employees). atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 19 o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e Purchasing Guidelines require from all suppliers to protect their employees’ rights (prohibition of child work as well as bonded labour, prohibition of workers abuse, discrimination or harassment) and ensure health protection and safety at work. environment Integrated Environmental Management System (EMS) based on well-considered Principle 7 – Businesses should support and economical use of natural sources, a precautionary approach to environusing environmental friendly technologies mental challenges. in our production, reduction of waste and lower consumption of energy and water Principle 8 – Businesses should un(full integration of all 17 production facilidertake initiatives to promote greater ties in the region in 2013). environmental responsibility. The total amount of energy consumption Principle 9 – Businesses should encour2011-2013 is decreasing (from 140,286 age the development and diffusion of MWh in 2011 to 117,413 MWh in 2013). In environmentally friendly technologies. 2013 we started implementing the Energy Management System (EnMS) as an upgrade to the corporate EMS. The environmental aspect and the sustainable development aspect also have to be taken into account when designing new products. Through the careful selection of raw materials and packaging materials we can reduce environmental impacts throughout the entire life cycle of the product – from raw materials to final disposal of the waste packaging after the use of the product. The principle of maintaining biodiversity also has to be considered in this process. Purchasing Guidelines requiring from all suppliers to obey applicable environmental laws, rules and regulations and demonstrate commitment to preserving the environment. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 20 anti-Corruption o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e Since its foundation and listing on the Zagreb Stock Exchange (ZSE), Atlantic Principle 10 – Businesses should work Grupa bases its business activities on its against corruption in all its forms, inown Code of Corporate Governance of cluding extortion and bribery. Atlantic Grupa whereby the standards of business transparency are aligned with Croatian and EU legislation. The Code defines the procedures for the functioning of the Supervisory Board, Management Board and other bodies and structures responsible for decision-making, ensuring the avoidance of conflicts of interest, efficient internal control and an effective responsibility system. Moreover, considering the fact that Atlantic Grupa is company publicly listed on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, the Company also applies the Code of Corporate Governance issued by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency (HANFA) and the ZSE. Based on the principles set therein, the Company announces the Statement of its application for each business year, confirming its actions and development in accordance with the good corporate governance practice in all business segments. The Statement can be found on the Company’s website (www.atlanticgrupa.com) as well as on the official website of the ZSE (www.zse.hr). In addition to the above, Atlantic Grupa acceded to the Code of Ethics in Business issued by the Croatian Chamber of Economy. The Code lays down guidelines for ethical behaviour of business subjects in the Croatian economy, contributing to more transparent and efficient business operations and high quality relations between economic operators in Croatia and the business environment in which they atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 21 anti-Corruption o r gani zat i o nal pr o fi l e operate. By adjoining the Code, parties are obliged to responsible and ethical behavPrinciple 10 – Businesses should work iour towards the other companies on the against corruption in all its forms, inmarket as well as the development of high cluding extortion and bribery. quality relations and loyal competition. Supporting the application of the principles of the good corporate governance practice, Atlantic Grupa adopted its own Whistleblowing Procedure Rules, prescribing the reporting procedure, rights as well as duties of each and all employees of Atlantic Grupa who in his/her work observes or becomes aware of either an actual or a potentially illegal action or potential violation of the accepted rules of business conduct in the Company carried out by another employee(s). By application of the Ethical code of the purchasing organization the Company supports conduct of a fair market competition among potential suppliers, prohibiting any conflict of interest (personal interest in the process of selection, receiving gifts and money from the potential suppliers etc.). Also, implementing the provisions of the Purchasing Guidelines the Company requires from all suppliers to act with integrity, to comply with all applicable laws of their countries including the prohibition of giving or receiving bribe or personal payment. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 22 ABO UT THIS REPO RT 2 . ABOUT THIS REPORT report parameters As a company committed to transparency and responsible business operations, in 2013 we decided to improve our reporting practices and to start annual reporting about our economic, social and environmental performance following for the first time GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. In these areas in recent years, we significantly enhanced our contribution to sustainable development, having also ambitious projects planned for the future. Our intention is to share our successes and challenges even more transparently with all stakeholders. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 23 This is a logical continuation of our previthe new G4 version of GRI methodology for the ABO UT THIS REPO RT ous reports that were based on ten principles future 3-year period. of the United Nation’s Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment With the intention of providing a comprehenand anti-corruption. We have supported the UN sive and balanced account of the important Global Compact since 2007 and have reported non-financial aspects of our operations, this on our progress regularly, except for the year report covers the entire Atlantic Grupa and its 2010: strategic business units, referring to all companies falling within the scope of Consolidated audited financial results for FY 2013. Full inforReport on progress 2008-2009 mation about financial results and risk manhttp://unglobalcompact.undp.hr/show. agement practices can be found in our Annual jsp?page=111580 report 2013 and Financial report 2013 (http:// www.atlantic.hr/en/investors/financial-reports/ Report on progress 2011-2012 annual-reports/). http://www.atlantic.hr/en/social-responsibility/ towards-environment/ Atlantic Grupa management is responsible for all aspects of this report. Besides complying with UN Global Compact If you have any feedback or questions on this principles, Sustainability report 2013 is preSustainability report, please contact pared in accordance with the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, the fourth generation of guidelines from GRI, at a core application level. In 2013, we have selected nine performance Ivan Mišetić indicators for which we believe can help us sigSecretary General nificantly improve the ability to participate in competitive markets. Unless otherwise stated, ivan.misetic@atlanticgrupa.com all information mentioned in the report is for Atlantic Grupa the year 2013. The results for years 2011 to Miramarska 23 2013 are for the first time presented in this 10000 Zagreb, Hrvatska report. We are already working on complete adoption of measurements in accordance with atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 24 materiality ABO UT THIS REPO RT To determine the content of the report, we LIST OF PRIMARY TOPICS: have followed a systematic and rigorous materiality assessment process, guided by the ECONOMIC IMPACTS criteria defined by the Global Reporting InitiaASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE tive (GRI-G4). ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY The sustainability issues have been analyzed ASPECT: ENERGY on the basis of an initial broad list of topics ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY that may affect our business or be of concern ASPECT: WASTE to our stakeholders. Sources for this list include relevant issues addressed by media, indusWORKPLACE RESPONSIBILITY try and sector benchmarks, matters raised by ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT stakeholders in public debate, internal docuASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY ments and business strategy. Considering the ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION significance of our economic, environmental and social impacts helped us focus on aspects that PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY deliver the greatest value to our business and ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY stakeholders, within four major areas: economic ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING performance, product responsibility, workplace responsibility and environment responsibility. In this Report, only material topics identified by The company’s senior decision-makers are acinternal and external stakeholders as signifitively involved in this process, as the results of cantly important will be reported on. the analysis were reviewed and approved by the In terms of the extent of the impact, all asSocial Responsibility Committee. pects that the analysis showed to be material have impacts within the organization as a whole. Furthermore, the aspects analyzed have impacts outside the company in geographical areas where Atlantic Grupa conducts its operations and for all the stakeholder categories identified. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 25 stakeholder or indirect risks in relation to our company. ABO UT THIS REPO RT engagement Aside from shareholders, the stakeholders, among others, are: employees, customers and users of the company services, suppliers, creditors, local community and public authority bodies. Our ability to generate value through business choices also depends on listening and recogThe Management Board is responsible for the nizing the needs and expectations of those transparent and quality relationships of Atstakeholders who, directly or indirectly, affect lantic Grupa and its stakeholders, being bound the activities of Atlantic Grupa or are influto take care that the company respects all enced by them. As a multinational company, rights of stakeholders based on the law and we have an impact on the decisions of a large good business customs. Furthermore, going number of stakeholder categories, both interbeyond legal requirements, acting responsibly nal and external, as our results and activities for us means engaging in an ongoing dialogue, depend in a certain degree on the fulfilment of both locally and internationally, with the main stakeholder needs. stakeholders, in order to understand their different motives and concerns, as well as global According to the Atlantic Grupa Code of Corpotrends that are important to them. Stakeholder rate Governance, stakeholders are considered engagement is carried out regularly through to be the persons who take over certain direct many channels: key stakeholders stakeholder engagement employees Regular employee engagement survey Corporate interactive intranet customers and users of the Regional contact center company services Brands’ Facebook pages suppliers Supplier portal creditors Corporate web page local communities Regional contact center Donations and sponsorships procedure Direct cooperation with local community representatives, meetings and consultations, open calls for donations Brands’ Facebook pages public authority bodies Meetings and consultations This report presents our answer to the interests of our stakeholders in the areas of economy, product responsibility, workplace, and environment, as indicated on the list of our primary topics. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 26 CO RP O RATE MAN AG EMEN T 3 . CORPORATE MANAGEMENT Atlantic Grupa's corporate management structure is based on a dual system consisting of the Company’s Supervisory Board and Management Board. Together with the General Assembly, they represent the three principal bodies of the Company under the Articles of Associations and the Companies Act. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 27 Since its foundation Atlantic Grupa adopted interest, efficient internal control and an effecCO RP O RATE MAN AG EMEN T and implemented its own Code of Corporate tive responsibility system. In line with consistGovernance of Atlantic Grupa whereby the ent appliance of the Code’s principles, Atlantic standards of business transparency are aligned Grupa develops and operates in accordance with Croatian and EU legislation. With the with the good corporate governance practice given Code, Atlantic Grupa defined the proceand strives to contribute with its business dures for the functioning of the Supervisory strategy, business policy, key internal acts and Board, Management Board and other bodies business practice to transparent and efficient and structures responsible for decision-making, business operations and quality relations with thus ensuring the avoidance of conflicts of the business environment in which it operates. Commitment to external initiatives for good corporate governance Considering the fact that Atlantic Grupa is company publicly listed on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, the Company also applies the Code of Corporate Governance issued by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency (HANFA) and the Zagreb Stock Exchange. Based on the principles set therein, the Company announces the Statement of its application, confirming its actions and development in accordance with the good corporate governance practice in all business segments. The Statement of Application of the Code of Corporate Governance for 2013, as well as for each business year, has been published on the Company’s website (www.atlanticgrupa.com) as well as on the official website of the Zagreb Stock Exchange (www.zse.hr). Moreover, Atlantic Grupa acceded to the Code of Ethics in Business issued by the Croatian Chamber of Economy. The Code lays down guidelines for ethical behaviour of business subjects in the Croatian economy, contributing to more transparent and efficient business operations and high quality relations between economic operators in Croatia and the business environment in which they operate. By adjoining the Code, parties are obliged to responsible and ethical behaviour towards the other companies on the market as well as the development of high quality relations and loyal competition. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 28 governance structure Željko Perić / Member CO RP O RATE MAN AG EMEN T of the organization Siniša Petrović / Member Franz-Josef Flosbach / Member Saša Pekeč / Member Vedrana Jelušić-Kašić / Member GENERAL ASSEMBLY The members of the Supervisory Board have The General Assembly is a body in which been remunerated for their work and have the shareholders accomplish their rights in Comright to remuneration that is appropriate for pany matters. In order to decide on issues the tasks performed as well as the Company’s prescribed by law and the Company’s Articles situation and business performance. In 2013, of Association, the regular General Assembly members of the Supervisory Board of Atlantic of Atlantic Grupa d.d. was held on 20 June Grupa d.d. on the said grounds received com2013. The following decisions were made at pensation in the total gross amount of HRK that Assembly: issuing the note of release to 1,005,851.04. the members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board, amendment of the SUPERVISORY BOARD COMMITTEES Company’s list of business activities, appropriate amendment of the Articles of Association, Three Committees function within the Superappointment of an independent Auditor of the visory Board with the purpose of assisting the Company for the year 2013 and the decision operation and functioning of the Supervisory on paying a dividend to the Company shareBoard: Audit Committee, Nomination and Reholders in the amount of HRK 9.00 per share, muneration Committee and Corporate Governin proportion to the number of shares held by ance Committee. Each of these Committees each shareholder. All decisions from the Genconsists of three members, of which two are eral Assembly were made in line with legal appointed from the ranks of the Supervisory regulations and are available on web pages of Board members while one member is appointAtlantic Grupa (www.atlanticgrupa.com) and ed from the ranks of top experts in the subject the Zagreb Stock Exchange (www.zse.hr). area. SUPERVISORY BOARD OF ATLANTIC GRUPA The Corporate Governance Committee defines a system of mechanisms for ensuring a balThe joint stock company Atlantic Grupa has a ance between the rights of the shareholders Supervisory Board consisting of seven memand the needs of the management with regard bers. In 2013, the Supervisory Board held four to steering the Company's business and mansessions in accordance with the previously aging its operations. announced Schedule posted on web pages of the Company (www.atlanticgrupa.com) and the The Nomination and Remuneration Committee Zagreb Stock Exchange (www.zse.hr). suggests the candidates for the Management Board, Supervisory Board and senior manageThe members of the Supervisory Board in ment personnel and the content of contracts 2013 were: with the members of Management Board and the structure of their compensation and Zdenko Adrović / President the compensation of the Supervisory Board’s Lada Tedeschi Fiorio / Vice President members. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 29 The Audit Committee analyses in detail the STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT COUNCIL CO RP O RATE MAN AG EMEN T financial reports, provides support to the Company’s accounting and establishes good and Since its establishment in early 2012, the quality internal control within the Company. It Strategic Management Council operates as a monitors the integrity of financial information multifunctional body that discusses vital straof the company, particularly the accuracy and tegic and operational corporate issues, busiconsistency of accounting methods used by ness analysis, priority definition, supervision of the company and the group, to which it bestrategic plans, coordination between orlongs, including the criteria for consolidation of ganisational units and key decision-making. In financial reports of the companies that belong 2013, the Council included the following memto the group. The Committee also assesses the bers: President of the Management Board, quality of the internal control and risk manageSenior Group Vice President for Business ment system, with the aim of properly identifyOperations, Group Vice President for Finance ing, publicizing and managing the major risks and Information Technology, Group Vice Presito which the company is exposed to. dent for Corporate Affairs, and directors of all Strategic Business Units and Strategic DisThe members of the said Committees who are tribution Units, Senior Executive Director for not members of the Supervisory Board have Regional Key Accounts Management and Sales received remuneration for their work and conCroatia, Secretary General, Executive Directribution to the functioning of the Supervisory tors of Central Purchasing, Human Resources Board of Atlantic Grupa in 2013 in the total and Corporate Controlling and the Head of the gross amount of HRK 21,912.94. Investment Committee. MANAGEMENT BOARD OF ATLANTIC GRUPA BUSINESS COMMITTEES The Management Board of Atlantic Grupa The Investment Committee assists the Manconsists of the President and Group Vice Presiagement Board by providing expert analyses dents. Twenty sessions of the Management and opinions on strategic decisions regarding Board were held in 2013. the acquisition of companies, brands, businesses, or the sale of existing organisational The Management Board of Atlantic Grupa opbusiness parts and on all individual investment erates in the following composition: projects exceeding EUR 2 million. The Investment Committee is headed by the ManageEmil Tedeschi ment Board Advisor, and its members are the / President of the Management Board Director of Internal Audit and the Director of Mladen Veber Corporate Treasury. / Senior Group Vice President for Business Operations The Social Responsibility Committee contribNeven Vranković utes to the implementation of principles of / Group Vice President for Corporate Affairs sustainable development in the company’s eveZoran Stanković ryday business activities, monitors its status /Vice President for Finance and IT and starts initiatives for the improvement of socially responsible business conduct. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 30 The Social Responsibility Committee is headed CO RP O RATE MAN AG EMEN T by the Company’s Secretary General, while its members are the Executive Director of Human Resources, the Director of Corporate Communications and the Director of Corporate Quality Assurance. remuneration policy for management board members The contract on performing activities of a • right to use an official vehicle, right to member of the Management Board i.e. the compensation of all costs incurred by the employment contract for board members who Management Board member while perare employed at Atlantic Grupa lays down forming his/her functions. the rights and obligations of board members based on their function as the Management All Management Board members have manBoard members, as follows: ager contracts that include a whole set of binding provisions as well as incentive ones, as • monthly salary for board members, set in follows: the gross amount, • annual bonus (bonus remuneration) per • confidentiality clause – board members are year of contract duration, set in the deobliged to keep confidential the Company’s fined percentage of the realised principal business secrets during and after their annual gross salary and remuneration on employment, regardless of the reasons for the grounds of membership in supervisory employment termination. The obligation of boards of associated companies. The payconfidentiality extends to business secrets ment of the annual bonus is conditioned of AG’s associated companies as well, upon the realisation of planned business • no-competition clause – binds a board results in the ratio of at least 95% of the member to a period of one year from the EBT plan for the consolidated Atlantic date of receiving severance pay, if he/she Grupa’s business year, is entitled to it, • life insurance, personal accident and health • contract penalty in case of breaking the insurance policy for the members of the no-competition clause, any board member Management Board contracted by Atlantic shall be liable to pay the contract penGrupa at the reputable insurance compaalty in the amount of twelve average net nies in Croatia, monthly salaries paid to that board mematlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 31 ber in the period of three months before In 2013, members of the Management Board CO RP O RATE MAN AG EMEN T contract termination, of Atlantic Grupa d.d., on the grounds of sal• prohibition of participation of any board ary and remuneration for supervisory board member in the ownership and/or managemembership in operating companies and anment structure, whether directly or indinual bonus received a gross amount of HRK rectly, in any company which is in market 13,758,172.01. From that amount, on the competition with Atlantic Grupa and asbasis of salary, remuneration for supervisory sociated companies, or in a company with board membership in operating companies and which Atlantic Grupa and associated comannual bonus, President of the Management panies have business cooperation, as well Board Emil Tedeschi in 2013 received a gross as to act as an advisor or consultant in amount of HRK 3,298,523.25. such companies, regardless of being paid or not for such activities, • performance of other activities as a board member, except those performed for Atlantic Grupa’s associated companies, regardless of being paid or not for such activities, including the membership in supervisory boards, advisory bodies, etc. shall only be allowed pursuant to the prior approval of the Management Board of Atlantic Grupa, • employment, contract duration and termination periods – board members are employed for an indefinite period in Atlantic Grupa or its associated companies, and the contract on performing the function of a board member is concluded for the period of 3 years, with the possibility of termination in accordance with the periods prescribed by law, • severance pay – severance pay is contracted in the amount of six average monthly gross salaries of the board member and gross remunerations based on the membership in supervisory boards of associated companies paid to that board member in the period of three months prior to contract termination. The obligation of severance payment occurs in a case of contract termination by Atlantic Grupa in the period of its duration, unless the contract is terminated due to reasons caused by the fault of the board member. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 32 ethics and (www.atlanticgrupa.com) as well as on the CO RP O RATE MAN AG EMEN T integrity official website of the Zagreb Stock Exchange (www.zse.hr). In addition to the above, Atlantic Grupa acceded to the Code of Ethics in Business issued by Further to the above-mentioned Atlantic Grupa the Croatian Chamber of Economy. The Code adopted its own Code of Corporate Governlays down guidelines for ethical behaviour of ance of Atlantic Grupa whereby the standards business subjects in the Croatian economy, of business transparency are aligned with contributing to more transparent and efficient Croatian and EU legislation. By its implemenbusiness operations and high quality relations tation the Company consistently incorporates between economic operators in Croatia and the highest standards of corporate governthe business environment in which they operance into its business activities and resolved to ate. By adjoining the Code, parties are obliged regulate its actions, both in regard of the other to responsible and ethical behaviour towards entities it enters into business relations with the other companies on the market as well as and in regard of its own employees. the development of high quality relations and loyal competition. Basic principles of the Corporate Governance Code of Atlantic Grupa are: WHISTLEBLOWING PROCEDURE • transparency of business activity Given that the Company wishes to provide its • clearly elaborated procedures for the opemployees the right to an honest, responsieration of the Supervisory Board, Manageble, transparent and ethical work i.e. working ment Board and other bodies and strucenvironment in which the main principles of tures making important decisions business conduct are respected, Atlantic Grupa • avoiding conflicts of interest adopted the Whistleblowing Procedure Rules • efficient internal control which prescribes the reporting procedure, rights • efficient responsibility system. as well as duties of each and all employees of Atlantic Grupa who in his/her work observes or Due to the fact that Atlantic Grupa is company becomes aware of either an actual or a potenpublicly listed on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, tial illegal action or potential violation of the the Company also applies the Code of Corpoaccepted rules of business conduct in the Comrate Governance issued by the Croatian Fipany carried out by another employee(s). nancial Services Supervisory Agency (HANFA) By such Rules, illegal action or violation of and the Zagreb Stock Exchange. Based on the the accepted business conduct (Misconduct) principles set therein, the Company announces are defined as any conduct including (but not the Statement of its application, confirming its limited to): actions and development in accordance with the good corporate governance practice in all • committing a criminal act pursuant to posibusiness segments. The Statement of Applitive legal regulations cation of the Code of Corporate Governance • violation of the Company’s internal acts for 2013, as well as for each business year, • conduct that represents a serious risk to has been published on the Company’s website human health and property atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 33 • conduct that represents a serious risk of Within the period of 4 weeks after receiving a CO RP O RATE MAN AG EMEN T jeopardizing the Company’s reputation carreport on the potential Misconduct, the Head ried out by the Company’s employees. of Corporate Security of Atlantic Grupa is obliged to inform the employee who submitAn employee who in his/her work observes or ted the report on the outcome of the process. becomes aware of Misconduct has the right By way of derogation, if the process requires a as well as the duty to report it immediately in period of time longer than the one prescribed, writing to the Head of Corporate Security of the Head of Corporate Security of Atlantic Atlantic Grupa and the member of the ManGrupa is obliged, within the given period, to agement Board of Atlantic Grupa competent inform him/her of the actions taken in the for Corporate Affairs. Immediately after receivprocess and, immediately after the conclusion ing the report, they issue a certificate indicatof the process, on its outcome. ing the date of receipt of the report to the employee and, without delay, notify the followIn case that it has been identified that the ing, as applicable: employee has undoubtedly committed the Misconduct, with respect to all the circumstances • Head of Department in which the employee of the case, the Company is obliged to take all who committed the potential Misconduct is reasonable measures against that employee working, except in a case where the popursuant to the provisions of the Labour Act, tential Misconduct relates to the Head of the Company’s internal acts, as well as submit Department, or necessary notifications to the competent state • The President of the Management Board authorities. – in a case where the potential Misconduct relates to actions of a member of the The employee who submitted a report on the Management Board, or potential Misconduct in accordance with the • The President of the Supervisory Board of Rules is guaranteed with full confidentiality of Atlantic Grupa in a case where the potenany information regarding his/her identity and tial Misconduct relates to actions of the the content of the report with which he/she President of the Management Board. reported the potential Misconduct. In a case where the potential Misconduct reBesides, any employee who in his/her work oblates to joint actions of the Head of Corporate serves or becomes aware of Misconduct shall Security of Atlantic Grupa and the member of have the right, at his/her own discretion, to the Management Board competent for Corposubmit an anonymous report on the potential rate Affairs, an employee who in his/her work Misconduct, without providing information on observes or becomes aware of Misconduct of his/her identity. the persons listed has the right as well as the duty to immediately report it in writing to the An action of an employee who knowingly President of the Management Board of Atreports a potential Misconduct of another lantic Grupa. In such a case, the President of employee without any grounds and with a mothe Management Board is obliged to issue a tive to cause any harm to him/her or to gain certificate indicating the date of receipt of the any benefit for oneself or for other person is report to the employee and carry out further considered a violation of the Company’s interprocedure in accordance with the provisions of nal acts. In this respect, in 2013 there were no the Rules. recorded complaints from our employees. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 34 Ethical code of the purchasing who are interested in entering into a busiCO RP O RATE MAN AG EMEN T organization ness relationship with Atlantic Grupa. This means that the supplier selection process Ethical code of the purchasing organization has to be always defined and conducted in is a set of values, standards, principles and such a way to prioritize the suppliers that rules, which all the staff of the Atlantic Grupa’s are capable to provide quality products purchasing organization, responsible for proor services at competitive prices, or that curement in the company, has to respect in have visible and proven advantages to the performing their business activities. business of Atlantic Grupa, compared to other suppliers. While selecting the suppliThe Ethical Code covers the following areas: ers or later when the cooperation with the suppliers is already established, any influ• Legal compliance The purchasers are ence which is not of a business nature, or obliged to inform themselves on any law which is affected by a personal interest of and regulation change pertaining to purthe purchasing staff is not allowed. In this chasing and apply them in their business. regards, the purchasers have no right to In addition to various national and interask or to receive money, favours or gifts national laws and regulations of a general from suppliers or potential suppliers. Excharacter, the purchasers have to follow ceptionally, only business gifts that are of and apply all other laws and regulations symbolic value could be accepted as an that are related to trade, industry, protecexpression of common business practice or tion of patents and copyrights, environmenbusiness partner's courtesy, but their givtal protection, work safety, labour law etc. ing or accepting in no way should influence the decision making process, supplier's • Applying the criteria of sustainable purselection, negotiations or agreements with chasing When making sourcing and pursuppliers. The manners of dealing with chasing decisions, Atlantic Grupa’s purchassuppliers, regardless of their negotiating organization is committed to consider ing position and power of the purchasing both environmental and social factors aimdepartment, must be civilized and fair, and ing at minimizing the environmental and the purchasing staff is bound to respect social impact that the items we purchase all agreed terms with suppliers, providing have. Purchasing business must be conthat the other side respects its obligations ducted in such a way to respect social, ethtoo. The purchasing staff also commits to nic, cultural, sexual and racial diversity, and keeping secrets and professional data, and business decisions must not be directed in their selective use, which also applies to all a way that favours any of the categories of confidential information that is obtained ethnic, sexual or racial criteria. from suppliers during the competition for goods and services supply, as well as offers • Fair treatment of suppliers The purchasor business reports. This information may ing organization and the purchasing staff not, without the consent of the party that have to enable and support fair market placed this information at the disposal, be competition among potential suppliers made available to third parties. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 35 CO RP O RATE MAN AG EMEN T • Respect to the purchasing profession The purchasing staff has to develop and maintain their professional competences, which means that they are obliged to continuously develop and improve their professional value both in terms of specific skills and knowledge in the purchasing area (technical knowledge, knowledge of commerce, trade, laws and regulations), and in terms of communication and other „soft” skills. For achieving this, the purchasers should be open to communicate with other purchasing professionals outside the company and with purchasing associations and institutions, in order to exchange and share experiences and opinions. As the representatives of the purchasing profession, the purchasers of Atlantic Grupa have to act in such a way to maintain dignity of the purchasing profession, and at the same time to ensure that the others who are in contact with the purchasers also recognize the dignity of the purchasing profession. • Loyalty towards the employer The purchasing staff has to show loyalty towards the employer, in whose interest they work. This loyalty is expressed through acting in accordance with the general policy and the strategy of Atlantic Grupa, with the directives and instructions received from the company's management, and in accordance with the authorization of the purchasing department and the purchasers, given by the company's management. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 36 eco no mi c i mpact s 4 . E CONOMIC I M PACTS With continuous investments in production facilities, developments of new processes, following the latest technologies and educating production and sales personnel, Atlantic Grupa became one of the most dynamic business systems in the region and even wider with the internationalisation of operations as our main strategic focus of development. We have concluded the year 2013 with 4,228 employees in 11 markets. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 37 Owing to successful implementation of the CIS markets and key European markets we eco no mi c i mpact s strategy, in 2013 Atlantic Grupa continued confirm the company’s orientation towards with the organic sales growth and profitability internationalisation. improvement. We are particularly pleased that our business model has proven stable in a difWith its financial results in 2013, Atlantic ficult economic environment, as confirmed by Grupa for the seventh consecutive year dereported results and launching of new investlivers announced guidance and confirms its ments. Despite the challenges, we managed focus on business development with continuto be continuously successful in generating ous monitoring of operating costs, managegrowth in an environment of general decline ment of financial and operating risks, prudent or stagnation, which also includes the region, liquidity management, further deleveraging while by the results and growth achieved in the and achievement of strong cash flows from operating activities. Atlantic Grupa Change Change Change Consolidated 2011 2012 2013 2012/2011 2013/2012 2013/2011 ‘000 HRK Direct economic 4,749,172 4,958,463 5,067,054 4.4% 2.2% 3.3% value generated Revenues 4,749,172 4,958,463 5,067,054 4.4% 2.2% 3.3% Economic value distributed** 4,605,856 4,766,942 4,791,526 3.5% 0.5% 2.0% Operating costs – incl. Educa3,595,812 3,753,010 3,777,075 4.4% 0.6% 2.5% tion & Freelancers Employee wages and benefits – 589,909 597,845 619,772 1.3% 3.7% 2.5% excl. Education, Freelancers*** Payments to providers 221,167 257,546 189,273 16.4% -26.5% -7.5% of capital**** Payments to Government***** 44,301 42,341 57,838 -4.4% 36.6% 14.3% Community investments 37,212 44,741 50,635 20.2% 13.2% 16.7% CAPEX 117,456 71,458 96,933 -39.2% 35.6% -9.2% Economic value retained 143,316 191,521 275,529 33.6% 43.9% 38.7% * Compound Annual Growth Rate ** Excluding provisions (bad debts, inventories, employee future commitments as per IAS 19) *** Including taxes and contributions on salaries **** Interest expense (P&L item) and dividend paid ***** Refer to P&L items (corporate income tax, other taxes and contributions not related to result) atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 38 In the 2011–2013 period, Atlantic Grupa annual growth of 2.5% due to higher salaries eco no mi c i mpact s posted compound annual growth in Economic and wages. value retained of 38.7%. In 2012, higher Economic value retained was driven by higher Payments to providers of capital Atlantic revenues, lower payments to government and Grupa’s payments to providers of capital were capital expenditures. In 2013, higher Economic higher in 2012 than in 2011 on the back of value retained was a result of higher revenues, higher interest expenses arising from the aclower payments to providers of capital, lower quisition financing of Droga Kolinska in 2010. capital expenditures and only a modest growth Simultaneously, there was no dividend payment in operating costs (including education and in 2012. The company successfully refinanced freelancers). long-term borrowings at the end of 2012 that resulted in significantly lower interest expenses Revenues In the 2011-2013 period, Atlantic in 2013 and thus lower payments to providers Grupa recorded compound annual growth in of capital. This was to some extent offset by sales of 3.3%. The main engines behind the dividend payment of HRK 30 million (HRK 9.00 growth in 2012 were strategic business units per share) in 2013. Coffee, Pharma and Personal Care and Savoury Spreads, and in 2013 strategic business units Payments to Government Increase in paySports and Functional Food, Pharma and Perments to government reflected higher corposonal Care and Snacks. Analysing by markets, rate income tax on the back of better business the largest growth has been achieved in the results of Atlantic Grupa in the period 2011markets of Russia and CIS countries in both 2013 that completely annulled decline in other years. taxes and contributions not related to result. Operating costs incl. Education & FreelancCapex In 2012, the company’s capital expeners In the 2011-2013 period, operating costs ditures were mostly aimed at SBU Beverages, grew 2.5% annually on the back of growth in SBU Snacks, SBU Coffee and SAP licences for Costs of goods sold, Production materials, SerSlovenia. The capital expenditure in 2013 were vices and Marketing expenses. Looking closely mostly related to investments in SBU Coffee, at 2013 only, Costs of goods sold increased as SBU Snacks, SBU Beverages, SBU Pharma and a result of the change in the sales mix as the Personal Care, investments related to the HRIS share of private labels and own brands with system (human resources information system) outsourced production grew. In 2013, Producand the project of developing, implementtion materials decreased mainly due to favouring and relocating the regional data centre in able movements in the prices of certain raw Zagreb. materials in the global commodity markets, primarily the prices of raw coffee. Service Community investments Atlantic Grupa is an costs grew as a consequence of higher transactive participant and organiser of a number portation, logistics and rent expenses. Marketof humanitarian actions and we systematically ing and promotion expenses advanced on the support a number of organisations and asback of aggressive marketing activities. sociations involved in protecting and helping vulnerable social groups. We gave donations to Employee wages and benefits excl. Educathe Centre for Education Dubrava, raised funds tion & freelancers Employee wages and benand donations for humanitarian actions aimed efits from 2011 to 2013 recorded compound at blind and visually impaired persons, children atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 39 without parental care, children with special In addition to a wide range of donor projects, eco no mi c i mpact s needs and gave donations to various health our sponsorship activities are also notable, institutions. Believing that our contribution to especially when it comes to the promotion the community is more than just a monetary of sports and healthy lifestyle for youth and support, more than a thousand of Atlantic’s adults. Atlantic Grupa continued to be actively employees in Great Britain, Italy, Germany, involved in the promotion of basketball as a Spain, Russia, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia & sport of national importance by managing the Herzegovina, Serbia and Macedonia celebrated Basketball Academy of the Basketball Club another Value Day by participating in socially Cedevita with over 700 children, thus ensurbeneficial activities: cleaning of public areas ing both the future of this sport and the op(parks, forests, green areas around the comtion for a healthy and useful free time activity. pany site), visiting children with special social Apart from basketball, Atlantic Grupa also needs and helping animal shelter associations. sponsored sports including cycling, bodybuildThis in the best possible way demonstrated ing, triathlon, etc. Among the most significant our values – sun, mountain and wave symbols sponsorship collaborations, the Italian bicycle of passion, responsibility and creativity, and race Giro d’Italia can be pointed out in 2013. In reminded each other that our job is more than the culture and knowledge segment, sponsorjust a job – it is also a way to act in the comship of the 18th and 19th Sarajevo Film Festimunity. val stands out as well as projects such as the UNICEF project “Schools against violence” in Serbia in 2013. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 40 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y 5 . P R ODUCT R E S PONSIBILIT Y In our business environment, we nurture a corporate culture that represents a framework for our Quality policy. We are dedicated to following new scientific achievements and creatively integrating them into our products and services, as well as to raising the quality of life and business of our loyal consumers in an inspiring and innovative way. The satisfaction of customers and consumers is the daily mission we share. For that reason, we manage our safety policy in accordance with consumer and market demands, as well as respecting local and European legal regulations. We ensure product safety through a series of control activities aimed at hazard management in all links of the chain, from the supplier to the consumer. We are also strongly dedicated to informing our consumers clearly about the products helping them make informed and healthy dietary choices throughout the day. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 41 The year 2012 was the first year of operation integrated pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y of the integrated process management system certification of quality, environmental and food safety management that was introduced at the corporate level of Atlantic Grupa i.e. in all operating companies within the Group. Implementation The large project of implementing the inteof this process approach and standardisation grated quality and environmental management of corporate processes continued in 2013. system was initiated in 2012. The aim was to achieve integrated certification of all memIn 2013 special attention was given to: bers of Atlantic Grupa. The project involved a new innovative approach to certification – the • monitoring process efficiency through defiimplementation of the so-called “multi-site” nition of unique key performance indicators certification model. The system completely • implementation of defined procedures for integrates and combines: corporate processes • management of non-compliances • the business process management require• standardisation of KPIs for the processes ments (ISO 9001) of technological development of new prod• the highest level of product and service ucts and production safety (FSSC 22000, HACCP, GMP) • selection, evaluation and monitoring of the • environmental management requirements service provider. (ISO 14000) Food Safety Food Good ManuQuality Environmental Legal Entity Market and Quality Safety facturing Standard Standard Standard Standard Practice Atlantic Grupa Croatia ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Cedevita (Planinska) Croatia ISO 9001 FSSC 22000 HACCP ISO 14001 Cedevita (Apatovec) Croatia ISO 9001 HACCP ISO 14001 Neva Croatia ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Montana Croatia ISO 9001 HACCP ISO 14001 Fidifarm Croatia ISO 9001 HACCP ISO 14001 GMP Atlantic Trade Croatia HACCP Bionatura Croatia HACCP atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 42 Food Safety Food Good ManuQuality Environmental pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y Legal Entity Market and Quality Safety facturing Standard Standard Standard Standard Practice Droga Kolinska (Ljubljana) Slovenia ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Droga Kolinska (Mirna) Slovenia ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Droga Kolinska (Rogaška) Slovenia ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Droga Kolinska (Izola) Slovenia ISO 9001 FSSC 22000 ISO 14001 Argeta B&H FSSC 22000 ISO 14001 Kofikom Product B&H ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Soko Štark (Smoki) Serbia ISO 9001 FSSC 22000 HACCP ISO 14001 Soko Štark Serbia ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Palanački kiseljak Serbia ISO 9001 HACCP ISO 14001 Grand Prom Serbia ISO 9001 HACCP ISO 14001 Atlantic Brands Serbia HACCP Atlantic Multipower Germany ISO 9001 IFS Droga Kolinska (Skopje) Macedonia ISO 9001 ISO 14001 The next certification cycle planned in February 2014 will include: • integration of all logistics into the process approach, • ISO 14001 in Multipower and logistics, • FSSC 22000 in bottling plants in Croatia and Slovenia, • GMP in Cosmetics (ISO 22 716). atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 43 product health quality objectives for all own brands and pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y and safety control of the whole chain from receiving materials to releasing products for sale • specialisation of the quality assurance system according to specific issues of From the very beginning of developing a new individual Strategic Business Units in the product or during the improvement of an existproduct segments of beverages, savoury ing one, we endeavour to achieve a standard spreads, sweet and salty snacks, children’s high quality of Atlantic Grupa’s products recogand sports food, cosmetics and medicines nisable to customers. • traceability and maintenance of a high quality level in transport, storage and disThe continuous following of scientific research, tribution to customers. EU legislation and all other targeted markets and their subsequent application from the very Laboratory testing of input materials, semi-finbeginning of a new product’s existence provide ished products and finished products is carried consumers with quality and health-safe prodout in three central laboratories specialised ucts. To achieve such complex goals, proactive for chemical, sensory and microbiological tests involvement of experts from the fields of rewith state-of-the-art measurement equipment. search and development and quality assurance The accuracy of measurement results is reguis necessary. The following factors have an larly verified by the method of international important role in the production of health-safe interlaboratory testing. The prevention proproducts: selection of source materials (nongramme for control of food hazards prescribes toxic, allergen-free, GMO-free, aligned with the regular monitoring of the following natural and REACH regulation, etc.), quality control of all technological pollutants: pesticide residues, input materials and ingredients, monitoring of heavy metals, allergens, microtoxins, alkaloids, all production phases, and quality assurance of PAHs and dioxins, nitrates, pharmacologically finished products. active substances and contamination by migration of substances from primary packaging. The Company’s extensive activities in the field Such tests are outsourced to accredited and of quality control are managed by the Corpospecialised laboratories. Monitoring is focused rate Quality Management Department, and on input materials and adjusted to the supexecuted by quality assurance departments plier’s risk assessment. The 2013 results show within the Strategic Business Units and perthat the control system is efficient and that all sons responsible for quality assurance within hazards are well under control. In 2013, special the Strategic Distribution Units. Such organiattention was placed on microtoxin M1 due to sational structure enables the following: cases of its presence in dairy raw materials in some markets and the differences in the high• coordinated monitoring of legislation est permitted limits according to regulations. • implementation of best practices By increasing monitoring of our raw materials • optimal improvement and use of expert and active communication with our suppliers, knowledge in the field of microbiological, we have successfully contained this risk. chemical and other hazards • centralised supplier management in view of The activities in the field of quality assurthe quality of input materials ance are supported by advanced IT solutions: • uniform approach with balanced product the SAP QM module was implemented in the atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 44 Slovenian and Croatian market, while other situation observed in 2013 was that the total pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y locations use internal IT solutions on similar number of consumer complaints was increased platforms according to the same model. Near in relation to the previous year mostly due to the end of 2013, we have started surveying errors made by our contracted producers; these SAP solution in Slovenia and Croatia in order were handled during the year by introducing to create one standard for QM module, which specific corrective actions to improve qualwould be gradually implemented in all producity. In addition, we have also standardized and tion facilities in the long term. The first appliupgraded our process of managing contact cation will be the process of quality control in production with the purpose to assure stable the new factory for the production of energy product quality for all brands. Our opinion is bars (project Nova Gradiška). that in 2014, by implementing the listed improvements, the annual number of complaints consumer satisfaction and will return to the level from previous years, compliance with regulations thus meeting the expectations of our consumand voluntary codes concerning ers. We will also promote as a good practice health and safety impacts of for all businesses to perform preventive withproducts and services drawals of batches even if there is no potential health and safety risk but only low level quality The efficiency of the quality assurance process deviation (already practiced twice in 2013). is assessed on the basis of achieving target values for key indicators: the number of conAs regarding product safety issues, we can sumer complaints and the number of product estimate our system as very effective. All food recalls. We are investing significant efforts to products that were involved in health safety receive as much comments from our consumtesting by inspection services or internal coners, so in 2013 we started free call centres in trol officers were identified as complying with all markets, serving to additionally improve the health safety requirements. There were no communication. All complaints were handled to food safety-related recalls. Also there were no the satisfaction of customers, while effective recalls of medicinal products. One medicinal corrective actions were defined in the producproduct with an active component was recogtion process in order to prevent reoccurrence nised as non-compliant and withdrawn. In two of such issues. other cases for batches of food products, we decided to withdraw products preventively due For our strongest brands, we try to follow the to unsatisfactory quality of the series. As a distarget value of max. 1.8 parts per million (ppm) tributor, we have been involved in the case of of consumer complaints on annual level. The withdrawal of one principal brand. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 45 Withdrawals – preventive actions due to pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y Recalls–health and safety impacts potential health and safety impacts 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 1 1 +2 AG OWN BRANDS 0 0 0 (voluntary ISO 14001 (Regulations + codes) voluntary codes) PRINCIPALS 2 1 0 0 0 No data AG DISTRIBUTION (Regulations) (Regulations) Direct financial consequences in all cases were In order to achieve even better results in 2014, minor (no fine or penalty paid, small quantities monthly communication was introduced beof products destroyed after withdrawal and tween the corporate quality assurance and all selection). Indirect financial consequences were quality assurance departments in business pronot observed. grammes aimed at speeding up the transfer of good practice. product and service labelling Responsibility for the production of safe foods oxidants, products without trans-fatty acids or is Atlantic Groupa's fundamental commitment, wellness products etc. and is systematically implemented on a daily basis in the scope of the quality system. FurSecondly, we recognize our responsibility to thermore, our company is constantly aware present transparent and truthful information that the consumer expects ever more in this about our product to our consumers. In accordregard, that healthy eating habits are of inance with internal procedures that stand in creasing importance in a world of rapid techline with local and EU legislation, we provide nological innovations and global trade, and so information about the sourcing of components, the company undoubtedly assumes its share of content, safe use and disposal of the product. responsibility in this respect. Motivated by our consumers’ suggestions, and as part of our broader efforts to contribute Firstly, we follow internal guidelines for prodto health and wellness of our consumers, we uct improvements regarding new recipes also make nutritional information accessible, including the use of additives, genetically promoting active and balanced lifestyle and modified organisms, gluten, and development building trust within the community where we of products rich in positive nutrients, such as operate. magnesium, calcium, nutritional fibres, antiatlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 46 Type of product information required by the company's procedures for pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y product information and labelling, and percentage of significant product categories subject to such information requirements: % of products in brand portfolio of significant product category in COFFEE Information NOTE compliance with the requirement described next % in 2011 % in 2012 % in 2013 The sourcing of components Only 1 BIO product in the Organic product 0% 1% 1% (raw materials, packaging) assortiment GDA information on the label 30% 34% 36% Only decaffeinated Decaffeinated product 2% 3% 3% products all carring the Content of the product information (recipe) Only extra caffeinated Added caffeine 1% 1% 1% products all carring the information Added caffeine Not adequate Only extra caffeinated to diabetics, pregnant women, 1% 1% 1% products all carring the children and people sensitive to information caffeine Safe use of the product Store in a cool and dry place 100% 100% 100% Add cold water 2% 4% 5% For freeze cappuccino Add hot but not boiling water 28% 30% 31% For instant coffee Signs for appropriate recycling Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% product packaging % of products in brand portfolio of significant product category in SNACKS Information NOTE compliance with the requirement described next % in 2011 % in 2012 % in 2013 The sourcing of components (raw materials, packaging) GDA information on the label 100% 24% 100% natural vanilla 0% 5% 5% For chocolate for kids rich in Calcium 0% 5% 5% For chocolate for kids Content of the product (recipe) For chocolate with high high in fiber 0% 5% 3% cocoa content rich in vitamins and minerals 0% 1% 1% For biscuits for kids mix of 8 grains 2% 2% 3% For salty snack for kids Safe use of the product all signs for appropriate recycling Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% product packaging atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 47 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y % of products in brand portfolio of significant product category in MEAT AND FISH PATE Information NOTE compliance with the requirement described next % in 2011 % in 2012 % in 2013 The sourcing of components MSC Tuna 0% 0% 0% In plan for 2014 (raw materials, packaging) GDA information on web GDA information on the label 0% 0% 0% Content of the product for all products (recipe) For Junior and Delight without additives 0% 31% 31% subbrands Only for 95g products; as 45g and 27g are single refrigerate after opening 52% 55% 55% portion don't need the Safe use of the product information don't use the product if container 0% 100% 100% is inflated all signs for appropriate recycling Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% product packaging % of products in brand portfolio of significant product category in BABY DRY CEREALS Information NOTE compliance with the requirement described next % in 2011 % in 2012 % in 2013 The sourcing of components (raw materials, packaging) enriched with vitamins and 100% 100% 100% minerals without aditives and preserva100% 100% 100% Content of the product tives (recipe) % are falling due to wider without gluten 41% 38% 35% assortiment % are falling due to wider with no added sugar 13% 8% 8% assortiment after opening the product should be stored in a dry and cool place Safe use of the product 100% 100% 100% (not in fridge) not more than 3 weeks Disposal of the product atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 48 pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y % of products in brand portfolio CARBONATED of significant product category in Information NOTE SOFT DRINKS compliance with the requirement described next % in 2011 % in 2012 % in 2013 The sourcing of components (raw materials, packaging) GDA information on the label 9% 90% 95% caffeine and orthophosphoric Content of the product 100% 100% 100% acids free (recipe) with sweeteners, sugar-free 100% 100% 80% with fruit juice 100% 100% 100% Safe use of the product serve cool 100% 100% 100% all signs for appropriate recycling planned for 2014 using 100% 100% 100% Disposal of the product product packaging recycled PET sign of dispose carefully 100% 100% 100% % of products in brand portfolio NATURAL MINERAL of significant product category in Information NOTE WATERS BOTTLED IN RV compliance with the requirement described next % in 2011 % in 2012 % in 2013 The sourcing of components natural sources of water 100% 100% 100% (raw materials, packaging) rich in minerals, contains hidrogen Content of the product carbonate, sulphate, sodium, magnesium, 100% 100% 100% (recipe) calcium It is not recommended to consume water by patients with acute renal failure and hyper volumetric state, with disturbances 100% 100% 100% in acid-base equilibrium. Safe use of the product Drinking in huge quantities could cause diarrhea, which ends, if you stop drinking 100% 100% 100% or respect recommended intake. After opening, store in refrigerator 100% 100% 100% all signs for appropriate recycling prod100% 100% 100% Disposal of the product uct packaging sign of dispose carefully 100% 100% 100% atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 49 % of products in brand portfolio pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y of significant product category in VIN Information NOTE compliance with the requirement described next % in 2011 % in 2012 % in 2013 Granules for Vitamin Beverages 100% 100% 100% The sourcing of components preparation (raw materials, packaging) natural flavor 98% 97% 100% GDA information on the label 53% 100% 100% 9 vitamins 100% 100% 100% cancellation of Content of the product refreshes and compensates the lack of the information in 100% 100% 0% (recipe) vitamins in the diet accordance with legislation with sweeteners, sugar-free 3% 3% 3% with calcium 4% 8% 9% always use a dry spoon 100% 100% 100% after use, close the packaging tightly 100% 100% 100% Safe use of the product store in dry place out of 100% 100% 100% reach small children all signs for appropriate recycling Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% product packaging % of products in brand portfolio of significant product category in CANDIES Information NOTE compliance with the requirement described next % in 2011 % in 2012 % in 2013 Multivitamin candies 65% 62% 76% The sourcing of components Pressed candies with sweetener 17% 15% 6% (raw materials, packaging) Pressed candies with vitamin C 17% 23% 18% 9 vitamins 100% 100% 100% with vitamin C 100% 100% 100% Content of the product Only for products with calcium 7% 13% 15% (recipe) with added calcium with sweeteners, sugar-free 100% 100% 100% for fresh breath 100% 100% 100% store in cold and dry place 100% 100% 100% Safe use of the product excessive consumption may have a 100% 100% 100% laxative effect all signs for appropriate recycling Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% product packaging atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 50 % of products in brand portfolio pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y of significant product category in CEDEVITA GO Information NOTE compliance with the requirement described next % in 2011 % in 2012 % in 2013 Multivitamin Beverage 100% 100% 100% The sourcing of components natural flavor 100% 100% 100% (raw materials, packaging) natural spring water 0% 100% 100% 9 vitamins 100% 100% 100% Content of the product cancellation of the refreshes and compensates the lack 100% 100% 0% information in accord(recipe) of vitamins in the diet ance with legislation with calcium 0% 0% 6% Screw the cup of. Cedevita granules will fall into the water. Screw the 100% 100% 100% Safe use of the product cup on and shake the bottle. store in dry place below the 25°C 100% 100% 100% out of reach for small children all signs for appropriate recycling Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% product packaging % of products in brand portfolio of significant product category in TEAS Information NOTE compliance with the requirement described next % in 2011 % in 2012 % in 2013 The sourcing of components (raw materials, packaging) obligated text of herbs Content of the product 0% 0% 73% by legislation (recipe) with sweeteners 38% 25% 18% store in dry place 0% 100% 100% store in dark and dry place and 100% 0% 0% below 25°C picture of tea preparation 100% 100% 100% Safe use of the product refreshing non-carbonated soft % fall due changes in drink from plant extracts enriched 33% 0% 0% the assortiment with vitamin C refreshing non-carbonated soft % fall due changes in 67% 0% 0% drink from plant extracts the assortiment all signs for appropriate recycling Disposal of the product 100% 100% 100% product packaging story about tea which begins : Dear Other 100% 100% 0% lovers of cedevita teas.... atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 51 % of products in brand portfolio pr o d uct r es po ns i bi l i t y NATURAL MINERAL of significant product category in Information NOTE WATERS BOTTLED IN PK compliance with the requirement described next % in 2011 % in 2012 % in 2013 natural sources of water 100% 100% 100% The sourcing of components natural spring water 67% 59% 67% (raw materials, packaging) carbonated natural mineral water 33% 41% 33% Content of the product contains hidrogen carbonate, sodium, 100% 100% 100% (recipe) magnesium store in dark place and below the 25°C 100% 100% 0% Keep away from heat sources and proSafe use of the product tected from direct sunlight. It is recom0% 0% 100% mended to store in a cold place. after opening, store in refrigerator 100% 100% 100% all signs for appropriate recycling prod100% 100% 100% Disposal of the product uct packaging sign of dispose carefully 100% 100% 100% story about spring water from Kalnik 67% 59% 67% For still water Other For carbonated story about mineral water from Kalnik 33% 41% 33% mineral water atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 52 wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y 6 . WOR KPLACE R E S PONSIBILIT Y Atlantic Grupa’s work ethics and one of its most important priorities is that our employees have high quality and efficient management, based upon the highest standards in the field and a responsible employer. Quality of managing human capital is seen through the partner relationship between an employee and employer. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 53 All processes connected with management in In 2013, we successfully continued the project wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y human resources are annually certified by an Corporate Culture at the Group’s level: independent certificate (www.PoslodavacPartner.org). This certificate is awarded to or• The programme “Value a Colleague” was ganizations that fulfil the highest standards in started within this project, in which all emmanaging people in the following fields: stratployees may nominate a colleague and/or egy, recruiting and selection; work, motivation team for whom they think that he/she best and rewards; specialization and development; represents the company’s corporate values. relationship with employees. Near the end of The programme proved to be very success2013, we started the recertification process ful and will continue to be implemented on and believe that we will retain our high standan annual basis. ard and confirm the status of Employer Partner • At the end of 2013, we also introduced obtained in previous years. another project “Naturally Caring” at the Group’s level, whose aim was to raise In Atlantic, special attention is paid to building awareness about the attachment that cona unique corporate culture that respects any nects us with our work colleagues. type of individual diversity and fosters coop• We have celebrated another Value Day eration and synergies between the different when more than a thousand of Atlantic's segments of production, innovations, marketemployees in Great Britain, Italy, Germany, ing and sales. Employee protection is our priorSpain, Russia, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia & ity guaranteed by our work regulation, collecHerzegovina, Serbia and Macedonia particitive agreement and Labour Law. By creating a pated in socially beneficial activities. healthy and encouraging working environment, we try to provide our employees with more than just a job – many programmes developed within the system are aimed at developing human resources and careers within the company as well as at performance management and appropriate rewarding of excellent results. In 2013, we have continued all processes that were initiated and implemented in 2012. The job systematisation was supplemented with a new level within the family of jobs as well as with a new career direction. The performance management process (U3) continues for a third consecutive year and in 2013 the implementation of HRnet performance management module was completed, thus making the whole process of annual evaluations and bonus payments available in a single application. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 54 employment wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y In the field of managing human resources, we (36%), Croatia (34%) and Slovenia (14%). For pay special attention to respecting the prinmore detailed information on our workforce, ciples of emancipation and equal criteria. Our please see page 14 of this Report. company’s politics and procedures concerning human rights forbid discrimination, while at We work hard to create opportunities for emthe same time protecting the employees’ digployees to develop and grow, as we promote nity and assuring transparency in the process the career concept that unites individual and of hiring or recruiting. Each tender stresses organizational interests and needs. We regender equality when hiring. One person from ward our employees fairly and attractively, in each member company of Atlantic Grupa is line with the prevailing conditions on the local responsible for receiving complaints connected market. Rewarding is not influenced by gender, with any violation of an employee's rights, race or any other personal characteristic. dignity and/or life and health. We can proudly say that in this respect up until now we haven't Attractiveness of Atlantic Grupa as a responreceived a single complaint from our employsible employer is recognized by employees, ees. potential employees and clients, as the largest Croatian job portal MojPosao (www.MojPosao. This is one of the reasons why Atlantic Grupa net) listed Atlantic Grupa on the 11th place in is a stable work environment with 4,228 emthe category of most attractive employer in ployees in 2013, out of which 51% are women. 2013. The majority of our employees work in Serbia “Naturally different” is the corporate culture Atlantic Grupa thrives on, and its basic values – responsibility, creativity and passion are represented by natural symbols – a mountain, a wave, and the sun. The basic purpose of those three principles is that the company’s achievements are achieved through mutual differences, but with the same values. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 55 In 2013, we employed a total of 331 people, time employees. All of our employees, regardwo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y representing an increase/decrease in total less of the contract they have, are guaranteed headcount number of 1% since 2011. For equal rights. 2013, 2% were part-time and 98% were fullNew employees in 2013 Region No. of new Age group % M% F% (market) employees < 30 30 – 50 > 50 B&H 4 1.21 25 75 0 75 25 Croatia 170 51.36 32.94 54.71 12.35 45.88 54.12 Germany 43 12.99 41.86 53.49 4.65 67.44 32.56 Italy 0 0.00 0 0 0 0 0 Macedonia 14 4.23 28.57 64.29 7.14 57.14 42.86 Montenegro 0 0.00 0 0 0 0 0 Russia 15 4.53 33.33 53.33 13.33 60.00 40.00 Serbia 46 13.90 26.09 67.39 6.52 45.65 54.35 Slovenia 34 10.27 26.47 61.76 11.76 52.94 47.06 Spain 4 1.21 25.00 25.00 50.00 50.00 50.00 UK 1 0.30 0 100 0 100 0 Total 331 22 68 10 59 41 2011 2012 2013 Number of new employees 482 400 331 % of new employees out of total headcount 11.48 9.42 7.82 Over the past couple of years, we have placed survey results, a positive change took place. a strong focus on increasing our investment in The main purpose of the survey was to get our people and improving employee engagethe information on how many engaged, not ment. As in the previous year, the employee engaged and actively disengaged employees engagement survey was carried out in 2013. we have in our company, based on 12 quesIt included all employees of Atlantic Grupa in tions divided into 4 groups: How can we grow, all markets, while the analysis of results and Do I belong, What do I give and What do I get, reports were prepared by an external consultand there was an increase in all areas in 2013 ing firm. The implemented action plans based compared to 2012. Engagement ratio in 2012 on the 2012 results were efficiently accepted was 1,1:1 (engaged vs. not engaged employamong employees and, according to the 2013 ees) and in 2013 it increased to 2,02:1. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 56 The Engagement Index serves as an integral actions and to ensure that all employees give wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y part of the annual performance evaluation for their opinion about working in the company. It managers and as such serve as indicators of has been positive to see our efforts reflected successful people management. We plan to in a significant reduction in employee turnover, carry out such research once a year in order to which has reduced by 50% since 2011. be able to monitor the results of our targeted Employee turnover No. of emVoluntary Involuntary Age group Region ployees left % turnover turnover turnover M% F% (market) < 30 30 – 50 > 50 in 2013 in % in % B&H 4 1.27 2.55 0.00 25.00 50.00 25.00 75.00 25.00 Croatia 172 54.78 10.74 0.29 20.35 63.37 16.28 53.49 46.51 Germany 36 11.46 20.57 0.00 11.11 55.56 33.33 58.33 41.67 Italy 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Macedonia 8 2.55 4.97 0.00 12.50 62.50 25.00 62.50 37.50 Montenegro 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Russia 1 0.32 1.89 0.00 100 0 0 100 0 Serbia 57 18.15 3.52 0.16 15.79 54.39 29.82 57.89 42.11 Slovenia 31 9.87 0.81 4.42 16.13 64.52 19.35 16.13 64.52 Spain 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 UK 5 1.59 33.33 0.00 20.00 60.00 20.00 40.00 60.00 Total 314 7.33 6.66 0.67 25.80 54.86 19.34 53.56 46.44 2011 2012 2013 Voluntary turnover in % No record No record 6.66% Involuntary turnover in % No record No record 0.67% Total % 14.44% 4.67% 7.33% * Turnover rate = fluctuation (number of leavers) / total headcount; Involuntary turnover rate = involuntary fluctuation (number of leavers) / total headcount; Voluntary turnover rate = voluntary fluctuation (number of leavers) / total headcount. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 57 We started to keep track of voluntary/involnus, Easter bonus, Baby bonus. Company also wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y untary turnover from 2013. Turnover for the encourages sports, culture and healthy habits 2013 financial year was 7.33% including involfor the employees. It co-finances the expense untary turnover, which sits at 0.67%. for various programmes in fitness centres; free vaccination against the flu; co-finance theaIn the efforts to create a motivating working tre tickets; give valuable packages on special environment, the company offers a series of occasions (holidays, vacations, etc), organize material rights to employees, defined in a spepurchasing company products under special cial respective regulation: right to the annual prices, organize team-building programmes award, extra monthly salary, Christmas boand support various types of employee gatherings throughout the year. occupational health and safety Atlantic Grupa systematically takes care of its • All conditions for offering emergency aid employees’ safety and health respecting legal and other types of medical protection are ordinances: internal acts, collective agreesecured: the services of an occupational ments on occupational safety, occupational physician, periodical medical check-ups for safety regulations, by being a responsible the workers working under special condiemployer. Managing our employees’ safety and tions, periodical check-ups concerning protection is under the jurisdiction of the Corsanitary hygiene, employers decision for porate safety division. This division is responeach employee to have a medical check-up sible for coordinating all activities connected regardless of their status, actively proto occupational safety, protection, training in a grammed medical vacation in specialized safe and secure way, and occupational medimedical centres cine. The system is based upon the principle • Employees are trained in a safe and secure of respect and coordination between social way partners: employer, occupational safety experts • Expert training for specific work processes and workers. is provided • Jobs with specific working conditions are Respecting European Union guidelines, positive defined legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia • A warm meal for all employees is provided. (Occupational safety law), and Atlantic Grupa's By educating our employees, and developing internal acts, all workers are ensured the right and adapting our technological processes, we to be protected and the right to health, which are trying to prevent any accidents by creatis a result of work itself: ing safe working conditions. Nevertheless, it is • External independent institutions evaluate impossible to eliminate all risks and exclude all the level of risk for all work processes dangers. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 58 Injury Rate (IR)** Lost Day Rate (LDR)*** Absentee Rate (AS)**** wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y Injuries Illnesses* 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 B&H 0 1.21 0 0 31.46 0 0 6,672.88 0 Croatia 1.47 1.71 0.92 31.54 45.31 31.84 6,088.16 7,068.52 6,266.43 Germany 1.60 0 5.49 10.69 0 79.55 13,124.15 0 14,697.94 Macedonia 1.33 2.49 0.59 46.51 32.95 6.54 3,301 1,49.95 794.46 Russia 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Serbia 2.21 2.17 1.92 67.49 36.59 59.65 13,251.35 11,186.31 10,897.06 Slovenia 1.61 1.60 1.13 45.60 37.66 17.30 10,737.06 10,463.11 9,743.23 * we had no fatal injuries in the last three years (2013, 2012, 2011) we had no occupational diseases in the last three years (2013, 2012, 2011) in the report were not considered injuries by gender, will be considered in 2014 ** injury rate (IR) = total number of injuries/total hours worked x 200.000 *** lost day rate (LDR) = total number of lost days/total hours worked x 200.000 **** absentee rates (AR) = total number of missed (absentee) days/total number of workforce days worked for same period x 200.000 When it comes to programmes related to operations, various programmes are in place assisting workforce members and their fami– such as workshops on most common health lies regarding serious diseases, our practices issues, in-site first aid station, regular physical include financial support as well as education examinations, additional health insurance, paid and training, counseling, prevention and risk leave and financial aid. control measures. Depending on the country of atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 59 training wo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y and education Acquisition of new knowledge and skills the permanent education and improvement of through the professional and personal develour employees, as we develop and implement opment of employees is a prerequisite and a specialized programs and training on all emguarantee of employee satisfaction and moployment levels. tivation, and consequently of business success. Our interest is ensuring and enabling The educational content and programs we our employees the opportunity to receive, prepare and offer include seminars and courses refresh and expand their knowledge and skills realized by our experts for our employees, as in compliance with the company’s needs and well as outside institutions through programs development. Thus, we pay special attention to “tailored” to meet our needs. Average hours of training per year per employee by gender (all AG companies/countries) Average training hours / person 2011 2012 2013 M** 10 10 11 F 10 10 10 Total % 20 20 21 * average training hours per employee = total number of training hours provided to employees/total number of employees ** total number of training hours provided to male employees/total number of male employees Average training hours per employee category and function Level* 2011 2012 2013 Senior Management 100 117 216 Middle Management 75 77 88 Other 13 12 10 * level such as senior management, middle management Function* 2011 2012 2013 Product Execution 44 46 45 Product Placement 45 45 45 Internal Perspective 168 150 162 * function such as technical, administrative, production atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 60 Management skills leadership competenwo r kpl ace r es po ns i bi l i t y cies “L E A R N” represent the basis for all education / development programmes created for specific groups and/or specific learning needs, such as The L E A R N development@ AG, CUTTING EDGE, INSPIRE, LEAD and MANAGE, ADVENTURE programmes. As a part of the new HRIS system HRnet, the module My Development was also implemented in 2013. It supports the development concept of Atlantic Grupa according to the model 70-20-10 (70% On-the-job, 20% Coaching and Mentorship, 10% Training). All development activities at the level of the entire Atlantic Grupa are managed through modules. Talent management is the other way of supporting and strengthening of the company’s core competencies. In Atlantic Grupa, it represents a form of human capital management – a long-term, comprehensive and integrated approach with the general aim to introduce a structured process of identification, selection, development and retention of talents/successors for present and future needs of Atlantic Grupa. After the model is established at the level of the entire employee population, we expect that it will ensure a highly flexible and agile organisation through the creation of a sustainable succession of management personnel at all levels. Special attention is given to the development of trainees. Trainees work and learn alongside mentors, experienced managers, and are introduced to all the areas in the organization. Their progress is systematically planned and monitored when they are done with their training or often even before they are ready to take on the most responsible positions inside the company. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 61 7. E NV IR ON MENTAL envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y R E S PONSIBILIT Y In respect to environmental protection, we can say that, within a consistent Environmental Management System (EMS), it has expanded from a local approach to the corporate level with the key focus on sustainability and protecting the future. With its main activities in this area, which arise from three dimensions – environment and energy efficiency, people and society, and governance, Atlantic Grupa has made a big step toward sustainability. The sustainable environmental management system is based on well-considered and economical use of natural sources, using environmental friendly technologies in our production, reduction of waste and lower consumption of energy and water. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 62 Environmental management has a long tradi• rationalisation of fuel and water consumpenvi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y tion in individual facilities of Atlantic Grupa. tion Some production facilities have been awarded • reduction of waste quantities and improvethe ISO 14001 environmental management ment of waste separation practice system certificate more than 10 years ago. • enabling compliance with environmental The main goal in the field of environmental legislation management has lately been transfer of best • creation of environment-friendly corporate company practice in all facilities of Atlantic culture. Grupa. This has been achieved by implemented corporate rules, harmonized performance and A step forward was recently made in the field efficiency indicators, green team, internal eduof measuring performance and efficiency of cation and good communication. environmental management processes. In addition to usual environmental performance The first step towards the goal of an integratindicators – KPI (Key Performance Indicators), ed environmental management system was required by the standard ISO 14001, we have successful integration of production facilialso started to use additional sustainable ties in the region. In 2013, the environmental development indicators recommended by the management system was extended to all 17 GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) which enable production facilities and distribution of Atlantic a balanced view of environmental and sustainGrupa. As a result, the conditions for transition able development activities. to the sustainable environmental management system of Atlantic Grupa were fulfilled. In 2013, we can highlight the following proThe international ISO 14001 environmental jects and activities in the field of environmenmanagement system certificate shows that our tal protection: Environmental Management System complies with the best practice standards. • Droga Kolinska’s beverage facility started to use water from boreholes for the proOur corporate EMS is designed to ensure duction of soft drinks and construction of continuous improvement in our environmental the storage for hazardous substances is performance. The core elements of this EMS underway, are: • Neva and Fidifarm started to use groundwater in technological processes for the • commitment of top management and depurpose of reducing the consumption of fined responsibilities municipal water supply, • identifying environmental impacts • preparations started at the end of the year • communicating the environmental manageto introduce recyclable PET packaging for ment policy the production of Cockta, • setting environmental objectives and pro• the action of collecting waste plastic caps grammes/plans for charity purposes has expanded from a • regular audit and review cycle. local to the regional level, • internal campaign “Follow me” was impleWith the aim of reducing the impact on the enmented with the aim to motivate employvironment, and to be sustainable, we have set ees to adopt environment-friendly habits, the following key environmental objectives: such as saving energy, rational printing etc. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 63 Internal campaign “Follow me” envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y energy consumption within the organization Although Atlantic Grupa’s industries are not goal is to achieve continuous energy efficiency energy intensive and are not subject to speimprovement, more efficient energy use and cialized regulation in this area, in 2013 we consumption. The first stage involved energy accepted a new challenge in the area of enviaudits of particular production facilities, which ronmental care optimizing the use of natural will serve as the basis for defining organizaresources and improving technologies and tional and investment measures to reduce work processes. We started implementing costs, CO2 emissions and other adverse envithe Energy Management System (EnMS) as ronmental impacts. an upgrade to the corporate EMS. The main Energy consumption within the organization 2011 2012 2013 SLOVENIA 28,636.74 30,961.64 30,901.63 CROATIA 7,869.14 9,316.30 8,647.71 SERBIA 93,719.11 75,538.86 63,983.80 B&H 10,061.41 9,964.59 9,647.19 MACEDONIA 3,528.72 2,464.23 GERMANY 1,768.10 TOTAL MWh 140,286 129,310 117,413 * The company uses non-renewable energy sources (electricity) except in Izola where solar energy is used. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 64 Energy consumption MWh envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y SLOVENIA CROATIA SERBIA B&H MACEDONIA GERMANY TOTAL MWH 2011 Electricity 7,729 6,452 17,480 2,901 34,562 LPG 10,661.81 54,854.27 65,516 Natural gas 3,479.29 450.40 19,039.79 6,059.63 29,029.11 CNG PROPAN 356.32 356 Fuel oil 966.72 2,345.32 1,100.75 4,413 Mazut 6,410.50 6,411 Total MWh 28,636.74 7,869.14 93,719.11 10,061.41 140,286 2012 Electricity 8,013 7,529 20,437 3,092 1,660 40,731 LPG 12,723.95 23,691.67 1,747.28 38,163 Natural gas 3,559.94 447.27 19,389.22 5,588.85 28,985.28 CNG 9,376.50 9,377 PROPAN 301.44 301 Fuel oil 1,340.08 2,644.83 1,283.37 121.83 5,390 Mazut 6,363.15 6,363 Total MWh 30,961.64 9,316.30 75,538.86 9,964.59 3,528.72 129,310 2013 Electricity 8,041 7,055 20,486 2,738 641 813 39,774 LPG 13,094.22 10,562.20 1,712.64 318.87 25,688 Natural gas 3,580.41 477.30 17,250.50 5,602.77 26,910.98 CNG 12,831 12,831 PROPAN 355.73 356 Fuel oil 1,115.85 2,853.87 1,306.09 110.79 636.15 6,023 Mazut 5,830.29 5,830 Total MWh 30,901.63 8,647.71 63,983.80 9,647.19 2,464.23 1,768.10 117,413 The total amount of energy consumption 2011 generally improving. There is one exception on 2013 is decreasing partially due to a reducCedevita production location, where the contion of the production and due to an optimisumption of electric energy per unit of prodsation of the consumption. The efficiency of uct increased due to a decrease in production energy consumption per unit (kg) of product is quantities. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 65 biodiversity envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y Within the process of risk control in designing count. The development technologist selects and developing a new or existing product, biopossible raw materials that meet the requirediversity is defined as an environmental aspect ments of ecological and sustainable aspects. with respect to the selection of raw materials Particular attention has to be paid to threatthat may have or have bad effects on human ened plant and animal species (ref. document: health. IUCN Red List). Number of IUCN Red list species and national conservation list species with During the phase of selecting the raw materihabitats in areas affected by operations by als for a new product, the principle of mainlevel of extinction list is also one of the informtaining biodiversity has to be taken into acative KPI’s of the Central Purchasing monitored on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis. Number of raw materials used from the category Critically endangered 0 Endangered 0 Vulnerable 0 Near threatened 1 Least concern 0 Among seven business units producing food Red List. For the production of Argeta Tuna and food supplements: Beverages, Coffee, pate, we use the fish species Thunnus Albacore Snacks, Savoury spreads, Sport and functional listed in NT category. In the next five years, we food, Pharma and Bebi, only Savoury spreads plan to replace this type of tuna with tuna Skip operations are using raw materials from IUSN Jack, which is not on red list. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 66 waste envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y In addition to reducing waste quantities, our Within the improvement of business processes, main goal is to increase the separately colwe would like to point out as a good example lected waste on all production locations. For the process of developing new products, where the exception of one location in Croatia, all the special attention is given to the possibility of other locations have improved the separate using more environmentally acceptable packcollection of the waste compared with the muaging, reducing the weight or amount of packnicipal waste (landfill disposal method). aging and the selection of partially recycled packaging materials. Nonhazardous waste (t/year) 2013 RECYCLING BURNING REUSE RECOVER COMPOST LANDFILL total SLOVENIA 966.93 83.64 501.34 280.16 24.30 88.07 1,944.44 CROATIA 300.82 7.01 1.19 344.00 28.55 74.59 756.15 SERBIA 674.43 0.00 259.47 0.00 0.00 1,162.92* 2,096.83 B&H 241.52 0.00 371.41 0.00 0.00 584.89* 1,197.82 MACEDONIA 15.18 0.00 40.00 0.00 0.00 57.00* 112.18 GERMANY 160.72 0.00 0.00 0.00 12.86 93.60 124.67 TOTAL 2,359. 60 90.66 1,173.41 624.16 65.70 2,061.07 6,232.09 * Determined separately collected waste (Coffee Husk and liquid waste from the Waste Water treatment plant) is not yet possible to reuse or composting due to a lack of the infrastructure solutions of the National Waste Management System. Those quantities of separately collected waste are shown in the “Landfill” category. Hazardous waste (t/year) 2013 RECYCLING BURNING REUSE RECOVER COMPOST LANDFILL total SLOVENIA 0.01 1.35 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.36 CROATIA 6.10 2.85 0.16 0.00 0.00 0.00 9.11 SERBIA 1.58 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.58 B&H 0.08 0.04 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.12 MACEDONIA 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 GERMANY 0.10 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.10 TOTAL 7.87 4.24 0.16 0.00 0.00 0.00 12.28 atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 67 In Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Macwaste removal is defined per square meter of envi r o nmental r es po ns i bi l i t y edonia the method for collecting municipal the site and does not provide the weight of the waste (landfill) is based on two-month measremoved waste. urements. The billing system for the municipal Total ammount of Non-hazardous waste 2011 2012 2013 4500 4000 3500 3000 2500 2000 1500 1000 500 RECYCLING BURNING REUSE RECOVERY composting LANDFIL Total ammount of Hazardous waste 2011 2012 2013 10,00 9,00 8,00 7,00 6,00 5,00 4,00 3,00 2,00 1,00 0,00 RECYCLING BURNING REUSE RECOVERY composting LANDFIL atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 68 gr i i nd ex 8. GRI I NDE X general standard disclosures page strategy and analysis G4 -1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 03-07 G4 -2 Sustainability trends, key impacts, risks, and opportunities 16,17 organizational profile G4-3 Name of the organization 8 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 8-11 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 11 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates 11 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 13 G4-8 Markets served 8,9 G4-9 Scale of the organization 11 G4-10 Employment profile 14 G4 -11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 14 G4-12 Description of supply chain 15,16 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, G4-13 / structure, ownership, or its supply chain commitments to external initiatives G4-14 Precautionary approach or principle 16,17 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or G4-15 18-22 other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses Active memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national G4-16 18, 28 or international advocacy organizations atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 69 identified material aspects and boundaries gr i i nd ex G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements 9-11, 24 G4-18 Defining the report content and boundaries 24,25 G4-19 Material aspects identified 25 G4-20 Boundary within the organization for each material aspect 25 G4-21 Boundary outside the organization for each material aspect 25 G4-22 Restatements of reported information / G4-23 Significant changes in the scope and aspect boundaries / stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholders 26 G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders 26 G4-26 Stakeholder engagement 26 G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement 25,26 report profile G4-28 Reporting period 24 G4-29 Previous report 24 G4-30 Reporting cycle 24 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 24 G4-32 Gri index 69-72 G4-33 External assurance 72 governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest G4-34 29,30,31 governance body G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics 29,30,31 Executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmenG4-36 29,30,31 tal and social topics Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body G4-37 26,29 on economic, environmental and social topics Composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: executive or non-executive, independence, tenure on the governance body, number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the G4-38 29,30,31 commitments, gender, membership of under-represented social groups, competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts, stakeholder representation Function of the chair of the highest governance body, whether the chair of the G4-39 30 highest governance body is also an executive officer Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its comG4-40 29,30,31 mittees Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are G4-41 33 avoided atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 70 gr i i nd ex Roles of the highest governance body and senior executives in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, G4-42 26,28 strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives and G4-51 how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to their economic, 31,32 environmental and social objectives G4-52 Process for determining remuneration 31 ethics and integrity Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes G4-56 33-36 of conduct and codes of ethics G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about integrity 33,34,35 specific standard disclosures page category economic economic performance aspect 37,38 – disclosures on management approach G4 -EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 38,39,40 category environmental 62,63 aspect energy disclosures on management approach 64 G4-EN 3 Energy consumption within the organization 64,65 aspect biodiversity disclosures on management approach 66 Total number of iucn red list species and national conservation list species with G4-EN 14 66 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk aspect waste disclosures on management approach 67 G4-EN 23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 67,68 category social SUB-category labor practices and decent work 53,54 aspect employment disclosures on management approach 55,56 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age G4-LA 1 56,57,58 group, gender and regions occupational health and safety aspect 58 disclosures on management approach Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeG4-LA 6 59 ism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender training and education aspect 60 disclosures on management approach atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 71 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee G4-LA 9 gr i i nd ex 60,61 category SUB-category product responsibility 41,42 customer health and safety aspect 44,45 disclosures on management approach Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes G4-PR 2 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life 45,46 cycle, by type of outcomes product and service labelLing aspect 46 disclosures on management approach Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labelling, and percentage of G4-PR 3 47-52 significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-2, G4-35 through G4-55, G4-57, G4-58 are not mandatory in accordance with ''Core''. Nevertheless, some information is reported ''comprehensively'': G4-2, G4-35 through G4-42, G4-51, G4-52, G4-58. No external assurance included. No omissions regarding the reported information. atlantic grupa | sustainability report 2013 72
