2013 UN Global Compact Communication 1. INTRODUCTION on Progress (CoP) 2012 TIMA GmbH is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a platform for encouraging and promoting good corporate principles and learning experiences in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and antiactivities in 2011. We have thus far communicated our efforts and achievements in different areas of our website, and would hereby like to call your attention to these areas according to the structure suggested by the Communication on Progress (CoP) Guidelines.  See: http://www.tima-gmbh.eu 2. LETTER OF SUPPORT TIMA International GmbH 1. INTRODUCTION TIMA GmbH is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a platform for encouraging and promoting good corporate principles with cross cultural business integrity sharing responsibility in human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. After having joined the GC in 2006, this fifth TIMA Communication on Progress (CoP) is covering our activities in 2012. We have thus far communicated our efforts and achievements in different areas of our website, and would hereby like to call your attention to these areas according to the structure suggested by the Communication on Progress (CoP) Guidelines.  See: http://www.tima-gmbh.eu 2. LETTER OF SUPPORT TIMA International is committed to the international principles of the UN Global Compact. Our company works for and with enterprises of all sizes and cultures to match the challenges of their market changes caused by globalization and regionalization. In 2012, TIMA connected skills and knowledge for international trans-corporate process responsibility in B2G partnerships between Germany and countries of the emerging markets. As vanguard strategy developer, TIMA has developed TIMA GlobalCon, a strategy on regional connectivity and meta-brand contents which accelerates steady local growth, increases yield performance and creates individual corporate success factors for performance, sustainability and business harmony in partnerships. In 2012, TIMA International, together with a German global enterprise, started to explore the potential of a health care related UN GC LEAD mission. Our mission comprised an exchange of the best concepts for partnerships within available PPP forms for modernizing and transforming public hospitals in the emerging Asian markets into high quality managing health centers, affordable to all. Sharing tested entrepreneurial business support, knowledge on best-of-the-breed infrastructural services, and solutions to anticipate legal risks, a frameworks agreement was drafted in transnational working groups. Target was to translate the performance of successful German public hospital PPPs driven by the requirements of the social market in Germany into the environment of emerging local entrepreneurial partnerships and hospitals. A first draft for a pilot on systemic hospital transformation (2012-2025) was delivered in April 2012 followed by the design of a benchmarking for cooperation under entrepreneurial leadership within the pilot PPP. The pilot, aiming to put into effect new and key success factors in hospitals for an efficient support of doctors and nursing staff and making their relations with their patients more efficient, was to measurably raise quality and standards of patients safety and people health security onto an international top quality level. The autonomous role of the entrepreneur within the PPP and the admittance of free market forces within limiting governmental regulations was the decisive transformation issue in 2012. -2Besides reliable skill exchange via interlinked communications the entrepreneurial role in the partnership also underlines the impact of cross cultural and cross corporate integrity, lowering the risks for all through subsidiarity and increased process responsibility. Such two factors are the permanent drivers of growth and quality in hospitals with their core business to support the doctor-patients relations and innovation. This way explained and guided by our TIMA GlobalCon concept for large upscaling strategies in public health doctors become pivots for attracting external capital and direct investments into their hospitals. Beyond the development of such comprehensive national public health partnership strategy in Vietnam, which was additionally considering the frameworks of the UNGC, AEC governmental infrastructure missions, and the international capital shift for investments, TIMA’s task included the design of a climate friendly Green Public Hospital Management Model (SustainMan). Such model was communicated by TIMA and its partners at the Rio+20 UNGC summit for economic sustainability contributions. Shared prosperity in the proposed PPP-form which is derived from German social market economy considerations, with mitigation and adaptation in energy efficiency and innovative local energy mix and hospital circular economy, especially needed in the emerging markets and provided by independent partners for public hospitals, was also discussed with governmental drivers of the German-Vietnam strategic partnership. Resulting from our 2012 partnership endeavors with TIMA GlobalCon and TIMA SustainMan, TIMA shared German social market economy experiences in the field of healthcare and beyond, enriching and supporting the architecture of the future of Vietnam and the AEC region. This raised serious interest of those member states of ASEAN Plus Connectivity that are striving to gain leadership positions through coupling large scale growth with low risks solutions, and that want to increase corresponding benefits in financial-, social-, economicand ecological politics through advanced partnerships which match both geographical regions. TIMA participated in the first UN Forum on Business and Human Rights in Geneva (CH) in December 2012, contributing contents regarding the connectivity between SMEs and international MNEs. Our continuous exchange on perfect structures and processes to the benefit of all our business partners is firmly engrained in our corporate policy and the code of conduct for TIMA partners which is available on our website serves aims to serve as a model to others. To serve within the UN Global Compact – and support the principles it sets forth – is thus an indispensable component of the future we all want defined and promulgated in partnerships by expert personnel from all academic sectors fostering cultural human diversity for partnership in leadership. Dr. Achim Georg Deja CEO of TIMA GmbH International -33. PRACTICAL ACTIONS AND MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOMES FOR THE 10 PRINCIPLES The UN Global Compact (UN GC) is a platform for encouraging and promoting good corporate principles and learning experiences in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. The GC asks companies to embrace, support and enact 10 principles of conduct within their sphere of influence. The UNGC principles in partnerships for regionalization Businesses in partnerships should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Principle 1 human rights. Principle 2 Businesses in partnerships should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Businesses in partnerships should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Principle 3 of the right to collective bargaining. Businesses in Partnerships should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Principle 4 labour. Principle 5 Businesses in partnerships should support the effective abolition of child labour. Businesses in partnerships should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of Principle 6 employment and occupation. Principle 7 Businesses in partnerships should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Businesses partnerships should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Principle 8 responsibility. Businesses in partnerships should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Principle 9 friendly technologies. Businesses in partnerships should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Principle 10 bribery. The Global Compact's ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption enjoy universal consensus and are derived from:  The Universal Declaration of Human Rights  The International Labor Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work  The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development  The United Nations Convention Against Corruption Find out more on the UN Global Compact at: http://www.unglobalcompact.org -43.1 HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR STANDARDS (PRINCIPLES 1-6) Progress Respect for human rights and fair labor standards have always been part of the corporate culture that TIMA GmbH lives on a day to day basis. This is formally reflected in our Business Guidelines. Those guidelines are mandatory for all our employees and business partners. We seek to promote these values in our sphere of influence. Through participating in the process of defining and developing standards within the ISEAL in 2012 we have been able to offer rules and guidelines to our clients in PPPs on trade, manufacturing and services thus ensuring best of communication in our new “Quadruple A” strategy, combined with “SustainMan”, on managing climate risks in value chains. A specific role in TIMA’s Trusted Partnership concept has the broadened approach on process responsibility and subsidiarity which is further elaborated in our “GlobalCon” and “SustainMan” concepts. TIMA International has aimed at and will further strengthen the UN Global Compact’s own credibility by economic core business models including Human Rights Standards. 2012 saw the start of a new health care approach with structural integration and sharing of transparency and accountability within a framework of an economy of affordability, exclusiveness and inclusiveness. TIMA integrated its business approach/model with a client’s project harmonizing efficiency and profitability with UN GC integrity and ethics. In all steps, the Ten Principles and integrity rules were embedded, applied and realized in real time practice by the client with voluntary commitments to anticipate legal regulatory guidelines and best performance in responsible investments, attractive for capital shifts. Learning from former international projects in Europe, Asia, Latin America and Africa, and within the UNGC Partnerships (e.g. Germany, UK, Spain, Poland, France, Hungary, Japan, India, Malaysia, Philippines, Mexico and Nigeria), the Senior TIMA Management used its own and its client’s knowledge and experience for designing a framework for common business rules in the process of bundling German-Vietnamese companies, for designing a transparent PPP driven by the social market economy for the modernization of the Vietnamese public hospitals and in cooperation with the Ministry of Health of Vietnam. Such efforts resulted in a joint industrial PPP Hospital Service model in April 2012, followed by an approach for cooperation, currently waiting for a final decision-making on PPP regulation by the PM-office of Vietnam. In Germany, the proposed PPP framework in support of the doctors and nursing staff with a best-of-the-breed systemic approach and a quality level affordable for all Vietnamese is pending because of bilateral issues between Germany and Vietnam and the finalization of FTA agreements between the EU and Vietnam. It is envisaged that the final conclusion will enable the German PPP approach driven by social market economy considerations and allow for a comprehensive start of the pilot transformation project with international investment. In 2010, the President and CEO of TIMA signed the UN GC Women’s Empowerment Principles and thereby joined the circle of top executives of the UN GC in their commitment to advance gender equality. TIMA agreed to use the WEP as guidance for business actions to empower women in the workplace, marketplace and community. As first project, in 2011, TIMA had launched a project for the safety of women in company initiated mobility or events. The project has been conducted with a partner on social dynamic ride-sharing services and -5envisions a three years development to go to market. TIMA further promoted such project in 2012 to serve our clients as well as TIMA personnel within our tradition in advanced partnership services and as part for cross cultural business integrity in our “GlobalCon” concept. Second vital issue in 2012 was bringing more women into decision-making positions. Processes of implementing best-of-the-class-multi-diversity-management with local integrity standards vital for the benefit and sustainable development and success for any company with multicultural human resources have been pushed forward within TIMA as well as in our projects with our clients. Finally, the TIMA PPP Business Models for the emerging Asia-Pacific economy emphasized the support, respect and protection of Human rights standard for measurable improvements. 3.2 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS (PRINCIPLES 7-9) Progress Throughout 2012, TIMA was actively supporting UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon’s special appeals to “Support UN efforts by working with national governments to adopt smart regulatory frameworks to forge a global policy framework to reward environmental and social performance and to underline UNGC Climate Change with the autonomous Business and Investors’ engagement for balanced Global Agreements”. TIMA promoted UNGC Lead in the UN Corporate Sector Sustainability Forum by:  publicizing TIMA strategic views on cross cultural business integrity and on individualized pathways to prosperity through partnerships that foster human diversity in autonomous enterprises in and between all global regions, strive for a coherent world with business connectivity; create added values by marketization, monetization, regulations and attractive performance for measurable socio-economic improvements;  promoting industrial and trading partnerships for implementing large scale industrial downstream strategies in SME’s and national hidden champions, adding high end engineering and service skill transfer for upscaling middle class importance in emerging markets;  pushing TIMA Trusted Partnership processes for infrastructure services with PPP solutions for value chain security and safety in Business to Government (B2G) projects in emerging markets;  developing TIMA Hospital Health Security and People’s Safety strategy by PPP service strategies on large scale connectivity for public hospitals. In 2012, TIMA International GmbH, as signatory of the Caring for Climate Initiative, participated in the signatories’ meetings and in the UNGC leadership meetings at the Rio+20 side events, the Rio Partnership Forum, the UN Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio + 20) from 13-22 June 2012. TIMA cooperated with the UN Platform and with the UN Global Compact to contribute to UNGC LEAD and industrial partnerships in local ASEAN Plus Connectivity solutions on mitigation and adaptation approaches between business and national governments. Predominantly through individual contributions by its clients, decision-makers of international family driven companies, TIMA shared strategies on diverse partnership forms and individual concepts for partnerships -6or for infrastructure modernization of the envisaged AEC. On issues like public health, drinkable water systems for the people, public rail mobility in cities affordable to all, efficient and competitive industrial and agricultural waste systems in cities we had the privilege to become partner for exchange on downstream strategies, large scale clean and green energy mix development in regional transformation and upcoming new energy market structures in the Trans-Pacific region. Within TIMA we have:  developed and elaborated individual SME and MNE approaches for European-Asian partnerships;  finalized our “Quadruple A” brand model for MOP (Middle of the Pyramid) serving several national social market economies and AEC missions.  continued our campaign against unsolicited advertising faxes in order to reduce unnecessary paper consumption and CO2 emission by modernized technology and smart paperless communication;  encouraged car-sharing and railway instead of airplane for TIMA events with clients, and using zero CO2 systems at national and international conferences. 3.3 ANTI-CORRUPTION (PRINCIPLE 10): Progress TIMA takes a firm stand against corruption. Mandatory guidelines for all our employees, especially our Code of Conduct Guidelines, are very specific on this subject. We have made such guidelines available on our website. In 2012, we communicated with the UNGC Anti-Corruption Working Group on the guidelines for Anti-Corruption and cases of best practice that may serve as examples for PPP within the change of TIMA Quattro “A” strategy in “Quadruple A” branding for PPP companies in TIMA ongoing projects. TIMA also shared experience with the AntiCorruption Working Group and promotes ICMM guidelines and Transparency International Guidelines, preparing to support clients with strategies including the issues in circular economy. 4. NOTE TIMA has a new website, where publications and further information on the topics and publications mentioned in this CoP can be found. -7-
