Represent Communications United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Year: 2014 ABOUT THE COMPANY Represent Communications is the largest PR agency in Serbia and the Balkans region, successfully operating for 11 years. Our company has gained experience through working with prestigious clients from different areas. Today, our team of more than 40 dedicated professionals provides services for around 50 clients across five markets. We are a Weber Shandwick global network affiliate and part of Interpublic Group. We have developed and are successfully implementing integrated communications for many of our clients. COMPANY’S CORE VALUES 1. QUALITY AND EXPERIENCE 2. TALENT HUB 3. COURAGE 4. TEAM DEVOTION 5. OPTIMISM COMMITMENT STATEMENT BY MANAGING DIRECTOR We are very pleased to publish our second Communication on Progress (COP) report within the United Nations Global Compact in Serbia, as Represent Communications is fully committed to the Global Compact principles. We have managed to stay socially and environmentally responsible towards our clients and our employees in the past year. I can say that our greatest achievement last year was in the area of labour principles and maintaining healthy, positive and functional work surrounding, but also our cooperation with our clients who we have supported through all of their environmental and humanitarian campaigns. We are more than glad to contribute to the promotion and implementation of the Global Compact principles and in that regard we are submitting this report, expecting your suggestions for further improvement of our work and long-standing successful cooperation. Sincerely, Borislav Miljanovic Managing Director OUR APPROACH TO THE PRINCIPLES Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Represent Communications supports the Universal declaration of Human rights and is committed to developing a particular organizational culture which implements a policy to support the Declaration. Our Company’s goal is to motivate our employees and partners to participate and actively respond to human rights related concerns aiming to secure dignity and equality for all. Implementation Our company has taken the following measures in order to actively respond to issues related to human rights: The Agency has participated and initiated numerous actions to provide support to those who are on a verge of existence or in need of basic living necessities  We have continued our support to children from Belgrade shelters, securing them with food, clothes and toys  In cooperation with one NGO, our education department has continued with implementation of trainings on selling techniques for the young that live in shelters but sell magazine called “The face of the street”. By participating in this action, these young people have a 50% profit of every magazine they sell. This way we have contributed in help to solve the evolving issues of numerous young people from the shelters performing illegal actions. We have provided them with a chance to work and earn in a more respectful manner  Last year we our employees have participated in donating clothes and shoes for shelter for elderly in Belgrade Measurement of outcomes We have a system in place that encourages our employees to report if they recognize any human rights issue within the company. The still practices annual (and six months) evaluations as a tool in employees hand to report on human rights violations. Our Human Resources department regularly documents and keeps track of grievances in this area. Labour principles Assessment, policy and goals Our company is fully committed to proclaimed labour principles. We obtain written documents which clearly state and identify employee’s rights, responsibilities and benefits. Additionally, we have created a separate email address where employees can report on violation of any labour rights and principles. Implementation The tradition of Open door policy is still in place and very well managed by our HR department. This tool enables employees to report or to express grievances on violation on labour principles once a week. We systematically invest in our employees in different ways: organizing educational trainings, informal activities and team buildings, creating personal development plans and special programs for work from home. We are implementing a trainee program where 1/3 of our trainees get hired after the program is finished. During last year we have also organized numerous trainee workshops giving them practical knowledge that would help them in search for a new job in the future. With great attention we take care of our employees on maternal leave, providing them with programs with beneficiary health and working conditions. We also care for the health of our employees by providing them with fruit and vitamins every day. The Agency has provided the all employees with three types of fruit they can choose from every morning as well as vitamin C and multivitamins. In addition to care for the health of our employees, we have also provided them with free ophthalmology examinations since their work mainly consists of long hours in front of the computers. This will be Agency’s practice in the upcoming years as well. As part of the aspiration to contribute to reduction of stress in the workplace, we have initiated an ant stress program, where we provided the employees with stress control trainings and stress free massages. Measurement of outcomes Our HR department regularly documents employee’s reports on violation of labour principles. Continuous upgrade of policies regarding labour principles most adequately demonstrates improvement in this field. We also tend to maintain healthy and team oriented environment. Environment Assessment, policy and goals We aspire to reduce the environmental impact of our business by educating our employees and motivating them to act environmentally friendly in and outside the office where we preform our daily activities. Implementation Activities within our company Continuously we encourage our employees to recycle paper, plastic and cardboard and in regard to this we have placed several recycling boxes in our offices. Our policy is to use energy saving light bulbs in the entire building. In addition to these initiatives, we have recently stopped buying newspapers and have subscribed to all the daily, weekly and monthly editions online. We are pleased to say that our company has continued with promotion of encouraging employees to use bicycles as a tool of transportation to work, instead of using a car, or a bus. We have provided them with parking space for their bicycles and special badges they can wear as part of the bicycle riding team. We have also participated in many environmentally friendly activities organized by our clients, such as tree planting. Activities outside our company As a PR agency, we have supported many of our client’s activities which encourage environmentally friendly behavior. Our employees are participating in many environmentally oriented actions, such as the “Danube day” initiated by the Coca-Cola System and the International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River, but also Fun Run marathon supported by many of our clients. Measurement of outcomes Represent Communications records the number of employees who participate in environmentally encouraging actions and stimulate them to continue with these activities. The company also tracks the progress on recycled materials and compares the situation on progress to previous periods. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals As a board member of Serbian Public Relations Association, the Company is obliged to respect and act in accordance with the Ethical codex proclaimed by this Association. The codex identifies concrete violations in mentioned area of work and emphasizes fraud, harmful damage to reputation and disclosure of protected information as key violations. Implementation As a member of Serbian Public Relations Association our employees have to respect and implement the codex proclaimed provisions in their everyday work. If they suspect or obtain evidence of any type of fraud they can report it to our HR department. In addition, our company’s HR director has initiated and is a member of Maja Marsicevic-Tasic fund, which annually awards women who have “fought for freedom” in the past decade. Few awarded women in the past couple of years were the ones who managed to persistently and strongly fight corruption in our country. Our Agency has provided free PR support and material production to the award ceremony. Measurement of outcomes If the Ethical codex proclaimed by the Serbian Public Relations Association is violated, the members will appear in front of Association’s Court of honor and suffer already identified consequences. Our company also has a system in place where violations in regard to anti corruption can be reported and evidenced.
