UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ Socialinės atsakokybės veiklos ataskaita už 2013m 1 CONTENT 1 5 Foreword from the Leaders Environment Protection Page 3 Page 7 2 6 About the Company Employees Page 4 Page 11 3 7 Performance Indicators Society of the Company Page 13 Page 5 4 8 Implementation of Socially Market Responsible Activities Page 14 Page 6 9 Responsibility to Society Page 16 Foreword from the Leaders Over the recent years, a powerful hard core of engineers, economists and professionals of various fields has formed within the Company, which has outlined the future business strategy. We have Satisfying customer expectations by utilizing manufacturing clear objectives for the period of up to 2015 and further. We see UAB production techniques that meet the highest standards „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ not as a furniture producer, but as an engineering company investing in a variety of areas: energy, the As manufacturers, we declare that we will use our resources in a furniture industry, equipment for furniture manufacturing including sustainable, safe and efficient manner, without adverse effects on the transport and others. environment. Our goal is to be a modern, contemporary, nature-friendly The key attitude of our Company is balanced and sustainable and energy-saving group of companies that applies advanced development. This means that when we earn money, we add lent funds manufacturing technologies. or investor funds to it and plan the development further by pursuing a variety of directions. However, product development for key customers and sales remain a strategic direction of the Company. Permanent, stable development in the fields of personnel, production processes, and environmental protection while using In view of consumer / customer needs, the team of the UAB the best practices and innovations to achieve the highest results „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ understands how we have to operate in a global world. In order to remain competitive in the global market, we improve production technology, product quality, create a culture of continuous improvement, and continue to develop a sense of responsibility. We’ve learned to understand what is required of us, to adopt the best practices and to apply work methods that are recognized throughout the world. UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ Chairman of the Board Sigitas Paulauskas Genuine mutual understanding is vital. It is only when the people operating machines, the people designing a variety of devices or products, and the people managing figures and funds become a solid team, and their thoughts unfold and materialize following a single UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ course, that we can expect a good result. Our wish is that what we do CEO Viktoras Adomaitis and create would bring joy to everybody. UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2013 3 UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ was founded in 2002. The company invests in and mostly focuses on companies working in the timber UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ is one of the largest industry and activities related to this sector. Currently, UAB „VAKARŲ exporters of wood products in the Baltic States. MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ consists of 6 companies: AB „Klaipėdos mediena“ which produces chipboard, lined UAB „VMG Technics“ provides freight forwarding services and chipboard and cabinet furniture made from lined chipboard, is regularly performs maintenance and preventive repairs on the biggest company of UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ in technical equipment. Lithuania. UAB „Sakuona“ is a subdivision of UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS JLLC „LogDrew“ (Belarus) is the supply of raw material GRUPĖ“ that supplies birch plywood furniture products to the (roundwood and woodchips) to the companies of UAB „VAKARŲ „IKEA“ global furniture chain and other furniture manufacturers MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ as well as other customers. and dealers in Western Europe; it specializes in the production of bed frames and bottom parts, plywood chairs and bed liners. FLLC „VMG Industry“ is the Company’s new factory complex in UAB „Baltijos elektrinių investicijos performs technological Mogilev (Belarus), which is one of the largest in Europe. Products: maintenance, heating supply and conducts the maintenance medium density fiberboard (MDF), cabinet furniture, bed frames required for the heat and electricity production of thermal power and bottoms made of plywood. plants and boiler-houses. UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2013 4 Performance Indicators of the Company In 2013, the Company’s overall turnover reached LTL 515.3 million. Over the last year, the sales of UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ increased by 29 percent and, compared to results of 2011, was 62 percent higher. The major factor causing the turnover growth was the opening of FLLC „VMG Industry“, the Company’s newest production unit in Mogilev (Belarus). Though only officially launched into operation last summer, FLLC „VMG Industry“ manufactured products for LTL 69 million. It is forecasted that in 2014, FLLC „VMG Industry“ will approximate the design capacity and its annual turnover will increase up to LTL 207 million. Other businesses of the Company recorded a significant growth in sales last year as well. The sales of AB „Klaipėdos mediena“ exceeded LTL 269 million in 2013, and it has plans to reach a turnover of LTL 300 million in 2014. UAB „Sakuona“ invested in production development and increased its sales by 16% up to LTL 105 million last year. In 2014, UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ plans to reach a turnover of LTL 718 million, and to produce and market products for LTL 1 billion in 2017. UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2013 5 Implementation of Socially Responsible Activities mln. € Plans for the Future 100 The long-term business strategy of UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS 90 GRUPĖ“, which covers the next five years, is to continuously focus on the 80 production capacity and quality. This, according to the plan, will be 70 achieved by increasing the capacity of chipboard and bed bottoms’ 60 production through new technologies. 50 UAB „Sakuona“ launched new products in 2013. Due to the 40 complexity of the products, the highest priority is given to the 30 improvement of their production technology and quality. The objective of the company is to exceed EUR 40 million in sales in 2015. 20 10 0 FLLC „VMG Industry“ will further focus on the expansion of its 2012m. Sales 2013m. Sales 2014m. Sales 2015m. Sales production capacity by the application of the best practices of other Company’s businesses. The deployment of the LEAN approach is expected to be initiated in the second quarter of 2014. The aim of its AB „Klaipėdos mediena“ application is to not only improve the Company’s internal procedures UAB „Sakuona“ and enhance the performance of its equipment, but to also develop a FLLC„VMG Industry“ culture of continuous improvement within the Company. UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2013 6 Waste Managament Waste management at UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ is carried Environmental Protection out in accordance with the issued Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC) permits: AB „Klaipėdos mediena“ No. (11.2.)-30-127/2008, Human attention to nature and the environment is really important UAB „Sakuona“ No.(.11.2)-33-29/2005, and FLLC „VMG Industry“ No. 353-12 in today’s modern world. Increasingly modern equipment and new 22.12.2012. The companies also follow the approved procedures for the technologies allow contemporary industries to not only produce high management of generated waste. quality products, but also increase their productivity and use raw materials more efficiently, causing less environmental pollution. UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ operates in accordance with existing laws and Since concern about environmental issues has regulations that help protect the environment and human health. been increasingly growing, UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS EU projects 2013 GRUPĖ“, likewise, cannot remain indifferent to the environment and the responsible use of wood resources. One of the major environmentally-related projects of UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ in 2013 was the implementation of innovative Therefore, the companies of the Group aim to maximise chipboard and furniture production technologies at AB „Klaipėdos the use of raw materials, use them as most efficiently as mediena“ intended to increase the company’s export of its production by possible, and to make efforts to minimize pollution of the creating a more environmentally friendly product and becoming a secure company that meets environmental requirements. Its main focus was environment. UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ placed on methods of modern and efficient energy production from CEO Viktoras Adomaitis renewable energy sources. Instead of using the four gas boilers it previously used and employed for thermal oil heating in production, NESS, a new boiler, has been installed. The new 6MW boiler uses bio-fuels for thermal power generation, which significantly reduces the consumption of natural gas and CO2 (greenhouse effect causing gas) emissions into the atmosphere. The thermal power produced by the boiler room is fully sufficient for company needs, and the excess is sold to the city of Klaipėda. This ensures a greener environment for residents of the city of Klaipėda. More than 3,161 million litas was granted for the implementation of the project from the EU Cohesion Fund. UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2013 7 Air Pollution In order to reduce pollution into the surrounding atmosphere, AB „Klaipėdos mediena“ installed an electrostatic wet cleaning filter in its chipboard production, which ensures the reduction of particulate emissions into the environment down to the rate of the allowable criteria for the living environment. The companies of UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ continuously follow the air pollution monitoring programme and carry out test measurements by internal control and independent laboratories. All types of production which can affect air pollution of the environment are equipped with air cleaners and dust collector bags. The collected manufacturing waste (dust) is transported to a dust storage area to prevent the release of particulates into the atmosphere. Residents are informed about on-going projects in the press, and they also have an opportunity to visit the Company and obtain all the necessary information there. Representatives of the nearest residential communities have the contact phone numbers of responsible representatives of the Company and can discuss their issues of concern directly. The allowable emissions into the air of the substances resulting from fuel combustion are calculated in accordance with the applicable methodologies coordinated with the Klaipėda Regional Environmental Protection Department. The measurements are carried out by the ecology laboratory of AB „Klaipėdos mediena“ and UAB „Vakarų centrinė laboratorija“, an independent laboratory. In accordance with an approved plan, the monitoring is carried out by UAB „Jūrinių tyrimų centras“, an authority of the Ministry of the Environment. During 2013, UAB „Klaipėdos mediena“ managed to significantly reduce the consumption of natural gas and emissions of CO2 into the atmosphere. Energy Saving Policy One sustainable energy vision of UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ is In 2013, AB „Klaipėdos mediena“ used 2,493,933 Nm3 of natural gas to be a modern, up-to-date, nature and energy-saving group of for production. The quantity of natural gas during the year 2012 amounted companies that apply advanced manufacturing technologies and use to 7,447,793 Nm3. energy efficiently. The Company focuses on the structural reduction of CO2 emissions into the atmosphere were as follows: 13,774 tons in energy consumption. 2012, whereas in 2013, when greater quantities of biofuel were used instead of natural gas, it respectively decreased to 4,636 tons per year. UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2013 8 Reforestation Campaign Nesting-Boxes Erection Campaign UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ conducts an annual spring In spring of 2013, the employees of the Company observed campaign intended for the reforestation of logging sites. The campaign international bird day. Following the example of foresters, the staff of has been taking place for the fourth year in a row with the purpose of UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ erected nesting-boxes on the giving back a tiny tribute to our natural environment for its resources, Company’s premises. It was the first nesting-box erection campaign and to strengthen the collective communication of the Company’s that left no one indifferent. It is planned to continue this tradition of corporate staff. providing birds with new homes in the future. UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ CEO Viktoras Adomaitis and CCO Andrius Ostrauskas Nesting-Boxes on the UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ premises The campaign is carried out in the state forest enterprises in the forests of Kretinga with the involvement of the staff of the forest enterprises. The campaign is carried out on a voluntary basis, so all employees of the companies of UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ are welcome to participate in it. The result of the planted forest is usually only visible in the autumn, because, due to natural selection, not all of the trees grow and mature. 70 years is needed for a mature forest to grow from the seedlings, so it is an investment for future generations. It is expected that this positive tradition will continue for many years. UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2013 9 FSC Activities The products manufactured by the enterprises of UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ are sold to 22 countries of the world. The modern consumer outlook, which not only takes into account the appearance of the product, but also its ecological value, is a force driving us to continuously improve as manufacturers! With the increasing awareness of the importance of the forests of the world and their weight on a global scale, as well as with the increasing demand for products to be manufactured from wood obtained from responsibly managed forests, the enterprises owned by UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ started to follow the requirements of the FSC since 2009. Activities meeting the requirements of the FSC Chain of Custody standard for manufacturing companies and Controlled Wood standards were successfully validated in AB „Klaipėdos mediena“ (FSC-C018158), UAB „Sakuona“ (FSC-C013423), and „FLLC VMG Industry“ (FSC-C118066). The FSC Audits were carried out in June of 2013 at FLLC „VMG Industry“ and in October of 2013 at AB „Klaipėdos mediena“ and UAB „Sakuona“, where the aim was to check the handling and documentation system of the certified material, i.e., the compliance of the activities carried out following the FSC Chain of Custody and Controlled Wood with the FSC standards. During the audit, the auditors of „NEPCon“, an organization carrying out the audit, interacted with the staff responsible for the production chain and the implementation of the requirements in various fields of the production chain (the raw material supply and acceptance, storage, production, labelling, etc.). The data concerning quantity control and accounting / sales documents was checked. Another integral part of the audits was verification of the places of origin of the Controlled Wood. The vision of the Company in this area is to annually increase the amounts of FSC-certified wood used in its production. By becoming members of the certified timber harvesting and processing industry community, the companies of UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ support responsible forest management, which saves a significant amount of forest biodiversity and provides safe, healthy and fair working conditions for the people working in forests. In addition, the wood suppliers working in accordance with this standard are obliged to take responsibility for the environment. UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2013 10 Employees UAB „VMG Technics“ 6% UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ complies with all the requirements of global worker rights. The companies do not tolerate the exploitation of child labour, employee discrimination, harassment, bullying, or other human rights violations. All the necessary work safety requirements, including a worker’s rest schedule are complied with in UAB FLLC „VMG „Sakuona“ order to create secure and healthy workplaces for the employees of 23% Industry“ the companies. The enterprises of the Company only recognise 43% transparent salary and benefit payments as proper. Number of employees of the Company (as of 31 December UAB 2013): „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS 129 managers, 227 specialists, 2656 workers. GRUPĖ“ AB „Klaipėdos 3012 employees in total. 3% mediena“ 24% JLLC „LogDrew“ 1% Distribution of employees in UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2013 11 Gender Distribution The Unions The gender distribution within the companies is approximately Collective labour relations in UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ equal. The total of 3012 employees consists of 1332 women and and its controlled companies are based on the international and 1680 men. The number of men is slightly higher due to the nature of constitutional principle of freedom of association. The workers of the the work. The abundance of technical equipment and the necessity for companies are given the right to unite into organisations protecting its continuous maintenance determine the greater number of men their interests. At present, AB „Klaipėdos mediena“ is the only company employed. Most of the women work in the areas of production in which trade union activities are carried out. Two trade unions operate concerned with packaging, partial processing and sorting. UAB at AB „Klaipėdos mediena“, namely: „Žemaitijos baldininkų, darbininkų „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ advocates for equal career opportunities, sąjunga“ (the Union of Samogitian Furniture Manufacturers and Workers) regardless of the gender. and „Klaipėdos apskrities medienos darbininkų sąjunga“ (the Union of Klaipeda County Timber Workers). Development of Employee Competencies To date, the Organization has formed a specific employee competence model, which is a great tool to educate workers towards Remuneration System the long-term goals of the Organization. Competent and committed The calculation of the remuneration of managers and employees are one of the key bonds of the Company’s success. The professionals of UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ is carried out in monthly check of the employees who attended the training and who accordance with the timework payment system (fixed monthly salary) are to attend it is carried out in the Organization. and the timework payment system directly linked to the Company’s 117 managers and professionals as well as 1134 workers were EBITDA, whereas in production, it is linked to the gross profit indicators. The workers’ wages are calculated using the following systems: piecetrained during 2013, amounting to a total of 1251 employees. In rate, piece-rate / collective (brigade), timework, timework-collective general, the trainings held in companies were related to the (brigade). Such an advanced reward system encourages the deployment of the LEAN system. The employees of FLLC „VMG Industry“ employees desire to excel and to achieve better results. were given the most attention due to the launch of new production. The professionals from the Lithuanian enterprises of the Company went there periodically to improve the qualifications of both new and experienced employees. The Company is interested in the continuous improvement of staff qualifications with the aim to enhance work performance, educate the employees, and to develop their motivation and attitude towards the work itself. UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2013 12 Sports Festival Summer Competitions, the fifth annual sports festival of UAB Society „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“, was held on June 8. This year, 7 teams accepted the challenge of the Competitions, fighting for the name of the sportiest, the friendliest The public support in 2013 was really great. During 2013, the and the most talented team. Four teams from Lithuania: UAB Company donated over LTL 1,240,000 to different public and private „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“, AB „Klaipėdos mediena“, UAB organizations, such as: the Lithuanian State Symphony Orchestra, the „Sakuona“ and „VMG Technics“, and three teams from Belarus: Public Institution Lithuanian Free Market Institute, and others. FLLC „VMG Industry“, FLLC „SWOODS Export“ who joined forces with the teams of JLLC „LogDrev“ and „LEZ Mogilev“. The aim of UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ has been the major sponsor and organizer of the „VMG Cup“, the annual Lithuanian Open Show the sports festival is to unite the employees of the companies and to promote healthy lifestyles. Jumping Championship since 2009. The year 2013 was no exception. The participants and horse lovers had the opportunity to enjoy a greatly organized high-level competition and a truly unique experience. UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ contributed to the decoration of Klaipėda city in 2013. A new bronze sculpture titled “Mano” (“My”) of the seaport sculptor, Klaudijus Pūdymas, was unveiled in M. Mažvydas alley in September, depicting a girl with plaits nestling a bird to her breast. UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2013 13 Market Europe, Azia, US, Australia market Distribution of the Market The production of the companies of the Group is not only sold on the domestic, but also on the global market. This is because of the distribution of the production exported by „IKEA“, one of our main clients, and because of the internal marketing of the companies. All of AB the companies managed by UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ UAB Klaipėdos Sakuona specialise in production intended to satisfy the market needs of a mediena specific user. The constant improvement in the fields of production, product quality and quantity of the products in close collaboration with FLLC„VMG Industry“ the customer has opened the way to the markets worldwide for us. The production of FLLC „VMG Industry“ is oriented towards the Russian market. It is planned that in 2014, FLLC „VMG Industry“ will approximate the design capacity and its annual turnover will increase up to LTL 207 million. Russian market UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2013 14 Customers Anti-Corruption Policy of the Company The Company’s attitude towards customer service determines Nowadays, corruption is one of the world’s most complex the quality of the services provided by the Company. The companies of challenges. It causes a reasonably negative influence on organizational UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ focus on the customer as a treasured activities and business. Struggle with any form of corruption is priority of the Company in striving to achieve transparency in the external and asset intended to be provided with services of excellent quality, on time internal factors of the activities of the Group’s companies. and at a reasonable price. One of the Company’s main and longstanding clients is the Swedish company „IKEA“, which is one of the UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ does not tolerate any factors associated with fraud, bribery, tax evasion, abuse, waste of public funds largest furniture manufacturers in the world and a retailer that sells or other forms of corruption and takes all possible steps to avoid it. The furniture. The worldwide recognized „IKEA“ brand makes the operational risk of corruption is minimized by the complex measures applied within mechanism of our companies function systematically as well as the companies and the operating system of the companies, which consistently striving for progress to achieve the highest quality in furniture ensures the transparency and traceability of the corporate activities. production. Each company is guided by the laws and regulations of the company’s state. The Company employs an experienced team of lawyers to The flexibility of the Company’s enterprises in response to eliminate any discrepancies within the legislation or documentation, the wishes of the client is just one of the many qualities and perform the control of legally binding documents. Each important allowing us to move ahead! document passes filters within the companies which minimise the risks of nonconformities in activities to the greatest extent. The external and internal audit systems continuously controlling the processes within the companies of the Group are run at UAB Client-User Review „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“. They are intended to ensure the transparency of the decisions taken, as well as within the focused The companies closely cooperate with „IKEA“, the key client. The activities of the companies of the Group. client’s as well as the user’s opinion about the quality of the manufactured product is particularly important to us. The companies follow the qualitative filters developed by „IKEA“, which, in the course of our collaborative process, ensure the control of products’ compliance with the qualitative requirements up to the end user. The technologists / technicians of the customer who participate in the product development process visit the companies periodically, so that the end user can obtain a high quality product that meets its specified requirements. UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2013 15 Responsibility to Society A Social Activity Responsibility Report in the Lithuanian and English languages is published on the Company’s website: http://www.mediena.lt/ and the WTO Agreement website: http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ Before printing, thing about the environment UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2013 16
