COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS AND RESPONSABILITY REPORT OF ONYX PROMAVI 2014: Participant • ONYX PROMAVI Published • 2014/10/06 Time period • October 2013 – October 2014 Format • Stand alone document – Basic COP Template Differentiation Level • This COP qualifies for the Global Compact Active level Self-assessment • Includes a CEO letter of commitment for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption • Includes a measurement of outcomes To our stakeholders: 1. Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Our commitment to join the 10 principles of Global Compact is part of the priority for our company and we will concentrate all our strength to assert those charters in all of our employees and our customers. The goal of ONYX Promavi today is to enforce these principles and continue our commitment with Global Compact. 2. Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals : • Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. ONYX PROMAVI is establishing through our employees and clients the respect of Universal Declaration of Human rights and environmental protection. This approach is an integral part of our policy, culture and commitment. Furthermore in our ethics code Compliance and Transparency is one of our slogan. In this way, Onyx Promavi develops within its teams ethical values and respect for commitments. These points are essential criteria when recruiting our employees. Transparency is one of our key words : our role is to provide decision makers with relevant and consolidated information. These points are clearly described on our website. • Implementation : • Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. To make our code of conduct adopted by our employees and clients, Onyx Promavi organised regularly a meeting with our Business partners to sensitize them about the respect of human rigts, environment and anti-corruption so that they could commit to the same cause. We put posters framed recalling the causes of environmental, human rights and anticorruption in our Head office and our other offices in France and in the world. • Measurement of outcomes : • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Thanks to our posters and meetings, employees and partners know that they have to follow and respect scrupulously our charters. If we note any deviation about our ethics code, a report on the reminder of the rules of our commitment will be sent to all the members. At this date, our members are motivated by our step and any dysfunction has been noted. 3. Labour : Assessment, policy and goals: • Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. The rules of labour Rights of UN Global Compact is part of our policy of recruiting and trade plan with our clients. Before launching in these two subjects we make people read our letter of commitment to UN Global Compact and our Health Safety Environment plan which encourage our employees to take regular break so that they could adapt the ergonomics of their computers. In our Head office, the members do not handle dangerous product (chemical and others), a first aid kit is provided in our office. The fire protection equipment is kept up to date (updating extinguishers annually in accordance with regulations). An Audit of the electrical system of our premises is carried out every two years. These points must show them that we respect the condition of laws of Labour in our company. • Implementation : Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. The fact of organizing meeting with our Business Partners and the posters in the offices which make our employees remembered our commitment with UN Global Compact and at last our ethics code on the Labor are running well in our working area because people respect and follow these charters as they khow that we have faith in our commitment. • Measurement of outcomes : • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Thanks to our posters, and meetings, employees and partners know that they have to follow and respect scrupulously our charters. If we note any deviation about our ethics code, a report on the reminder of the rules of our commitment will be sent to all the members. At this date, our members are motivated by our step and any dysfunction has been noted. 4. Environment : • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Onyx Promavi responds to the requirements of Environment’s norms of UN Global Compact. The corporate social responsability and sustainable development are part of our code of conduct and Business policy. In Onyx Promavi, we have built a policy of recycling in our working area (papers, plastic cups, worn batteries…) In fact, we encourage our employees to print documents if only it’s necessary because we want to reduce consumption of papers. Our consultants have to promote public transport for movement. Printer cartridges are collected before being deposited at the recycling center. Selective sorting is performed by separating recyclable from non-recyclable. For the sake of saving energy, the heating system will automatically turn off when the offices are empty. At last, as we are an engineering company , our missions are increasingly shortened to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and energy. Our clients use the same policy which correspond to the principle of Environment of UN Global Compact. • Implementation : • Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents In Onyx Promavi, making business by striving the Environmental norms is in our culture since many years and our commitment with UN Global Compact makes us broaden this policy accross our clients. The impact of environment is one of our important goal and we are working so hard to make the corporate social responsability adopted by all of our stakeholders thanks to the meetings, advertising and our charters memberships. • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. Thanks to our posters and meetings, employees and partners know that they have to follow and respect scrupulously our charters. If we note any deviation about our ethics code, a report on the reminder of the rules of our commitment will be sent to all the members. At this date, our members are motivated by our step and any dysfunction has been noted. In addition we received at the end of each meeting a report from our membership which describe that they always respect the charters of the environmental impact on business with concise examples of their step in environment. 5. Anticorruption : • Assessment, policy and goals • Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anticorruption. Onyx Promavi is fighting against corruption in any form what so ever. In fact, Onyx Promavi supports the UN Global Compact principles on anti-corruption. The principle of no corruption is one of the most important part of our charters. Implementation : • Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anticorruption risks and respond to incidents. The policy of no corruption is part of our code of conduct and our membership know that any violation has to be noted. We distribute regularly articles on anti-corruption to our membership so that they remember the importance of no corruption in our charters. • Measurement of outcomes • Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. • Thanks to our posters and meetings, employees and partners know that they have to follow and respect scrupulously our charters. If we note any deviation about our ethics code, a report on the reminder of the rules of our commitment will be sent to all the members.
