uN Global Compact Communication on progress 2013 the east asiatic company LTD. AS 2013 COP for EAC EAC is delighted to present its stakeholders with the Group’s fourth Communication on Progress towards implementing the 10 UN Global Compact principles. EAC supports the international community’s call for improved corporate sustainability governance through new and revised guidelines. EAC focuses on embedding sustainability into the businesses to mutual benefits of the stakeholders while concurrently ensuring that the Santa Fe Group and Plumrose exploit opportunities related to sustainability. EAC’s overall strategy is to adequately address the need for sustainability governance, including adequate procedures Niels Henrik Jensen to combat corruption. President & CEO In 2013 EAC has worked together with the businesses to further strengthen their capabilities within business-driven sustainability management, training in CSR performance measurement, internal and management. Emphasis has been on improving data quality, defining external benchmarking and reporting. relevant key performance indicators and targets, and ensuring embedment of sustainability governance in their organizational structure. IT EAC’s role is to provide inspiration and to secure the quality of the systems to manage the collection and reporting of sustainability data businesses’ strategy and efforts based on the People-Planet-Profit have been streamlined to fit the continuous changing requirements matrix that EAC has established as a framework for its sustainability of the businesses. EAC not only aims to make collection of quantitawork. EAC ensures that the businesses set up the necessary systems tive and qualitative data an essential part of the strategic management to comply with international standards of socially, environmentally and of CSR issues, but also to use it as an operational management tool economically sustainable development, and EAC regularly evaluates across businesses and countries. and reviews the businesses’ data collection, performance measurement, target setting, risk assessment, etc. For EAC, it is key that the During 2013, both businesses have further embedded sustainability in businesses exploit the business potential inherent in their sustainability the organization. Focus has been on creating a productive, innovative work. In 2014, EAC will support the businesses in further improving and safe work environment for employees, reducing environmental sustainability performance and by ensuring that the right measures impacts, being a good corporate citizen through charities and work and instruments are implemented to help them reach their targets. with local communities, as well as implementing tighter internal control EAC will also step up the integration of CSR data in its quality control and environmental management and documentation systems. EAC and environmental management systems, and the Group’s CSR activiis regularly following up on the business segments and the progress ties will be extended to include contracts and follow-up on selected in implementing sustainability management. This have among others sub-suppliers’ performance. resulted in improvement of HR systems, development of Code of Conducts for employees and suppliers and strengthening of the whistle blower mechanism. EAC also assist the business segments with the Niels Henrik Jensen implementation of improved local organisational anchorage of CSR President & CEO EAC’s role is to provide inspiration and to secure the quality of the businesses’ strategy and efforts based on the People-Planet-Profit matrix that EAC has established as a framework for its sustainability work. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 2 the east asiatic company LTD. AS Group CSR Policy Pursuant to Danish legislation on gender equality, EAC must set objecThe CSR policy of the EAC Group is based on the 10 UN Global tives for the proportion of the underrepresented gender on the Board Compact principles (UNGC) along with compliance with international of Directors. Currently, one of four members (25%) of the Board of and national laws. Where international minimum standards for CSR Directors is a woman and EAC’s ambition for 2014-17 is to maintain or are higher than those required by national law, EAC strives to uphold increase this proportion. Consequently, EAC will ensure that qualified international standards. In addition, EAC goes beyond legal compliance female candidates are considered when the Board of Directors proposes in a number of areas where the company can contribute to sustainable candidates to the Annual General Meeting. However, The Board of development by applying its core competences. Directors’ final submission of candidates will always be based on their actual competences and experiences relative to EAC’s needs to ensure The CSR policy outlines EAC’s social, environmental and economic that the candidate deemed best qualified is proposed. responsibility and commitment. For the full CSR policy of the EAC Group and more information on how each business segment implements and Diversity forms a natural part of the CSR objectives for EAC’s two operatplans to implement CSR, please refer to www.eac.dk. ing businesses. In the Santa Fe Group, women constitute close to 40% of both middle-management and senior management. In Plumrose, Organisational Anchorage the female proportion of management is lower as a consequence of EAC Group Management in close cooperation with the business seglocal labour customs in Venezuela, but Plumrose engages in various ments oversees the CSR processes and efforts, including the developactivities to change this, such as activities to empower female entrement of the businesses capacity in order to ensure that they continually preneurs in local communities. In the Danish parent company, three of use strategic CSR as a means to create value for the Company and eight employees are women and EAC will ensure that the proportion of contribute to its sustainable development. Each business segment female candidates short-listed for open positions equals the proportion has a top-level CSR/Ethics committee and persons responsible for the of female applicants. daily management and coordination of CSR efforts. CSR standards and processes are increasingly integrated into the business segments’ Structure of the Report functional work instructions, procedures and delegation of responsibiliPlease see the following sections for more information about CSR ties across business and country operations. Despite the progress made implementation, performance and planned activities in the Santa Fe over the last couple of years, the EAC Group Management is commitGroup and Plumrose. The report is divided into two sections separately ted to improved sustainability governance, and sees it as a continuous presenting the progress of each of the two business segments. This learning process. report meets the requirements of section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act. Diversity In accordance with its support to UN Global Compact and in line with its This report is available on www.eac.dk long-running practices, EAC endeavours to create equal opportunities for employees and managers, regardless of gender, ethnicity, age, political and religious convictions, etc. EAC policies PEOPLE PLANET PROFIT • Continuously improve EAC’s governance • Assess and reduce the negative impact • Apply a zero-tolerance approach with system to ensure compliance with basic of EAC’s operations on the environment, respect to corruption, extortion and human rights including climate change bribery in accordance with principle 10 of the UN Global Compact. • Identify ways of maximising the positive • Meet or exceed applicable regulatory social impact of EAC’s business operarequirements wherever EAC conducts its • Continuously work to improve governtions where EAC has special skills, prodoperations ance structures to combat corruption in ucts or services to make a difference. all its forms. • Continuously seek to improve EAC’s awareness, processes and production facilities in order to set new environmental standards in markets whenever possible. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 3 uN Global Compact Communication on progress 2013 Santa fe group Statement from the ceo The Santa Fe Group is pleased to present its fourth Communication on Progress report affirming our continued commitment to supporting the ten Global Compact principles. In the the Santa Fe Group we see sustainability as everyone’s responsibility therefore we continue to engage with our customers, staff, suppliers and other stakeholders to fully embrace and support our policies in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-corruption. We are fully aware of the responsibility we bear towards our stakeholders LARS LYKKE IVERSEN and the communities in which we operate. Therefore, we have estabCEO lished a Code of Business Conduct for our employees, managers and those who we do business with. It has been an exciting year with the opening of new environmentally friendly warehouses, the launch of The Academy online, engaging with our suppliers to combat corruption and the extraordinary efforts by our offices to provide support by means of financial and logistical contributions to charities and local communities. We take the principles of the UNGC on with great enthusiasm, our teams globally are fully united under the Santa Fe brand and we thank our teams and partners for their continued support. Together we look forward to sustaining our support to this initiative and fulfilling our duty as a signatory of the UN Global Compact. Lars Lykke Iversen CEO of Santa Fe Group Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 2 Santa fe group about santa fe group Santa Fe Group is a worldwide provider of employee relocation and BUSINESS STRUCTURE AND ORGANISATION workplace services that support multinational businesses and their Santa Fe Group is headquartered in London, United Kingdom with international growth. regional hubs in key global locations. In a world where the search for talent is not confined by geography, and Our core competence is our ability to provide services to a consistent, where the transfer of these skills is key to achieving competitive advanunifying high standard, locally and globally a key aspect of this is our tage, Santa Fe Group provides mobility services that enable organisaown offices, delivering services in critical locations that multinationals tions to transfer their employees between their multinational business find most challenging. units as efficiently and cost effectively as possible. These services are delivered via World Link, our global network, consistThe illusive goal sought by most multinational organisations is their ing of own offices and Approved Partners. ability to achieve consistency across their locations. We consider it a strength of our business. Interdean‘s network of offices cover the EMEA region. Santa Fe Asia‘s network of offices cover the Asia region. Wridgways‘ network of offices cover the Pacific region. Our Vision Our Vision is to deliver sustainable value through innovation • We expand our geographic coverage to remain an attractive supplier of moving, relocation, assignment management and records management services • We engage directly with our corporate clients and customers to better provide service and support • We help customers to fulfil their commitment to social, environmental and economic sustainability by operating in a way that respects and contributes to positive development for people, planet and profit. • We envision responsible moving and relocation services with minimal negative impact on the environment. Our Mission Our Mission is simple. ”We make it easy” • We will make it easy for corporate clients, individuals and partners to do business with us • We will make it easy for our internal organisation to work efficiently and effectively • We will make it easy to continuously contribute to social, environmental and economic sustainability based on our business model, competencies, innovation and technology Our Values Quality, Efficiency, People, Safety, Respect and Ethics – define the basic behaviours of our people and the way we do business • We will strive to have the highest quality standards in the industry • We will attract, develop and retain the best people in the industry • We will offer equal, attractive and flexible career opportunities. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 3 Santa fe group GOVERNANCE PROCESS Santa Fe Group’s corporate responsibility strategy contains five prioriSanta Fe Group’s governing structure ensures that we are directed and tised areas: controlled in a responsible manner, to ensure long-term sustainability and transparency. Ethics and behaviour Binding guidelines with the aim of ensuring that all employees perform We transparently report our performance annually in terms of financial, their duties in accordance with our business ethics. social responsibility and operational aspects of our business. Supplier standards Our objective is to ensure our business remains sustainable in every Ethical standards that our suppliers must follow, and we will ensure that meaning of the word. Which means that we are able to provide our custhese standards are, at a minimum, in compliance with the UN Global tomers with a service that both offers value and continuity. It also means Compact. that through our continued commitment to aligning our operations and strategies with the ten UNGC principles our Company contributes and Health and safety benefits economies and societies globally. Ensure a healthy working environment for our employees CSR is an integral part of daily business operations and decision making Environment in the Santa Fe Group. The governance structure has been strengthened Assume responsibility for reducing our environmental footprint. with a sustainability team aiming at aligning sustainability objectives, implementing and sharing best practices. The team consists of members in Anti-Corruption each region with overall responsibility held by the Santa Fe Group CFO. Maintain a zero tolerance approach to corruption in all its forms. RESPONSIBILITY People People are at the center of everything we do. H That is why we do everything we can to attract, BUSNES develop and retain the best people in the industry. SG PEOPLE LENCE RO Respect CEL RESPECT W EX Each other, the environment and the values of others. T ETHICS SAFETY Ethics An ethical and transparent approach to working. EFFICIENCY QUALITY Safety N A duty of care to our employees, our customers, LO TA S G SU IN T E D community and each other. AB R M O V E CY R N ILI TY I M P ICIE Efficiency & Quality EFF Achieved through continual improvement through refinement and innovation. Proactive Respectful Innovative Diligent To work proactively, through reguTo show respect for our cusTo strive for continual improveTo spend time to fully understand lar communication, anticipating tomers, work colleagues, our ment and find new and better the needs of our customers and outcomes and planning ahead. community and the environment. ways of doing things. To embrace the requirements of each situaNever assume or leave anything To understand how each of our change and learning. To promote tion. To pay attention to details to chance. roles are part of something much ideas that create value and enand perservere in the pursuit of larger and that every action has hance the Santa Fe experience. excellence. an outcome. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 4 Santa fe group OUR COMMITMENTS TO 10 UNGC PRINCIPLES People – Social Sustainability Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Support freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Support elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation We commit to • C ontinuous monitoring of our governance system to ensure compliance with basic human rights within our organization and those with whom we interact • Compliance with national legislation Planet – Environmental sustainability Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies We commit to • R educe the negative impact of our business on the environment, meet or exceed regulatory requirements and continuously seek to improve our processes to achieve high standards. • Monitor and Reduce carbon emissions. • Reuse 100 % of packing material where quality is not compromised. Profit – Financial Sustainability Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery We commit to • A  pply a zero tolerance approach with respect to corruption, extortion and bribery. Continuously identify ways of maximising the positive impact of our business operations where we have special skills, products or services to make a difference in the communities where we live and work. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 5 Santa fe group CONDUCT Santa Fe launched a Managers Code of Business Conduct in 2012, The Code contains global requirements of both the Company and all which outlines how Managers should deal with ethical dilemmas and employees to comply with good business ethics and fulfil our stakeholdhow they can assist and guide their staff in remaining compliant to ers’ expectations including compliance with the ten principles of the UN Santa Fe’s policies. Continuing with this, 100% of Managers made an Global Compact. To ensure clarity the Code is available to employees in annual declaration reaffirming their commitment to Santa Fe’s business 19 languages. conduct. In 2013, the recipients of the Managers Code of Business Conduct was extended to Santa Fe’s middle management team. Implementation included 100% employees, with the target to strengthen Santa Fe Group employees’ ability to handle ethical dilemmas. A key focus for Santa Fe Group was developing and implementing guidelines on ethics and conduct, a set of binding guidelines describing In 2014 we will continue to collect annual declarations from managehow employees should handle ethical dilemmas. This gave rise to Santa ment teams and formally introduce training on the Code of business Fe’s first Code of Business Conduct, Staff Guidebook which applies to conduct as part of Santa Fe’s induction program. all employees of Santa Fe Group. It describes the Company approach to responsible business behaviour in the areas of People, Planet and Profit. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 6 Santa fe group PEOPLE, LEARNING & CULTURE Santa Fe Group believes in maintaining a workforce that’s engaged and Santa Fe Group continues to monitor gender ratio to ensure that we are productive, as such we are firm believers in devoting time, investment an attractive employer to both male and female prospective employees and attention to creating environments in which employees can flouras well as our current employees. The female gender ratio increased ish. During the latter part of 2012 Santa Fe Group appointed a Director in 2013 for the employment levels of Middle management and Senior of People, Talent and Culture to focus on the development, diversity Management whilst the overall gender ratio remained static. and cultural exchange of all 2,945 employees of the Santa Fe Group. In 2014 Santa Fe Group will start collecting information on gender ratio In 2013 we launched a global eLearning platform, a web based point by operational and office based employees. By doing this we will be in of need video training portal, which also allows sharing of Powerpoint a position to truly monitor the diversity of our workforce in relation to training presentations, documents and book summaries, toolkits and the type of jobs performed. job aids. The Academy Online is our first global initiative for learning and social collaboration. Our continuous investments in our people have positively affected our absolute employee turnover and we obtained a significant reduction in The Academy Online leverages the concept of ‘Blended learning’ the 2013. idea that learning comes in many different forms. Santa Fe Group has acknowledged that the majority of learning is on the job, experimental; Retaining employees remains an important aspect of our business, our but there is also significant value in learning when colleagues and goal is to remain an attractive employer respecting, supporting and managers share with each other in addition to more structured learnadhering to internationally proclaimed human rights including the basic ing in workshops, webinars, conferences and courses. The Academy principles of the International Labour organisation’s Declaration of Online supports all these areas, allowing our employees, the learners, Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. to manage their own learning and control their own success. In 2014 Santa Fe Group will pilot an employee engagement survey with In 2013 the reported formal classroom based training hours decreased the intent to gauge feedback from all employees in 2015. This will alto an average of 10.4 hours per employee however, this was an low every employee to provide feedback about the company and ways expected result with the launch of The Academy Online. As Santa Fe in which we can improve it. Furthermore, the survey will provide an Group moves away from the traditional definition of learning and evolve indication on how engaged employees are with the company. the way in which we develop and engage with employees, encouraging the opportunity for employees to ‘learn, share and grow’ we expect to HEALTH AND SAFETY see a reduction in formal classroom learning. Taking care of people in our operations globally and when working with partners and suppliers is essential for us. Santa Fe Group’s Health In 2014 we aim to put into place a system which will allow us to and Safety Policy outlines our commitment to focus on continuous quantify The Academy Online engagement and how this translates to improvements through effective management systems. Our Occupaemployee learning and development. tional Health and Safety management systems are certified according to OHSAS 18001. Santa Fe Group recognises that we work in a richly diverse community and understand the strategic importance of achieving a diverse workIn the field of occupational health and safety, both the number of acciforce, which reflects that community. We undertake to recruit, develop dents with time loss and the number of lost workdays per accident has and retain the most talented people by valuing the varied skills and decreased. A major factor in this positive development is the integraexperiences they bring to Santa Fe Group; by investing in their training tion of health and safety considerations in decision-making processes, and development; by treating employees fairly and equitably; by comalong with more cooperation and improved coordination across the bating harassment and discrimination at work, and by encouraging an organisation. honest and open culture which values the differences between us. LAUNCH OF GLOBAL eLEARNING PLATFORM IN 2013 In 2013 we launched a global eLearning platform, a web based point of need video training portal, which also allows sharing of Powerpoint training presentations, documents and book summaries, toolkits and job aids. The Academy Online is our first global initiative for learning and social collaboration. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 7 Santa fe group Facts on people Santa Fe Gender Ratio 2012-2013 % 80 70 60 50 2012 40 2013 30 20 10 0 Total workforce Total workforce Middle management Middle management Senior management Senior management Male Female Male Female Male Female Number of work accidents Turnover with days lost per 1.000 employees Days lost per 1.000 employees % Employees Days 25 50 100 20 40 80 15 2012 30 2012 60 2012 10 2013 20 2013 40 2013 5 10 20 0 0 0 Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 8 Santa fe group CORPORATE CITZENSHIP Santa Fe Group remains active in a variety of ways in support of comCOMING TOGETHER TO BRING RELIIEF munity events and charitable organisations. We believe that, in supportOn 8th November 2013 Typhoon Haiyan struck the Philippines, one of ing charities and community events, we not only improve the communithe most intense tropical storms to ever make landfall anywhere in the ties and world we live in, we also motivate staff and create goodwill. world. Santa Fe Asia offices came together to pledge their support to those suffering. Offices contributed through various means from donatSanta Fe Group sees itself as a company that can provide not only finaning emergency supplies to employees voting to forefit Christmas parties cial contributions but also time, expertise, resources and experience to and use the money to help those in need. our communities. Our offices in The Philippines were on hand providing support and 2013 CHARITY COMMITMENTS logistical services by distributing food and essential supplies. The Hong Santa Fe Group financially contributes towards three main charities. Kong office undertook various fundraising activities to donate to charities providing aid and matched all funds raised. This raised enough to feed Santa Fe Asia contributed USD 5.00 per booked move to John Hopkins 175 families for an entire month. Medicine in Baltimore, Maryland. John Hopkins is one of the world’s pre-eminent health care institutions, and its researchers have made a UK offices partnered up with Reason Global and arranged a shipment tremendous contribution in deciphering the mechanisms of cancer and with essential aid supplies to help charities involved in the relief aid. discovering new treatments. A total of USD 72,000 was raised through booked move donations. Santa Fe Group also sponsored the 10th AnLOCAL ENGAGEMENTS niversary Fun Run in Vancouver, Canada where the Fun Run was held Santa Fe Group and our employees remain active in supporting local alongside the International Association (IAM) Conference. Attendees communities. We believe that whilst we provide financial contributions were also invited to attend an evening cocktail party where further donawe can also contribute our time, expertise, resources and experience. tions were collected and doctors from John Hopkins were in attendance Santa Fe Group continues to make trucks available for disaster relief to talk about some of the research they have been undertaking. All the when tsunamis, earthquakes, typhoons or other natural disasters strike. proceeds and money raised were donated to John Hopkins cancer care. In addition Santa Fe Group provides logistical services to charities and local communities for a variety of events. Various activities took place Interdean contributed USD 5.00 per booked move to Bertram’s Junior in 2013 such as donating furniture to charities, fun runs, education School in Johannesburg, South Africa which is a Charity set up to help sponsorships, tree planting, volunteering to name a few. Santa Fe Group make a difference to the lives of its children many of whom have had continues to promote a culture whereby we care about our communities their family lives destroyed by conflict or by social disasters like HIV/ not just as an organisation but also as individuals. Aids. These donations will help to develop a school expansion and to provide necessities such as books and food for the students. In 2013 Flood relief in Thailand Interdean’s contributions totalled USD 82,560. Santa Fe Thailand started collecting cash donations for people living in areas affected by floods in Thailand in October. The team raised enough Wridgways Australia contributes to Red Kite, a charity that supports chilmoney to prepare 100 bags with rice, milk, noodles, canned goods, dren and young people with cancer. Red Kite support services include mosquito repellent, toiletries, etc. The goods were delivered to Prachinfinancial assistance, emotional support and educational assistance. buri, where eleven of our staff made sure the goods were delivered into Wridgways contributed AUD 5.00 for every international outbound the hands of people desperately in need of help. The team rented boats relocation performed and raised a total of AUD 16,420. Santa Fe Group and took the bags to three different locations in Prachinburi. will continue to support these charities throughout 2014. santa fe fun run – 10th anniversary Santa Fe Group also sponsored the 10th Anniversary Fun Run in Vancouver, Canada where the Fun Run was held alongside the International Association (IAM) Conference. Attendees were also invited to attend an evening cocktail party where further donations were collected and doctors from John Hopkins were in attendance to talk about some of the research they have been undertaking. All the proceeds and money raised were donated to John Hopkins cancer care. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 9 Santa fe group Hong Kong provides internships London support Marie Curie Santa Fe Hong Kong is proud to support Project Share, a non-profit Interdean London was a proud sponsor once again of the annual organization aimed at connecting and empowering Hong Kong’s youth. Rugby 7s Tournament in support of Marie Curie Cancer Care. To date, Project Share places students aged 16 to 19 from remote or economiInterdean has raised more than USD100,000 in support of Marie Curie cally challenged districts in summer internships at organizations like through the annual Rugby 7s tournament. Santa Fe. The students also participate in workshops to improve selfawareness, confidence, and interview skills. Wridgways employees take a walk in the park for charity Ten Wridgways employees participated 5 May in a 6km walk around Vietnam blood drive the grounds of Perth’s Burswood Park. Wridgways also participated as Santa Fe Vietnam believes in supporting people in need and on 2 Aucourse marshals and of course brought along an army of family and gust some of our team members donated blood as part of the American friends. More than 500 people attended the event; it was the biggest Chambers of Commerce’s (AMCHAM) World Blood Donor Day 2013. turnout ever for the MND Association which focuses on Motor Neurone The event benefits people in Vietnam. All in all, the blood drive resulted Disease care and research. in 751.5 blood units. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 10 Santa fe group REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT CERTIFICATIONS AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUSTAINABLE WAREHOUSES Santa Fe Group complies with all the environmental regulations and Melbourne warehouse standards that apply to its various office locations and has formally The latest addition is the Melbourne depot which boasts various environimplemented ISO 14001 Environmental Management System (or its mental advantages. The warehouse was designed to provide various equivalent) in 20 locations. greenhouse gas emission savings. Some of the key features of the Melbourne warehouse include, low wattage motion sensor activated and ISO 14001 certification continues to be an important management automatic short delay switch off lighting, skylight roof panels to minimise system allowing ownership at the executive level. Being certified has the need of artificial lighting, storage tanks which capture rainwater from allowed locations to actively think about their contributions to preserving the roof to provide irrigation for the gardens and supply water for the the environment and seek ways to improve. truck wash bay. In 2013 Santa Fe’s Geneva and Madrid sites became formally certified Indonesia warehouse to ISO 14001. 2013 saw the opening of a newly built warehouse in Jakarta. It became the first industrial building in Jakarta to be assessed for GBCI (Green A key achievement in 2013 was Santa Fe Hong Kong’s Award for Building Council of Indonesia) certification. The warehouse boasts storm Environmental Excellence. The Hong Kong office successfully won the water underground harvesting tanks, solar tube natural lighting in the Transport and Logistics certificate of merit awarded by the Environmenoffice areas, LED energy efficient lighting around the perimeter and in tal Campaign Committee (ECC). This was in recognition of the efforts to the warehouses, waterless urinals, bamboo flooring. promote environmental practices and management. Paris Warehouse In 2014 Santa Fe Group plans to launch an environmental awareness The Paris facility was newly built during the latter part of 2012 and the course via The Academy Online. The goal will be to introduce employlast 12 months have seen some fantastic environmental initiatives impleees to some of the bigger environmental issues the world faces and to mented such as motion sensor lighting, auto switch off air conditioning strengthen our awareness and contributions to reducing our environif a window is opened and dedicated recycling areas for various types of mental footprint. waste. WASTE ENERGY The industry in which we operate continues to be heavily reliant on As the Santa Fe Group continues to grow we are mindful of the energy natural resources in particular materials such as paper, cardboard, we consume to run our operations. We encourage all employees to plastic etc. Whilst the Santa Fe Group offices continue to make efficient conserve energy where possible to compliment some of the investments use of materials by reusing them where possible where quality is not made to reduce overall consumption. Many locations switched to energy compromised a longer term sustainable solution is needed. saving lighting, utilising natural light where possible, motion sensor lighting, printer and PC powering down and air conditioner etiquette. These Santa Fe Group have taken the Reduce, Reuse, Recycle approach efforts have contributed to a reduction of 6 % in electricity consumption and 2013 saw an increase in office collaboration, new processes and per employee. increased awareness in order to realise these goals. With a fleet of 593 trucks and vans globally, road transport is and will The ‘Enviro wrap’ Project continue to be a major environmental impact area for the Santa Fe Enviro wrap is a material based alternative to cardboard packaging Group. We are always looking for innovative ways in which we can imwhich reduces the amount of cardboard and tape used during packing. prove the efficiency of our fleet in order to reduce our fuel consumption. The project lead by Wridgways has been piloted in collaboration with offices in EMEA and Asia to assess the quality and durability of the European offices have continued to manage a centralised transport materials. department where the objective is to consolidate transport, to reduce the number of empty trucks on the road. Australian offices have also The results of the pilot have seen some promising results and in 2014 implemented a similar project whereby import containers are reused for the pilot will be extended to additional offices throughout the Santa Fe export shipments. This removes the need to return the import containers Group.” to shipping companies only to collect a different container for an export shipment. Both initiatives have resulted in a reduction on vehicle activity The Santa Fe Group offices have also various processes in place for thus reducing fuel consumption and thereby the amount of greenhouse reusing packing material such as cardboard boxes, bubble wrap and gas emissions emitted. wooden crates. In many locations these are reused either as packing material, or donated to local charitable events. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 11 Santa fe group A decrease in the the fuel per tonnage was a positive and encouraging GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS result. The results are a reflection of the consolidation of road shipments Over the past years Santa Fe Group has been monitoring our GHG where possible but it is also believed that as Santa Fe Group offices emissions. Throughout 2013 we have been working on improving the become better at accurately reporting we are starting to see a true data quality to allow us to be able to report our scope 1 and 2 GHG reflection of our energy consumption performance. emissions. Fuel is the biggest contributor to the Scope 1 and 2 emissions and we are committed to continue working on initiatives and ways in which we can reduce the impact of our fleet. To evaluate our overall greenhouse gas impacts in 2014 the Santa Fe Group will begin to collect data that will allow reporting of relevant Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions. Facts on environmental footprint Electricity consumption per employee (KWh) Fuel per tonnage (MJ/m3) Greenhouse gas impacts kWh/empl MJ/m3 Ton CO2e 2200 120 8000 2100 110 6000 2012 2012 Scope 1 2000 100 4000 2013 2013 Scope 2 1900 90 2000 1800 80 0 Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 12 Santa fe group RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS – AND OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Our main activities covering the principles in UN Global Compact reSUPPLIER PROGRAMS garding Anti-Corruption is detailed within our Code of Business Conduct, In 2013, the Santa Fe Group outlined various expectations of our supply Staff Guidebook and Managers Code of Business Conduct, all Santa Fe chain via the Santa Fe Group Service Level Agreement. The expectaGroup employees are expected to: tions highlighted included the minimum performance requirements in accordance with the 10 Principles of the UNGC. 100% of business • A pply a zero tolerance approach towards corruption, extortion and agents confirmed their commitment by signing the Service Level agreebribery ment. • Behave honestly, are trustworthy and set a good example • Do not pay or except bribes in any form. Anti-corruption and health & safety • Do not accept gifts, invitations or other advantages which could create In order to aid our supply chain in conforming to our requirements the a possible conflict of interest. Santa Fe Group made a mandatory requirement for our business agents • Ensure that they do not engage directly or indirectly in fraud against to under­take an external eLearning training program on the UK Bribery any of our partners, or government entities. Act. • Ensure that they do not engage directly or indirectly in bribery. • Refuse to pay any bribes, including small amount bribes or facilitation To ensure that we are engaging in responsible business activities our payments. suppliers have been required to complete quarterly declarations. The • If a bribe is demanded, they should refer to the Code of Business declarations required suppliers to declare if there were any instances Conduct, Staff Guidebook and immediately report to their manager. of corruption within their organisation and if so the details of such incidents. In addition, suppliers were required to declare any other WHISTLEBLOWING instances of accidents that took place. By doing this it is ensured that The whistle blower system is aimed at identifying corrupt practices or we work with suppliers who fulfil our requirements and share our ethical suspected violations of laws and regulations, extortion, fraud, bribery and sustainability beliefs. and other forms of corruption. All employees have been trained on the whistleblowing procedure and the Santa Fe Group has ensured that all The Santa Fe Group shall continue to partner with suppliers in 2014 employees have access to and are aware of their responsibilities and to ensure that through partnership, shared experiences and training a rights when blowing the whistle. mutual contribution to sustainability and commitment to the ten UNGC principles are reflected in all that we do. DATA SECURITY The Santa Fe Group continues to follow the requirements of ISO 27001 Data Security Management to ensure that all data and information that interacts within our company is secure. Santa Fe Group undergoes regular audits via certification bodies, internal audits and also audits by our corporate customers. ISO 27001 is the internationally recognised standard for establishing, implementing, maintaining and continuously improving Information Security Management. It demonstrates our ability to deliver secure reliable solutions for both the Santa Fe Group and our customers and 11­ locations have received formal certification to ISO 27001. The Santa Fe Group demonstrates an ability to efficiently handle data through robustly managed processes. By achieving and maintaining certification it has allowed us to strengthen the levels of trust between ourselves and our customers, improving our ability to securely manage their data and at the same time providing assurances that we are following ISO 27001 information security best practice. We believe that an open and honest dialogue will benefit our Stakeholders as well as our Corporate Social Responsibility efforts, and we invite you to participate. Feel free to contact us with any questions or comments on certification@thesantafegroup.com Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 13 uN Global Compact Communication on progress 2013 Plumrose 2013 HIGHLIGHTs Plumrose is pleased to present you with its fourth report on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). The report presents our progress on implementing the Global Compact principles within the business during 2013. Plumrose is Venezuela’s largest meat processing company and we celebrated its 60th anniversary of operations with important business and sustainability results. Plumrose owns the entire value chain, from ‘farm to fork’ and strives to be present and readily available to all Venezuelan consumers and part of every eating occasion, offering innovative, qualBent U. Porsborg ity, convenient, nutritious and tasty products. President & CEO CSR Strategy Plumrose’s CSR strategy is to turn long-term development issues into In 2013 we started the construction of the first industrial sized pig business opportunities – thereby seeking to provide solutions which are production unit in Venezuela using open gestation concept with open profitable and sustainable. The rationale for the wider CSR efforts is to pens and free access stalls for increased sow mobility and welfare. It is increase Plumrose’s ability to operate in an ever changing market, imimportant to gain operational experience so that increasing productivity prove its license to operate, be a step ahead of competition, protect and and animal welfare can go hand in hand. increase its brand value, promote its ability to attract and retain talented and productive employees and increase customer loyalty. In addition, our existing conventional stables are undergoing continuous refurbishing, bringing in improved design, fixtures and testing of the Ensuring a productive and safe work environment latest technologies, all with productivity and the comfort of the sows and While pursuing its core business, Plumrose makes an effort to be piglets in mind. involved with and to create a positive impact for its workers and local communities. This is done by offering job opportunities with favourable Good Corporate Citizen working and benefit conditions, while promoting knowledge and educaIt is important for Plumrose to consistently be a good corporate citizen tion on health, nutrition and entrepreneurship in the local community. in every way. During 2013 we implemented tighter internal controls and documentation systems in order to ensure timely renovation of permits Over the last couple of years we have been highly focused on bringing and compliance with all new and existing laws. To our satisfaction the down the number of work accidents while improving productivity. In company has consistently passed all regular and surprise audits by 2013 we continued the positive trend and implemented a new organizagovernment authorities. tional structure to deal with prevention and investigation of H&S issues. As a result of the efforts, serious work accidents with loss of more than 3 Plumrose Reputation and Corporate Sustainability working days were continuously reduced throughout the year. As our business is dedicated to producing and selling high quality branded meat products, held with high regards by our clients and Focus on animal welfare consumers, it is essential that we constantly improve the reputation We are well aware of global trends and convinced that animal welfare and corporate sustainability behind our brands – living up to consumer also will become a key differentiator in the Venezuelan market in the expectations and the seal of quality that our brands represent. future. This is why we invest and dedicate resources in order to continuously improve and stay ahead of our competitors. Bent U. Porsborg President & CEO of Plumrose Latinoamericana C.A. “Plumrose’s CSR strategy is to turn long-term development issues into business opportunities – thereby seeking to provide solutions which are profitable and sustainable.” Bent U. Porsborg, President & CEO of Plumrose Latinoamericana C.A. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 2 Plumrose OUR COMMITMENTS TO 10 UNGC PRINCIPLES People – Social Sustainability Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Support freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Support elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation We commit to • M onitor our governance system and business culture to ensure ongoing compliance with national legislation and basic human rights within our organization and stakeholder network. • Continuously identify ways of maximising the positive impact of our business operations while making a difference in the local community. Planet – Environmental sustainability Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies We commit to • R educe the relative impact of our business on the environment, meet or exceed regulatory requirements and continuously seek to improve our processes to achieve higher standards founded on better resource utilization and operational efficiency. Profit – Financial Sustainability Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery We commit to • Apply a zero tolerance approach with respect to corruption, extortion and bribery. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 3 Plumrose plumrose sustainability structure Plumrose is integrating sustainability considerations into daily business operations and decision making. Therefore most on-going sustainability activities are managed directly by the individual business units and supervised on an ad-hoc basis by the company’s executive committee. Separate from the daily business operations, a dedicated team is responsible for Institutional Relations and Corporate Social Responsibility projects. All donations, educational and nutritional initiatives are managed by this team to ensure optimal allocation of resources and follow-up on results. Finally, an internal audit team, reporting to the CEO, is doing year round audits to secure data quality and consistency. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 4 Plumrose our People Plumrose is a preferred employer in Venezuela and the benefits and work conditions are widely recognized among the best. In 2013 we experienced an increase in production level in most business units reCompany Cafeteria facilities served quiring a slight increase in workforce. Through constant innovation and more than 659.000 free meals during implementation of technology improvements our focus going forward will 2013, not including meal per diems. be to increase our productivity while maintaining the same workforce. Plumrose values its employees highly and is a desirable place to work. This fact is also reflected in our high average seniority which even Training & Accidents increased in 2013 despite head count growth and normal employee Plumrose continues its efforts to ensure quality and value adding trainrotation. ing for employees within their field of activities and on general health and safety issues – as training is recognized as one of the key levers Although Plumrose recognize the benefits of gender diversity in the work to improve product and process quality and lower the number of work place, the nature and tradition of animal production and meat processaccidents. In 2013, a total of 139.900 training hours were completed – ing in Venezuela is generally occupied by males. Availability of job This was more than a 33% increase compared to 2012. The consolidatapplicants is therefore skewed towards a predominantly male workforce. ed average number of training hours per employee increased from 28 The ratio of females has remained at 15 % over the past years. hours/year to 36 hours/year in 2013 representing a 28% increase. Looking at the total number of accidents a decrease of 28% was achieved Worker Benefits and the 2013 target of having less than 900 work related accidents During 2013 several collective and incentive contracts were negotiated during the year was met. Accidents per 1000 headcount followed the with the respective labour unions, yielding important salary and benefit same trend and closed with a reduction of more than 31%. improvements further consolidating Plumrose’s benefit and remuneration packages among the best in Venezuela. From 2013 and onwards we will follow the industry trend and report only on accidents causing a loss of more than 3 working days. Throughout In the La Montserratina business an incentive plan promoting efficient 2013 the new focus led to a considerable reduction of accidents with a use of capacity, resources and time was designed during 2013 and loss of more than 3 working days as shown below. implemented from early 2014. With this it is intended to build a win-win situation where worker benefits are improved based on improving proAs in previous years, no work related fatalities occurred during 2013. ductivity and efficient use of resources. Plumrose spent more than USD 20.2m on other direct social benefits, in addition to employee incentives and salaries during 2013. Other social benefits include onsite medical service, health insurance, transport, meals and food tickets just to mention a few. ”Since I started working in Plumrose, my life and the life of my family have changed for the better, therefore I hope to keep growing and acquire knowledge and experience along with the Plumrose Family.” – Aury Daza, Plumrose Worker Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 5 Plumrose Facts on people Average seniority in workforce Work accidents 2013 Employees Years employed 4000 8,6 1200 3900 8,5 1000 3800 8,4 Total permanent 800 2011 workforce 2012 3700 8,3 600 Average seniority 2013 3600 8,2 400 3500 8,1 200 3400 8,0 0 2011 2012 2013 Work related accidents Total number of Work accidents per 1.000 headcount work accidents > 3 days lost Work accidents 2013 > 3 days lost 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 6 Plumrose Community outreach As a responsible food company Plumrose looks to promote nutricommunities and national sport events for professional teams. In 2013, tion and health. During 2013 many initiatives have been carried out special events were also organized promoting sports to children, to give promoting healthy lifestyles based on nutritious and diverse diets with them a positive experience with regards to the efforts and rewards of healthy products coupled with adequate levels of physical activity. By physical activity. investing in nutrition and education Plumrose is offering improved health and earning potential to the local community. For Plumrose it is Women Entrepreneurs important to be an integral part of the local community as it improves The program started in 2012 and is designed in modules providing the our license to operate and it provides the opportunity to hire, better basic knowledge and skills to run a small food preparation business, in prepared and loyal workers, over time. addition to the support and self-confidence to start the business. A micro credit fund is available with the program, providing financial support Changing lives through knowledge and Nutrition in the initial start-up phase. Plumrose continued supporting nutrition programs directly aimed at pre & middle school students in the vicinity to the Plumrose Group facilities. During 2013 the second and third modules of classes in the program More than 2500 children, parents, teachers and community leaders for development of women entrepreneurs continued. The second have benefitted directly from the program. By providing education and module is providing the tools and knowledge of how to use ingredients resources to schools and local communities the company can generate efficiently, how to get the most out of ingredients while preserving the a positive impact on the community as malnutrition is a problem recogquality and thereby optimizing the performance of the micro food prepnized publicly in Venezuela. Outcome of the program continues to be in aration start-up companies. The second module also aimed at teaching line with the positive results reported in our CoP report for 2012: how to compose a nutritious menu with complementing ingredients in order to both deliver wholesome meals at a low cost, thereby improving • P ositive change in consumption habits – now most children eat the 3 their offer in the market and improving their income potential. As in the main meals every day and they drink the right amount of water. first program module, the specific skills with regards to a small food • Favourable change in frequency and percentage of children eating preparation business, was complemented by courses on interpersonal vegetables along with decrease in consumption of unhealthy snacks relations, conflict resolution, benefits of being proactive, personal and fast food. development and important communications skills on how to multiply • Improved levels of consumption of vegetable and animal proteins. the learnings from the courses by teaching them to friends, family and members of the community. Promoting healthy and active lifestyles Plumrose got the endorsement of both the national association of cardiThe third module started during Q4 2013 and will continue into 2014. ologists and nutritionist during 2013. The endorsements were granted based on Plumrose´s commitment to development of healthy products Supporting Education under the slogan, “Sigue en lo Sano, vive el sabor“ (stay healthy, without In addition to scholarships given to employees and their children as sacrificing taste). social benefits, Plumrose continues to support the scholarship programs “Friendly Hand”, “Knowledge partnership” and “I want to graduate”. Plumrose was active in organizing and supporting public and educationThese programs provide financial support to enable students from low al events focused on promoting healthy and active lifestyles. A dedicated income families to get a High school, technical or college degree. web-portal (www.sigueenlosano.com) was launched providing tips and tools on how to change unhealthy habits, nutrition, cooking, training etc. The “Knowledge partnership” is a perfect example to illustrate Plumsupported by expert nutritionists, trainers and chefs. The web-portal rose’s commitment to and support of education for people who are willdedicated to healthy living is interactive and interrelated with social ing, but lack the financial means. Plumrose is a co-founder of the instimedia in order to be present and relevant for the Venezuelan population tute with considerable donations to the construction of the installations. wherever and whenever. Plumrose tripled its scholarship commitment by paying the two year education along with a basic weekly allowance for seven students. The Supporting sports on all levels weekly allowance provides the financial stability that allows the student In line with its commitment to promote healthy and active lifestyles, to concentrate on his/her studies without having to worry about meeting Plumrose takes an active part in supporting sports on all levels. Plummeans end. After the formal class room education is over, Plumrose rose supports a large number of initiatives covering everything from will provide the practical apprenticeship by absorbing the students in families trying out new forms of physical activity, to small teams in local mentored learning positions within the company for a year. plumrose promote healthy and active lifestyles. read more on www.sigueenlosano.com Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 7 Plumrose Environmental performance Plumrose is aware of the impacts its operation has on the environin open gestation management in order to prepare for future and further ment. The aim is to make it an integral part of the Plumrose culture to development of this and other animal welfare initiatives without sacrificconsistently focus on reducing environmental impacts and streamline ing productivity. The existing conventional stables are under ongoing reproduction costs. Before CSR was adopted as a structured initiative, fofurbishment and have been redesigned gaining important improvements cus was primarily on compliance with environmental legislation, whereas along with the usage of the latest technologies, all with the comfort of now environmental impact and resource efficiency is an integral part of the sow and piglets in mind. project evaluations. In line with farm growth we have also increased the slaughtering activity Farm Efficiency helps gaining Environmental Sustainability in 2013. This was done by contracting slaughtering capacity at a brand We will continue to grow our farming operations. To ensure that we are new and up-to-standard slaughterhouse in the western part of the reducing our relative impacts on the environment, we are continuously country. Not only did the new set-up secure optimum slaughterhouse working on increasing our efficiency. When we compare our production conditions, but it also significantly reduced the transport time for up to setup and efficiency to local industry peers we know that we are more 40% of the transported pigs during the year. Average transport time for efficient. these animals was cut from around 5 hours to about 1.5 hours per trip. Some of the biggest opportunities to reduce the environmental impact Water consumption from the farms are directly linked to production efficiency. During 2013 The farming business by design consumes large quantities of water due significant production efficiency improvements were registered at the to the water requirements of the animals. To reduce water consumption PROCER farm. Weaned piglets per sow was increased by 4%, overall in the farms efforts are made to recollect liquid in form of manure and farm mortality was reduced by almost 11% and feedstuff conversion reutilize as much as possible for irrigation of surrounding pastures and rates also improved, allowing for a smaller amount of feedstuff needed fields in production of cattle and crops. to produce a kg of meat. The best practices used at the PROCER farm will be implemented at the AFI farm during 2014. Despite only being the second largest consumer of water the meat processing plant has been the main focus for water consumption reducAs mentioned in last year´s CoP report our composting project was initition efforts for several reasons. Firstly, the meat processing plant was ated in 2013. Not only does the project allow for production mortality to identified as having a potential for improvement. Secondly, cleaning be turned in to re-usable fertilizer, but it also avoids the energy consumpractices had to be revised in order to achieve a less humid production ing process of incinerating the dead animals. The fertilizer will improve environment. the yields obtained in the agricultural activities. Throughout 2012 and 2013, several initiatives were implemented Focus on animal welfare including training on improved cleaning practices. From 2011 to 2012 In 2013 we started the construction of the first industrial size pig proa significant water reduction of more than 1 liter per kg meat produced duction unit in Venezuela using open gestation concept. The stables will was achieved. Unfortunately, it was not possible to keep the positive be populated during 2014, and we hope to gain important experience ­improvement trend at the processing plant in 2013. During the year Facts on water Water consumption 2013 Water per kg meat produced – Cagua Plant l/kg Farms 58% 10 Slaughterhouse 10% 9 Meat processing 26% Montserratina 3% 8 Sales & Distribution centers 2% Feed Mill 1% 7 Saxo 0% 6 2010 2011 2012 2013 Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 8 Plumrose a new water cooled production line was commissioned along with a operatives and initiatives. During 2013 some of the collected material change in production mix towards more water consuming producwas no longer sold directly to recycling companies, but donated to a tion lines. We expect that water consumption will stabilize in 2014 Non-profit organization which has specialized its fundraising through as the new production line reaches its peak volumes and hence an receiving recyclable materials. The “Green committee” of Caracas has improved water per kg meat produced ratio. In addition, training efforts also had an integral role in the establishment of an initiative aimed at will be continued aiming for a reduction in water use during cleaning joint collection of a wider range of recyclable materials between the difprocedures. ferent companies in the local industrial zone. The training efforts during 2012 and 2013 on cleaning processes were Implementation of environmental management systems not wasted despite the slight deviation from last year’s positive results. Implementation of environmental management systems was continued Comparing the last 4 years, 2013 was still the second best year regardduring 2013. The feed mill achieved re-certification of ISO9001 with ing water consumption per kg meat produced. zero comments. ISO 14001 certification was expected for the feed mill by mid-2013, but despite being ready with processes and documentaReducing waste tion a minor infrastructural issue could not be resolved and the certificaDespite deficient nationwide recycling and waste disposal infrastructure, tion audit had to be postponed to 2014. The feed mill team has been Plumrose and its employees are committed to increase recycling of maassisting the preparation for ISO certifications at our laundry business terials and ensure proper disposal of hazardous materials. The “Green and a minimum of two certifications are expected during 2014, includproject” is on-going and is continuously expanding with special recycling ing the postponed ISO 14001 certification at the feed mill. The “Green project” is on-going and is continuously expanding with special recycling operatives and initiatives Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 9 Plumrose Plumrose Reputation and Corporate Responsibility As our business is dedicated to producing and selling high quality A part of the introductory course when new employees enter Plumrose, branded meat products, held with high regards by our clients and is focussed on making sure every worker knows where Plumrose stands consumers, it is essential that we constantly improve the reputation regarding business ethics. At the end of the sessions the newly hired and corporate sustainability behind our brands – living up to consumer employees sign a code of business conduct, primarily specifying what expectations and the seal of quality that our brands represent. is accepted and what kind of situations and decisions are considered in violation of good business conduct and ethics. The examples include It is therefore a priority for Plumrose to consistently be a good corporate everything from inter-colleague relationships, involving or hiring family citizen in every way. During 2013 we implemented tighter internal members, giving and receiving gifts, to bribery and other clear cut corcontrols and documentation systems in order to ensure timely renewrupt practices. Periodically the content of the code of business conduct als of permits and compliance with all new and existing laws. In this is refreshed and employees are asked to resubmit a signed copy identiprocess, a web-based document database to keep track of all legal, fying any cases or, borderline cases they have experienced since the last business, permit and certification documentation was developed and review. These cases are subsequently reviewed by the audit committee implemented. An additional benefit of the development was that it has where decisions and actions are taken if necessary. improved productivity for the staff needing access to and renovating documentation regularly. The presence of the whistle blower function has been further divulged and both permanent and temporary campaign material has been To our satisfaction the company has consistently passed all regular and consistently present on corporate information screens, announcement surprise audits by government authorities. boards, e-mail messages, intranet, company magazine etc. Venezuela is continuously ranked among the most corrupt countries in No cases or allegation of corruption has been reported during the year. the world. Operating in Venezuela is therefore challenging as not all of the population hold the same standards on business ethics. Plumrose For more information regarding the sustainability efforts of Plumrose, is continuously working against corrupt business practices and making please contact Vice President of Strategic Planning, sure that every worker knows what is expected regarding business ethics. Mr. Frederik Guldager Madsen, at fmadsen@plumrose.com Venezuela is continuously ranked among the most corrupt countries in the world. Operating in Venezuela is therefore challenging as not all of the population hold the same standards on business ethics. Communication on progress in 2013 / UN Global Impact 10
