CONVEYING | DRYING | SEED PROCESSING | ELECTRONIC SORTING | STORAGE | TURNKEY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS YEAR 2014 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Dear All. CEA is an active participant in the UNGC since 2006 whose purpose is to assist businesses with an interest in aligning their operations with the universally accepted principles. Cimbria is a world leader in grain processing technology where focus is put on specializing in post-harvest equipment for storage of grains. This year’s Communication on Progress report has put emphasis on Cimbria employees who have a key role of ensuring that performance of our products meets the customers’ needs. A number of our employees have been involved in the preparation, implementation and final submission of the COP in line with the 10 universally accepted principals. We are proud of our support of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and we express our intent to advance the 10 principles of the Global Compact and make them part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our organization. We endeavour to make a clear communication of these commitments to our employees, partners, those we serve, stakeholders and to the public at large. CEA has policies in place that define the code of conduct in the areas of: Human Rights Labor Standards Environment Anti-Corruption that provide guidelines to the employee and the employer in the areas mentioned above which also affirm our commitment in ensuring that we benefit the company, stakeholders, customers and the society at large where we do business. CEA is looking forward to working and engaging with our local and global network of members to achieve even more through sharing of best and emerging practices with stakeholders as well as associates of the UNGC. KIND REGARDS JØRGEN T. NIELSEN MANAGING CIMBRIA EAST AFRICA Ltd. | Member of the Cimbria Group of Companies Muiri Lane 10 | Off Langata Road | P.O. Box 24580 | 00502 Nairobi | Kenya | Phone + 254 051 800 63 54/5 | Fax + 254 020 815 573 E-mail: info@cimbria.co.ke | www.cimbria.com | Reg. no. 42 723 | Bank: NIC Bank Ltd | Nairobi| Kenya Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 2 CONTACT Company Name : Cimbria East Africa Ltd Sector : Agriculture – Grain Care Handling Equipment Number Of employees : 46 UN GC signatory since : 2006/4/4 Contact Person : Jørgen T. Nielsen / Losey M. Wamutitu Address : P.O. Box 24580, 00502–Nairobi, Kenya E-Mail : info@cimbria.co.ke Phone :+254 051 800 6354/5/7 Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 3 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF NATURE OF OUR BUSINESS CIMBRIA PRODUCTS PORTIFOLIO DRYING SEED PROCESSING ELECTRONIC TURNKEY CONVEYING STORAGE | GB | | SORTING | GB | MODUFLEX ® GRAVITY GB | SEA CHROME GB | SQUARE SILO TURNKEY LOADING CHUTES ECO-MASTER SEPARATOR STORAGE siilo and dryiing compllexes,, Graiin and seed processiing pllants,, CONVEYING DRYER SEED PROCESSING ELECTRONIC SORTING and port termiinalls DRYING CONVE YING | DRYING | SEE D PROCESSING | EL ECTRONIC SORTING | ST ORAGE | TURNKE Y CONVE YING | DRYING | SEE D PROCESSING | EL ECTRONIC SORT ING | ST ORAGE | TURNKE Y CONVE YING | DRYING | SEE D PROCESSING | EL ECTRONIC SORT ING | ST ORAGE | TURNKE Y CONVE YING | DRYING | SEE D PROCESSING | E LE CT RONIC SORT ING | STORAGE | TURNKE Y CONVE YING | DRYING | SE ED PROCESSING | E LE CT RONIC SORT ING | STORAGE | T URNKEY CONVE YING | DRYING | SE ED PROCESSING | E LE CT RONIC SORT ING | STORAGE | T URNKEY Cimbi ra Cimbira Cimbira Inhouse 11.13 Inhouse Inhouse 11.13 | GB | | GB | EAR CORN | GB | BELT DELTA | GB | SEA NEXT | GB | CONVEYOR DANTOASTER ® DRYING & CONVEYING DRYING CLEANERS ELECTRONIC SORTING PROCESSING 100 110 120 SERIES SEED PROCESSING SSURNKEY CONVE YING | DRYING | SEE D PROCESSING | EL ECTRONIC SORTING | ST ORAGE | TURNKE Y CONVE YING | DRYING | SEE D PROCESSING | EL ECTRONIC SORT ING | ST ORAGE | TURNKE Y CONVEYING | DRYING | SEE D PROCE SSING | EL ECTRONIC SORTING | ST ORAGE | TURNKE Y CONVE YING | DRYING | SEE D PROCESSING | E LE CT RONIC SORT ING | STORAGE | TURNKE Y CONVE YING | DRYING | SE ED PROCESSING | E LE CT RONIC SORT ING | STORAGE | T URNKEY C imbira Cimbi ra Inhouse 03.14 Inhouse 11.13 | GB | GB | | GB | | GB | BUCKET CONTINUOUS INDENT SEA PIXEL | ELEVATOR FLOW CYLINDER ELECTRONIC SORTING CONVEYING DRYER SEPARATOR DRYING SEED PROCESSING CONVE YING | DRYING | SE ED PROCESSING | E LE CT RONIC SORT ING | ST ORAGE | T URNKEY CONVEYING | DRYING | SE ED PROCE SSING | E LE CT RONIC SORT ING | STORAGE | T URNKEY CONVE YING | DRYING | SE ED PROCE SSING | E LE CT RONIC SORT ING | ST ORAGE | TURNKE Y CONVE YING | DRYING | SE ED PROCE SSING | E LE CT RONIC SORTING | ST ORAGE | TURNKE Y Cimbri a Inhouse 05.14 | GB | | GB | | GB | | GB | | GB CHAIN FAN RANGE CENTRICOATER SEA GLOBAL CONVEYOR DRYING SEED PROCESSING ELECTRONIC SORTING CONVEYING PERSPECTIVE LOCAL FOCUS CONVEYING | DRYING | SEE D PROCE SSING | EL ECTRONIC SORTING | ST ORAGE | TURNKE Y CONVEYING | DRYING | SE ED PROCE SSING | E LE CT RONIC SORT ING | STORAGE | T URNKEY CONVE YING | DRYING | SEE D PROCESSING | EL ECTRONIC SORT ING | ST ORAGE | TURNKE Y CONVE YING | DRYING | SE ED PROCE SSING | E LE CT RONIC SORTING | ST ORAGE | TURNKE Y Ci mbi ra Cimbri a Ci mbria Inhouse 03.14 Inhouse 07.14 Inhouse 08.14 | GB | CIMBRIA.COM | GB PENDULUM BUCKET CONTEC ELEVATOR SCREW CONVEYING CONVEYOR CONVEYING CONVE YING | DRYING | SEE D PROCESSING | EL ECTRONIC SORTING | ST ORAGE | TURNKE Y CONVEYING | DRYING | SE ED PROCE SSING | E LE CT RONIC SORTING | STORAGE | T URNKEY C imbria Cimbri a Inhouse 06.14 Inhouse 08.14 Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 4 SCOPE OF THIS COP While Cimbria East Africa Ltd. (CEA) has been in the business of supplying agriculture equipment for over thirty five years, we recognize that there is always room for growth. As our number of employees and projects have risen, so too have the challenges in terms of cost-control, HR & Administration, and effectively managing time and resources. We saw a large gap between what was needed and what was currently being used and decided to make a large capital investment into the internationally recognized Microsoft Navision system. In the past year we migrated to a new accounting and payroll software with the goal of increasing our worker’s knowledge and capacity to complete their jobs. It has also had many other benefits such as decreasing the time required to send out customer statements, invoices, LPOs, and delivery notes and it has had positive environmental effects by reducing paper consumption. In addition, it has brought the various departments’ together and increased dialogue that has led to increased customer satisfaction, economical savings, and significantly improved internal processes. Lastly, it has added to ease in producing fiscal reports which has revealed areas that need improvement and has allowed the management team to focus efforts on those problem areas. To give a small snapshot of our process, in the beginning of the year there were only five users of Navision between two departments, but now we have over fifteen users with five departments effectively utilizing the software. Employees have a greater ability to collaborate, seek assistance, and solve problems due to the widespread use of Navision and the learning that has taken place. Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 5 2013 SCOPE ACHIEVEMENT Cimbria East Africa Ltd (CEA) successfully participated in the SUSBIZ Kenya program linking business development and corporate social responsibility. The company received training and build capacity within social environmental and business performance during the 8 activities from September 2011-June2013. The on-site assistance throughout the programme the company received continuous onsite support for the SUSBIZ Team in implementing of company specific CSR action plan with a CEA Case study herewith:SUSBIZ-Kenya-Cimbria-case-study...pdf Motivation: TEAM BUILDING EVENT MAY 2014 Our Company recognizes the importance of keeping tis employees well motivated to enable them perform well in their jobs. As such, the HR Department has come up with a series of staff motivation campaign through events such as teambuilding, staff wellness programs and health checks illustrated pictorial herewith, Winning CIMBRA TEAM PRE-DEPARTURE,CHECKLIST AND WHAT TO BRING LIST.pdf TEAM Lenana tem Rhino Team Chui Team Delta Team Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 6 Wellness Staff Health Check Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 7 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses HUMAN RIGHTS Commitment 1. CODE OF CONDUCT Cimbria East Africa Ltd (CEA) is This code of conduct defines the policy of the Cimbria Group related to Human Rights. committed to support and The purpose is to give directions to all staff in order to protect the Cimbria respect the protection of Group from the consequences o f malpractice a n d at the same time secure internationally proclaimed that we uphold some overall principles. human rights and ensure our 1.1 Definitions: company is not complicit in Human Rights: Human rights are understood as those rights that are human rights abuses. We inherent to the human being. This includes among adhere to the UN Human Rights other the right to education and freedom of speech. Declaration of 1966, the Charter The concept of human rights acknowledges that of Fundamental Rights of the every single human being is entitled to enjoy his or European Union and the her human right without distinction as to race, colour, Constitution of Kenya of 2010 language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other which declare protection of status. human rights and how they should be observed in relation Direct complicity: Direct complicity occurs when a company to operation of companies. actively assists in human rights violations committed by others. CEA adheres to the Cimbria Beneficial complicity: Beneficial complicity suggests that a company Group Human rights Code of benefits directly from human rights abuses Conduct with a commitment to committed by others. ensure equality and freedom from discrimination, freedom Silent complicity: Silent complicity describes a situation where a from slavery servitude and company may not be assisting or encouraging forced labour and further h u m a n rights violation, n o r benefiting from the actions of those that commit abuses, but is viewed guarantee freedom of as staying silent in the face of human rights abuses. association and the right to fair labour practices within our Cimbria Group: All subsidiaries and associated companies of A/S business practices and sphere Cimbria CVR-No.17 52 37 16 of influence. We are committed 1.2 Internationally proclaimed h u m a n rights: to contribute positively to the We support and respect the internationally Children’s Act and rights to p r o c l a i m e d human rights. education for children living in our close vicinity. We acknowledge o u r responsibility t o uphold the human rights both in our workplace and more broadly within our sphere of influence. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEMS AND ACTIVITIES We don't violate any human rights. IMPLEMENTED IN 2013-2014 1.3 Complicit h u m a n rights abuses Freedom of discrimination: CEA We will not be complicit in any form to violation of is committed to ensure that no human rights. discrimination takes place in employment related procedures Approved by the Board of Directors of A/S Cimbria October 30, 2013 and decisions based on a person’s origin, sex, religion, Alfa ChanArne / Mosei0rensen political or union affiliation, sexual orientations or physical challenges in the workplace. Our employment policy promotes equal opportunities for all candidates who meet the job specifications. Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 8 CEA do not discriminate against ethnicities and employ a variety of individuals from all of Kenya’s tribes and strongly believe we have a great responsibility to make sure all employees are from different ethnicity and consist of the 42 tribes in Kenya. No ethnic discrimination Ethinic 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Danish 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 American 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 Kikuyu 4 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 9 Kamba 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 Luo 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 5 Luyha 5 5 5 5 5 6 6 6 12 Masaai 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Coastal 1 1 1 1 2 2 3 3 3 Kalenjin 4 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 4 Meru 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 2 Kisii 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 2 Boran 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Others 1 1 1 5 5 5 5 5 1 TOTAL 25 25 25 28 30 36 36 35 46 CEA Promotes gender equality in crucial post within the organization and hope to secure a 50 percent gender ratio with a great improvement from, in 2014 which saw more female recruited for various roles within the company 1:36 to 7:47 currently perceived such as gender roles. The reasons are partly due to barriers within the society, and educational barriers where we have fewer female taking engineering courses Women are therefore strongly encouraged to apply. Measurable Results 2 meetings have been conducted during this year between CEA management and Staff representatives on grievances put forward by staff where the management took steps to resolve them as well as implement some of the suggestions from staff. The Outcomes for implementation demonstrate access to communication as a basic Labour Right. Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 9 MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOME AND VALUE ADDED FOR OUR COMPANY CEA is experiencing great support from our employees, stakeholders, business partners and the community within whom we operate. Changes bring development, with a few not in agreement, but catching up slowly with the setup measures taking effect for business sustainability. ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR NEXT YEAR CEA will focus on promoting human rights activities, transparent working environment within our work sphere to enact and train our staff and stakeholders to respect and adhere to the Cimbria Code of ethics that have been put in place. There is need to sensitive people on their rights as an employee (handbook) Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 10 LABOUR Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Cimbria East Africa Limited (CEA) is a subsidiary of A/S Cimbria group of companies and we uphold the overall Global compact principles on labour. As an organization, we realize that the success of the company is dependent upon the effectiveness of our employees. We therefore value our employees and have policies in place to ensure that we treat our employees with utmost respect and uphold their rights to work in a conducive environment. The Company has therefore set up a policy on labour whose main objective is to: • Improve our labor relations with staff. • Assist the management in decision making and providing facilities to ensure that the staff have a conducive work environment • To provide a set of guidelines for the management and employees • To create a favorable platform for communication to the staff and other stakeholders. • To give direction to all staff in order to protect the company from the consequences of malpractice and at the same time ensure that we uphold internationally set principles on labour. Our company policies on labour are described below 1.1 Freedom of Association. The company respects the rights of the employer and workers to freely and voluntarily establish and join organizations of their own choice and these organizations have the right to carry out activities in full and freedom and without interference. We therefore accept and support the freedom of association and provide equal opportunity to all persons no matter their view on trade unions or their trade union activities. 1.2 Collective Bargaining. CEA upholds the right of employees, workers and their organizations to engage in collective bargaining agreements that determine terms, relations and conditions of work. 1.3 Forced or Compulsory Labor. The company is against any violation of human rights where employees receive little or no earnings, work for long hours in extremely poor conditions of health and safety and any form of compulsory work or service that is extracted from any person under the menace of any penalty and for which that person has not offered himself or herself voluntarily. The company will not use, encourage or benefit from forced labor or compulsory labor. All employees are encouraged to freely leave if they so desire. 1.4 Child Labor. Child labour is work that is damaging to a child’s physical, social, mental, psychological and spiritual development because it is performed at too early a stage in a child’s development. CEA is against the employment of children because it deprives the child of their childhood and dignity. The company therefore ensures that we employ persons who have acquired the age of 18 and above and who have national Identity card, pin numbers as well as other statutory documents required by the Government of Kenya. This serves as benchmark for us in ensuring that we do not deploy minors in any of our work stations. The company therefore respects and obeys minimum age provisions of national labor laws and regulations in Kenya. Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 11 1.5 Discrimination in Employment. CEA does not discriminate against employees on the basis of their gender, sex, color, race, national origin, genetics or disability. We are an equal opportunity employer and do not permit direct or indirect discrimination against any employee on the grounds of race, nationality, sex, marital status or age. These policies are clearly stated and the employees are aware of their rights and we require that our stakeholders uphold the same principles. When we have our ongoing projects or are about to start one, we ensure that the parties involved ensure that employees work under safe and healthy environments and that these requirements are met by the stakeholders. CEA is committed to ensuring that we provide the following with regard to reward management: • That we provide an equitable pay system. • That we pay for performance, competence and skill contribution. • That the relationships between levels of pay in the organization and market rates are similar. • That we provide for employee benefits • That we share in the profits of the organization through bonuses. The company has also provided the employees with an employment handbook which clearly gives guidelines to employees on what is required of them in areas such as leave management, training, guidelines of disciplinary procedures, recruitment, employee recruitment, substance abuse among others. In the coming year, we have set the following goals to ensure that we adhere to the principles and policies put in place with regard to labor. 1. The Human resource department will have in place an appraisal system which will ensure that we reward our employees in a fair and equitable manner. 2. The Human Resource department will also ensure that we do more training especially for our supervisors in the area of health and safety to ensure that both our staff and customers follow the guidelines on health and safety, employee management, performance reviews among others. 3. The company will also conduct awareness trainings for the incoming employees on labour policy and standards. 4. The Human Resource department will also carry out training on the various policies in place to ensure that both the employee and the employer understand what is required of them. 5. A suggestion box will be put in place to ensure that employees are able to air their views on various issues affecting them. Currently, we have an open policy where employees hold departmental meetings and issues related to work and the work environment are discussed. These issues are then escalated to the management meetings held monthly where solutions are sought. Implementation of our labor Policy The company has done the following to ensure that we implement our labor policy effectively. 1. Health and safety trainings are conducted annually for all staff and the supervisors who are in charge of ensuring that the same is implemented across the board. The employees are free to raise alarm when they find that the environment they are working on is not safe for operations. The company also provides appropriate health and safety tools related to specific duties carried out by employees such as safety boots, helmets, gloves, overalls, masks among others that are procured through our procurement department from credible suppliers who also provide training on effective use of the same. Trainings such as occupational health and safety are conducted every two years to ensure that employees Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 12 are aware of the occupational hazards they are exposed to based on their area of duty and how to effectively manage them. 2. The company provides avenues for consultation between the staff and employer and the customer and other stakeholders by ensuring that regular meetings are held to address concerns from either party. 3. The company has also ensured that all the departments are involved in addressing labor concerns that arise from time to time 4. As stated above the company has Human Resource policies and an employee handbook which is clear on the position of the company with regard to labor. 5. The company through the Human Resource department is a member of the Federation of Kenyan Employers through which we are able to participate in international labor agreements and other agreements with trade unions. 6. The Company has also launched a series of initiatives to ensure that staff welfare issues are addressed. We have the following programmes in place: Staff welfare programme that caters for life’s eventualities such as death of a close relative, sickness among others and helps staff deal with issues that affect them on a personal level. There is a SACCO in place that assist staff with loans to enable them manage their personal financial matters. Team building initiative that is carried out once a year to enable staff in the various departments meet, enjoy fun activities together as they learn and get to know each other better. Staff wellness programs where staffs are able to access expert advice on how to deal with health concerns, in this forum medical checkup are conducted by approved medical practioneers who conduct a range of tests and provide a health assessment to the employee. Regular health talks on different topics are held to provide education on different areas such as financial management, alcoholism and work life balance. Outcomes. The managing of CEA recognizes the importance of having standards that help us measure performance in the following ways; During recruitment which is centralized at the Human Resource department the Company strives to accommodate everyone regardless of their gender, ethnicity, age, sex among others our table attached shows the disparity on the same. Whenever we have incidents of violation of human rights and labour, the Human Resource department ensures that appropriate disciplinary action is taken depending on the nature of the violation. Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 13 The management LABOUR team also ensures that 1. CODE OF CONDUCT they review the This code of conduct defines the policy of the Cimbria Group related to Labour. The purpose is to give directions to all staff in order to protect the Cimbria Group from the consequences of progress made in the malpractice and at the same time secure that we uphold some overall principles. area of labour 1.1 Definitions: management and Freedom of association: Freedom of association i m p l i e s a respect for the right of employers and workers to freely and voluntarily establish takes appropriate and join organizations o f their own choice. It further implies action to correct or that these organizations h a v e the right to carry out their activities i n full freedom and without interference. improve conditions. Collective bargaining: Collective bargaining r e f e r s to the process or activity leading up to the conclusion of a collective agreement. Health and safety Collective bar gaining is a voluntary p ro c e s s used to audits are carried out determine terms and conditions of work and the regulation of relations between employers, workers and their each year by organizations. independent parties Forced or compulsory which assist the labour: Forced labour is a fundamental violation of human rights. Most victims receive little or no earnings, and work for long management improve hours in extremely poor conditions of health and safety. on areas outlined in Forced or compulsory labour is any work or service that is extracted from any person under the menace of any the report. penalty, and for which that person has not offered him-self or her-self voluntarily. Government officials Child labour: Child labour is work that is damaging to a child's physical, also visit the office to social, mental, psychological and spiritual development because it is work performed at too early an age. Child ensure that the labour deprives children of their childhood and their dignity. company has They are deprived of an education and may be separated from their families. Children who do not complete their complied with the set basic education are likely national standards and to remain illiterate and never acquire the skills needed to get a job and contribute to the development of a modern labor laws. economy. Discrimination in Employment: Discrimination i n employment means treating people differently or less favorably b ec a us e of characteristics that are not related to their merit or the inherent requirements of the job (e.g. race, age, disability, gender). Cimbria Group: subsidiaries and associated companies of A/S Cimbria CVR-No. 17 552 37 16 1.2 Freedom of association: We accept and support the freedom of association. We provide equal opportunity t o all persons no matter their view on trade unions or their trade union activities. 1.3 Forced or compulsory l a b o u r We will not use, encourage toor benefit fromforced or compulsory labour. All employees of Cimbria are free to leave, if they should so desire. 1.4 Child labour We respect and obey minimum age provisions of national labour laws and regulations i n the countries we operate. We will not use, encourage toor benefit fromchild labour. 1.5 Discrimination in employment Qualifications, s k i l l s and experience are the basis for recruitment of new employees. We provide equal opportunities t o potential new employees no matter their race, age, disability or gender. Approved b y the Board of Directors of A/S Cimbria October 30, 2013 Palle Dybd Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 14 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges. Principle 8 Business should undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and discussion of environmentally friendly technology Commitment Cimbria East Africa L t d. (C E A) is determined to protect, maintain and enhance the environment whilst utilizing resources in a more sustainable manner for as we know “Prevention is better than a cure.” By creating awareness amongst our employees, customers and stakeholders, CEA has conducted a couple of audits i.e. CEA Environmental Audit. Based on the outcome of the audit reports, CEA has definitely acted on some of the recommendations to conform to legal requirements of the various Environmental Management and Health Acts to improve environmental performance which in turn achieves less financial risks. As a company, we are required to use all practicable means to create and maintain conditions under which man and nature can exist in productive harmony. We put it upon ourselves to incorporate environmental considerations in planning and decision-making through a systematic interdisciplinary approach. In our every deliberation, we consider the impact of our decisions on the next seven generations. At CEA, we strive to have a positive impact on the environment and community by developing and practicing strategies that go beyond regulation and demonstrate commitment to a healthy and sustainable future. Our company adopts principles, policies, and practices that improve the quality of life for our customers and employees. A brief description of our process and systems CEA imports and sells agricultural machinery conforming to European union/European community and Kenya Bureau of Standards that avoid environmental degradation. CEA undertakes installation work on equipment such as dryers, silos plants, gravity separators, etc. and we are committed to ensure that equipment used for construction e.g. drilling tools and grinding machinery are efficient in use of electric in power, helping power conservation. The Grain Handling system which is our core business embraces equipment like the Cimbria Cyclofan: a combination of a fan and a highly efficient mechanical dust separator with a double impeller system specially developed to separate dust from moist air in a grain dryer. These and many more technologies that we embrace at Cimbria. Activities implemented this year. With regards to upholding the principles, below are the steps taken by our company to apply each principle. Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 15 Principle 7 i.e. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges 1. CEA has a code of conduct in place that defines the company’s policy to our environment whose purpose is to direct staff to protect, conserve and uphold principles & practices to care for the environment. 2. There is a Health, Safety & Environment policy with a committee in place that oversees application of precautionary measures in upholding health, safety and environmental awareness. 3. With regards to hazard identification and characterization, there are readily available warning and precautionary signs & signals in our working environment which are shown as below. The main aim of this is to share knowledge and know how to deal with issues arising in the production environment i.e. possible accidents. 4. In place as well, are procedural communication mechanisms with stakeholders about uncertainties and potential risks in health, safety and environmental matters when carrying out various tasks brought forth. Such of these include Accident Registers, Contractors Safety handbook (shown below), etc. This enables stakeholders to be in the know of several ongoing operations and measures to be taken to uphold maximum levels of safety which in turn leads to less financial risk on both parties. Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 16 5. CEA provides staff with 1. CODE OF Personal Protective This code of conduct defines the policy of the Cimbria Group related to our Equipment (PPE) The purpose is to give directions to all staff in order to protect the which includes safety Cimbria Group from consequences o f malpractice and at the same time secure that shoes/boots, helmets, we uphold some hand gloves, dust 1.1 Definitions: masks, overalls, Cimbria Group: All subsidiaries and associated companies of A/S reflector jackets, ear CVR-No. 17 52 37 plugs amongst others. 1.2 Cimbria C o m m i t m e n t At Cimbria we believe in a prosperous future for all. We believe in caring for the the limited resources, we have at our disposal. We believe in making the These are provided to most what we have for now and for future generations. These are the driving ensure collaborative forces behind endeavors to further improve efficiency in grain handling and care for efforts are made by the every individual to uphold safety within 1.3 Our impact on the environment t h r o u g h o u r clients the manufacturing Modern crop handling is a environment. of caring for Nature's resources in a process which is as efficient and controlled 6. CEA facilitated for all of increasing yield without causing unnecessary damage to the staff a Health talk and staff wellness check. Alongside ordinary business principles, the driving force behind our work is a wish to tribute to overcoming the shortage of food in the world. The expertise and insights it takes to develop solutions of such character have been accumulated by us in 7. Company vehicles course of 60 years of experience and on-going intensive research and development records are maintained which contain On the basis of a holistic approach, we strive to create a sustainable connection b e t we e n efficient production, care for people and environment and optimum information to maintain utilization of the ture’s resources. The crop optimization involves a process of greater and control fuel efficiency and tionalizations while respecting the limits to efficiency. That is to say consumption and insights into er greater efficiency in effect turns into the opposite. The drying temperatures and the speed of conveying and the cleaning capacity can be efficiency. pushed to such an extent the outcome is smaller yields or unnecessary damage to the This enables the persons concerned to At Cimbria we devote many resources in our consultancy, p r o j e c t management and monitor and curb product development to finding the exact limits to efficient crop harmful emissions, 1.4 Our impact on the environment through our production noise and dust from We are committed to protect human health and natural resources, promoting the environment by tal stewardship, and implementing i n n o v a t i v e environmental technologi es a n d conducting regular vehicle service, which We respect and obey applicable l a ws , regulations, and other requirements i n is done once the set the tries we mileage for a vehicle We have effective pollution prevention in place on all production sites has been reached. We minimize waste by evaluating operations and ensuring they are as efficient as Approved by the Board of Directors of A/S C i m b r i a October 30, Alfa Arne Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 17 Principle 8 i.e. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 1. Frequent audits are carried out e.g. Environmental Audit carried out in March 2014 in accordance with the environmental management and Coordination Act, 1999 and the Environmental (Impact Assessment and Audit) Regulations, 2003; Fire Safety Audit & Occupational Safety and Health Audits both conducted in April 2014 in compliance with OSHA 2007. The audits, which are assessment tools, at large ensures fulfillment of legal requirements of Environmental Management and Health Acts put in place to offer knowledge and skills support to all stakeholders on environmental conservation with special emphasis on environmental laws, policies and regulations in Kenya. 2. The workshop wall is now covered up to 60% with iron sheets and canvas stretched at the main entrance of the workshop for noise reduction. This was enforced so as to ensure that activities in our workshop do not cause noise pollution or any other harm to the environment of our close neighbor’s. 3. At CEA, we promote and/or subsidy alternative forms of transportation for employees, such as carpools, fuel efficient vehicles and motorcycling. 4. CEA has undertaken a policy of corporate social responsibility (CSR) which aims to improve the lives of the local community. We are involved in projects as a part of our CSR policy to ensure that the local population lives in a healthy environment. 5. On Safety and Health, CEA offers frequent medical examination of staff and ensure prevention measures are taken by workers exposed to paint fumes, welding gases or high noise levels as per legislation and continue collecting baseline information on staff health. Principle 9 i.e. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 1. By managing and reusing metal shavings & filings as scrap metal used during metal fabrications in the company workshop, ensures our company’s management of solid waste. 2. Electrical waste materials, fluorescent tubes, cables and filter papers are all categorized as plastic waste material that cannot decompose but can be reused. Hence, CEA makes the effort of collecting all discarded material of this kind in the junk yard and auctioning the, to readily available buyers. 3. CEA is in the implementation stage of a paperless office or reducing paper usage and consumption. The creation of this awareness is done by circulation of reminders through email and having the following message in green as shown below: Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 18 4. With the help of huge storage tanks and gutters in place, CEA manages to trap rain water and utilizes it in many activities within the office. The safety of use of the water is actually ensured by cleaning roof, gutters and downpipes in the catchment area to be free from depressions that may hold leaves, dirt or stale water. 5. With the amount of scrap metal we usually have lying around after job completion, we highly promote remanufacturing 6. The use of technologies and practices to reduce GHG other than renewable energy or energy efficiency has enabled CEA to implement a telework program for employees. Some employees are deployed to different sites within Africa and are still able to work and communicate while offpremises and utilize information and communications technology to stay connected to colleagues and work systems. 7. CEA has implemented use of energy efficient devices such as Compact Fluorescent Lights (CFLs), which reduce the establishment's energy consumption. Measures of outcomes and value added for our company. 1. General benefits of teleworking to the environment have been realized through increased workforce participation as well as reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, traffic congestion and fuel consumption associated with commuting to work when off-premises. 2. Teleworking has benefited the employees by increasing job satisfaction and improving work life balance as well as reducing the stress caused by daily commuting. 3. CEA has been able to achieve compliance with environmental regulations and standards. 4. Our customers are guaranteed of an environmentally friendly premise should they want to visit the workshop. 5. Preparation of plans and monitoring the impacts of business travels has become easier owing to the maintenance of vehicle operations, fuel consumption, and efficiency and service records. 6. Through the undertaking of corporate social responsibility (CSR), CEA has been in the participation of Rhino Charge which is an environmental conversation programme. A number of employees also have made time to visit children’s homes to donate clothing and foodstuff while spending time with the children. Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 19 7. CEA has implemented changes at the workshop to give clear indications and demarcation for various activities e.g.1) Painting area .2) Metal fabrication area 3) Welding zone 4) Restrooms 5) Grinding area 6) Safety signs. This has resulted in fewer accidents in the company hence enabling us to create more awareness as well as protect the health and the lives of your employees. 8. Improved environmental performance and prevention of pollution. 9. Since the company has a contract in force with service providers like Fire Company as well as having a provision of firefighting equipment, our premises are more secure of fire since the service provider provides maintenance services and audits. Activities planned for next year. • CEA will utilize energy efficient devices such as Energy Star rated appliances, Compact Fluorescent Lights (CFLs), motion detection lighting, or programmable thermostats which reduce the establishment's energy consumption. • CEA will have a program in place to manage and/or recycle wastewater effluent. • On Safety and Health, CEA will offer periodic medical examination & awareness programmes of staff regarding the lifestyle diseases e.g. some types of cancer, obesity, depression, liver cirrhosis among others. • CEA will conduct (a minimum) annual fire and emergency preparedness drills at the head office and at different sites to increase fire and emergency preparedness/awareness. • All CEA staff will be trained on fire safety awareness and will also undertake a fire audit to identify areas to place fire extinguisher fighting equipment and learn more on fire exit and assembly points. • CEA will continue undertaking annual audits to improve our environmental, fire and safety performance and prevent incidents of pollution, accidents and hazards. • CEA will continue doing business with environmentally registered companies on used oil, sewerage, clean water supplier and garbage collector to encourage our chain of supply will continue complying with environmental regulations. • CEA shall continue supporting and reporting on the 10 principles. Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 20 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Commitment Cimbria East Africa L t d. (CEA) will not condone or be involved in corruption for corporate gain. CEA acknowledges that corruption is expensive and increases the cost of doing business, hampers economic development, ruins reputation, and undermines a fair and trustworthy business environment. Therefore, CEA will ensure that all of its activities maintain minimal acts of corruption, including extortion and bribery in support for the principle 10. A brief description of our processes and systems. CEA has integrated anti-corruption measures into our systems and throughout the many stages of our supply chain. With CEA being a company involved in sales, as well as installation and commissioning, corruption can be a commonplace practice with both our suppliers and customers, and prevention requires constant vigilance on behalf of our sales, stores, and accounts departments. As a result, measures have been put in place in our General Terms and Conditions of sales to curb corruption in all it means and forms in our line of business. Through the widespread use of the Navision accounting software, all entries are able to be clearly seen by the Finance Manager, Financial Controller, Managing Director, and Accountant. Each employee has their own unique ID and password to prevent ambiguity with entries and to hold each staff responsible. In addition, all entries are able to be traced through the user ID and corresponding physical document that are filed in numerical order and are easily found. This ensures transparency throughout the entire Accounts department and prevents fraud and corruption. CEA general terms and conditions of sales are divided in 6 categories giving stakeholders human rights of doing business:• Kenya Small projects General Terms and Conditions of sale (GT&CS) • Overseas Parts only Orders GT&CS • Installation works GT&CS • Kenya Large Projects GT&CS • Outside Kenya Large Projects GT&CS • Small stock items GT&CS ALL six GT&CS carry the Validity of Quotation, Terms of Payments, Time schedule after having received formal order and letter of credit or Bank Guarantee, Other conditions, Scope of supply, Customers responsibility, Consequential loss and warranty, CEA gives the customer/client the right to discuss the General Terms and Conditions of Sale otherwise the transaction of supply will remain the property of CEA unless otherwise agreed in writing. CEA has signed a letter of commitment to a Code of Ethics for doing business in Kenya which carries along ethical methodology to keep us trusted and honest in ways we do our business, the community around us, employees and the state. Lastly, CEA upholds Cimbria’s Anti-Corruption policy which outlines that: Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 21 A Cimbria Group employee may never offer or provide a gift, entertainment or anything of value if it is: • Illegal • Known to be in violation of the rules of the recipient’s organization • Cash, or cash equivalent • Unsavoury, sexually orientated, or otherwise violates Cimbria Group’s corporate values • Provided in return for something the recipient has promised, gives or does, or as part of an agreement to do anything in return for the Gift or Entertainment. Receiving: It is not allowed to accept Gifts and Entertainment of a considerable size or extravagant entertainment from suppliers as this may be or may be seen as an attempt to influence the Cimbria Group employee’s business decisions. Such gifts should be politely returned and invitations respectfully declined. Certain types of Gifts and Entertainment should never be received, because they are either wrong in fact or in appearance. A Cimbria Group employee may never: • Accept any gift or entertainment that would be illegal or result in any violation of law • Accept any gift of cash or cash equivalent (such as gift certificates, loans, stock, stock options), or • Accept or request anything if the Cimbria employee receives it in return for something the employee has promised, gives, or does, or as part of an agreement to do anything in return for the Gift or Entertainment. Books and records: Whenever a gift or entertainment is provided to a business partner, this must always be recorded in the local business unit’s books. The recorded entry must expressly state the nature and purpose of the expenditure, and records must be preserved. Measures of outcomes and value added for our company. • While CEA is a member of the international Cimbria Groups of companies, our local way of doing business that is personalized to East Africa has allowed us to continuously expand our customer base and increase the number of employees while we continue adhering to the 10 principles. Customers keep coming back to us because they know us to be honest and adhere to ethical business practices. • Audit Services are performed at the fiscal mid-year as well as at the close of the fiscal year to check the accuracy of the accounting books and to provide suggestions on improving processes and procedures. • CEA so far have not received any related complaints during the reporting period • While CEA experienced a decreased turnover this past fiscal year, we managed to reduce our company losses by 50% compared with the previous year and the company continues to maintain a very strong market position as the global need for grain handling is increasing concurrently with the need to prevent hunger in a fast growing global population. • Cimbria’s machines are extremely reliable and long-lasting with some of our machines being in production for over thirty years. Furthermore, Cimbria has committed to maintaining a supply of spare parts for all of its machines ever manufactured to ensure that our customers will be assured of a literal ‘life-time guarantee.” Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 22 Activities planned for next year. • To conduct training on Cimbria Group’s Anti-Corruption policy for all employee’s who may encounter a situation where customers or suppliers may try to persuade them with gifts or entertainment. These employees are members of the Sales, Accounts, and Stores departments. • A new policy will be instated to require at least two quotations from suppliers for the same goods to a limit over K.Shs.20,000.00 to ensure that our employees are not receiving gifts or entertainment for purchasing from certain suppliers despite an elevated cost DONATIONS 2014 CEA engage in CSR responsibility with local communities on actual and potential community impacts of its operations amongst:• On 1st June 2014 Together with some of our -----Original Message----From: Humphreys, Steven <shumphreys@ifdc.org> stakeholders, CEA participated in donating to the <shumphreys@ifdc.org> 2014 Rhino charge event in aid of conservation of To: losey@cimbria.co.ke <losey@cimbria.co.ke> the Water Towers of Kenya Date: Mon, 27 Jan 2014 10:43:42 +0000 Subject: AFCA registration Dear Losey Thanks a lot for your phone call We are looking for a complimentary registration for my son Alastair who is a student at Newcastle University UK. He wants to go to AFCA to get information helping with his research on his thesis ways to strengthen the value chain for coffee smallholders In East Africa The University have bought his air ticket, and I have paid his accommodation at Royal Palm hotel in Bujumbura. We will be most grateful if he could join the Cimbria team if you are not using your complimentary registrations for visitors. He would be happy to help you as an intern during the conference to assist on the booth etc. Please let me know which other information you would like? Thanks and regards Steven Steven Humphreys Regional Agribusiness Advisor/Portfolio Manager IFDC, East and Southern Africa Division Icipe Compound, Duduville, Kasarani, • In support towards paying orphaned children school Thika Road, Nairobi, Kenya +254-20-8632720 (office) fees, visiting the home by CEA employees getting +254-715-497259 (mobile) aside their busy schedule to share their birthday email: shumphreys@ifdc.org, Skype:stevenchumphreys1 cakes with the children respectively. website: www.ifdc.org NOTICE: This email, and any attachments hereto, may contain information that is confidential and/or privileged. It is intended solely for the holder of the email • CEA sponsored a Coffee research Student Master address to which it has been directed. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution, printing or copying of Alastair during AFCA 2014 in Burundi. . this email or its attachments is strictly prohibited. If you have received this email in error, please notify us by replying to this email, and please delete this email and any attachments without copying or forwarding. • CEA donated money to assist the Kenya Motorsports Team with attending the FIM Africa Continental Championships in Zambia on April 6, 2014. Alaistair Humphreys conference booking.pdf Company: Cimbria East Africa Ltd. File No. : COP 2015 Subject : UNGC Communication on Progress Date : 27.11.2014 Page 23 • CEA will honor its annual financial contribution to the foundation for the Global compact 2014. COMMUNITY AWARDS • Certificate of appreciation as an Exhibitor at the ……………..“Financially support the Global Compact 11th African Fine Coffee Conference and Exhibition held Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the attached letter in BurundiBujumbura from 13th to 15th February 2014 from Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, Board Chair of the Foundation for to show case Cimbria coffee products and interact with the Global Compact, and underscore the importance of your company’s annual financial contribution to the Foundation for the other stakeholders in the coffee industry. Global Compact. Strong and consistent financial support from business is essential for sustaining our initiative and ensuring • Certificate of Participation from Eastern Africa that we can advance the ambitious global agenda outlined here. As many of you know, the Global Compact has been working to Grain Council and Agribusiness Expo 2014 held at develop innovative funding models with select Local Networks that have chosen to participate. Regardless of whether you are Kabarak University, Nakuru on 14 and 15th August 2014 in a participating Local Network, I strongly encourage you to to promote and interact with Grain stake holders on the contribute both at the global level and to your Local Network if you have not done so already. This would mean a great deal as safe metrology of Post-harvest technology. the Global Compact moves into a next phase. Thank you again for your continued participation in the Global • Certificate of Participation awarded by Kenya Compact. I look forward to working with you over the coming year to help shape international policy and align the corporate Seed Company Limited in recognition of valuable sustainability efforts of businesses globally, amplifying our collective impact on sustainable development.” contribution toward the 2014 Annual Research Filed Day held on 3rd and 4th September 2014 with the Yours sincerely, Theme “Enhancing Seed Technology for Food Security and national Growth” Georg Kell Executive Director UN Global Compact Office HOW DO YOU INTEND TO MAKE THIS COP AVAILABLE TO YOUR STAKEHOLDERS Cimbria East Africa Ltd (CEA) will make this COP available to our stakeholders, customers and employees together with the public at large by:• Posting same to the UNGC website • Cimbria Group websitewww.cimbria.com • Word of mouth to our customers, Clients and stakeholders during the trade fairs and field days • On continued communication during this year’s Christmas card, a note that we support and adhere to the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact will be sent to all stakeholders and friends of CEA. • Use of “We Support” UN Global Compact Logo in our give away items like calendars, and advertising materials.
