Bristol-Myers Squibb U.N. Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 Bristol-Myers Squibb is a participant of the United Nations Global Compact, which is the world’s largest corporate citizenship and sustainability initiative. To Our Stakeholders I am pleased to submit Bristol-Myers Squibb’s fourth annual Communication on Progress report. The Communication provides us with a welcome opportunity to reaffirm our steadfast commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and to highlight the ways in which we continue to put these principles into practice. It also provides us with an opportunity to demonstrate the alignment of these principles with the core tenets of our own official company “Commitment,” which places a premium on corporate citizenship, ethical behavior, fair treatment of all people and economic, social and environmental sustainability. This is important, because taken together, the Communication underscores a key point: We not only support the UNGC principles; we live them. Sincerely, Lamberto Andreotti Chief Executive Officer Introduction Bristol-Myers Squibb joined the U.N. Global Compact in December 2010 and this year we further integrated its principles encompassing Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption across our company. Our commitment to the U.N. Global Compact is available to all employees and to the public on our company website. We continue to focus on opportunities for improvement. In 2014, Bristol-Myers Squibb was again ranked No. 1 overall on Corporate Responsibility magazine’s annual list of the 100 Best Corporate Citizens, a leading benchmark for socially responsible investors and other stakeholders. Bristol-Myers Squibb is the only company to achieve the No. 1 overall ranking three times, including 2009 and 2012, and has ranked among the top 10 overall each of the last six years. We continued to collaborate with Business for Social Responsibility to support the Guiding Principles on Access to Healthcare, which include a principle on respecting human rights. An agreement between Bristol-Myers Squibb and the Medicines Patent Pool (MPP) will potentially expand access to Reyataz (atazanavir sulfate) for approximately 29 million people living with HIV/AIDS in 110 developing countries around the world. Bristol-Myers Squibb also announced an access strategy for daclatasvir for the treatment of hepatitis C in the developing world. This access approach for low-income countries will utilize tiered pricing and licensing agreements in 90 countries. The Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation in cooperation with Global Sustainable Partnerships funded a clean water project in Tanzania to install 400 BioSand filters in schools, clinics and homes to proactively support the health of 100,000 people in 18 rural villages. Annual Earth Day celebrations were held at more than 50 global sites, as part of our Go Green initiative to engage employees to take action to protect the environment and work and at home. Bristol-Myers Squibb employees around the world demonstrated their commitment to environmental stewardship and a sustainable future by participating in activities ranging from planting trees to attending workshops about the benefits of keeping honeybees and the conservation of energy and water. Bristol-Myers Squibb continued to fund a Center for Green Schools Fellowship at the New Jersey School Boards Association through the U.S. Green Building Council. The Fellow helps New Jersey School districts create healthier, more sustainable learning environments by working with leaders to provide direction, training and resources toward greening school buildings. We issued a Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation and Corporate Social Responsibility Report which provides an update on our efforts and outlines our goals and initiatives in the areas of philanthropy and sustainability. We continued to make progress on our Sustainability 2015 Goals. The report is available on-line to our employees and the public. We completed a Materiality Assessment process with internal and external stakeholders. The assessment will form the basis for development of our next set of sustainability goals. In R&D we worked with the American Chemical Society’s (ACS) Green Chemistry Institute Pharmaceutical Roundtable to identify areas of common opportunity and support academic research into programs that promote green chemistry principles and practices. Our ZymoGenetics laboratory in Seattle, Washington earned the U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Silver certification. Our Plainsboro site buildings in Plainsboro, New Jersey earned the USEPA Energy Star award. An internal Green Labs certification program was launched that recognizes and encourages employees to reduce the environmental impact of their work, including energy, water and waste. A solar energy system was installed at the company’s R&D facility in Hopewell, New Jersey. The photovoltaic panels produce the equivalent energy to that needed to power 80 homes a year and will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 476 tons per year. We reported our CO2 emissions and water use through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and BristolMyers Squibb was included in the CDP S&P500 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index. As members of the CDP Supply Chain Initiative we assessed our carbon footprint from over 50 suppliers. The company continued its collaboration as a board member of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI), which promotes Principles for Responsible Supply Chain Management among our suppliers and capacity building. At a PSCI seminar in China, approximately 140 attendees from 40 suppliers were trained on the PSCI principles including environment, health, safety, labor and ethics. We also completed an assessment survey using a third party of 25 key suppliers including labor, ethics, and human rights issues. We continued to provide anti-bribery training in addition to our biennial Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics training to employees. Our website contains additional information about our policies, goals and progress relevant to the U.N. Global Compact, as well as our Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility programs. These resources include our Sustainability Report, which follows the format of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), with measurement of outcomes related to various performance indicators and targets. Below is a list of the U.N. Global Compact principles and a table that identifies the relevant content from our website. Human Rights  Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights  Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labor  Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining  Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor  Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor  Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment  Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges  Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility  Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption  Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Bristol-Myers Squibb Website References Human Labor Environment AntiRights Corruption Responsibility Message from CEO Our Mission and Commitment Our Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics Our Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics for Third Parties Sustainability Report GRI Index Workplace Policies Our Suppliers Diversity & Inclusion Social Progress Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation Sustainability 2015 Goals Achievements Our Employees Management Approach Environment, Health and Safety Policy Management Systems Sustainability Goals and Key Indicators Environmental Performance Go Green Corporate Governance Our Compliance and Ethics Code of Conduct for U.S. Pharmaceuticals Counterfeit Drugs Human Rights Policy Human Rights Statement California Transparency in Supply Chains Act
