目 录 Contents 高管致辞.......................................................................................................................................................... 1 Statement of Managing Director 公司简介.......................................................................................................................................................... 3 Company Profile 经济绩效.......................................................................................................................................................... 5 Economic Performance 环境绩效....................................................................................................................................................... 13 Environmental Performance 社会绩效....................................................................................................................................................... 17 Social Performance 人权绩效....................................................................................................................................................... 24 Human Rights Performance 未来愿景....................................................................................................................................................... 31 Future Vision UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 高管致辞 高管致辞 Statement of Managing Director 2013 年，中国的经济形势较为严峻， 中国政府提出在经济增长阶段转换背景下 加快发展方式转变，对于华自科技而言， 这是压力与动力同在、挑战与机遇并存的 一年。我们的企业积极应对错综复杂的国 内外形势，适时调整经营思路和策略，克 服市场压力，实现了业绩的稳定并略有增 长。 In 2013, the economic situation is severe, so Chinese government proposed that it would quicken the development mode transformation under the economic growth background. For HNAC, we faced the challenge but also moved forward. To positively respond to the complicated and confused domestic and abroad condition, we have adjusted our management method and strategy correspondingly, overcome market pressure and stabilized our achievement with a slight growth. 过去的这一年，我们的企业在主业经营的基础上，努力向关联产业延伸，积极稳妥开展适度多 元化，在经营层次和产品领域实现了新的突破：完成了在中国首个工业化光热发电站自动化控制系 统；中国首条电解锰自动化、智能化生产线的 DCS 控制系统成功投运；公司自主研发的 HZInfo3000 信息化平台 V2.0 能支持手机移动监控，实现水利信息化和远程监控系统，为中国首创；在中国科 技部的援助下，继续高质量完成对亚非拉国家水电技术官员的公益性（免费）培训等。 In the past year, on the basis of the main business, we endeavored to extend to the related industries, and strived to diversify the business scope, and made breakthrough both at management layer and product field. HNAC has provided the automatic control system for the first industrial photo-thermal power station in China, and completed the automation for China’s electrolytic manganese, and successfully launched DCS control system of the smart production line; and HNAC self developed HZInfo3000 information platform V2.0, which supervises the station by the cell phone and realizes informatization and remote monitoring, 1 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 高管致辞 being the first case in China. With the support of the Ministry of Science and Technology, HNAC continued to provide the high-quality training (free) to the hydroelectric officers from developing countries. 我们的企业每年开展一系列有助于员工职业健康发展的活动：定期举办电力知识抢答赛、工艺 技能比武大赛、年度运动会及卡拉 OK 比赛等活动。此外，公司还成立了足球、篮球等活动俱乐部 及艺术团、编辑部等人文团体，充分丰富了员工的工作、学习和生活。公司积极参与促进社会和谐 发展的事业，出资捐建了“华自金坑希望小学”，并定期选派优秀员工前往支教，为贫困地区的教育 事业贡献力量。 Each year, HNAC will organize a series of activities helpful for employee’s occupational health and development, including regular electric power knowledge competition, crafting skills competition, annual sport meeting and karaoke games, etc. In addition, there are all kinds of clubs and teams in our company, such as football club, basketball club, art troupe, editorial team, and so on, which enriches the employees’ life. HNAC positively takes part in the activities that maintain the social harmony. We donated to build Huazi Jinkeng Hope Primary School, and send volunteers there for teaching periodically, contributing our efforts to the education in the poverty-stricken area. 2013 年，华自科技继续接受并恪守“全球契约”的十项基本原则，在策略、文化及日常运转中， 为实施全球契约原则付出了努力并得到世界各国用户的肯定。同时，我们接受公众对我们的监督， 我们将以公开的形式，报告我们履行“全球契约”的进展情况，敬请指教。 In 2013, HNAC keeps on implementing the Ten Principles of Global Compact. We made great efforts on the principles of UN Global Compact in strategy, culture and daily operation, and confirmed by clients worldwide. At the same time, we welcome the supervision from the public and will report our implementation progress to the public at all time to get your wise advice. 总经理： General Manger: Wang Xiaobing 2014 年 5 月 May, 2014 2 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 公司简介 公司简介 Company Profile 作为联合国工业发展组织国际小水电中心水电控制设备制造长沙基地的承载主体，长沙华能自 控集团，创建于 90 年代初期，现已成为一家集科技、文化、教育为一体的投资管理公司。集团下 属三家企业：华自科技股份有限公司、长沙华自投资管理有限公司和长沙华源文化传播有限公司。 As the barrier of UNIDO ICSHP Changsha Base, Changsha Huaneng Automatic Control Group, established in early 1990’s, is now an investment management company incorporating science and technology, culture and education. HNAC Technology Co., Ltd., Changsha Huazi Investment Management Co., Ltd. and Changsha Huayuan Culture Communication Co., Ltd. are the subordinate companies of the Group. 长沙华自投资管理有限公司经营企业投资管理；长沙华源文化传播有限公司经营大型文化艺术 活动的组织、策划，图文设计制作，生态环境信息咨询等业务。长沙华能自控集团核心企业——华 自科技股份有限公司，作为集团最大的经营实体，是湖南省和长沙市政府重点支持的拟上市企业， 其主要情况如下： Changsha Huazi Investment Management Co., Ltd. is engaged in the investment management of the enterprise. Changsha Huayuan Culture Communication Co., Ltd. undertakes the organization, planning, graphic design and production of large-scale cultural and art activities, eco-environmental information consulting service. The core enterprise HNAC Technology Co., Ltd., also the biggest operational entity of the Group, is the pre-IPO company supported by the government. 华自科技股份有限公司致力于为水利水电、电力及工业用户提供自动化整体解决方案，实现“交 3 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 公司简介 钥匙”工程的同时，坚持以市场服务为导向，为用户提供专业培训、远程监控、机电安装及委托运 营服务，是联合国工业发展组织国际小水电中心全球唯一的控制设备研发制造示范基地；是原电力 部重点产品定点生产企业、国家城乡电网建设与改造工程首批推荐企业；是“泵站自动化及信息化”、 “电站自动化设备应用指导意见”等自动化控制设备行业标准的主要起草单位。至今为止已为全球 32 个国家 6000 余厂站提供了高效优质的产品与服务，其中水电站自动化控制设备市场占有率位 居全国乃至全球第一。 HNAC devote itself to provide the automation system integrated solution for the users of water conservancy, electric power and industrial areas and realize the Turnkey Project. It is the global unique control equipment manufacturing base under UNIDO ICSHP, a pointed production enterprise for key products of National Electricity Company, a recommended enterprise for national urban and rural power grid construction and transformation projects, the main drafter of for MWR automatic control equipment industry standards, such as Pump Station Automation and Informatization, Application Guide for Power Plant Automatic Equipments, etc. Till now, HNAC has provided the effective, superior products and services to 32 foreign countries and over 6000 users. And now its hydropower automatic control equipments take the first market share all over China and even the world. 2013 年 5 月，公司董事长黄文保获评湖南省优秀青年企业家；7 月，长沙市智能电力设备产业 技术创新战略联盟成立（以下简称联盟），公司作为联盟的理事长单位，与联盟成员共同开展技术 创新研究工作，为我国水利水电行业培养人才、研发先进技术；2013 年 12 月，公司独立董事桂卫 华教授当选中国工程院院士，同月，公司被授予由国家质量监督检验检疫总局颁发的湖南省首批“重 点工业产品质量分类监管 AA 类企业”荣誉称号，公司产品质量得到广泛认可。 On May, 2013, Mr. Huang Wenbao, the President of HNAC Technology Co., was awarded as the Outstanding Youth Entrepreneur; on July, the Technology Innovation Strategic Alliance of Smart Power Equipment Industry in Changsha was established (hereinafter briefed as the Alliance), and HNAC, as the president company of the alliance, conducts the technical innovation and research with the alliance members to train personnel and develop products. On December of the last year, Prof. Gui Weihua, the Independent Director of HNAC was elected as the Chinese Academy of Engineering, and meanwhile HNAC gained the honor of Key Industry Product Quality Classified Supervision AA-Class Enterprise, showing that our product quality are widely recognized. 4 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 经济绩效 经济绩效 Economic Performance 一、管理方法 Management policy 1、目标和绩效 Purpose and performance 华自科技以 “坦诚、务实、合作、进取”的企业精神和“以质取信、以信取胜”的企业理念，保持 与客户、员工和合作伙伴诚实互信的关系，最大程度地回报股东和社会，打造中国水利水电自控监 测领域的百年品牌。 Under the guidelines of frankness, practicality, cooperation and enterprise and following the enterprise philosophy that win the trust by quality and gain the contract by the trust, HNAC always keeps a honest and mutual-trust relationship with clients, employees and partners, furthest paying back to the shareholder and the society and making joint effort to create a famous brand in the hydropower and hydroelectric automatic supervision industry in China. 2、政策和规定 Policy and regulation 华自科技建立以ISO9001、ISO14001、 OHSAS18001为框架的质量、环境管理、职业健康安全 体系，将决策管理、目标管理纳入体系相关管理程序，推进全面风险管理体系、控制决策和运营风 险，不断优化管理和业务流程，减少运营浪费、降低营运成本。 Based on ISO9001, ISO14001 and OHSAS18001, HNAC has set up an environment management and occupational health security system which involves decision-making management and the management by objectives, so that it can carry forward the comprehensive risk management system, control decision-making and operation risk, optimize the management and business flow, reduce the operation waste and lower the operation cost. 3、组织和责任 Organization and responsibility 华自科技各部门每年年初都会对全年重点工作进行目标承诺，在半年度、年度对工作目标进行 自检、跟踪、考核；各职能部门根据职责分工以及合同控制、运输生产、采购控制、工序控制等相 关体系文件规定，负责业务开展和生产活动的组织实施，确保全年经营管理目标的实现。 In the very beginning of every year, each department of HNAC will have the objective commitment for the key works; and self-check, follow and check the work objective every half year and every year; and each department is responsible for the business development and the production organization, according to 5 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 经济绩效 the assignment of responsibility and the stipulation of the relevant documents, aiming to reaching the annual business operation and management goal. 4、培训和沟通 Training and communication 华自科技建有较为完善的培训管理机制，从公司的发展战略、业务发展需要、员工的基本情况 以及职业规划等方面出发、识别员工的培训需求，每年年底发布次年《培训需求表》，制定培训计 划、建立机制、投入资金、开展多种形式的培训，并通过包括各种会议、内部OA网络、《华自通 讯》、宣传栏等多种形式进行各层次间的沟通，以此提升员工的业务素质和工作技能，保障公司战 略和目标的有效实现。 With the completed training system, we organized the training according to the company’s development strategy, business development requirement and employee conditions and demand. To find the training demand of the employee, we will make survey and delivery a Training Demand List at the end of each year, base on which we formulate the training plan, set up the corresponding mechanism and make the budget. Training forms are various. With the help of meetings, OA system, HNAC News, bulletin board and other mediums, staff of different positions can communicate with each other. In this way, their business quality and work skill are improved and the company’s strategy and goal are guaranteed to be effectively reached. 5、监督和验证 Supervision and verification 华自科技对经济绩效的监督，主要通过以下途径加以实现：一是通过决策的后评估，管理体系 内部和外部审核，对决策过程进行评价和持续改进；二是通过建立年度经营目标，绩效指标、目标 完成情况等指标体系，实施日常和年度的考核；三是公司的审计部门负责对经营业绩的审计监督和 效能监察。 HNAC supervises the economic performance through the following three ways: 1. By the post-evaluation of the decision, manage the system inspection, evaluate the decision-making process and keep improving; 2. Carry out the daily and annual check by setting up the annual operation target, target completion condition and other target systems; 3. The audit department is responsible for the audit supervision and efficiency supervision of the economic performance. 随着全球契约和可持续发展管理体系的建立 ，公司的质量、环境和职业健康安全管理体系将 得到进一步的提升。 With the establishment of the UNGC and sustainable development management system, the product quality, environment and occupational health security management system will be further promoted. 6 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 经济绩效 二、表现指标 Performance indicator 1、创造的直接价值 Created direct value 虽2013年国家宏观形势整体不好，处于经济低谷，但公司销售较之往年略有增长 2013年度完 成销售收入34222万元，在中小水电自控领域细分市场领域依旧保持全国领先地位，在业界树立了 中国自控领域的品牌形象，公司近3年的营业收入情况如下： In spite that the national macro situation was downturn in 2013, the sales amount of HNAC slightly grew. In 2013, the annual sales revenue amounts to RMB 342,220,000 Yuan, still in the leading position of the automatic control field of the small and middle hydropower and set up a famous brand in China’s automatic control field. The operation revenues in recent 3 years are as listed: 指标名称/年份 2011 2012 2013 Index/ Year 营业收入（万元） 27385 33106 34222 Operation revenue (RMB 10,000) 2、经营成本 Operating cost 有效的成本控制是企业赢取利润、获得成功的基本要素，由于本行业存在一定的季节性，秋冬 季节是水电改造的高峰期，三四季度的业绩较为明显，加之，这两年全球经济形势整体较为严峻， 节省成本对每家企业的意义已远不止于创新，而是与企业生存和可持发展密切相关。 The effective cost control is the basic factor that the company can gain the profit and success. For this industry is seasonal, autumn and winter are the peak season reconstructing the hydropower. As a result, the business of 3rd and the 4th season are better. In addition, the global economic situation in recent 2 years are severe, so the costing saving is closely related to the enterprise’ survival and sustainable development. 公司自成立以来，一贯重视成本控制工作，但从2011年开始的财务预算让成本控制得到了更好 的落实：建立成本控制机制、年底制定次年目标，分解成本指标、细化控制措施，完善成本考核体 系，控制运营成本；二是加强成本意识教育，提高员工的节支意识，不单是公司内部的日常经营支 出，如水、电、气的使用，相关办公用品的重复利用，还包括员工出差、招待等各项费用的额度； 三是挖掘潜力，对关键成本进行重点管理，在项目设备选择、项目研发、新工程建设等大方面严把 成本关，近3年，公司的成本比例有一定幅度下降。 Since the establishment, HNAC has attached great importance to the cost control. However, from the year of 2011, the financial budget further implement the cost control in the following ways: 1) set up the cost control mechanism, set out the target for the next year at the end of this year, disaggregate cost index, detail the control mechanism, complete the cost assess system and control the operation cost; 2) strengthen 7 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 经济绩效 the cost consciousness, not only including the daily operating expenses inside the company, covering water, electricity, gas and the office supplies, nut also limiting the expenses at business trip and reception; 3) exploit the potentialities, closely control the major costs, like project equipment selection, R&D and new project buildings. In the recent 3 years, the cost proportion of the company has declined in a certain degree. 3、员工的工资和福利 Wages and benefits 公司严格执行国家法律、法规要求和相关的政策规定，结合行业和企业实际，建立不同形式的 工资和福利制度，提高员工对企业的认同感，增强企业凝聚力，公司每个季度有薪酬调整计划和实 施方案，每个节日会为员工准备礼品。 Closely abiding by the national laws and regulations, and combining the actual condition of the industry and enterprise, we set up different types of wage and benefit policies to promote employee’s sense of identity to the company and thus strengthen the cohesive force in enterprise. Every season, HNAC would regulate the wage for the employee and distribute gift to the employee at every holiday. 4、向政府的支出 Expenditure to the government 2013年，公司向政府缴纳税收总额为3448万元；公司近3年缴税情况如下： In 2013, the tax HNAC paid to the government amounted to RMB 34,480,000 Yuan. The tax we paid in the last 3 years is as below: 指标名称/年份 2011 2012 2013 Index/year 纳税总额（万元） 1748 3440 3448 Total Tax (RMB 10,000) 5、社会投资和投入 Social investment and input 华自科技长期以来在注重自身发展的同时,积极承担社会责任,回报社会。由本公司捐建的华自 金坑实验小学今年已是第五个年头，在这一年间，我们始终如一坚持支教、帮助那里的孩子，并由 此引申至帮助社会上的其他的孩子，如高新区团工委组织的金秋助学活动等，2013年公司在慈善事 业方面的投入达50余万元。 When paying attention to the self-development, HNAC always positively undertake the social responsibility. Five year ago, we donated to build HUAZI JINKENG PRIMARY SCHOOL, and in the last year, we also sent volunteers there for teaching work and helping students there. In the meanwhile, we also keep donating and helping other students. In the year of 2013, HNAC has inputted more than RMB 500,000 Yuan in the philanthropy. 在成功举办第一、第二届援外技术国际培训班基础，2013年10月，第三届“中小水力发电技术 8 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 经济绩效 国际培训班”顺利举办，这一届培训班让各发展中国家水利水电人员更为全面的了解了中国水利水 电发展现状及未来趋势，推出中国的优势技术和产品，对促进发展中国家中小水电自动化、信息化 的发展起到了良好的推动作用，进一步推动了中小水电自控技术成果转化的国际化进程，连续三届 国际援外培训班的成功举办，获得科技部的高度肯定。 In October, HNAC successfully held 2013 International Training Workshop on Small and Medium Hydropower Station Technology, which is the 3rd international workshop held by HNAC. The workshop gave the hydroelectric personnel from the developing countries an overall understanding of the current condition and the future development trend of China’s water resources and hydropower industry. It introduces the advantage technology and the latest product in China, positively pushes forward the development of automation and informationization of the small hydropower industry of developing countries, and further drives the internationalized process of the achievement transformation for the small hydropower automatic technology. We have already held 3 phases of international foreign –aid workshops, which are highly organized by the Ministry of Science and Technology. 同年，华自科技总第 59 期电力自控技术国内培训班成功举办，约近 260 名代表参加了本年度 的交流与学习。 In the same year, the 59th phase electric automatic technology national workshop was organized in HNAC, with about 260 attendants. 6、政府给予的重大资金与政府扶持 Financial support and government support from government 2013 年，华自科技的“年产 200 套水利水电完全无人值班综合自动化系统项目建设”获中央预算 内 600 万资金支持，并已按计划实施该项目； 承担的省级重大专项“电网智能化监控关键技术研究 及应用”之子项二“变电站智能监控关键技术研究及应用”已顺利通过中期评估、检查，项目进展顺利。 In 2013, Annual Output of 200 sets Hydropower and Hydroelectric Unattended Integrated Automatic Control System Project of HNAC gained RMB 6,000,000 Yuan on-budget financial support from central government, and now the project is ongoing as planned; “Smart Supervision Key Technology Research and Application for Substation” passed the mid-stage assessment and ran smoothly. 7、当地供应商和采购政策 Local supplier and purchasing policy 华自科技积极响应上级主管部门的采购配套政策，确定本土化采购可成为保障供应、稳定当地 经济的一项策略，与当地供应商建立长期可持续性战略合作，带动相关业务的供应链健康发展。除 本土化外，公司也走出去，与世界级优秀厂商建立合作关系，以确保某些指定产品质量，如 ABB、 施耐德、西门子等。 To positively respond to the purchase supporting policy of the higher authorities, HNAC confirms that the local purchasing is a policy than can well guarantee the supply and stabilize the local economy; therefore, 9 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 经济绩效 we has established the long-term sustainable strategic cooperation with the local supplier to drive the development of the related supplying chain. In the meanwhile, HNAC has cooperated with the well-known international manufacturers to ensure the product quality, such as ABB, Schneider, Siemens and so on. 8、重大间接经济影响 Great indirect economic influence 华自科技重视科研工作开发，建有省级企业技术中心、是省水利水电自动化控制工程技术研究 中心的组建单位，为确保研发实力的逐步增加，突破相关技术研发瓶颈，2012 年，获批测控领域的 省级院士专家工作站，现有进站院士 1 名。自 2011 年以来，年科研经费占销售收入的比例达 4%以 上，2013 年达 6.4%。我们在水利水电领域主推的“完全无人值班、远程监控、低压机组”这三大优 势领域得到国家主管部门的认可（获得编写《小水电站完全无人值班及远程监控技术规范》、《无 人值班小水电站安全技术规范》、《小水电低压机组自动化技术规范》等更多行业标准），这说明 公司品牌在水利水电、能源行业内获得足够的认可。 Thinking highly of R&D work, HNAC has a provincial-level enterprise technology center and also a unit organizing the provincial hydropower and hydroelectric automatic control engineering technology research center. To enforce R & D research strength and break through the technical bottleneck, HNAC applied for and then was approved to build a provincial-level academician expert workstation in the measurement and control industry, which has an academician. Since 2011, the annual scientific research funds occupies more than 4% of the sales revenue, and till the end of 2013, this proportion rises to 6.4%. Our products in the field of completely unattended operation, remote monitor and low voltage unit are recognized by the national authorities and we are pointed to draft the standards including Technical Code of the Completely Unattended Operation and Remote Monitoring for Small Hydropower, Technical Code of the Unattended Small Hydropower, and Technical Code for the Low Voltage Automation for Small Hydropower. All of above shows that our brand is well known and recognized in the field of water resources, hydropower and energy. 2013 年，公司获批湖南省创新型（试点）企业和长沙市优秀技术创新示范企业，这是公司不断 提高自主创新能力的结果，也体现了公司在科技方面取得的成果。在科研方面的研发成果还体面在： In 2013, we gained the honor of the Innovation-type Enterprise in Hunan and Excellent Technical Innovation Example Enterprise in Changsha, which are results that HNAC keeps promoting the capability of independent innovation. We also gained the following achievements in the scientific research and innovation: 截止 2013 年底，公司拥有专利 90 项，其中发明专利 4 项；拥有软件著作权 35 项，软件产品 21 项。科研成果转换成生产力，产生了较好的社会和经济效益； By the end of 2013, HNAC has 90 patents, in which 4 are patents for innovation; 35 software copyrights and 21 software products. The scientific result was successfully transformed into the production force, 10 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 经济绩效 generating sound social and economic benefits; 企业信息化建设成效显著，Altium Designer、AutoCAD、OA 系统、PMS 生产管理系统、财务 用友系统及自行开发的远程监控系统等信息化手段的运用，实现了公司资金流、物流、工作流、信 息量的有效整合，达到企业资源的优化配置，提高了企业管理的效率和水准，进而提高企业经济效 益和核心竞争力。 The enterprise information-based construction was remarkable. The application of Altium Designer, AutoCAD, OA system, PMS production and management system, UFIDA and the self-developed remote monitoring system effectively integrates the capital flow, logistics, work process and information content, optimizes the configuration of the company resources, promotes the efficiency and level of the company management and further improves the economic efficiency and core competences. 9、创造的就业机会 Created employment opportunities 在全球经济低迷的形势下，华自科技凭借不断优化产品品质和结构，积极争取相关政策，拓展 业务发展领域，同时也创造了更多的就业机会，2013 年，新招应届毕业大学生 6 人。 Under the condition of the global economic downturn, when keep upgrading product quality and structure and expanding the business scope, HNAC also creates lots of job opportunities. In 2013, we recruited 6 fresh graduates. 三、获奖情况 Honors and awards 1、2 月 5 日，获批长沙市两型企业 On February 5, HNAC was awarded the Resource-Saving and Environment-Friendly Enterprises 2、4 月 15 日，获批湖南省创新型（试点）企业 On April 15, HNAC was awarded as Innovation Type Enterprise in Hunan 3、7 月 17 日，“年产 200 套水利水电完全无人值班综合自动化系统项目建设”获批中央预算内资金 支持 On July 17, the Annual Output of 200 Sets Hydropower and Hydroelectric Unattended Integrated Automatic Control System Project of HNAC gained the on-budget financial support from central government 4、7 月 17 日，获批市工业旅游示范企业（第一批） On July 17, HNAC was awarded the Industrial Tourism Model Enterprise (1st Batch) 5、8 月 29 日，获评长沙市知识产权示范企业 11 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 经济绩效 On August 29, HNAV was awarded the Intellectual Property Model Enterprise of Changsha City 6、10 月 22 日，获批长沙市水利水电科普场馆（基地） On October 22, HNAV was approved as the science-popularizing site of water resources and hydropower (base) 7、10 月 29 日，以本公司牵头，联合业界一、二次设备厂家， 成立长沙市智能电力设备产业技术创新战略联盟，旨在牵头组 织联盟内企业共同进行技术攻关，共同开拓国、内外市场，实 现配套一站式采购 On October 29, HNAC coordinated with the manufacturer of the secondary and primary equipments to form the Technology Innovation Strategic Alliance of Smart Power Equipments Industry in Changsha, aiming to organize all the alliance members to make the technological breakthrough, develop the national and abroad market and realizes the one-stop sourcing. 8、11 月 1 日，公司高新技术企业通过复审 On November 1, HNAC was reviewed as high-tech enterprise 9、11 月，获批长沙市院士专家工作站（首批） In November, approved to build the Academician Expert Workstation of Changsha City (first batch) 10、4 月 15 日，11 月 12 日，公司水利水电自动化控制系列产品、 轨道交通系统产品分别进入长沙市本地产品推荐目录（第一、二 批）中 On April 15, and November 12, our water resources and hydropower automatic control products and the rail transit products are listed in the local product recommend catalogue of Changsha respectively (the 1st batch and the 2nd batch). 11、12 月，荣获长沙市 2013 年利税大户 In December, HNAC was honored as 2013 Large Taxpayer in Changsha 12、12 月，获批长沙市技术创新示范企业 In December, HNAC was approved as Technology Innovation Model Enterprise of Changsha 12 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 经济绩效 环境绩效 Environmental Performance 一、承诺与制度 Commitment and system 公司为推动经济社会可持续发展，不断改善区域环境质量，进一步提高产品（服务）质量、环 境、职业健康安全管理水平，强化全体员工的环境意识，承诺： In order to promote the sustainable development of economic society, keep improving the regional environmental quality, further upgrade the product quality, environment and Occupation Health Safety Management level and strengthen the environmental awareness of all staff, we hereby committed that: 1）深入开展环境宣传教育，倡导科学发展理念，加强企业文化建设，贯彻“环境为源，和谐共创” 环境体系方针，坚持在企业发展中加强环境保护，在保护环境中促进企业发展，牢固树立环境保护 意识； 1) to conduct deeply in environmental publicity and education and propose the scientific development theory by building the enterprise culture and implement the environmental system policy. We adhere to strengthen the environmental protection in enterprise development and to promote the enterprise development during the process of environmental protection. 2）坚决贯彻落实环境保护政策法规和标准，严格执行排污申报和排污收费等制度，自觉遵守建设 项目环境影响评价和“三同时”规定，主动接受环境现场执法检查和监督管理，做到无环境污染事故 发生，确保环境质量改善； 2) to implement the environmental protection policies and criterion, the pollution discharge declaration and pollution charges policy, we will consciously abide by construction project environmental effect evaluation and relative stipulations and positively study the site inspection and supervision management, so as to ensure no environmental pollution accident and a improved environmental quality. 3）加强企业节能减排投入和技术改造力度，加强污染治理设施的运行管理，主动淘汰落后的生产 设备和工艺，积极实施清洁生产，发展循环经济，提高资源的综合利用率，减少污染物的排放。完 善突发环境事件应急预案，并组织应急演练，确保环境安全； 3) to reinforce the input and technical renovation in energy saving and emission reduction invest, the operation management of pollution regulation facilities. We take the initiative action in closing down outdated production facilities and technologies, playing an active role in implementing clean production, developing circular economy, increasing resource utilization rate and decreasing the discharge of 13 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 经济绩效 contaminant. We also perfected the reserve plan for environmental emergencies, organized the emergency excise to ensure the safety environment. 4）加强企业环境管理，强化诚信意识，恪守环保信用，将诚信理念贯穿于企业生产经营全过程。 主动处理好企业与员工及各利益相关方的关系，自觉维护好员工及各利益相关方的环境权益，自觉 接受社会公众的和新闻媒体的监督。 4) to strengthen the enterprise environmental management and the honest awareness, so as to make the concept of credit through the whole process of production management. We take the initiative action in balancing the relationship between enterprise, staff and the interested parties, maintain their environmental benefits and accept the supervision of the public and media. 二、体系与政策 System and policy GB/T24001-2004 环境管理体系在公司持续稳健的有效运行，并于今年顺利通过了监督审核。 公司根据自身的具体情况，为环保和可持续发展工作配备了充足的人力、物力以及技术和财力，建 立、实施、保持和改进整体环境保护政策。2013 年 4 月，公司组织了 33 人的质量、环境及职业健 康安全三个标准的内审员培训班，并以部门为单位组织体系文件的学习和培训，使员工对标准和文 件有了更深的理解和掌握。公司根据国家现行有关法律法规和其它要求，结合以往安全生产经验， 对公司环境、安全生产实施过程中环境因素、危险源进行重新识别和评价，列出一般环境因素 41 项，重要环境因素 8 项，一般危险源 59 项，重大危险源 9 项，涵盖了公司各项活动和过程，为公 司环境因素、危险源的有效控制提供了依据。公司针对识别出的重要环境因素、重大危险源，结合 公司施工生产特点和安全生产经验，修订和完善了 5 项专项应急救援预案、20 项管理方案及 10 项 管理制度。各项预案、管理方案和管理制度针对性强，可操作性强，为各活动和过程的开展起到了 指导作用。公司每月组织对质量、安全、环境进行大检查，共下发 7 项整改通知，各责任部门、单 位针对检查出的问题责任到人，分工明确，制定相应的纠正/预防措施，并在规定期限内整改完成。 The GB/T24001-2004 Environment Management System was conducted in HNAC effectively and we have got the approval for updating the certificate in this year. According to the specific situation, we have nominated the representative for environmental and occupation health safety affairs and built the related environmental protection system. In April, 2013, we organized an internal auditor training for 33 personnel and the internal study in department for ISO system documents. Based on present laws and regulations and other requirements, combing with previous experience of safety production, we re-identified and evaluate the environmental factor and source of danger during the process of safety production implementation. It identified 41 environmental factors, 8 important environmental factors, 59 general sources of danger, 9 important sources of danger, which covered every aspect of the company activities and provided a basis for the effective control of these sources of danger. On above basis, our company revised 5 special emergency rescue plans, 20 management plans and 10 management policies, which have strong pertinence and operability. We also organized a monthly inspection on the quality, safety and environment and release 14 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 经济绩效 7 notices for rectification. The problems aroused have clear division of labor and responsibility and are rectified within prescribed time limit. 三、工作成果 Achievement 1）环境目标的实现情况：各类重要环境因素控制在标准规定范围内，未发生有毒有害物质泄漏等 污染事故；生产现场厂界噪声排放达标，昼间≤55 分贝，夜间≤47 分贝；原材料使用符合环保要求； 固体废弃物分类管理，处置率 100%；废气、废水、废渣排放达标；重大环境污染事故为零。 1) Implementation of environmental objectives: All kinds of important environmental factor are controlled within a standard range. There is no pollution accident on poisonous and harmful substance leakage. The noise emission within production area reached the standard that in daytime, the noise is not more than 55dB and 47dB at night. The raw materials used meet with the environmental protection requirement. We had a classified management on the solid wastes and had a 100% disposal rate. The emission of waste gas, waste water and waste residue are standard. And there is no major environmental pollution accident. 2）职业安全健康目标的实现情况：公司根据统一要求，对员工每两年进行一次体检，对从事有毒 有害岗位的特种作业人员每年进行一次体检，无职业病发生，无重大安全伤亡事故发生，2013 年发 生 3 起轻伤，千人负伤率为 1，重大危险源按管理方案的实施得到了有效控制。 2) Implementation of occupational safety and health objectives: The staff will have the health examination once every two years. Each special operations personnel will have once each year to guarantee there is no occupational disease and major security accident. During 2013, 3 workers are slighted wounded. The major hazard sources are effectively control by the management. 3）公司根据环境管理体系的要求，通过对环境管理体系覆盖范围内的活动、产品和服务中能够控 制、或能够施加影响的环境因素的识别，对识别的 49 项环境因素进行了重新评价，确定了重要环 境因素 3 项，建立了《重要环境因素清单》。重新整理了 5 个法律法规和其他要求文件，更新了《法 律法规和其他要求清单》，按《合规性评价控制程序》对环境、能源、废水、废气、噪声、固废等 项目进行了合规性评价，均符合公司对法律法规和其他要求的承诺。 3) According to the requirement of environmental management system, we have re-evaluated the recognized 49 items of environmental factors and confirmed 3 of them as the great important and established the “List of important environmental factor”. We rearranged 5 regulations and other documents and updated “List of laws, regulations and other requirements”. The environment, energy, waste water, waste gas, noise and solid wastes are evaluated according to Compliance Evaluation Control Procedures. 通过环境管理体系的运行，各级人员对环境的认识更加清晰，对环境保护的责任更加担当，环 境绩效达到目标并逐年提高。 15 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 经济绩效 All staff is clearer about environmental protection through the operation of environmental management system. The responsibility in environmental protection made the environmental performance better and better. 四、反馈与评价 Feedback and evaluation 1）废水（生活污水）的排放，通过广州广电计量检测股份有限公司的监测达到《污水综合排放标 准》和《污水排入城镇下水道水质标准》要求。附监测报告图片。 1) The discharged wastewater (domestic sewage) meets the requirement of relative standards, which is supervised by Guangzhou Guangdian Metering and Inspection Co., Ltd. And the inspection report is as below: 2）废气通过通风，隔离达到要求。 2) The exhaust gas meets with requirement through ventilation and isolation. 3）噪声通过合理布置各种设备，加隔音板，戴防声耳罩，并对高噪声源有针对地采取措施，实现 了厂界达标，确保各项目噪声影响满足相关要求。通过长沙市疾病预防控制中心的监测，达到了排 放指标。附监测报告图片。 16 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 经济绩效 3) Through the reasonable location of each equipment, adding acoustic panel and wearing noise-proof earflap, and the measures on high noise source, the noise level within the factory has reached the standard. The discharge index is reached through the monitoring of Changsha Center for Disease Control and Prevention. The test and evaluation report is as below: 4）固体废弃物：分为一般固废和危险废弃物。一般固废由废品公司回收综合利用。危险废弃物送 有资质的单位处置。按法律法规和相 关要求进行了控制。 4) Solid waste: general solid wastes and dangerous solid wastes. The general solid wastes us recycled by the waste company for integrated utilization. The dangerous solid wastes will send to special unit with qualification for disposition. 17 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 社会绩效 社会绩效 Social Performance 一、承诺与制度 Commitment 企业发展的不同阶段，所承担的社会责任就不一样，就我们公司而言，所要承担的不光是现有 及潜在的客户群体的服务责任、700 余人所支撑的家庭责任以及公司经营行为对社会的影响。在此 引用我公司质量、环境、职业健康安全方针：“安全为根，重在预防；质量为本，精益求精；环保 为源，和谐共创”，是我公司对客户、员工、社会责任的诠释。 The enterprise undertakes different social responsibility at its different stage of development. For HNAC, the responsibility we are undertaking is not only the service for existing and potential customer, but also the families of over 700 staff and our business activities to the society. Our quality, environment and occupation health and safety policy is “Based on safety and we focus on prevention; founded on quality we focus on improving; sourced from environmental protection we create harmony . This is also an explanation of our responsibility to clients, staff and society. 二、体系与政策 System and policy 为了实现我们的承诺，不断完善我公司的售后服务体系，做好市场调查，了解客户的需求，积 极开发新产品，以满足新时代客户的需求；不断完善内部管理制度，想员工之所想，急员工这所急， 做员工的知心企业，让员工有归宿感，这样员工便能更好的服务企业，相得益彰；持续做好环境保 护，在赢利的同时，做好节能减排工作，不断降低万元产值的能源损耗。 In order to realize our commitment, keep improving our after service system and develop the new products, we are perfecting our internal management policies and make our staff feel at home. Therefore the staff will return the company with hard working. At the same time the energy-saving and emission reduction is performed to lower the energy consumption during production process. 三、工作与成果 Work and achievements 建设科普教育展馆 Construction of science popularization education exhibition hall 长沙市水利水电科学技术普及场馆依托联合国工业发展组织国际小水电中心水电控制设备制 造（长沙）基地而建，定位于展示我国水利水电建设及装备的政府公共承载性平台，本项目在原有 设施上丰富水利水电科普场馆展示内容，把枯燥的水利水电知识变得趣味化，用多种展示手段普及 18 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 社会绩效 专业知识，从多方面展现水利水电成果，满足不同知识水平人群的需求。 Changsha Water Conservancy and Hydropower Science Popularization Exhibition Hall is constructed on the basis of ICSHP Changsha Hydropower Control Equipment Manufacturing Changsha Base. It is a governmental public platform which shows the water conservancy and hydropower construction and its equipments in China. We enrich the exhibition content on existing facilities and make the boring knowledge more interesting with multiple exhibition measures in multi aspects to satisfy the requirements of people with different levels of knowledge. 在展馆为外国客户进行现场讲解 销售副总与外国客户在展馆现场进行讨论 Foreign customers visiting the exhibition hall Discussion with foreign customers 场馆于 2010 年 6 月正式投建， 2012 年 12 月 12 全面落成并公开对外展示，场馆展厅共两层， 第一层侧重中国水电建设成果及一次设备产品的展示，涵盖能源发展史、国际组织介绍、中国水电 建设重大科研成果、水轮机产品陈列、发电机产品陈列、变压器产品陈列、户外一次设备产品陈列、 电机阀门产品陈列、光电设备产品陈列、水电设计及安装、未来智能水电站等展示内容；第二层侧 重二次设备产品展示，包含继电保护装置、自动化屏柜、品牌供应商、国际合作、系统仿真实验室 等展示内容。 The construction of the exhibition hall is started from June, 2010. It was completed on December 12, 2012 and opened to the public. There are all together 2 floors. The first floor places particular emphasis on the hydropower construction achievement in China and the exhibition of primary equipments, which including development history of energy, introduction of international organizations, major scientific research achievements in hydropower construction in China, turbine units showroom, generator units showroom, transformer products showroom, outdoor primary equipments showroom, motors and valves showroom, photoelectric equipment production showroom, hydropower design and installation, future intelligent hydropower station, etc. The second floor exhibits the secondary equipments and products, which including the relay protection device, automation panels, the well-known suppliers, international cooperation and system simulation test room, etc. 19 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 社会绩效 展厅在装修设计上更为国际化、现代化、人性化，规划清晰合理，通过语音自助导览系统、特 效影视多媒体系统等高科技手段给予观者较强的视觉冲击力和丰富的体验，让观众更加亲切直观的 了解我国电力的发展历程，也更加直观的体会多媒体技术带来的视听享受。 The exhibition hall has an international, modernized and humanized design and decoration with clear and reasonable area planning. The audible self-service guiding system, special effect video multi-media system gives the audience a strong visual impact and abundant experience. It helps the audience have a cordial and intuitive view of the electrical power development in China and they also have an audio-visual enjoyment through multi-media technologies. 捐资助学 Donations to schools 凝聚社会爱心，播洒明天希望。2013 年 9 月，工会再次发出了向我公司捐建的 “华自金坑希望 小学”捐赠的倡议。全体员工积极参与捐赠活动，共募集到现金 10430 元、衣物 600 余件、书籍 107 本等相关物资。同时，本次捐赠活动还得到了高新区党务工作第五和第八联组的大力支持。 We concentrate in social love and spray the hope. In September, 2013, the Labor Union called on the company to donate for Huazi Jinkeng Hope Primary School. All the employees are active in this donation; we collected RMB 10,430, and over 600 clothes and 107 books. At the same time, this activity was supported by the 5th and 8th group of Hi-tech Zone Party Affairs Teams. 与校方、村支部的座谈会 物资捐赠仪式 Conversation with school leaders and village leaders Donation ceremony 在本次活动中，支教代表们与老师、村支部成员进行了交流。我公司代表简要介绍了这一年来 公司发展的概况，重点汇报了本次捐资助学活动的发起、参与和执行情况；学校代表主要从师生现 状、近年来外界对学校的资助、政府部门对学校专项资金的拔发等方面进行了介绍；村支部代表介 绍了金坑村近年的发展情况，以及对希望小学建设情况的重视。通过交流，让我们有了更深一步的 了解，同时也为我们今后对学校的捐助工作提供了依据和方向。 The volunteer teacher delegates had a communication with the teachers and village leaders. Our delegates 20 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 社会绩效 briefly introduced the development of HNAC during this year and reported the sponsorship, participation and implementation of the donation activity. The school leaders introduced the current situation of school, teachers and students, the social support and government support to the school. The village leaders introduced the recent year development of Jinkeng Village and the importance they attached to the school. We have a further understanding through the communication and more clear about our future donation work. 协调解决员工子女就学问题 Settle the schooling problem for children of employees 我公司员工适龄子女共 6 人需就读明德麓谷学校一年级。因招生范围受限，通过前期员工本人 与校方的沟通，未能达成入学愿望，六个员工家庭面临解决好子女入学的头等大事。在得知此消息 后，公司工会主动与校方和高新区教育主管部门对接，通过多次协商和争取，最终圆满地解决了这 六个家庭的燃眉之急。 In year 2013, there are 6 children of employees need to go to Mingde Lugu School Grade one for primary school education. Restricted by the enrollment range, they cannot enter the school at the beginning. The HNAC labor union helped them to negotiate with the school and education authorities. Through several negotiation and communication, we finally settle the problem of the schooling for these children. 文娱活动 Recreational activities 9 月 25 日是公司的生日，在 2013 年厂庆之时， 由工会艺术团筹办了一场别开生面的庆典主题晚会。 大改以往晚会的老套节目，以“坦诚、务实、合作、 进取”的企业原则分成四个晚会篇章，回顾、务实和 展望公司发展为主线，充分调动各个部门的参与热 情，合唱、快板、诗朗诵、现场访谈、VCR、舞蹈等 节目形式不拘一格。通过近一个月的筹备工作，最后 呈现在全体员工面前的晚会效果堪称历史最佳。 September 25, 2013 is the 20th year anniversary of HNAC. The Labor Union Art Team had prepared a celebration party for the anniversary. The four chapters “Frank, Pragmatic, Cooperative and Enterprising based on the enterprise principles are imported to the party. Looking back, practicability and outlook of company development are the principle role of the party, the staff of each department came to join the party for chorus, allegro, poetry recitation, talk show, VCR and dancing, etc. After nearly a month preparation, we have presented a wonderful and optimal party to the staff. 21 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 社会绩效 主持人现场采访公司高管 技术部门的集体舞蹈 Field interview of HNAC executives Dance show presented by Technical Dept. 一年一度的运动会如期举行，前后 近四个月的拉锯战，对组织人员和参赛 人员都是一次艰巨的考验。为了提高员 工的参与率和参与积极性，充分征求各 方面意见后反复修订运动会的开展方 案，通过增加活动本身的趣味性吸引员 工的主动参与，通过赛事规则争取更广 大员工的主动关注，通过向公司争取活 动经费来提高活动本身的运做空间。从 而达到活动内容不变，参与人员却能从 中获取快乐和轻松，使员工带着愉悦的 心情投身到工作中去，为提高工作效率 起到了一定的作用。 The annual sports meeting was held as scheduled, which last for almost 4 months and it’s really a challenge for all of us. The plan for sports meeting is made according to the suggestion of employees to promote their participation rate and activity. We increased the interests of sports to attract the staff, drew their attention by the flexible rules and activity expenditure. The participants have enjoyed the relaxation and returned to work with good mood, high efficiency and lots of energy. \ 22 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 社会绩效 四、反馈与评价 Feedback and evaluation 2013 年我公司在社会工作方面获得的荣誉有： 4 月生产一部焊接组被湖南省总工会评为“湖南省工人先锋号”； 9 月在参加高新区首届职工运动会中我公司获“体育道德风尚奖”； 我公司获评 “2013 年度安全生产工作先进单位”。 The honors we gained in social work in 2013. In April, the Welding Team of Production Dept. was titled with “The Worker Pioneer in Hunan Province” by Hunan Federation of Trade Unions. In September, we won the “PE Morality Award” in the first Workers ' Sports Meeting organized by Changsha Hi-tech Industrial Development Zone HNAC was crowned the “2013 Advanced Unit in Safety Production” 23 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 人权绩效 人权绩效 Human Rights Performance 公司自成立之日起，一贯严格遵守各项劳动保障法律法规，尊重和维护国际公认的各项人权， 尽心尽责，恪于职守，设计、制定了一系列行之有效的人权绩效管理办法和方案，在全公司范围内 认真贯彻执行。我们秉承华自人“按章办事，循理做人”的原则，通过管理、宣传、督促、检查、考 评，切实的掌握和提高了员工的工作绩效。 Since the establishment, HNAC adhere to laws and regulations on labor security, supporting and respecting the internationally proclaimed human rights. We designed and drafted a series of effective management methods and plans for human rights performance, which are seriously implemented now. Pursuant to the principle of Play Fair, Follow the Truth, we mastered and improved the work performance of staff via management, publicity, supervision, inspection and assessment. 一、员工保障 Security for staff 公司建立了一套“机构落实，职责明确，制度健全，措施有力”的员工管理办法，制定了《员工 手册》将公司各类公共制度收列其中供员工学习使用，新增了《共用资源使用管理制度》、 《征用员 工私车补助管理办法》、 《办公及公共区域 6S 管理标准与细则》、 《重要岗位人员离任审计管理办法》 等一系列规范性文件，这些文件的制定与实施，一方面有效地提高了人权绩效的水平，使绩效考评 工作更加公开化、公平化、透明化；另一方面，保障了员工的正当权益得到更好的实现。 HNAC had established a series of administrative rules and regulations to ensure a practical mechanism, definite duties, the sound system and powerful measures. Documents including Work Routine, Administrative Regulation on Entry and Exit, Security and Protection Regulation, Work Attendance Checking Rules, Administrative Regulation on the Overtime Sheet, Payment Administrative Regulation, 24 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 人权绩效 Performance Appraisal Regulation, etc. have been implemented, considering every respect of management, labor contracts, social insurances and welfares for the employee. The formulation and implementation of the aforesaid documents improved the human rights performance level on the one hand, and guaranteed the better realization of the staff rights on the other hand. 公司与员工签订了 100%的劳动合同，按国家规定购买了社会保险及住房公积金，并按时足额 的缴纳了费用；员工拥有 8 小时工作制、双休及法定的假期；公司按月付给员工工资，如有加班情 况则按照规定支付相应的加班工资；对于特殊岗位（如驾驶员、保安员、安全生产管理员等等）要 求持证上岗；通过校企合作联合办班，向在职员工提供各类操作技能的脱产或非脱产培训，并颁发 国家认可的作业证明，提高工作品质，帮助员工增加职业含金量。 Every single employee had signed the labor contract and we paid full insurance for them according to national regulations. The employees work 8 hours a day and 5 days a week along with legal holidays. All employees are paid monthly and those who worked overtime enjoy the overtime wage. The qualified license and the periodic training are required for special positions like drivers, security staff, and production controllers, etc. We also provide off-job training and non off-job training of various operating skills via joint class by school and enterprises cooperation. After the training, we will issue the authorized certificate to improve the professional value of staff. 公司严格执行了一系列的劳动保障条列，重视加强员工的法律意识。迄今为止，没有发生劳动 争议及仲裁的情况。 A series of labor protection rules are strictly carried out, at the same time we value the strengthening of the legal awareness of our staff. So neither labor disputes nor labor arbitration happened in our company till now. 二、员工关爱 Caring for staff 厂务公开民主管理，职工代表大会制度健全完善，作用显著。 We make the company affairs public and realize democratic management. The system of Workers Conference is perfect and sound, which played an active role. 25 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 人权绩效 按照《湖南省职工代表大会条例》要求，依法合规的建立了公司职工代表大会制度，并成立工 会委员会。现有职工代表 40 人，其中一线职工 30 人，女性职工代表占 40%。 According to the regulations of Hunan Provincial Workers Conference, we set up the Workers Conference System and found the Labour Union Committee. Now we have 42 staff representatives, of which front line staff 30 person and female staff representatives takes up 40%. 公司以职代会为载体，充分赋予职工代表参与公司管理，改进公司工作的各项权利，积极主动 与职工代表讨论有关劳动报酬、工作时间、休息休假、劳动安全卫生、保险福利、职工培训、劳动 纪律、职工奖惩办法以及劳动定额管理等直接涉及职工切身利益的规章制度或者重大事项方案；邀 请职工代表围绕公司经营管理和职工生活福利等事项提出合理化建议；并接受职工代表对公司执行 劳动法律法规、参加社会保险、签订和履行集体合同和劳动合同、实行厂务公开等的监督。 As the carrier, the Workers Conference gives the rights of company management, work improvement, etc. to the staff representatives. The rules and regulations closely related to the vital interests of staff, like payment, working hours, vacation, labour safety and health, insurance and warfare, staff training, labour discipline, commendation and penalization methods of employee and the work quota management or major issues schemes are discussed. The staff representatives are supposed to put forward the rational proposals on company operating management, staff warfare, etc. And they also supervise the labour law and regulation performance, sign and performance of social insurance, labour contract, and the open company affairs. 公司历年均会举行年度职工代表大会暨工资集体协商协议签订，在最低工资标准上浮一定幅度 的基础上，综合参考企业工资指导线、人力资源市场工资指导价位、消费价格指数等指标，对当年 职工收入分配制度、收入分配形式、收入水平等事项进行平等协商，在协商一致的基础上签订《工 资集体协议》，同时签订《公司集体合同》、《女职工权益保护合同》 。 We held the annual workers conference and salary negotiation. On the basis of minimum wage standard with a certain scope of increase, we had a negotiation of the annual income distribution system and forms with the reference of salary guideline, HR market guidance wage level and CPI. And finally we signed the Salary Collective Agreement, Company Collective Contact and Female Worker Rights Protection Contract. 26 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 人权绩效 The 2012 signing ceremony were witnessed by Changsha Federation of Trade Unions, Changsha Human Resources & Social Security Bureau and some enterprise representatives. 三、员工培训 Staff training 每周二晚固定轮流开展针对管理干部的管理培训和针对新员工的员工课堂培训。管理培训侧重 公司近期重点关注的管理改进、业绩实施情况、典型案例等进行分析和分享；员工课堂侧重向新员 工进行企业文化宣贯和提升工作技能的学习。2012 年共开展管理培训 24 场，4380 人次受训；开展 员工培训 21 场，2154 人次受训。同时，公司还通过《公司送读在职工程硕士的暂行规定》 、《关于 鼓励员工申报技术相关资质的办法》等政策，向员工广泛提供外部培训和获取各类资质证件的机会， 在政策的鼓励和支持下，2012 年帮助 106 位生产线员工获取了维修电工、中级技工等技能等级证； 帮助 42 位技术类员工获取了如计算机信息系统集成高级经理证、经理证，二级建造师证等；同时， 委培送读了 4 名工程硕士在职研究生。 The management training for managerial staff and in-class training for new staff are conducted in turns on each Tuesday evening. The management training mainly emphasized on recent management improvement, implementation of performance, typical case analysis and sharing. And the new staff training placed emphasis on corporate culture and working skill promotion. In the year of 2012, there are 24 management trainings participated by 4,380 person-time and 21 staff trainings attended by 2,154 person-time. Meanwhile, with the relative policies, we offered several external training and the opportunities for obtaining all kinds of certificates to the staff. Support by the policies, all together 106 manufacturing worker obtained the certificate of maintenance electrician, intermediate technician, etc. About 42 technical staff gained the certificates of computer information system integration senior manager, manager or Associate Constructor, etc. Moreover, we conducted the training plan for 4 master of engineering on-job postgraduates. 另，“360 度劳动保障沟通体系”顺畅进行并获得了广大员工的支持，二年一届的干部换届聘任 工作及“岗位任职目标承诺”等无边界沟通渠道搭建和管理，提高了企业工作效率，优化了内部劳动 关系，为人企和谐、共谋发展创造了良好的环境和空间。 27 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 人权绩效 And the 360°Labor Security Communication System was proceed smoothly and supported by our staff. The biyearly general election and appointment of cadres, and the borderless communication channel greatly improved the working efficiency of the enterprise, optimized the internal labor relation. It has created a good environment and space for the harmony and mutual development. 四、员工发展 Staff development 1、优化人才资源环境、创新人才选拔机制：创新人才选拔机制是企业持续发展的重要保障， 公司针对不同岗位人才，如行政职能管理人员、技术研发型工程师、营销工程师、生产技工等分别 设计不同了晋升通道和选拔机制，如管理干部换届聘任制度，每隔二年所有干部全体“卧倒”后重新 竞聘上岗，保证了新鲜血液的补充，形成了优胜劣汰、你追我赶的良性竞争机制；技术研发类工程 师设立首席、资深、高级、普通、助理等不同技术等级晋升制度，保证每位员工在各自职业生涯上 有不同的上升空间，避免职业发展中的“瓶颈”或“天花板”。 To optimize talents resources environment and talents promotion mechanism: Optimizing the talent promotion mechanism is crucial for the enterprise sustainable development. The Company has formulated different talents selection and promotion mechanism for different posts. For example, the term of all the managing-level posts will be expired every 2 years and then re-select new talents via the post completion, forming the benign competition; The technical development engineer is ranked in the Chief, the Senior, the General and the Assistant to make sure every single employee has promotion opportunities, avoiding Bottleneck or Ceiling in the career development. 2、完善人才制度建设：重视培训、人才评估。每年制定年度培训计划；每周开设第二课堂， 邀请国内外知名技术专家、企业家及院校讲师为全体员工授课；定期派送技术人员到电站/优秀企业 学习/参观、赴专业培训/学习机构深造；为员工提供申报各项个人职业资质、职称的机会；与国内 各电力院校及省内知名院校的产、学、研合作，为员工提供二次深造的良好平台；对年度业绩突出、 技术贡献杰出人员给予“营销十佳”、“技术十佳”、“生产十佳”、“十佳新人”等荣誉称号，将其事迹 及科研论文选送至国家级刊物发表，使获奖者成就产生广泛社会影响，保证在物质及精神层面得到 实现和满足，促进人才成长。 To perfect the talent system: HNAC highly values the training and the talent review. Make the annual 28 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 人权绩效 training schedule once a year; set up the Second Classroom weekly to invite experts, entrepreneurs and lecturers to give lessons; send the technician to visit and study in the power station, reputed enterprises and training/learning institutions; offer opportunities for the staff to apply professional qualification certificates and titles; cooperate with famous colleges and universities across China to provide the staff a better platform for further study; award the staff having the outstanding performance and great technical contributions with the title of Top 10 in Marketing, Top 10 in Technology, Top 10 in Production and Top 10 Newcomers as well as forward their achievement and research papers to national-level journals for publishing, which will inspires the awardees both in economical and spirit. 五、员工反馈 公司以人为本，着重建立了以职工薪酬激励机制为核心的薪资福利体系。 People always come first. The payment and benefit system implemented in HNAC focus on the employee’s payment motivation mechanism. 公司制定了《薪酬管理制度》和《绩效考核体系》，建立了以岗位绩效工资为核心的工资结构， 包括岗位工资、绩效工资，即与岗位劳动业绩相联系的激励性工资。同时，公司建立健全了劳动计 量与考核制度。建立了较为完善的工资调整与运行机制。 Therefore, HNAC formulates the Payment Administrative Regulation, Performance Appraisal System which take the post performance wage as the core and consist of the incentive pay (incl.: post wages, performance pay, etc.) evaluated by the post achievement. Meanwhile, the Company has set up a complete system for labor counting, appraising, and wage adjustment and operation mechanism. 为让员工感受到公司薪酬的外部竞争性和内部公平性，以达到吸引人才、使其持续服务并激励 其产生佳绩的效果，公司就薪酬水平、薪酬体系、薪酬结构、薪酬构成以及特殊员工群体的薪酬在 做出调整决策时，会通过在年度职工代表大会上进行工资集体协商，在季度调薪时充分尊重员工意 愿，并以一线管理人员意见为基础进行调整，当薪酬发生变化时及时交流。薪酬体系作为一种持续 的组织过程，以人力资源中心为主牵头组织，进行了持续不断薪酬计划更新，年度拟定薪酬预算， 不定期就薪酬管理问题与员工进行沟通，同时定期对薪酬系统的有效性做出评价而后不断予以完 善。 29 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 人权绩效 All the employees feel the external competitiveness and internal fairness, so that we can attract more talents and encourage our staff to create more achievements. During the adjustment of pay level, salary system, salary structure, salary composition and the payment of special staff, we will discuss those problems in the annual workers conference. At the seasonal pay adjustment, we will value their personal intension based on their administrators, and communicate in time when there is salary variation. The salary system is a kind of continuously organization led by the Human Resource Center which keeps updating. The salary budget is determined annually and we will communicate with staff on pay management problem irregularly. The upgrading of salary system will keep on based on the assessment. 员工以公司为家，以公司发展为荣， 和公司一起同甘共苦，共同奋斗，创造辉 煌。公司取得了“团中央青年就业见习基 地”、“长沙市和谐劳动关系模范企业”、“长 沙市模范职工之家”等称号，2011 年度成 为“全国民营企业招聘周吸纳就业突出企 业”、 “长沙市住房公积金缴存先进单 位”，并通过湖南省、长沙市两级“和谐劳 动关系模范企业”复审，2012 年度公司再次获得“长沙市住房公积金管理先进单位”、人力资源部经 理李亮女士获“湖南省农民工工作就业先进个人”并记湖南省政府三等功。 The staff makes company their home and be proud of its development. We share the happiness and sorrow; we work together to create glorious achievements. In 2008, HNAC was authorized to be Model Enterprise for Harmonious Labor Relations in Changsha. And HNAC was authorized to be the Youth Employment Practice Base for Communist Youth League Central Committee and Annual Advanced Unit for Youth Talents Introduction. In the year of 2011, HNAC was awarded the Advanced Unit for Housing Fund Deposited in Changsha by Changsha Housing Fund Center. And was reviewed and commended for Model Enterprise for Harmonious Labor Relations in Hunan Province. 30 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 未来愿景 未来愿景 Future Vision 公司自成立以来，一直号召干部职工，要力争打造一个足够优秀、足以让人尊敬、并具备较强 抗风险能力的高技术领域大型企业，在自动化产品制造、服务及其紧密相关领域持续努力，创造价 值，满足客户、员工、管理者、股东以及社会等各利益相关方的期待，尽快进入电力自动化行业的 国内一流乃至世界一流企业行列，实现永续经营。 Since its establishment, HNAC has been calling its cadres and workers to create an excellent enterprise, a large high-tech enterprise which was respected by people and have strong anti-risk capability. We will continue our hard work and to create the value in the field of automation products manufacturing, service and its related industries, so as to meet the expectations of customers, employees, managers, shareholders and the society. We will join the team of first class enterprise in power automation industry both home and aboard and realize the sustainable development of the enterprise. 公司始终坚持“技术先导”的发展方向，坚持“客户的成功，就是华自的成功”的发展理念。公司 奉行“以质取信、以信取胜”的经营理念，致力于为用户提供完整一体化解决方案，成为优质的电气 设备制造商和电气系统集成商。 We always adhere to the Technology Guide way of development and we insist the theory of Your success is the greatest achievement of HNAC. With the operation principle of Quality Win the Trust, HNAC dedicated to provide the users with a complete integration solution and to be one of the high quality electrical equipment manufacturers and electrical systems integrators. 首先，公司将立足于中小型水电站自动化控制细分市场领域，充分利用公司已经积累的各项竞 争优势，加大技术装备投入，提升生产效率和产品品质，扩大现有产品的生产能力，满足更多中小 水电电气自动化、智能化、信息化系统的市场需求，实现营业收入和净利润继续保持持续快速增长。 Firstly, based on the field of small and medium-sized hydropower automation control segment of the market, HNAC will make full use of the accumulated competitive advantages. By increasing the budges in technology and equipment, improving production efficiency and product quality, and expanding the production capacity to satisfy more small and medium-sized hydropower electrical automation, 31 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 未来愿景 intelligence, information system market demand, HNAC will maintain its sustained and rapid growth of operating income and net income. 其次，公司将积极创新，拓展公司电气自动化系统解决方案在泵站、变电站、中大型水电站、 各类新能源电厂、水处理及其他工业过程等应用领域的市场需求，提高公司在智能配电工程、机电 工程总承包等领域的服务能力，进一步增强公司在国内行业以及国际市场的核心竞争能力。 Secondly, HNAC will actively innovating, developing its electrical automation system solutions in the pumping station, transformer substation, medium and large hydropower station, all kinds of new energy power plants, water treatment and other industrial processes. Meanwhile, we will improve the service capacity in intelligent power distribution, electromechanical equipments contracting, and further enhance the core competition ability in domestic industry and international market. 第三，公司将积极关注国内电气自动化行业的整合机会，充分利用资本市场的功能，通过收购、 兼并、整合其他电气自动化系统设计及制造企业，将公司打造成为国内电气自动化系统解决方案的 提供商。 Thirdly, HNAC will actively focus on the integration of domestic electrical automation industry, make fully use of the functions of capital market. Through acquisition, merger and integration with other electrical automation system design and manufacturing enterprises, we will make HNAC a domestic electrical automation system solution provider. 32
