Corporate Responsibility 2013 Communication on Progress UN Global Compact www.bertelsmann.com/responsibility 2 Communication on Progress 2013 Experience Bertelsmann TV and radio open up even the smallest room to the whole Books turn people into explorers. More books await wide world. Turn on your set, and you will quickly come readers at Penguin Random House than anywhere else. across RTL Group. Europe's biggest broadcaster operWith more than 15,000 new releases and over 700 million ates channels and stations in ten countries and is leading publications sold per year, Random House is the world's content producer. largest trade book publisher. Gruner + Jahr is the home of fascinating media brands Services are the key to success for many businesses. Every and is represented in more than 30 countries with over day Arvato, with its over 63,000 employees in more than 500 offers (magazines, websites, and digital media). In 40 countries, works on custom solutions für business Germany, its range includes Stern, Brigitte, Geo, Capital, clients from all over the world. Gala and Schöner Wohnen. Printed products play a major role in many companies' communications – whether as a magazine, catalog or advertising brochure or with digital offerings. Be Printers covers the entire spectrum of the modern printing industry. in Mio. € 5) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Umsatz 1.174 1.199 – – – Operating EBIT 60 72 – – – Mitarbeiter (Anzahl) 6.380 7.068 – – – Communication on Progress 2013 3 Fortschrittsberichterstattung 2012 Vorwort 3 Liebe Leserinnen, Ladies liebe Leser, and Gentlemen, Bertelsmann ist ein globales Medienund Servicesunternehmen, in dem über 100.000 Mitarbeiterinnen und Mitarbeiter in mehr als 50 Ländern tätig sind. Bertelsmann Mit unserem isunternehmerischen a global media and wie services company with publizistischen human gehtrights, Handeln environmental protection and anti-corrupeine besondere Verantwortung einher, der wir uns sehr bewusst sind. Wir verstehen diese nicht sites. The current Communication more than 110,000 employees in over 50 countries. We tion at our international are very aware als Beiwerk, of the als factunmittelbaren sondern that by takingTeil entrepreneurial unserer täglichen Progress documents this claim with specific examples. onWertschöpfung. and journalistic actions Die verbindliche – und Thomas we have verbindende Rabe, a particular responsibility. – Basis hierfür sind unsere gemeinsamen Werte, die Bertelsmann Vorsitzender Essentials:des Vorstandes, Our focus for Partnerschaft, Unternehmergeist, 2014 is on strategic realignment, especially Kreativität The commitment of our companies Bertelsmann und gesellschaftliche Verantwortung. worldwide is as diverse in the fields of action that are relevant for Bertelsmann. as Bertelsmann itself. The four Bertelsmann Essentials – An overview of the specific implementation of our corpopartnership, Unser Verständnis entrepreneurship, creativity and von gesellschaftlicher Verantwortung rate responsibility sich zudem as citizenship – spiegelt well as news about projects, updated in den are Liebezehn a mandatory Leserinnen Prinzipienund and unifying desLeser, basis for our entrepreneurdaily, can UN Global Compact wider. Wir sind diese Mitgliedschaft bewusst be found on our website. I invite you to take a ship and journalistic activities. look online at www.bertelsmann.com/responsibility and liebe und mit der Freunde klaren des HausesZielsetzung eingegangen, an unseren internationalen Standorten Bertelsmann, contact us if you have any und gemeinsam mit unseren Mitarbeitern, Kunden und Lieferanten einen Beitrag zur questions. Bertelsmann has been a member of the United Nations nachhaltigen Weiterentwicklung in den Bereichen Arbeitsnormen, Menschenrechte, Global wir wollen Compactund Umweltschutz in den nächsten since Jahren 2008 and supports Anti-Korruption zu leisten. die Voraussetzungen the implemenThank Die vorliegende you for your interest – I look forward to your sugFortschrittsberichttation erstattung schaffen, of its ten soll diesennoch damit Bertelsmann principles, which Anspruch fully wachstumsstärker, reflect our undergestions! und konkrete Beispiele dokumentieren. standingund internationaler of digitaler corporatewird.responsibility. Dabei soll unser is our goal to work It Unter­ nehmen with our sehr employees, profitabel, customers solide finanziert Wie vielfältig unsere Handlungsfelder hoch and suppliers und und wie Yours achieve a das to umfassend sincerely, Engagement continuous attraktiv sein. Wir and wollen sustainable zu einem Ort evolution werden, anin labor dem standards, unserer Firmen weltweit sind, können Sie darüber hinaus auf unserem CorporateGeschäftsideen und Innovationen Wirklichkeit werden. Responsibility-Portal einsehen. Ich lade Sie herzlich dazu ein, sich im Web unter Dazu brauchen wir eine Kultur der Offenheit und der www.bertelsmann.de/verantwortung umzusehen und bei Rückfragen mit uns in Zusammenarbeit. Kontakt zu treten. Dr. Thomas Rabe Mit dieser Broschüre möchten wir Ihnen einen ersten Ein­ Chairman and CEO, Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA blick inWir freuen die Welt vonuns über Ihre Bertelsmann Anregungen! vermitteln. Dazu gehö­ ren unsere Geschäftsfelder ebenso wie unsere Grund­ lagen Inundden kommenden Monaten Zukunftsstrategien. Ich würde wollen wir unser bestehendes Engagement weiter mich freuen, wenn wirausbauen – inan Ihr Interesse den Bereichenseinen Bertelsmann, Corporate Unterneh­Responsibility, Diversity, Compliance, Verantwortung men, seinen für unsere Produkten, seiner Mitarbeiter Leistungsfähigkeit und sei­beim Umweltund Klimaschutz. und ner Kultur Ich wecken freue mich würden. Denn sehr, bei Sie dass uns auf gibt Bertelsmann es Weg mit Ihrem Interesse begleiten. diesem vieles zu entdecken! Ihr Ihr Dr. Thomas Rabe Vorstandsvorsitzender der Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA 4 4 Communication on Progress 2013 Bertelsmann Essentials The Bertelsmann Essentials convey the goals and basic values of our company’s employees, executives and shareholders and build on the Corporate Constitution. It is the responsibility of our executives to spread and epitomize these values and to serve as role models. The Bertelsmann Essentials reflect the common understanding of our corporate culture and are subject to constant review, revision and improvement. Our mission Bertelsmann is an international media corporation. We provide information, entertainment and media services to inspire people’s daily lives. We aspire to make a valuable contribution to society. We strive to be leaders in our markets and achieve returns on capital employed that guarantee growth and continuity of our corporation. Our joint efforts focus on creative content and customer relations. We seek to provide working conditions that are equitable and motivating for our employees. We commit ourselves to ensuring the continuity and ongoing progress of our corporation. Communication on Progress 2013 5 Our core values Partnership Creativity Our corporate culture is based on a mutually-benefiWe provide a home for artists, authors and creative talcial partnership between our employees and the coments in all of our fields of business, promoting their crepany. Motivated individuals who identify with the comative development and commercial success. We strive pany and its values are the driving force behind quality, for the protection of intellectual property on a worldefficiency, innovation, and growth within our corporation. wide basis. We promote artistic freedom and freedom of The hallmarks of our participatory leadership approach are thought, the protection of democracy and human rights mutual trust and respect as well as the principle of deleand the respect of traditions and cultural values. Congation of responsibilities. Our employees enjoy autonomy sequently, the content we provide reflects a wide range to the greatest extent possible. They receive comprehenof viewpoints and opinions. Continuous innovation and sive information and participate in decision making and improvement, guided by customer needs and interests, our financial success. We are committed to the profesare the cornerstones of our success. sional development of our employees and seek to provide longterm employment. Entrepreneurship Citizenship The principle of decentralization is at the heart of BertelsThe continuity and development of Bertelsmann as an mann’s management philosophy. It enables our employindependent entity is ensured by the Bertelsmann Verees to act with flexibility, responsibility, efficiency, and waltungsgesellschaft’s (Bertelsmann Management Comentrepreneurial freedom. Our operating businesses are pany) control of the majority of voting rights. In the view run by managers who act as entrepreneurs: They enjoy of our shareholders, the possession of property creates considerable independence and bear full responsibility an obligation to the community. They believe that, in a for the performance of their companies. Our executives market economy, a corporation derives its legitimacy act not only in the best interests of their individual busifrom making a valuable contribution to society. The work nesses, but are also committed to the interests of the of the Bertelsmann Stiftung – to which the majority of group as a whole. Bertelsmann shares has been contributed – is also guided by this principle. Our businesses are managed in accordance with the spirit and the letter of the law. They maintain high standards of ethical conduct and act responsibly toward society and the environment. Our committment We expect everyone at Bertelsmann to adhere to this mission and these core values. 6 Communication on Progress 2013 Our Corporate Responsibility Program CR Strategy and Management Goals Realized Measures (2013) Planned Measures (2014) Expand CR management ■ Increased the staff of the CR ■ Discuss future strategic direction department at Corporate HR of CR at Bertelsmann in the Group ■ Expansion of topics covered by CR Management Committee department to include Group-wide ■ Intensify cross-divisional climate and environmental collaboration protection management Expand internal and external ■ Relaunched CR section ■ Draw up an online GRI Index CR communications of Bertelsmann’s homepage ■ Draft the concept for the Bertelsmann CR Report 2013/2014 ■ Continue to promote understanding and awareness of CR through stepped-up internal communications Continue developing Bertelsmann’s ■ Performed a cross-divisional ■ Stakeholder survey across divisions CR strategy materiality analysis with the aim of as a basis for developing the identifying relevant CR topics for CR strategy (materiality analysis as Bertelsmann (1st step: Survey the 2nd step) Top 50 executives in the company) ■ Develop division-specific materiality matrixes Responsibility to Employees Goals Realized Measures (2013) Planned Measures (2014) Promote corporate culture of ■ Hosted 55 tutorials for employee ■ Continue the online dialog for partnership / Promote employee representatives direct communication between involvement in the operations ■ Hosted a Corporate Works Council employees and the CEO / CFO conference with 65 participants as ■ Host a Corporate Works Council well as a seminar for the Group’s conference on demographic representatives of employees with change disabilities with 30 participants ■ Continue labor law tutorials for ■ Hosted labor law tutorials for employee representatives and HR employee representatives and department staff HR staff ■ Initiatives to expand flexible working-time models Communication on Progress 2013 7 Responsibility to Employees Goals Realized Measures (2013) Planned Measures (2014) Promote Integration of people with ■ Employed a high number of people ■ Further awareness-building among disabilities with severe disabilities in Germany managers and staff in handling (2010: 1,520 (4.2%); 2011: 1,551 people with disabilities (4.1%); 2012: 1,680 (4.4%)) ■ Participated in international congresses, trade shows and events ■ Hosted a conference for the agencies that represent the people with severe disabilities with approx. 80 participants ■ Expanded the video portal www.handicapTV.de ■ Expanded apprenticeship and training options for people with severe disabilities Promote a diverse workforce ■ Hosted a Diversity Conference ■ Host a third Diversity Conference ■ Carried out the Bertelsmann ■ Start building employee networks Sponsorship Project ■ Launch the Bertelsmann Exchange ■ Established a Diversity section on Initiative for worldwide employee the Bertelsmann website/homepage exchanges ■ Hosted an internal survey on ■ Have the GMC adopt a Group-wide coping with demographic change Diversity Policy in Germany ■ Develop instruments to improve a ■ Launched the “Lunch Connection stage-of-life oriented HR Policy employee network / networking events Promote employee involvement and ■ Conducted the fourth worldwide ■ Draw up Employee Survey-driven Improve working conditions Employee Survey measures at division and Group ■ Extensive analysis and discussion level in congruence with the of Employee Survey results at measures defined at company level team, company, division and Group ■ Put Employee Survey-driven level, followed by joint definition measures into practice at all levels of measures at team and company level Internal knowledge building ■ Hosted the third HR Summit as a ■ Continue developing the HR Country for HR Managers 3-day, international professional Coordination Meetings conference with approx. 100 HR ■ Regular meetings of the divisions’ managers on Challenges of the Management Development staff modern workspace ■ Prepare the concept for the HR ■ Hosted 10 events related to the HR Summit 2015 Country Coordination Meetings ■ Continue the Bertelsmann that Bertelsmann organizes in Academy’s activities and expand the various countries and regions the qualification program (France, UK, Spain, China) ■ Regular meetings of the divisions’ Management Development staff ■ Carried out the last module of the international HR Circle 8 Communication on Progress 2013 Responsibility to Employees Goals Realized Measures (2013) Planned Measures (2014) ■ The Bertelsmann Academy now offers services for the German HR departments to provide as-needed support for activities related to HR development Expand Group-widen Health ■ Hired a Health Management Officer ■ Continue working on the specified management activities for the Group health topics in the five working ■ Carried out the 1st cross-divisional groups Bertelsmann Health Management ■ Host the 2nd and 3rd crosswork-shop divisional Bertelsmann Health ■ Set up five Group-wide ‘Health’ Management work-shop in spring working groups and autumn 2014 ■ Supported 16 sites with long-term ■ Expand the management of longhealth-related measures term health measures ■ Conducted the “Fit to Work” ■ Expand Company Social Services’ campaign across Germany offerings at all German companies ■ Health projects for apprentices: in the Group Azubi Fitness Day (115 participants) and AzuBeFit&Balanced (111 participants) ■ Hosted 70.5 BeFit Health Action Days (participants in 2013: 1,326) ■ Expand the activities of the sports program in Germany (participants: 2011: 9,250, 2012: 9,450, 2013: 10,400) Training of young people ■ Clear commitment by Bertelsmann ■ Continue constant offer of apprenSE & Co. KGaA to the principle of ticeships at Group companies in dual vocational training in Germany Germany and active participation in develop■ Expand the offer of dual vocational ing training concepts for new training programs at Group compaprofessions nies in Germany ■ Constant offer of apprenticeships ■ Continue offering the dual vocaat Group companies in Germany, tional training program in Spain with an average apprenticeship ■ Have the Fundación Bertelsmann rate of 3.5 percent foundation continue to support the ■ Ongoing implementation of the Spanish government’s strategy to “Du bist Deine Zukunft” (You Are counteract youth unemployment Your Future) program – a qualification program for young people who have been unsuccessful in their search for an apprenticeship to date ■ Start a dual vocational training program in Spain with the participation of Bertelsmann companies in Barcelona ■ Implement a cross-divisional trainee program in Spain Communication on Progress 2013 9 Responsibility to Employees Goals Realized Measures (2013) Planned Measures (2014) Improve access to opportunities ■ Introduced a web-based learning ■ Continue the step-by-step, Groupfor continued training and promote management system (for approx. wide introduction of the Learning knowledge sharing three quarters of the workforce in Management System in Germany Germany) to improve transparency and abroad of the cross-divisional further ■ Promote social learning and topictraining offers and to promote the driven collaboration by introducing use of new forms of learning a Social Collaboration Tool ■ Implemented a self-directed, individual learning management scheme for employees Ethics & Compliance / Anti-Corruption Goals Realized Measures (2013) Planned Measures (2014) Promoting awareness of key ■ Distributed the updated Bertelsmann ■ Provide online and in-person standards of business conduct Code of Conduct to employees training on Code of Conduct ■ Assessed employees’ awareness ■ Follow-up results from the emploof the Code of Conduct as part of yee survey on the Code of Conduct the employee survey Promoting awareness ■ Conducted anti-corruption training ■ Expand anti-corruption training to of anti-corruption standards for senior management and emploa broader audience yees in at-risk as well as governance, risk and compliance functions ■ Implemented comprehensive communication initiatives to emphasize Bertelsmann’s zerotolerance stance on corruption and inform about anti-corruption policies and procedures ■ Launched an intranet-based AntiCorruption Resource Center offering practical tools, e.g. a checklist for conducting third party due diligence Effective compliance risk ■ Enhanced integration of key ■ Review key compliance risk topics management compliance risk topics into the Group-wide risk management system Effective incident handling ■ Assessed and processed reported ■ Update policies and procedures incidents for incident handling and conduc■ Initiated mitigating measures as ting investigations required 10 Communication on Progress 2013 Environmental and Climate Protection Goals Realized Measures (2013) Planned Measures (2014) Expand Group-wide reporting ■ Calculated the third Bertelsmann ■ Systematize the processes for on environmental and climate carbon footprint and published the Group-wide environmental data protection tons of CO2 equivalents for the collection 2012 calculation period ■ Parallel publication of other relevant key environmental indicators from the corporate divisions Promote environmental awareness ■ Held 4th international “be green ■ Hold the 5th international and environmental knowledge Day” on June 5, UN World Envi“be green Day” in 2014 of the staff ronment Day. Activities at about ■ Intensify “be green” communica40 locations in 13 countries tions in various sections of the ■ Bertelsmann apprentices qualified Bertelsmann Intranet and on the as “Climate Ambassadors” through CR pages of the Bertelsmann a train-the-multiplier workshop Homepage Increase energy ■ Discussed measures to increase ■ Derive decentralized measures at and resource efficiency energy and resource efficiency vs. the sites based on the results of the 2010 and 2012 carbon footthe carbon footprint prints, including introduction/use ■ Continue the “Green Corporate of Green IT Center“ project: Formulate medium■ Regular exchange of Best Practice term climate protection goals examples on energy efficiency and for the site, plan measures and energy sourcing on the “be green communicate to employees Team” (a task force comprised of environmental officers from all the corporate divisions) ■ Pilot project “Green Corporate Center”: Stocktaking on the degree to which ecological factors are considered in the business routine of the Corporate Center in Gütersloh Reduce CO2 emissions ■ Carbon neutralization of all com■ CO2 limits on company cars in pany-car-related fuels in Germany Germany (except G+J and RTL (except G+J and RTL Group) Group: target for 2015 = average ■ Carbon neutralization of all CO2 score of all new orders below business air travel by Gütersloh 120 g) Corporate Center employees ■ Introduce hierarchically graduated CO2 limits for company cars in Germany (except G+J and RTL Group), including the Executive Board: The target for 2013, an average CO2 score of 130 g for all newly ordered cars, was met Communication on Progress 2013 11 Bertelsmann Corporate Responsibility For more detailed information about Corporate Responsibility at Bertelsmann, operating figures and specific projects of our engagement please visit www.bertelsmann.com/responsibility Contact and further information Your Corporate Responsibility contact Barbara Kutscher Director Corporate Responsibility responsibility@bertelsmann.com Further information Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA Carl-Bertelsmann-Straße 270 33311 Gütersloh, Germany Phone +49 (0) 52 41-80-0 Fax +49 (0) 52 41-80-623 21 www.bertelsmann.com info@bertelsmann.com
