PICK N PAY Communication on Progress 2014 Introduction Pick n Pay remains committed to promoting Goodness in our operations, in our products, and in our relationships with our customers, suppliers and communities. We also continue to pursue actions that contribute to addressing climate change, socio-economic development, and building human capital through education and employment. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, Pick n Pay remains committed to uphold and promote corporate responsibility with respect to human rights, labour relations, environment and anti-corruption. We submit our Communication on Progress (COP), publically demonstrating support for the Global Compact’s Ten Principles. This COP covers our activities for the Financial Year ending in February 2014 and references the Pick n Pay Integrated Annual Report for 2014. Further information on some of these topics will be available in our full Sustainable Living Report 2013 and Sustainable Living online content. Statement from the CEO Pick n Pay continues to uphold its legacy of leadership on environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. As one of the biggest food retailers in a country facing significant poverty, inequality and unemployment challenges, we take significant steps to provide affordable food, while also providing employment, economic opportunities and enterprise development throughout the value chain. This is not only good; it also makes good business sense. My vision for Pick n Pay is to continue providing food that is affordable, safe and nutritious to all our customers and to grow our business in a way that makes our products and services accessible to more people, including many people who have not previously enjoyed access – either physical or economic – to the benefits of a modern, safe and commercial food economy. I am proud of the leadership that Pick n Pay has shown in recent years through many initiatives, such as assisting new emerging suppliers to grow through our collaboration with the Ackerman Pick n Pay Foundation, in leading the way on seafood sustainability and climate change, and in helping countless community based organisations which seek support through our stores. I look forward to increasing our impact in these and other areas as we further grow and strengthen our business. Our priority in 2014 has been to make further progress in implementing our sustainability strategy, deepening its impact within the Group and ensuring that it adds value for our customers, our business and broader society. Our sustainability governance structure continues to provide us with oversight, performance management and reporting. We see our sustainability strategy as inextricably linked to our business strategy, shaping our thinking and actions in two broad areas:  Ensuring that we become a more resilient business in the face of increasing environmental and related pressures both in the short term (e.g. fuel and electricity price increases) and in the longer term (e.g. food and water security linked to climate change).  Seeking to add more value to society by helping our customers, suppliers and other stakeholders meet sustainability challenges and opportunities. Thank you Richard Brasher Chief Executive Officer Summary of PnP activities with respect to the Global Compact Ten Principles Global Compact Statement Reference to further Principle information in the Pick n Pay Integrated Annual Report 2014* and Sustainable Living Report 2013** 1. Support and Pick n Pay remains committed to uphold human rights principles. SR Empowering our respect the This commitment is supported by our recently published Code of people page 27 protection of Ethics which encompasses elements of the South African SR Supporting international Constitution as well as the principles of the Universal Declaration on communities in their human rights Human Rights. contribution to within their change page 29 sphere of Our core values are premised on customer sovereignty, our Company code of influence. employees and supporting the communities we serve. We comply ethics *** with all labour laws and regulations in South Africa and ensure that our employees are treated fairly. Our Code of Ethics and internal code of conduct policy stipulates that we do not support discrimination in any form. Pick n Pay is committed to playing a key role in the economic empowerment of historically disadvantaged South Africans throughout our value chain. We do this by developing and mentoring small enterprises and supporting small suppliers. We also ensure our suppliers comply with human rights requirements, such as basic conditions of employment, environmental and fair labour practices. We continue our support for initiatives that promote food security, paying particular attention to providing those most in need with easier access to affordable, healthy food and clothing. During the year under review, Pick n Pay donated more than R15 million worth of food to Food Bank South Africa and established 113 community food gardens through the Ackerman Pick n Pay Foundation. 2. Make sure We comply with all applicable legislation with respect to human SR Safe and their own rights. Beyond complying with legal requirements, Pick n Pay’s sustainable product corporations Diversity Management Programme helps employees engage skilfully lines page 11 are not on issues of inclusiveness. We view diversity in terms of age, gender, SR Building a complicit in race and physical ability. This is further supported by our internal resilient supplier human rights policies on Diversity and Employment equity and Transformation. network page 15 abuses. To manage human rights and ethical risks in our supply chain, we continue to drive our local supplier engagement programme Through their supplier agreements, Pick n Pay suppliers are required to ensure workers’ health, safety and welfare. We also promote ethical supplier practices by sourcing and selling specific ethical product lines from third party certified producers such as Fairtrade. 3. Freedom of We support freedom of association and recognise the right of SR Empowering our association employees to join trade unions and collective bargaining. Freedom people page 27 and the of association in our company is in accordance with all relevant local effective labour legislation. recognition of We maintain constructive relationships with all representative the right to unions. Appointed shop stewards and company managers hold collective regular meeting to discuss employee related issues. bargaining. 4. The All employment is aligned to national legal requirements, and we SR Building a elimination of firmly oppose all forms of forced and compulsory labour. resilient supplier all forms of Our employees are provided with labour contracts in accordance network page 15 forced and with relevant labour legislation, and are free to resign at any time. SR Safe and compulsory All complaints and labour disputes are handled in accordance with sustainable product labour. legal requirements, and are managed by the Human Resources lines page 11 management. This principle is supported in our supplier agreements, as well as through auditing standards such as the GLOBALG.A.P. 5. The effective We strongly oppose the use of child labour, as defined by the SR Building a abolition of International Labour Organization (ILO). This commitment is resilient supplier child labour. stipulated in our Code of Ethics. network page 15 As part of our commitment to supporting national employment objectives, we train and provide opportunities for school leavers and graduates. All training and employment opportunities are provided in accordance with within ILO requirements. Compliance with all national legal requirements regarding employee age is continually monitored and is the responsibility of the Director of Human Resources. 6. The We are committed to pursuing South Africa’s national goal of a nonSR Empowering our elimination of discriminatory society. Our Organisational Development department people page 27 discriminatio coordinates and facilitates relevant programmes, including n in respect affirmative action interventions and diversity awareness and of management programmes. These highlight the importance of employment accepting that no culture, race, ethnicity, religion or gender is and superior or inferior to the other. occupation. We do not tolerate discrimination on the basis of race, culture, gender, disability or any similar basis. Our labour relations policies have no tolerance to discriminatory offences within our workforce. Pick n Pay is committed to fostering a diverse and representative workforce. We have incorporated these considerations in our recruitment and procurement processes, as well as training offerings. 7. Support a We follow the precautionary approach to environmental SR Safe and precautionary management across several areas (energy and carbon reduction, sustainable product approach to waste management). This approach also applies to ensuring the lines page 11 environment environmental health and safety of our foods, which is a key SR Working for a al challenges. strategic priority. We have audits in place to monitor this area and clean and healthy our technical department engages continually with suppliers on environment page these issues. 21 8. Undertake Environmental responsibility forms part of our broader sustainability SR Working for a initiatives to strategy. Putting effort toward a clean and healthy environment clean and healthy promote makes good business sense. environment page greater 21 environment We have developed an internal energy policy, and will soon be al formalising our policy on waste management, and other responsibility. environmental management issues. These policies lay out our commitments and plans that will define how we make a difference. In addition, a number of environmentally focused initiatives are underway across our operations such as energy and water saving initiatives. We have met our carbon reduction targets before our 2015 deadline. During our last financial year, Pick n Pay was the only retailer to be included in the Climate Performance Leadership Index (CPLI) and the top retailer in the Disclosure and Performance band of the Consumer Staples category of the Carbon Disclosure Project. Beyond our operations, we work to drive awareness of relevant environmental issues throughout our network of influence. This encompasses sourcing, in-store practices and some post-consumer initiatives such as recycling and community clean up campaigns. We have been in a partnership with World Wide Fund (WWF) For Nature South Africa (WWF-SA). As core funder and sustainable seafood partner of the WWF-SA, we are well on track to meeting our commitment to stock only sustainably-source seafood by the end of 2015. 9. Encourage Pick n Pay has publically committed to promoting environmental and SR Safe and the social innovation across all our operations and engagements. sustainable product development We work with our suppliers, logistics network, waste management lines page 11 and diffusion partners, and industry bodies to encourage the development and SR Building a of uptake of environmentally responsible technologies and practices. resilient supplier environment Pick n Pay also strives to make it easier for our customers to be network page 15 ally friendly ethical and eco-friendly. SR Working for a technologies. Our suppliers: We partner with fresh produce suppliers to clean and healthy encourage sustainable farming practices, to source sustainable environment page ingredients and products, and to reduce packaging. 21 SR Enhancing Our facilities: We have implemented energy efficiency measures governance and throughout our operations, and installed online metering in all our accountability page corporate stores to manage consumption levels. Some of our stores 34 implement green design principles which incorporate a range of environmentally friendly technologies. Our packaging technologists work with packaging suppliers to reduce packaging and/or increase levels of recycled content where possible. We are exploring a range of solutions to divert waste from landfill disposal. Addressing industry issues: Through industry bodies, such as the Consumer Goods Forum, we seek collaborative solutions to issues requiring collective action, such as sustainable sourcing and traceability of ingredients. Pick n Pay is a founding partner of the South African National Biodiversity Network, which aims to facilitate engagement with business sectors, industries and other stakeholders to promote the integration of biodiversity considerations into business. 10. Work Pick n Pay is committed to upholding effective good governance IR Corporate against practices throughout our organisation. Our Board of Directors holds governance report: corruption in formal accountability for ethical leadership, sustainability and good all its forms, corporate citizenship. page 42 including The Group’s commitment to good corporate governance is woven extortion through every aspect of the management structure. We remain and bribery. committed to complying in all material respects with the principles contained in the King Code of Corporate Practices and Conduct (King III), as well as to the additional requirements for good corporate governance stipulated in the JSE Limited (“JSE”) SRI Index. *IR is used as an abbreviation for our Pick n Pay Integrated Annual Report for 2014 available online at: http://www.picknpayinvestor.co.za/financials/annual_reports/2014/index.php **SR is used as an abbreviation for our bi-annual sustainability report. The Pick n Pay Sustainable Living Report 2013 available online at: http://www.picknpay.co.za/picknpay/action/media/downloadFile?media_fileid=28740 ***Code of Ethics http://www.picknpayinvestor.co.za/code_of_ethics.php
