CUSTOMER Financial Stability SATISFACTION DONGBU INSURANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MANAGEMENT COMMUNICATION WITH EMPLOYEES PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY FULFILLMENT INCREASING BRAND VALUE EMPLOYEE EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS AND COOPERATION WITH THE LABOR AND MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENTS IN Sustainability Report 2013 WORKING ENVIRONMENT FOR EMPLOYEES ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION ACTIVITIES WIN-WIN GROWTH WITH CLAIMS S E R V I C E PA R T N E R COEXISTENCE WITH SALES PARTNERS SOCIAL CONTRIBUT I O N A C T I V I T I E S FINANCIAL STABILITY CSV FINANCIAL INNOVATION MANAGEMENT PROTECTION OF HUS TA B I L I T Y MAN RIGHTS AND COCOEXISTENCE WITH Dongbu Financial Center, 432, Teheran-ro OPERATION WITH THE Gangnam, Seoul, S.Korea 135-523 LABOR AND MANSALES PARTNERS www.idongbu.com AGEMENT DEVELOPING OVERSEA PROJECT AND NEW BUSINESS CONTENTS Objective Introduction This report is focused to provide precise information on our sustainability management CEO’s message 02 vision, strategies, and activities to all stakeholders, in goal of reflecting their opinions to enhance our The foundation of responsibility and credibility sustainability management policies and decision-making process. About Dongbu Insurance Company status 06 Corporate governance 10 Risk management 13 Report highlights The fourth biannual report emphasizes on the sustainability management activities by the stakeholders. Major reflective assessment was conducted based on internal Sustainability management and external policies and regulation, media research, interviews and surveys. Sustainability management strategy system 16 This report prioritizes on the activities and achievements made from the major issues raised based on the assessment. DMA(Disclosure on Management Approach) was Stakeholder engagement 18 created through the use of quantitative and qualitative performances from each field 20 Materiality test and identification of major issues of expertise. Pages have been marked for further understanding of the performances, which can be found towards the end of the report. Sustainability management initiative UNGC 22 Sustainability management achievement DJSI 23 Reporting period Ethical management We publish sustainability report every two years. This fourth report Strengthening ethical management 24 covers the period from FY2011 to FY2012 (from April 1st 2011 to March 31st 2013), while the activities and performances after the period are also included in order to provide the stakeholders with more accurate information. Fulfillment of social responsibilities and creating value Customers Partners Reporting principles Major issue 1. Customer satisfaction management 31 Major issue 13. Cooperation with sales partners 69 Major issue 2. Product responsibility fulfillment 34 Major issue 14. Win-Win growth with claims service partners 72 This report is created with the reference to the Major issue 3. Customer communication 36 Partner achievements 75 G3.1 Reporting Guidelines of GRI (Global Customer performance 39 Reporting Initiative), the Financial Service Sector Local communities Supplement of GRI, and BEST guideline. Shareholders and investors This report was verified by the Institute for Major issue 15. Social contribution activities 79 Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) with the best Major issue 4. Financial stability 45 Major issue 16. Communication with local community 82 result to ensure the reliability and accuracy. Major issue 5. Management innovation 47 Major issue 6. Overseas projects and new business 48 Environment Major issue 7. Increasing brand value 50 Performance for shareholders and investors 51 Major issue 17. Environment protection activities 87 Major issue 18. Climate change response 91 Reporting scope Employees Environmental achievements 92 This report covers performances of the Dongbu Insurance Headquarters, domestic business sites Major issue 8. Fair performance evaluation and reward 55 including regional head offices and service centers. The oversea branches and offices are not Major issue 9. Communication with employees 56 included. In addition, environmental data is centered on the date of the Headquarters. Major issue 10. Improvements in working environment 58 The currency unit used in this report is the Korean Won(KRW). Major issue 11. Employee education and training 59 Major issue 12. Protection of human rights and cooperation with 63 labor and management Employee performance 64 Preparation for the future creating shared value DONGBU Creating shared value 96 Efforts to creating shared value 97 Plans to creating shared value 98 Appendix INSURANCE Third party’s assurance report 100 GRI G3.1 Index 104 History 110 Awards and recognitions 111 Memberships in associations and organizations 112 Dear Stakeholders and supporters of Dongbu Insurance, I would like to offer my utmost gratitude for your steady support and firm belief in Dongbu Insurance. Despite the global economic crisis that has resulted in many difficulties, Dongbu Insurance has been able to lay a firm foundation for stable growth through its sustainability management. To maintain a strong standing through the enduring crisis, we are doing our utmost to equip the Company with a unique strategy and management performance. To that end, we are continuously promoting a variety of sustainability management activities through a differentiated overall strategy for improved performance and a balanced commitment to the environment and society. In 2013, we established a CSR office that coordinates our sustainability management and where the Sustainability Management Committee, the highest decision making organization, is actively involved with the CEO. In order to contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and other pollutants related to climate change, we are participating in the Carbon Disclo02 sure Project, developing environmentally friendly policies, and promoting a 03 Green Procurement Policy. In addition, our company executives and managers are actively helping the socially neglected through the Promy Volunteer Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance Corps. At the same time, we are sponsoring the grant-matching Promy Heart Fund, where volunteer work and donations are helping to realize to a better society. Through the development of Since joining the UN Global Compact in 2011, we have followed its Ten Principles and have implemented our own programs aimed at providing not only better working conditions, but also fair labor management. innovative insurance products and Through the development of innovative insurance products and the safeguarding of customers’ personal data, we are aiming to create an insurance the safeguarding of customers’ culture in which everyone benefits. personal data, we are aiming to Thanks to its sustainability management achievements, in 2013 Dongbu Insurance was named a DJSI World member, acknowledgement that the Company’s ranks among the global leaders in sustainability management create an insurance culture in which policies. We are proud to be the nation’s first insurance company to receive such recognition. everyone benefits. Our achievements do not mean, however, that we can rest on our laurels. Rather, we will continue striving to become a global corporation seeking to communicate with our stakeholders in pursuit of a better society. Thank you. October 2013 Kim Jeong-nam, President and CEO of Dongbu Insurance LEADING INSURANCE COMPANY – LEVEL SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMIZATION By meeting customers’ needs and implementing responsible sustainability management, Dongbu Insurance aims to stand shoulder to shoulder with global industry leaders as world-leading insurance and finance group. Fulfillment of social responsibility and creating value 31 Customers 45 Shareholders and investors 55 Employees Major issue 1. Major issue 4. Major issue 8. Customer satisfaction management Financial Stability Fair performance evaluation and reward Major issue 2. Major issue 5. Major issue 9. Product responsibility fulfillment Management Innovation Communication with employees Major issue 3. Major issue 6. Major issue 10. Customer communication Overseas projects and new business Improvements in working environment Customer performance Major issue 7. Major issue 11. Increasing brand value Employee education and training Performance for shareholders and investors Major issue 12. The foundation of responsibility and Protection of human rights and cooperation with labor and management credibility Employee performance 06 About Dongbu Insurance 16 Sustainability management 24 Ethical management 69 Partners 79 Local communities 87 Environment Company status Sustainability management strategy system Strengthening ethical management Major issue 13. Major issue 15. Major issue 17. Corporate governance Stakeholder engagement Cooperation with sales partners Social contribution activities Environmental protection activities Risk management Materiality test and identification of Major issue 14. Major issue 16. Major issue 18. major issues Win-Win growth with claims service Communication with local community Climate change response Sustainability management initiative UNGC partners Sustainability management achievement DJSI Environmental achievements Partner achievements About Dongbu Insurance Company status 1. Company profile Dongbu Insurance was founded in 1962 as the first automobile insurance company in Korea. It was incorporated into the Dongbu Group in 1982 and became Dongbu InsurCompany profile [as of March, 2013] ance Co., Ltd. in October 1995. Dongbu Insurance has since grown to become Korea’s leading comprehensive insurance Company name Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. company through a management philosophy prioritizing cusHeadquarter Dongbu Financial Center, 432, Teheran-ro, Gangnam tomer satisfaction and sound financial structure. Seoul, S.Korea 135-523 To achieve its vision of ‘A global Insurance Financial Group Date of March 2, 1962 that Pursues a Happy Society with Customers’, the company establishment emphasizes three initiatives — globalization, specialization, CEO Kim Jeong-nam and maximization of value — along with companywide efforts for communication with stakeholders to maintain susNetwork [Domestic] 58 branches, 13 service centers 06 tainable growth. (includes OS team) 07 [Overseas] 4 branches (Guam, Hawaii, California, New York) 4 offices (Beijing, Ho Chi Minh, London, Jakarta) Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance As a result, in 2013 the company recorded KRW 9.6925 trillion in direct premiums, 6.8% growth on the previous year, Paid-in capital KRW 35.4 billion and net profit of KRW 413 billion. No. of employees 5,164 Total KRW 2.7561 trillion 7.6 6.4 Dongbu Insurance shareholders’ equity 14.0 A Company 14.2 B Company Total asset KRW 21.1894 trillion C Company · No. of employees include contract-basis workers 16.1 15.4 D Company E Company 26.3 Other [Organization chart] [Subsidiaries] 2. Organization and subsidiaries Company headquarters comprises 12 divisions with 21 BOD Company name Major business Date of establishment Paid-in capital (KRW) No. of shares held Ownership Management support bureau Dongbu Life Insurance Life insurance Apr. 14, 1989 193.3 billion 23.63 million 81.5% teams and 55 departments. Headquarters sets the vision Customer & product support bureau and strategies for the entire company and establishes poliClaims service bureau Dongbu Securities Financial investment Dec. 20, 1982 212.2 billion 8.46 million 19.9% cies for each business segment. Nationwide, 8 head offices, Asset management division Dongbu Insurance Claim Claims adjustment Feb. 29, 1984 1 billion 200,000 100.0% Individuals business division 58 branches, and 7 customer services centers are in operaAdjustment New business division tion. In addition, 13 nationwide claim service centers along Corporate business division Dongbu CAS* Claims adjustment for third insurance Mar. 17, 2011 300 million 60,000 100.0% with call centers and telecommuting call centers in Seoul Dongbu CSI** Claims adjustment for third insurance Mar. 17, 2011 200 million 40,000 100.0% and Jeonju deal with customer claims and services. Dongbu MnS*** Insurance and broking agent Feb. 22, 2013 10 billion 2 million 100.0% The Company has 7 subsidiaries: Dongbu Life Insurance, Audit committee Dongbu CNS**** Claims adjustment and other financial Mar. 17, 2011 200 million 40,000 100.0% Management committee CEO support services Dongbu Securities, Dongbu Insurance Claim Adjustment, Outside director nomination committee Dongbu CAS, Dongbu CSI, Dongbu CNS, and Dongbu MnS. Risk management committee * Dongbu claim adjustment & settlement ** Dongbu claim survey & investigation *** Dongbu marketing and service **** Dongbu customer & network service Compensation About Dongbu Insurance Company status [Overseas network] 4. Products and services Overseas branches : Guam, Hawaii, California, New York Overseas offices : Beijing, Ho Chi Minh, London, Jakarta Dongbu Insurance develops and offers its customers insurance products that can protect them from various risks. At Joint venture : Qingdao the same time, the Company fulfills its corporate social responsibilities by developing products that take social and environmental aspects into consideration. We also make effort to protect customers’ properties and enhance their health management by providing a variety of services after purchase of our insurance products. [Products] Category Details Major products London Automobile Legal compensation for the injuries and the damages in car accident Personal Auto Insurance, Business Auto Insurance, Commercial Auto Insurance Beijing New York Driver & Compensating for injuries in daily life and while driving Smart Driver Insurance, Family Love Driver Insurance Qingdao accidents Bravo Driver Insurance California Convergence One integrated compensation for risks which arise in daily life Smart Convergence Insurance, Family Life Insurance 08 Ho Chi Minh Hawaii Health Compensating for medical expenses, including costs of treatment My Life Plus Total Insurance, 09 Guam and hospital charges 100-Year-Old Youth Insurance, Must Needed Cancer Insurance, Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance Jakarta Smart Diabetes CI Insurance Income Compensating for the financial loss due to after-effect of My Family Guarantee Insurance compensation the accident or disease Children & Compensating for diseases and injuries of children Smart Child Love Insurance studying abroad International Student Insurance Pension & Saving product which eases economic burdens on Smart Pension Insurance, Gold Plus Partner Insurance savings the customers after their retirement Wells Plus Insurance Travel & leisure Covering risk during travelling and/or leisure activities Outdoor Leisure Insurance, Travelers Insurance 3. Shareholder constitution Fire & Compensating for damages from fires and disasters Fire Plus Guarantee Insurance disaster • Anti-natural disaster insurance is supported partially by the government. Smart Family Total Insurance As of 31st March 2013, three major shareholders held 26.00% of the Company shares. The Dongbu Cultural Foundation owns The government pays some of the insurance fees Anti-Natural Disaster Insurance 5.00%, while overseas investors and individual shareholders hold 37.13% and 21.27% respectively. Treasury stocks accounted Loan Making loans for economic stability of the customers Insurance Contract Loan, Real Estate/ Mortgage Loan for 10.60% of the total. Automobile / Credit Load, Share-Purchase Loan [Major shareholders] [as of March 31, 2013] [unit: share] [Services] 4.07 % 7.87 % Kim Ju-won 5.00 % Category Car care service Details Car inspection, 10% discount on the service charges, car history management Kim Jun-ki No. of shares 2,879,640 Dongbu Cultural Foundation 14.06 10.60 Promy health care • Health Care Service: Telephone counseling with the specialized medical staff,, provides health contents, No. of shares 5,568,500 No. of shares 3,539,070 service special treatment reservation % % • Online Health Management Program : Online health management program and health counseling Kim Nam-ho Treasury stocks Funeral service Providing total funeral service for the customers No. of shares 9,951,520 No. of shares 7,501,660 Will-managing Offering first of its kind, to manage the Will, its privacy and safety through the experts in agency service law as well as managing the inheritance issues. SOS emergency sevice Offering quick and accurate service through 560 designated Promy World branches nationwide 37.13 % 100.00 % 21.27 % On-site dispatch service Auto care service Offering quick and accurate on-site service through 540 designated Promy World branches nationwide Offering 36-item auto inspection service, maintenance history management service, repaired car delivery service, Total car sanitation service through 400 Promy World Service Centers. Foreign investors Others No. of shares 70,800,000 Promy car service Offering car inspection service, maintenance history management service, repaired car delivery service, No. of shares 26,289,760 No. of shares 15,063,850 car registration service, car inspection agency service, car sanitation service About Dongbu Insurance Corporate governance 1. Status of BOD 2. Operation of BOD [BOD records] No. of meetings held [case] As of the end of June 2013*, the Board of Directors (BOD) Under the BOD, five committees – the Management CommitThe BOD must meet on at least a quarterly basis, but emerSubmitted issues [case] Attendance rate [%] comprised two inside directors and three outside directors. tee, the Risk Management Committee, the Outside Director gency meetings can also be convened at the direction of the The two inside directors are the CEO and a full-time auditor. Nomination Committee, Compensation Committee and the Chairman or a designated director if necessary. Outside directors account for 60% of the Board, thus satisfyAudit Committee – are in operation according to the relevant 9 0.0 0.0 4. 10 10 ing the legal requirement of 50% or higher. laws and the Articles of Incorporation. Each committee reThe CEO of Dongbu Insurance is the Chairman of the BOD. 9 * As of the end of June 2013, due to change in committee structure views and decides on matters consigned by the BOD as well To increase the BOD’s exactitude and objectivity, one of the 31 28 as general and frequent issues that require swift decisions. outside directors is appointed Senior Outside Director. In 14 10 28 12 2013, the Senior Outside Director was Lee Su-hyu. [BOD members ] (as of the end of June, 2013 until now*) 2010 2011 2012 In order to ensure fair and efficient in the decision-making * As of the end of June 2013, due to change in committee structure processes and to prevent conflicts of interest, at least half of the directors must be present at all meetings. 10 In addition, a majority of those in attendance must approve 3. BOD’s pursuit of specialties Inside director Outside director 11 the passage of resolutions. Directors who cannot use their The members of the BOD are all experts in the financial invoting rights due to personal interest issues are excluded Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance dustry who possess broad knowledge and experience in from voting regardless of whether they are present or not. their fields. While the current BOD comprises all male memKim Jeong-nam Ahn Hyeong-jun Lee Su-hyu Kim Seon-jeong Park Sang-yong The BOD handles issues related to the shareholders’ meetbers, the Company recruits experts in their field of specialty [President and [Full-time auditor] [Senior outside director] [Outside director member of the [Outside director member of the CEO BOD chairman] • Insurance supervision board, • Vice minister of finance audit committee] audit committee] ing, the company’s management and financial status, and regardless of race, gender, or disability. • Head of new business division • Insurance office at the ministry • President of the bank • Professor of law at Dongguk Univ. • Advisor of Youl Chon Chemical directors and executives. Social and environmental factors • Head of individual business division of finance. inspection board • Member of financial grievance Co., Ltd are also considered in the process of decision-making. settlement committee at the • Secretary general of fair trade To recruit only the best external staff with specialties in the financial supervisory service commission insurance industry, the Outside Director Nomination ComShareholders may freely present to the BOD agenda items mittee nominates candidates based on their expertise, obfor the general shareholders’ meeting. Questions on projectiveness, fairness, experience in their field, and the level of [BOD and committees] posed items and requests for explanation can be made at comprehension in sustainability management. Nominees are shareholders’ meetings. finalized by the BOD and the shareholders’ meeting. Audit Management Risk Outside director Compensation management nomination [Major issues raised in the BOD] [2011] committee committee committee committee committee Date Description Agreed / Disagreed Presence of outside director Independent auditing on Supporting the operation Overseeing management Selecting candidates for Reviewing the adequacy accounting and work, of the BOD by dealing risk effectively, estaboutside directors through of compensation for the 2011. 04. 28 The 44th financial statement & sales report approval case and 2 other cases Agreed 3/3 surveying the status of with matters related to lishing risk policies, and a fair appointment promanagement and emsales and assets and t h e c o m p a n y ’s m a n deciding risk levels and cess ployees, following legal 2011. 05. 20 The 44th regular stockholders meeting & approval of minor suggestions and Agreed 3/3 evaluating outside audiagement that are of an limits observance and submit2 other cases tors urgent or/and frequent ting results 2011. 06. 10 Election of outside director and 2 other cases Agreed 3/3 need 2011. 06. 30 Election of executive officer Agreed 3/3 2011. 08. 10 PF loan case for Re-development of pungmu 2 region in Kimpo and Agreed 3/3 3 other cases 2011. 09. 30 Dongbu construction BW purchasing case and 3 other cases Agreed 3/3 2011. 11. 05 Filed Report: FY’11 2nd quarter management performance summary, Agreed 3/3 major driving force and plans BOD 2011. 12. 23 Dongbu Insurance stock buying case and 3 other cases Agreed 3/3 2012. 03. 09 Dongbu Hightech Syndicated management and other major changes Agreed 3/3 About Dongbu Insurance Corporate governance Risk management [Major issues raised in the BOD] [2012] 1. Risk management policy and strategy 2) Risk management organization’s structure and function Date Description Agreed / Disagreed Presence of outside director 1) Policy The company’s Risk Management organization comprises Risk is defined as the potential or possibility of negative 2012. 04. 30 The 45th financial statement & sales report approval case Agreed 3/3 the Risk Management Committee, the Risk Management impact on financial status and/or making profit during the 2012. 05. 24 The 45th regular stockholders meeting & approval of minor suggestions and Agreed 3/3 Administrative Committee, the Risk Management Specialty company’s business management process. The company 2 other cases Division, and the Risk Management Division. measures the significance of risk-causing factors through 2012. 06. 13 Election of executive officer and 5 other cases Agreed 3/3 risk management and decides on a suitable approach to risk [Risk management organization’s structure] 2012. 07. 09 Dongbu Insurance’s convertible preferred stock purchase case and 1 other case Agreed 3/3 avoidance or reduction. BOD 2012. 08. 07 Dongbu Capital CP Discounted Loan extension case Agreed 3/3 Risk management committee 2012. 11. 30 Renewing internal control policy case and 1 other case Agreed 3/3 2) Strategy Risk management administrative committee 2012. 12. 26 Foundation of sales subsidiaries case and 1 other case Agreed 3/3 Dongbu Insurance maintains a level of risk appropriate to its Financial insurance Insurance risk sector Investment sector 2013. 01. 31 Election of management executive Agreed 3/3 capital availability by categorizing risks and managing and sector 2013. 02. 06 Dongbu capital stock purchase case Agreed 3/3 setting capital limits. This allows for the maximization of Insurance risk management Asset risk management specialty 12 company value as well as the attainment of stable financial Specialty division (insurance RM part) division (asset RM part) 13 2013. 02. 28 FY’13 business plan confirmation case and 6 other cases Agreed 3/3 income. Strict standards for asset distribution, limit setting, Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance 2013. 03. 27 Election of management executive Agreed 3/3 and guidelines are created to monitor and control the relInsurance Interest Market risk Credit risk Operational risk rate risk risk evant activities. All divisions Moreover, by integrating risk management organizations and Financial planning / Investment strategy, creating a separate Insurance Risk Management division reAsset management and financing 4. Director evaluation and compensation sponsible for managing insurance risk, and Asset Risk ManFinancial planning / Assessment, Asset management and financing In September 2010, Dongbu Insurance established the Comis posted on the company website. All executive members agement responsible for assessing asset risk and relevant Financial planning / Investment strategy, pensation Committee to devise a reward system for manof Dongbu Insurance reinforce the importance of ethics and processes such as market and credit risk management, the Asset management and financing, Insurance repair division agement and employees according to their performance abide by the social responsibilities of the “Charter of Corpocompany is able to manage risk in a more specialized and Underwriting (Automobile, Organ, Properties, Special insurance etc.) and and achievement. Reward for management is based on their rate Governance”. accurate fashion. insurance repair division etc. achievement in business planning, performance in sustainability management, and commercial activity in accordance with social and environmental considerations. The evaluation (1) Risk management committee of this process is carried out by the Compensation Commit6. Audit committee 2. Risk management process and The Risk Management Committee oversees all risk affecttee and finalized through the shareholders’ meeting. organization ing the company by setting risk allowance limits, supervisOperating independently of the BOD and the executive organization, the Audit Committee audits the effectiveness 1) Process ing possible management risk, and establishing policy. The The establishment of the Compensation Committee has enand performance of the Company’s overall internal control [Dongbu insurance's process of risk management] Committee meets at least once every quarter and emergenhanced the fairness and transparency in the performance system, making assessments and finding areas for improvecy meetings can be convened whenever necessary. evaluation and reward system for management through ment. Audit Committee members are appointed at the shareevaluation of its business performance, regular inspection Recognizing The risks are divided into insurance, interest rate, (2) Risk management administrative committee holders’ meeting. An outside director is designated as the risk market, credit risk of whether or not the reward system is related to financial head of the Committee to emphasize fairness. The Risk Management Administrative Committee supports risks, and annual review of compensation carried out indethe Risk Management Committee on risk in regarding rapidly pendently from management. Measurement and evaluation on credit Additionally, the Audit Team, which operates directly under Measuring risk, shift risk, management risk. Observing changing financial markets. It also devises risk management and the Audit Committee, regularly conducts audits and reports evaluating Maintaining constant, daily, weekly, risk strategies. risk the results to the BOD. The Audit Committee reports audits monthly monitoring system. and penalties at least once to the BOD. In FY2012, a total of (3) Risk management specialty division 5. Corporate governance This Division is responsible for the overall operation of Risk 263 audits were carried out with 22 penalties or punishments Management on the contingency plan and operating Controlling risk To maintain sound corporate governance that promotes acted upon. on risk management administration committee Management by assessing, managing, controlling, and remanagement transparency and effectiveness, Dongbu Insurporting all related to risks and possible risks. The division is ance enacted the “Charter of Corporate Governance”, which operated independently of the planning/sales/asset management department and supports the Risk Management Committee and Risk Management Administrative Committee. About Dongbu Insurance Risk management The major activities of the Division include establishing an RBC ratio has never fallen below 150% during any crisis. In 4. Risk management strategy [BCM: Business Continuity Management] annual risk management plan, setting risk limits, managing addition, the Company maintains analysis of capital through and distributing asset risk, reporting regularly on risk manchanges made in risk factors, and is always prepared for any The Company’s management strategy and planning in relaagement status, managing issues regarding the operation of changes in profit, loss, or capital value. tion to risk management is assessed and approved annually Regular situation the Committees, announcing the Committees’ decisions and by the Risk Management Board. Effective capital management is ensured through regular monitoring. Setting its aftercare, and operating the risk management system. On [as of March 2013, unit : KRW million] framework 1st April 2013, the Asset RM Division and Insurance RM DiEffect on Profit Effect on the vision were separated in order to for them specialize in their Category Specific risk management strategies are as follows: and Loss Capital Monitoring and Analysis on respective fields. KRW/USD Exchange Rate: education work influence 1,806 0 • Risk appetite such as total risk rate and RBC rate goals KRW 100 Increase • Individual risk capital distribution through RBC (4) Risk management division KRW/USD Exchange Rate: -1,806 0 • Risk limits (VAR/Exposure/Loss/Loss cut/ Concentration limits) in Simulation Risk KRW 100 Decrease The Risk Management Division designates a deputy for risk consideration of the ideal capital portfolio and guidelines training assessment management and reports the results of risk allowance based Interest Rate: 100 bp Increase -49,135 -409,789 • ALM strategy for interest risk management • Re-insurance management strategy including insurance risk limits on detailed supervision of relevant risks. Furthermore, the Interest Rate: 100 bp Decrease 50,100 417,838 Preparing alternative Setting Division is responsible for implementing and reporting deheadquarters strategy Stock Price Index: 10% Increase 2,838 183,667 14 cisions made by the Risk Management Committee and the Setting plans 15 Risk Management Administrative Committee. Stock Price Index: 10% Decrease -2,838 -183,667 Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance 5. Risk management for economic crises The Company monitors, analyzes, and prepares responses Disaster-affected situation 3. Current risk management status 3) Risk management operating regulations to possible risk-related scenarios that could influence its fi1) Assessment of capital adequacy and management Risk management regulations, Risk Management Committee nancial status. Additionally, possible effects on the balance Prevention of further regulations, and risk management administrative regulations sheet/income statement, solvency rate, liquidity, asset/liabilEmergency response plan damage and minimizing Dongbu Insurance has been assessing the transparency of its effects are used as the standard model for risk management operaity value, and shareholders’ value are all regularly examined its equity capital based on the Risk Based Capital (RBC) systions. Overall management of the Committee’s activities and and macroand micro-economic factors taken into considInitial tem since April 2009. As of March 2013, the Company’s RBC Re-activating significant eration. In regard to crisis analysis, the Company considers reaction Business resumption plan work process regulations and is carried out based on the roles of the risk plan ratio stood at 254.6%. The supervisory board makes it commanagement organization, risk strategies, risk measures in not only past scenarios (such as the 1997 Asian Financial pulsory to maintain the ratio at the minimum 100%, thereby each sector, limit management, emergency situation analyCrisis, the events of 9 September 2001, and the 2008 Global Restoration of main maintaining a high degree of capital transparency. Disaster recovery plan offices and stabilizing sis, and reports. Financial Crisis), but also hypothetical ones. work process [as of March 2013. unit: KRW million] A Contingency Plan is also in place in case of emergencies RBC rate 254.6% 4) Limit setting management such as an abrupt reduction in premiums, rapid increase in Availability 2,972,632 insurance payments, sudden variance in risk factors, severe Standard availability 1,167,590 In accordance with RBC regulation standards, required capidecrease in national or corporate credibility, or the breaktal is distributed through each and every risk sector (insurDistribution effect* 478,467 down of data systems. Such cases are classified as Level 3 ance, interest rate, market, credit and management risk) and Ⅰ. Insurance risk 656,831 crises and possible countermeasures are examined. managed by setting limits. The Risk Management AdminisⅡ. Interest risk 204,218 trative Committee approves the limits for each sector. ReleⅢ. Creditability risk 635,294 vant issues are regularly monitored, controlled, and reported Ⅳ. Market risk 49,189 to the Committees and executive teams. Ⅴ. Management risk 100,525 6. Disasters management * Distribution Effect: ( I+II+III+IV+V) Standard Availability In areas where its is based — Daechi-dong, Cho-dong, and 5) Risk management system Yeouido in Seoul, and major areas outside the capital — the Based on its Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Project, the Company Business Continuity Plan provides guidelines for 2) Analysis of crisis and risk factors Company has established an ERM Governance Individual operational procedure during disasters such as epidemics, Risk Management system (insurance, interest rate, market, typhoons, earthquakes, blackouts, terrorist attacks, data The Company analyzes any state of crisis or risk factors on and credit risk) and a Risk Data Warehouse that utilizes ERM process failures, radioactive contamination, and war. the basis of IMF and the 2008 global economic crisis, run planning, individual asset risk estimation, and stress testing. by the supervisory board. Since March 2013, the Company’s Sustainability Management Sustainability management strategy system 1. Sustainability management system 1) Characteristics and status of the non-life 2) Sustainability management risks and opportunities 4) Sustainability management organization and roles [Sustainability management organization] insurance industry Amid the worsening global financial crisis and uncertainty Chaired by the CEO and comprising the head of each busiThe non-life insurance industry is subject to many governover leading nations’ fiscal policy, rigorous monitoring of the ness division, the Company’s Sustainability Management ment regulations due to its public characteristics. This is an domestic insurance industry is expected. The importance of Committee takes decisions on major sustainability manageindustry for domestic demand as household insurance polithe Personal Information Protection Act and Customer Priment issues. Working under the Committee, the SustainSustainability Chairman: CEO, Committee cies such as auto insurance and long-term accident insurmanagement vacy is likely to be emphasized and capital regulation based ability Management Administrative Committee promotes Members: 9 Managers committee ance occupies a large portion. In addition, interest rates and on the RBC system strengthened in order to emphasize fair sustainability management activities through analysis of inthe stock market significantly affect the performances of the and healthy financial management. ternal and external factors related to sustainability manageasset management division and profits of long-term insurment by benchmarking leading insurers and by interviewOffice supervisor and ance which occupies a lion’s share of premiums. Within the sphere of sustainability management, corporate ing stakeholders through its Economic, Environmental, and CSR office 2 Officers attention to social responsibility is expected to increase with Social subcommittees. Tasks are classified as standard and As of end of March, 2013, there are 31 domestic insurers in the changes in the government’s keynote policy for sustainemergency: standard tasks are carried out by the relevant Sustainability operation. Of 31 insurers, there are 10 domestic standard ability management, the establishment of guidelines on cordepartments of the Economic, Environmental, and Social management 2 CSR officers, 3 workers 16 insurers, 3 domestic all-round insurers, 10 foreign insurers porate social responsibilities of insurers, and the rising imsubcommittees, while emergency tasks are undertaken by administrative from responsible departments 17 which make 23 insurers as comprehensive insurers*. The reportance of social networks. Moreover, preparations for new relevant departments. committee maining 8 insurers operate as re-insurance company. Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance growth engine development and the introduction of mega* The first company to be fully or partially responsible for the insurance contract. risk management systems due to climate change, low birthIn order to maintain an advanced and reliable system, in rate, and an increasingly aging population, are expected. April 2013 the Company established a CSR Office responIn FY2012, the non-life insurance industry reported 12.9% sible for Sustainability Management. Related work is carried growth over the previous year, recording direct premiums of out by the Sustainability Management Committee. Dongbu Economy Environmental KRW 62.9 trillion. By category, standard insurance and long3) Sustainability management vision and strategies Insurance aims to further strengthen its Sustainability Man[Division: [Division: Risk Society Management management [Division: HR term insurance grew 15.7% and 17.5% respectively, while Dongbu Insurance aims to become a wholly sustainable agement System through communication with internal and planning] research center] management] auto insurance fell by 1.5%. company through customer satisfaction. The Company is external stakeholders and will continue to make efforts to developing an advanced sustainability management system develop a unique approach to its social responsibilities. based on 14 strategies in accordance with its vision of being · Internal supervision · General managing · Public relations “A Global Insurance Financial Group that Pursues a Happy Overall • Advancing sustainability management strategies · Insurance RM · General affairs · General managing sustainability • Establishing working groups and management system for · CS promotion · Long-term products · Sales planning Society with Customers”. management sustainability management · CRM · Automobile products · New business Economy • Reinforcing independence and transparency of BOD · Financial planning planning [Sustainability management vision system] · Compensation planning · Corporate busi• Strengthening responsibilities for sustainability management · System planning ness planning • Reinforcing transparency in measures of ethical codes Vision A global insurance financial group which pursues a happy society with customers · Customer service • Strengthening non-financial risk management system · Customer privacy Building sustainable management system matching those of advanced insurers • Raising retention rate • Strengthening consumer protection Enhancing corporate value Pushing for advanced Creating commercial and so• Strengthening brand value evaluation Direction of through balanced growth of environmental management cial synergy through strategic • Building integrated stakeholder management system strategies Economy financial and non-financial risk Environand developing new business Society social contribution activities opportunities Environmental • Establishing environmental management policies ment • Strengthening management of environmental KPIs 1. Establishing corporate governance which 7. Establishing advanced environmental 10. Pushing for social contribution activities • Formulating carbon-neutral plan secures transparency and diversity governance related to insurance industry • Building environmental risk recognition system 2. Instilling ethical awareness in all 8. Management of companywide 11. Building fair and equal Human Rights • Developing products and services employee’s mind environmental performances management culture • Social responsibility-based asset management 3. Integrated management of financial and 9. Overseeing environmental risk and 12. Reinforcing safety and health Society • Advancing social contribution strategies Strategies non-financial risk building system that connects to management system for employees • Advancing management of social contribution performances 4. Customer management through two-way business opportunities 13. Enhancing sustainability management of • Strengthening external cooperation and network communication suppliers and partners • Advocating human rights and diversity 5. Excellent management of brand value and 14. Ensuring and discovering business fields • Strengthening safety and health management performances in order to respond to social risk • Introducing supplier guideline 6. Building integrated system to deal with • Reinforcing business partner management stakeholders • Expanding responsibility on the marginalized • Tackling aging population issues Organization Sustainability management Sustainability management Economic, environmental and committee administrative committee social subcommittees · Dongbu is annually operating a per-department evaluation system by designating sustainability management aspect within the companywide MBO category. Sustainability Management Stakeholder engagement 1. Stakeholders and communication channels 2. Results of stakeholder survey Dongbu Insurance defines stakeholders as customers, shareholders/investors, employees, partners, local communities, and the Surveys regarding sustainability management were conducted with both internal environment. The Company reflects the opinions of its stakeholders by doing its best understanding their interests and needs. and external stakeholders. The surveys covered an extensive and varied range of Thorough regular and ongoing communicating and serving stakeholders effectively, the Company aims to contribute to a happy topics with the aim of gaining insight into each stakeholder's awareness and needs. society. By understanding sustainability management issues requiring attention, the Company was able to improvement on its performance the previous year. Issues for improved sustainability management performance Areas in which the Company aims to improve sustainably management include customer satisfaction management, employee satisfaction management, and enEnvironment gagement with partners. Active participation in social contribution for the advanceTarget subject which the Customers ment of local communities along with strengthening of a fair and ethical corporate stakeholders and Dongbu culture are also areas in which the Company expects to progress through its comInsurance has to preserve Individuals or groups who for the next generation purchase or potentially mitment to promote sustainability management. 18 17. Environment protection activities purchase the products 19 18. Climate change response created through the Dongbu Insurance will strive to make a better and happier society by openly aceconomic activities knowledging its stakeholders' opinions. Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance • Customer evaluation group 1. Customer satisfaction management Customer satisfaction index By external organizations 2. Product responsibility fulfillment [KCSI, NCSI, KS-SQI] 3. Customer communication Local Carbon information open project • • Dongbu Insurance customer satisfaction index [DCSI] [Customer Customer interest issues] [Employee Employee interest issue] communities Green start move • • Insurance contract and compensation process All individuals and groups satisfaction investigation Ranking Category Page of report Ranking Category Page of report excluding the ones • VOC process system influenced by and from the 1 Customer satisfaction management p.31 1 Employee satisfaction management p.56 • IR[Investment Relations] activities industrial activities, direct Social contribution activities • • Industry fair 2 Social contribution activities p.79 2 Customer satisfaction management p.31 or indirect • Electronic disclosure systems and Sponsoring sports • 15. Social contribution activities Social services • Dongbu insurance homepage Shareholders 3 Management leadership p.02 3 Making financial profit p.45 announcements 16. C  ommunication with the local communities and investors Individuals or groups who provides capital in aim of making certain profit [Sales partner interest issue] [Compensation partner interest issue] Family satisfaction index [FSI] • • Direct communication with the CEO Suggestions from sales division • • Junior board 4. Financial stability DBRT(DongBu Round Table) seminar • • Business performance reports(Promy TV) Ranking Category Page of report Ranking Category Page of report 5. Management innovation Excellent partnership conference • • Employee satisfaction index [ESI] Promy car system • • Dynamic leader conference 6. Overseas projects and new compensation business 1 Customer satisfaction management p.31 1 Win-Win growth with partners p.69 Partnership meeting • 7. Increasing brand value 2 Management leadership p.02 2 Ethical management p.24 3 Innovative business p.47 3 Innovative business p.47 Employees Group of people working under the Dongbu Insurance who are Partners paid salaries for accomplishing their jobs and/or duties 8. Fair performance evaluation and reward Individuals or groups who are engaged in 9. Communication with employees business contracts in relation with sales 10. Improvements in working environment and compensation 11. Employee education and training 13. Cooperation with sales partners 12. P rotection of human rights and coopera14. Win-Win growth with claims service partners tion with the labor and management Sustainability Management Materiality test and identification of major issues 1. Materiality test procedures 3. Results of identifying major issues A six-stage Materiality Test was conducted in consideration of stakeholders. The Dongbu Insurance was able to identify and prioritize major issues for each staketest comprised examination of Company policies, Company direct and indirect imholder by analyzing the test results. The issues were reduced from 64 to 40, of pact on the economy, domestic and international conditions, sustainability manwhich 21 considered the most important with respect to sustainability management agement surveys, media search results, and benchmarking of peers and leading were selected. Additionally, 19 issues of lower priority were identified in each stakesustainability management corporations. holder’s performance report. [6 Step materiality test model] [Results of identifying core issues] Sustainability management / Ethical management 19. Sustainability management system & n 45 /I * Materiality test performance management p.16 p. A test in which The Institute for Industrial sa m rs lity er bi 7 de r P tis 20. Stakeholder engagement p.18 .4 s ta fu odu ol Policy Studies has developed in 2006, fa p lfil c ct ls on eh cia 3. io i at 21. Strengthening consisting of 6 step tests to derive major lm t r ar an Cu n en es ethical management p.24 ov an d o st m Fin nn Sh TEST 1 TEST 2 TEST 3 TEST 4 TEST 5 TEST 6 issues in accordance with each and st t po 20 Company Economy LegislaSurveys Media BenchCu om p. ns an ag 4. en ti ts jec .48 ve 21 individual corporate characteristics and er 34 ib em o p em pr co ilit st policy impacts tion and search marking current state or affairs at the time. The test y en ag s ss or m a regulation m t an s e i ne 50 s Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance un p. M er s p. er is designed for the sustainability u g om ica 31 5.  O v b sin ue management strategy development and 6. new ea val st tio cr Cu n In nd 2. composition of its report. p. 7. bra 1. 36 8. Fair es perfo 15. S n with rmanc 9. Co e eva m lu a ti icatio m o ocial u n ic n a 2. Process of identifying major issues a ti n d .82 on re ward Local 10. Im w mmun it h ies p prove emplo p.55 contr enviro ments in yees Emplo 16. Co l communit p.56 [Materiality test process] n wo 11. Em ment p.58 rking ibutio comm p.79 p lo y ee ed loca train ucatio vities in g n and ye p.59 12. P n acti unitie rotecti on of ri g h ts and c human wit h oop rae la s b tion mana or and geme 17. s nt p.6 En laim 3 viro hc 18. nm h wit .69 t 2 ent row p.7 s p Cli ma pro tec i n g rtner r t ner te c tion n-W a pa han Wi ce p es ge act 14. servi sal ivit ith En res po ies n w viro nse p.8 atio s nm p.9 7 oo per ner ent 1 13. C art P Identification of [6 Step test] Issue listing Issue categorization major issues Medium issues [MEDIUM (11)] Low issues [LOW (8)] [Test 1] Analysis of company policy Listing the issues from the Categorizing the issues by Prioritizing the issues by Sustainability Risk management, Management leadership Sustainability Transparent ruling system management management [Test 2] Participation of stakeholders test areas and importance importance and influen[Test 3] Benchmarking tial level, deciding on the Ethical Fair competition Ethical management Transparent corporate exposure management [Test 4] Media search major issues Customers Following consumer regulations [Test 5] Direct and indirect Customers Customer information protection, Strengthening Local communities Participating in development of local product competitiveness Economic impacts communities [Test 6] Domestic and international Employees Balance in work and life, Equal employments Environment Recycling employees' welfare system norm and legislation Following environment regulations Partners Communication with the partners Air pollution management Waste and water quality management Local Supporting local communities' cultural life communities Environment Energy efficiency / Saving resource Sustainability Management Sustainability management initiative UNGC Sustainability management achievement DJSI In 2013, Dongbu Insurance was named in the Dow Jones Sustainability (DJSI) World, becoming the first Korean company Related Category 10 Commandments Activities to achieve such status. As well as being the first domestic company to be recognized by DJSI Asia-Pacific, the accomplishpage No. ments were deserved recognition of the Company’s efforts in sustainability management. Assessing corporate sustainability Human rights 1. Supporting and respecting international Supporting human rights by joining UNGC P.63 management since 1999, DJSI is acknowledged as the world's leading global business evaluation index in area of sustainhuman rights ability management evaluation and Social Responsibility Investment (SRI). 2. Preventing human rights violation Internal monitoring activities P.13, 24 Employee education in human rights and ethics P.34, 63 Strengthening customer information protection Main content Significance of selection Standard of labor 3. Acknowledging the rights for collective Holding Dynamic Leader Conference P.56 -F  irst insurance company within the nation to be -E  stablished as top 15 global insurance company bargaining and freedom of association Event to communicate directly with the CEO P.63 selected as DJSI World • Only 15 out of 115 global insurance company 4. Abandoning all types of forced labor Prohibiting forced labor P.63 • Incorporated into the DJSI World Member: is chosen to be in DJSI World The only insurance company to join the DJSI 5. Eradication of child labor Prohibiting child labor P.63 World in 2013. -E  nhancement in company value within domestic 6. Abandoning discrimination in employments Grievance settlement system P.55 and international investing markets 22 and within working environment Operating fair assessment system P.63 • Creating uniqueness by becoming the only • Utilized as investing standard by global SRI 23 Korean insurance company to be incorporated into DJSI World • The price index of stocks of DJSI Korean Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance Environment / 7. Supporting prevention approach Donating environment model school P.88, 89 Corruption in environmental challenge Establishing environment guideline P.91 members increase by annual average of Participating in CDP -F  irst in the industry in Korea to be selected as a 5.52% since October 2009 8. Activating environmental responsibility Enacting energy saving movement P.89, 90, 92 member of DJSI Asia-Pacific 2 years in a row, and Participating in Green Start and Green Sports as a member of DJSI Korea 5 years in a row Operating electronic document system -E  nhancement in customer credibility as a sustain9. Eco-friendly technology development Auto insurance: Evergreen special contract P.89, 92 ably manageable insurance company Auto insurance: Distance Driven special contract Auto insurance: One-Day-Without-Car special contract 10. Corruption-free system Operating Love Auction system P.25 Operating internal declaration system P.27 Written pledge on abiding ethical regulation by all employees Category DJSI World DJSI Asia-pacific DJSI Korea Evaluation 15 out of 115 global insurance companies 6 out of 16 Asia-Pacific insurance 4 out of 9 domestic insurance target companies companies Selected Dongbu Insurance, Aegon, Allianz, Aviva, AXA, Dongbu Insurance, Insurance Australia Dongbu Insurance, Samsung Life companies Legal & General, Mapfre, Muenchener RueckversiGroup, NKSJ, Tokio Marine, Samsung Insurance, Samsung Fire & Marine in 2013 cherungs, NKSJ, Standard Life, Storebrand, Swiss Life Insurance, Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance, Hyundai Marine & Fire Re, Tokio Marine, Zurich Insurance Group, Insurance Insurance Samsung Life Insurance Ethical Management Strengthening ethical management 1. Strengthening ethical management [Legal risk review] [unit: case] 1) Ethical management systems Questions from Questions from Questions from Total the headquarters the sales the claims (1) Compliance department department Dongbu Insurance operates an evaluation system that measures compliance levels by 2010 710 114 38 862 sector and duties, and establishes ethical management. 2011 903 220 27 1,150 Sales Compensation 2012 874 232 74 1,180 Common compliance items are work ethics, matters raised by outside auditors, ethical code violations, and evaluation items for compliance activity reports. Through the Quality Abide by the sales, process development of a compliance index of items for evaluation, we are establishing a strong Complete Work ethical corporate culture and a workplace where ethical management is practiced by all sales ethics employees We have also introduced a voluntary fair trade observance program to ensure (3) Legal service support for customer satisfaction that we operate in accordance with the principle of equity. Dongbu Insurance has provided legal consulting services through its website since Headquarters Financial reports, November 2001. [Compliance score] [unit: point] Internal monitoring 24 25 Available to anyone, the service is used not only by customers but also by solici91.3 89.6 tors, insurance agents, and employees. As of 2012, a total of 1,492 legal services Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance 88.4 had been provided. 2) Anti-corruption and bribery prevention [Processing provided information] To eliminate any kind of corruption and bribery, Dongbu Insurance has established regulations that prohibit the acceptance of bribes, special treatment or entertainment, special consideration, and other forms of gifts from partner firms. We also 01 2010 2011 2012 Problem occurred have created detailed guidelines for employees. · Grading Method: Absolute grading system out of 100 points [Ethical management promotion (1) Internal declaration system organization] Employees may report bribery and corruption anonymously or under their names 02 Customer In addition, we have appointed a compliance officer and developed a 24/7 internal through the company's intranet declaration system. We have also established other declarations control system to ensure that all official documents are monitored. We obtain prior channels to encourage the reporting of such violations. BOD authorization from the Financial Supervisory Service regarding all materials used to promote and sell our products. All privately prepared materials, moreover, should be based on materials officially approved by the company. Thanks to such efforts, They include a helpline on the website of the Korea Business Ethics Institute (KBEI), which offers informants a full range of protective measures, and on the company 03 Examining and Supervisory assessing the case the Company has never faced any allegation of exaggeration or false advertising. CEO committee website Financial Accident and Irregularities Reporting Center and Ethics Reporting Center pages, where the public may also file reports. (2) Legal risk management Legal analysis at Dongbu Insurance is handled by company lawyers and the Legal Compliance The number of reports received through the website numbered 26 in 2010, 33 in officer 2011, and 16 in 2012. Those cases were settled through deliberations among the 04 Affairs Division under the compliance officers. The Division responds to questions on legal matters related to headquarters business, sales policies, legal matters reconcerned parties. In cases of unethical acts and bribery, reports are filed to the Audit Department or the accused investigated by the HR Committee. We inform Result garding sales activities, and legal risks related to claims. Internal control announced management employees of those receiving disciplinary actions the reasons for the action as well department General corporate matters related to legal risk include the establishment and revias offering education to prevent similar cases. sion of articles of association, company regulations and policies, and personnel and labor management. The number of inquiries has increased steadily each year. Compliance All employees, manager Sales organization Ethical Management Strengthening ethical management (2) Love auction [Performances on operation of internal monitoring for 4) Ethical education [Ethical doctrine guidelines] In line with our ethical management efforts, when employees financial reports] [unit: case] (1) Ethical education for employees Guidelines on bribery receive a gift or other goods from an individual or an unclear Category 2010 2011 2012 Ethical education is compulsory for all newly recruited and · Receiving and giving bribes is prohibited in principle source, they are required to report it to the compliance officer. No. of processes 77 77 77 promoted employees. In 2012, a total of 789 employees The goods are then sold through an auction called “Love Auc· Bribes received unavoidably will be used to create a better working enNo. of monitoring 1,271 1,243 1,295 received ethical management education. All employees revironment or for corporate purposes tion”, with the proceeds going to people in need. Staring in ceive education in ethical management through the in-house February 2006, by end of 2012 the auctions had raised a total broadcasting system and via an online course. · Rewards and grants for promotion or transfer are to be processed of KRW11,391,564, of which KRW8,375,584 was collected through expenditure for congratulation and condolences. If exceeding a certain amount, rewards must be refused or returned. and donated to associations for the disadvantaged and social (2) Public disclosure checklist Our ethical management education systems have also been welfare groups. The Company’s public disclosure checklist ensures that discloimplemented at our subsidiaries as a part of the basic educa[Code of ethics] sures to the Financial Supervisory Service, the Fair Trade Comtion programs provided for newly recruited employees. (3) Donations to political parties and groups mission, the Korea Stock Exchange, the General Insurance AssoⅠ. Foreword Dongbu Insurance does not engage in any political activities ciation of Korea, and the Company website are made in a timely (2) Voluntary pledges of ethical and legal conduct Ⅱ. Main contents in accordance with its Ethical Doctrine and no donations were manner. Additionally, disclosure personnel and managers in releIn addition to receiving online and offline ethical education, • Chapter 1. Pursuit of customer satisfaction and prosperity made to political parties or groups during the period under vant departments are required to make daily, weekly, and monthly all employees are encouraged to sign voluntary pledges of • Chapter 2. Building partnership trust 26 review. Moreover, while employees are free of express political • Chapter 3. Basic ethical responsibilities of employees 27 checks of items for disclosure. When disclosures are due, the ethical and legal conduct with the aim of underlining the Paragraph 1. Responsibilities to company views as their individual right, they are advised not to ensure relevant departments are notified automatically. Company’s commitment to ethical management and being 1. Employees shall have passion for their work. Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance that their views are represented as those of the Company. a responsible member of society. Employees of subsidiaries 2. Employees shall execute their duties in a fair manner by prioritizing customer value. [Disclosures/violation of disclosures] [unit: case] are also urged to submit signed pledges of ethical and legal 3. Employees shall conduct themselves in a conduct. dignified manner by showing exemplary self3) Internal monitoring Category 2010 2011 2012 management. 4. Employees shall continuously learn new skills (1) Internal monitoring system for financial reporting No. of disclosures 87 82 91 [Written pledges] [unit: no. of people] and grow their capacities No. of violations Paragraph 2. Responsibilities to colleagues Dongbu operates an internal monitoring system for financial reCategory 2010 2011 2012 1. Employees shall aim for solidarity based porting to underpin credibility in its financial information and the · Standardized on data submitted to DART on order, trust and love. No. of Participants 4,636 4,598 5,037 transparency of the organization. 2. Employees are forbidden from exchanging Ratio[%] 90.5 99.0 96.0 gifts. 3. Employees are forbidden from engaging Initially monitoring 77 processes and 1,117 sub-processes that (3) Money laundering prevention system in financial transactions with each other. impact financial statements, the system is updated annually and The Company operates an internal framework for monitoring risk in 4. Sexual harassment is strictly prohibited. • Chapter 4. P  rotecting rights and interests of shareholders and processes added or revised. The results of the internal monitoraccordance with size, working range, and internal monitoring stan[Case study] investors ing system contribute to enhancing transparency in companydards to effectively prevent money laundering. The system also en1. The Company shall protect interests of wide work processes and providing feedback on improvement Notice is regularly posted on the Company bulshareholders and investors ables us to perform differential due diligence of customer accounts letin board regarding the congratulating of per1 2. Shareholders shall have fair treatment measures. according to risk level. sonnel and the prohibition of grants. By such 3. The Company shall reliable and useful inforactions, our ethical pledge is upheld and is bemation in a timely manner. coming part of our corporate culture. In cases 4. The Company shall maintain transparent where gifts are received unavoidably, they are accounting practices [Operation system of money laundry prevention] to be processed by the compliance officer us5. Insider trading shall be prohibited ing established guidelines. • Chapter 5. Pursuit of free competition market order Korea financial 1. The Company shall respect the order of Suspicious Transaction Report (STR) Currency Transaction Report (CTR) intelligence unit the insurance market based on free comDongbu Insurance regularly advises employ2 petition principles. Korea financial Report target Characteristics Standard amount Report target Characteristics Standard amount ees and partners on protocols of gift exchange • Financial broker • Report based on • An individual who • Report according 2. The Company shall acquire and use inforintelligence unit (as of July, 2010) (as of July, 2010) with supervisors or stakeholders on national who is accused of financial company’s • More than KRW makes transaction over to objective and • KRW 20,000,000 mation in a legal manner. money laundering objective and 10,000,000 the standard amount uniform standard holidays. Items received in contravention of 3. The Company shall pursue fair trade and a with a reasonable professional view • More than USD within a transaction • Applies only to guidelines are donated to the “Love Auction” Financial evidence • Applies to all financial day within the same cash transactions win-win relationship with partner firms. company 5,000 event. Through this campaign, the company is • Chapter 6. Duty to country and society transactions financial company promoting a sound corporate culture. 1. The Company shall engage in sound business Financial practices based on quality management. Customer Due Diligence (CDD) company 2. The Company shall contribute to social development and the prosperity of mankind. ① Identification of the person making transaction ② strengthened identification procedures (In consideration of money laundering) Financial 3. The Company and employees shall not engage company Target of identification Checklist Target or identification Checklist in political activities. • Newly opened account • Name, Personal Registration • Identifying the actual person making • Making sure of the identity of • Instant financial transaction of Number, Address, Contact transaction the actual person making the 4. Eco-friendly environment management more than KRW 20,000,000 (USD Information etc. • Doubting the case of another transaction Customer 10,000) customer in intention to laundering • The purpose of the transaction etc. money Dongbu Insurance will continue to strive to gain the implicit and unreserved trust of its customers. Vision company Strat A valuable tomers egy where us sors c Estab li become s pon relatio shing uniq n u and a ship man e custom ctive agem er stren partic e g ipatio nt prote thening c n in ction on syste sumer ms Major issues Major achievements 1. Result of Customer Satisfaction 81.4point 0.6Point 82.0 point Responsib Customer satisfaction [2011] Increase [2012] le Dep artments management CS Depart ment, CR Consume M r Protectio Department, Customer n Departm 2. Progressof Complete Sales Support D ent, all CS org epartmen within the anizations t, Plan t company that reflec ro v id in g products te e in g P aran needs, gu 95.4% 95.1% 96.4% customer u g h c u stomer thro products t, and agemen claim man s a le s nsive Product Customer 2010 2011 2012 comprehe responsibility fulfillment communication 3. Number of VOC [2012] 31,684 case Kim Deok-ryong AS WELL AS PROTECTING CONSUMERS, WE FOCUS ON ESTABLISHING CREDIBILITY WITH THEM THROUGH CONSISTENT COMMUNICA[Directing Manager of Consumer Service Department, General Insurance Association of Korea] TION ABOUT PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND COMPENSATION. Customers 1 When a consumer decides to buy a product, the company and the consumer embark on a long-term relationship. Since consumer choice is based on the credibility of the company, Major Issue sustainability management is therefore vitally important. In this respect, Dongbu Insurance’s CUSTOMER SATISFACTION social responsibility activities, eco-friendly insurance products, and participation in activities MANAGEMENT to conserve the environment have become a driving force behind its sustainable growth and nurturing of a positive corporate image. We can thus say these activities are truly meaningful in that consumers trust the company in the case of accidents or unfortunate circumstances. Moreover, while most insurance companies tend focus on compensation after disasters, diseases and accidents, to increase customer satisfaction Dongbu Insurance places equal emphasis on accident prevention. Efforts for customer satisfaction Prioritizing customer value, the Company has implemented In 2010, under our “Dynamic Dongbu” and “Appointment the Dongbu Service Standard comprising six shared values with Client” slogans, we implemented on-site management that run from customer response to complaint coordination. and in-person meetings with customers. [6 Shared values] Customer Professional Challenging 31 Site-oriented Practice-oriented Trust-based Prioritizing Mentality Spirit Dongbu Insurance [Dongbu service standard36] The standard actions required of Dongbu employees for customers at any place and at any time CUSTOMERS We will always be kind to the customers We will always accomplish complete sales to create customer profit Allow the customers to feel comfortable by providing transparent working environment. Deliver value of insurance products from the customers’ view. Build creditability through neat and tidy appearances and outfit. Thoroughly explain about the products with accurate information. Create excellent impression by kind and approachable atmosphere. Must abide by the 4 commandments when contract is made. Create professional image through precise and confident response. Always be obtain sufficient and precise customer information when contract is made. 2013 Korea Service Awards Product Development for Women Make customers happy through kind and efficient call center service. Quickly deliver insurance stocks when contract is made. Understand the customers through perfect preparation. Always acknowledge and thank the customers when contract is made. Grand Prize Winner (Auto Insurance: Female Safety Plan) KS-SQI Long-term Insurance 1 2 Sector Award Winner We will always support our customers with We will always communicate with the customers by perfect service with complaints providing valuable information Immediately report to VOC when there is any complaint made. Maintain long term relationship with the customers through Complaints made must be reported to the head of the continuous communication. department and then to the supervisor who will take care of the Provide useful information which helps the customers. complaints. Quick initial response to the report within one hour. 6 36 3 Effectively manage the contract by fore-noticing the customers on expiration. In recognition of its high-quality serMust try to finish the process within 24 hours. Effectively manage the contract in terms of possible overdue or vices and innovative management, Dongbu Insurance has been offering an Must give feedbacks at the completion of taking care of the lapsed contract. Dongbu Insurance has been awardauto insurance product exclusively for complaints. Take great care of the service provided to each customer in ed the Korea Service Awards Grand Dongbu Insurance was the only female customers since July 2012. The Prevent any complaints from occurring by analyzing the accordance with their needs. Prize by the Korean Standards Ascompany to receive the KS-SQI product includes special assistance afprevious complaints made. Manage customer information through secure protection system. sociation for four consecutive years. Long-term Insurance first prize, held 5 4 ter an accident and help with compenby the Korean Standards Associasation procedures. Also, in the case of tion, in recognition of providing the an accident, a company employee is We will always be prepared to be dispatched We will always protect our customers with accurate compensation best long-term insurance in the naoffered to accompany the customer to Efficiently process any reports for effective response. Execute accurate and quick explanation to the customers after registration of an accident. tion. the police station. Through the product, Contact the customers immediately after the dispatch. Guide through the process within the day after examining the victim and damaged properties. we are bringing extra peace of mind to Notify the customer every 5 minutes after 10 minutes of the dispatch for customer service. Notify the delay in compensation once 10 days have passed after the report of the accident. our customers. Must wear Promy uniform along with a name tag when dispatched. Provide detailed information about the compensation money after the compensation has been paid. Must provide the customers with personal name card within the arrival at sight. Prevent any customer complaints through strict self management. Notify the customers about the process before the start and let the customers Minimize the customer loss by quick and accurate examination of the damage made. know about the process made after it has ended. · Total of 36 practices, 18 management indicators 1) Customer satisfaction survey system 3) Customer related employee evaluation system We created “Touch Points” with customers through the also operate the Customer Satisfaction Management SysDongbu Insurance considers all Customer Related Evaluations of employees in order to evaluate our departments and individuals. Dongbu Customer Satisfaction Index survey, the results of tem, a virtuous circle based on Customer Referral and Cuswhich we are using to maximize customer satisfaction. We tomer Maintenance Ratio. Customer-related employee assessment system Current assessSubject Cycle Assessment criteria [Periodic satisfaction survey] 2011 2012 ment system Overall CS Business/Compensation SC/Service Yearly • Individual Business Sector: DCSI, FSI, Complete Sales, Contract Assessment Centre: Best Award, Excellence Award for Management Satisfaction, Call Center, Cancel/Withdrawal Rate, VOD 2011 2012 Dongbu Customer 2011 2012 PA Family Satisfaction CS MBO 3 Departments • Compensation Center: DCSI, Compensation Process Satisfaction, Satisfaction Index(DCSI) Index(FSI) (Special Award: New Business, Call Center, VOD 0.6P 4.0P Service Center) • New Business Sector: DCSI, Contract Management, Call Center, VOD Increase Comprehensive evaluation of Increase 65.5 PA’s Satisfaction evaluation of • Corporate Body: Call Center, VOC 81.4 82.0 CSI quality factors business manger • Customer Service Center: DCSI, Call Center, Desk Service 61.5 Dynamic Dongbu Business Department (8 times), Monthly • Sales: Contract Management, Call Center, Complete Sales, Best Award Compensation SC (3 times), Transferred Contract Encounters and Cancel/Withdrawal Rate, Internal Customer Contract Administration Service Center (1 time) VOC 1.9P Satisfaction Index(ICSI) 2.1P Satisfaction • Compensation: Compensation Management, Call Center, VOD Increase Increase • Customer SC: Desk Service, Call Center 81.0 Response Service & Satisfaction evalu90.4 Compliance of contract management 79.1 ation of business management between 88.2 process & customer management CS Quality Approval Business Department / Compensation SC Yearly • Common: DCSI, Complaints, Call Center, VOC head office and branch offices satisfaction evaluation (automobile, equipment) System / Service Center • Sales: Securing e-mails, Customer Contact Activities, Complete Sales, Contract Management Compensation Satisfaction Emergency Service & • Compensation: Compensation Management, Outstanding Cases • Customer SC: Desk Service, Outstanding Cases, Securing e-mails 3.2P 1.2P Site Dispatch Service Satisfaction Increase 97.3 Compliance of compensation proIncrease Emergency Roadside Service & ExcelDepartment 12 Departments: Individual(4), Quar• CS Activity Assessment(CS Convention, Major CS Activities, 94.1 cess & compensation satisfaction 91.6 92.8 Site Dispatch Service Satisfaction lent CS Compensation(3), New Business(2), terly CS Tweeter) + Contract Management, Call Center, Complete Sales, evaluation(automobile, organ, standard) Evaluation DepartCorporate Body(2), Customer SC(1) Compensation Management, Desk Service ment 32 and EmIndividual • Outstanding Employee CS (CS Tweeter 10 • CS Tweeter Activities, Major CS Activities 33 Telephone Response Customer Reception ployee people, Major Activities 14 people) (Environmental Management etc.) satisfaction at the window Award • Basic Outstanding Employee CS (16 • Basic CS Activities Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance 2.1P 1.9P people) (Outstanding Call Service/ Customer Acknowledged Cases) Increase PA & Telephone response satisCustomer reception at the window 94.7 faction evaluation Increase 98.7 in customer service center level Yearly Grand Prize Designer, Branch, Yearly • Complete Sales 92.6 96.8 evaluation “CS” Award Newly Employed (1 person in each area) (Variable Sections: Call Center, Contract Management, VOC) Complete Sales Monitoring VOC Process Satisfaction 1.3P 1P Increase 4) Employee constitution for customer satisfaction Increase Compliance monitoring to keep Satisfaction evaluation of 95.1 96.4 4 basic regulations when closing 88.0 89.0 dissatisfaction VOC processlevel To improve our employees’ CS quality, Dongbu Insurance inconsolidated CS education, extended field education, and a new contract vests in and continuously conducts employee training. The service leadership. CS Education Drive System focuses on objectives including System of education by CS education level 2) Customer satisfaction index (Conducted by CS) Category Basic process Practical process Advanced process Dongbu Insurance carries out customer satisfaction surveys on through customer counseling centers. Through these efforts to Goal Understand basic CS service and obtain basic Standardize agreement service and Provide and share sentimental and communication skills carry out the service creative service a regular basis to assess its services from the viewpoint of its understand customers’ needs, we have established our Realcustomers and to learn how to improve the quality of its services. time Monitoring/Feedback System. Education Basic CS Education Recovery of unsatisfied customers Expert-level service coaching skills process • Greeting manner / phone manner • Business etiquette Understand the service standard CS conference In the 2012 Dongbu Customer Satisfaction Index (DCSI) survey, • CS Mind • Image making On-sight CS Clinic Innovative academy – CS session we scored 81.8 on a scale of one to 100, climbing 0.8 points from Result of internal customer satisfaction survey [unit: point] PK CS System Compliance (Insurance-ship, Complete sales, M-Risk) the previous year and continuing our upward trend. 2010 2011 2012 Target of All employees / PA On-sight service supervisor / manager CS coach / leader 80.0 81.4 82.0 education New recruitments (Newly recruited, experienced) Unseen service supervisor / manager Head office department supervisor / Dongbu Insurance also refers to external survey results to enSales supervisor / manager manager hance its services. In 2012, we remained in the upper ranks of the Korean insurance industry, earning 69.7 points (3rd in the automobile sector) in the Korea Management Association’s Customer Result of external customer satisfaction survey [unit: point] 5) Mobile smart phone based compensation service Satisfaction Index; 72.0 points (2nd) in the Korea Productivity Category 2010 2011 2012 Center’s National Customer Satisfaction Index; and 71.4 points Dongbu Insurance’s smart phone Mobile Compensation System weather conditions. Moreover, Customer Satisfaction Surveys preNCSI* 71.0 71.0 72.0 (1st in the automobile sector and 2nd overall) in the Korea Standards facilitates customer compensation. Through e-Claim, the only moviously carried out by landline telephone can now conducted using Association’s Korean Standard-Service Quality Index (KS-SQI). KS-SQI** 69.6 71.9 71.4 bile compensation system of its kind in the insurance industry, we mobile smart phones. KCSI*** 63.0 66.6 69.7 are able to provide rapid compensation by checking the scenes Furthermore, at every “Touch Point”, where we meet directly with of accidents, automatically calculating insurance, and managing We have also introduced the MMS Satisfaction Research System * National Customer Satisfaction Index by the Korea Productivity customers, we have implemented a monthly satisfaction survey ** Korean Standard Service Quality Index by the Korea Standards Association accident field materials. We are improving the system through an that allows us to gather VOC feedback more effectively, while the on our website and conducted email and telephone research *** Korean Customer Satisfaction Index by the Korea Management Association extension of Emergency Roadside Services to reduce inconveDissatisfied Customer Re-Touch Process helps us to move a step niences such as delayed or unavailable services due of unforeseen closer to customers who are unhappy with our compensation service. Customers 3) Dispute review board for consumer satisfaction The Conflict Deliberation Committee meets once a week to 2 resolve consumer complaints. Supported by a wealth of proMajor Issue fessional knowledge in the relevant departments, the Committee resolved an average of 177 cases per month in 2012. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY We aim to resolve all issues according to fair and legitimate FULFILLMENT standards. As result, 65% of cases were accommodated in 2010-13. [Approval rate by conflict deliberation committee] Requests[case] Approved[case] Approval rate[%] Quality assurance based on Grievance management and 75.9 complete sales assessment 60.3 58.4 Dongbu Insurance pursues a sales process that respects 1) Consumer protection conference 177.1 consumer rights. Specifically, it adheres to four insurance The Consumer Protection Conference convenes once a [Role of panel] sales principles – acquisition of customer signature, delivery month to discuss protection of the consumer both inside and 155.2 159.3 of policy statements, duplication of application forms, and outside the Company. It decides important matters and es117.8 103.3 provision of detailed policy information – so that clients incur tablishes polices to protect consumers and improve systems 96.0 no disadvantages. Furthermore, in order to increase comor processes from the perspective of the customer. pleted sales, the Company conducts site inspections and Service evaluation 34 telephone monitoring before contracts. 2010 2011 2012 (monitoring) 35 2) FSS complaint management assessment Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance Such efforts raised its Complete Sales Ratio to 96.4% in ranking 2012 and continued its annual growth trend. Whenever a complaint is filed, the Consumer Protection and 4) Companywide harmonized customer database [Complete sales ratio] [unit: %] Civil Affairs departments respond in a swift manner and offer Customer information, contracts, and compensation are close cooperation. Due to the nature of the insurance busimanaged through our company-wide Harmonized Customer ness, however, complaints have increased and the Company Database. The system stores customer information safely Product/ classed as Grade 3 in the Financial Supervisory Service’s asTrend survey Customer Service and enhances customer experience by enabling us to ad(survey conducted) sessment of consumer complaint management by financial panel suggestion 95.4 95.1 96.4 dress their requests at one window. (board meeting) institutions. [Result of complaint management assessment by FSS] 2010 2011 2012 Consumer review group Company image 2 2 3 consideration (advertisement) Grade Grade Grade Operating since 2010, the Consumer Review Group aims to In order to maintain a Complete Selling System and emphaunderstand customers’ needs and improve our service quality. size the importance of complete sales, Dongbu Insurance 2010 2011 2012 Based on customers’ viewpoints, the Consumer Review Group is imposes strict sanctions on employees and sales organizaable to objectively measure the quality of services we provide and tions in violation of complete sales regulations. identify areas for improvement. The Group also suggests differenActivities tiated services and products to our customers. Through this body, Category Content To improve this standing, we instigated a “Reduce Civil ComIn 2012, the Complete Sales Management Board took meawe are able to consistently receive feedback related to sales and plaints to the Financial Supervisory Service” campaign as Activity Monitoring • Telephone response services in Call Center sures against 446 executives and staff for breach of the compensation processes and can make improvements in service task • Agency/SC customer reception at the window part of our 2014 vision to leas the field in consumer proteccode. In 2013, the relevant rules were revised so that even quality. • Emergency/Maintenance service tion. To that end, we are aiming to raise awareness of cona single incomplete sale results in suspension of business Subject • The newest issue of product/sales related sumer protection, upgrade the protection system, reinforce report companies and disciplinary action. The Company’s efforts to eradicate Panel makeup our complete sales culture, and create a fast-track proce• Consumer Review Group selected issues need incomplete sales are ongoing. to be more improved dure for complaints. Additionally, on two occasions in 2013 Online panel Offline panel we highlighted to employees the importance of consumer Others • Adoption of proposal of Consumer Review 6 person 15 person Group and Publicity activities about protection and the Reduce Civil Complaints campaign. We improvement Internet/Mobile based Product/Service based trial offer are also improving the level of protection through measure to public-relations and suggestion Regular Proposal • Twice a month(online, offline 1 meeting each) address complaints more quickly. meeting conference Discussion • Report of subject presentation monthly and CEO meeting • Activity related business manager attended meeting Customers Category Content 3 Time Semiannually(each half of the year) Visiting target Excellent customer, complaint customer Major Issue Activity target Executives(including CEO), staff members above the CUSTOMER conductor COMMUNICATION Activity method Visiting customer’s home, office Dongbu Love My Car Blog Communication with customers [24 Hour completion rate] [unit: %] 1) VOC: Voice of customer Our Voice of Customer (VOC) system enables us to comUnderstanding of Customer’ Event CEO Participation Dongbu Child-Love Blog municate with our customers efficiently and grasp their diverse needs effectively. The VOC system operates thorough 51.7 51.3 43.6 various channels including telephone, website, Fax and mail. 3) Online communication and social networks 4) Differentiated services for customer Through the system, we can immediately deliver our customWe are expanding and diversifying our range of communica2010 2011 2012 impression ers’ opinions to related departments and respond to issues tion channels for customers through social networks such Dongbu Insurance provides its top-notch services at a vawithin 24 hours. as Facebook, Twitter, and a newly launched corporate blog. 36 riety of customer contact points, including contract conclu37 These help us to engage our customers better by under[Initial response rate] [unit: %] sion, maintenance, management, and benefit payment. [VOC type classification] standing their lifestyle and offering appropriate information. Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance (1) Consulting centers Current condition of SNS communication [unit: person] As of September 2013, Dongbu Insurance has operated four 2011 2012 consulting centers that provide customers with fast and effi80.5 78.6 74.5 cient service 24 hours a day, all year around. The Seoul ConBlog Readers* 134,513 sulting Center takes care of contract consulting, contract Facebook Like 2,238 10,429 changes, and insurance contracts. The Jeonju Center man2010 2011 2010 Twitter Follower 472 4,341 Large Medium Small ages dispatch services, accident reports, and other compenclassification classification classification * Founded in 2011 sation sectors. The Wonju Center assists with long-term ac5 30 123 cident reports, and the Home Consulting Center takes care In 2013 we analyzed the VOC system, improved its organizaof dispatch and various monitoring work. tion, and enhanced access and usability on our website. Thanks to its global-standard service, Dongbu Insurance has [No. of VOC] [unit: case] been honored with KS-QI Korea’s Outstanding Call Center 2) “Understanding our customers” Certificate for five years running and received top ranking “Understanding our customers” is a program aimed at idenin the Korean Standards Association’s KS-CQI Call Center tifying elements in our work processes that cause customer Quality Index. complaints. It also helps us to listen more carefully to and Dongbu Twitter 31,684 communicate better with our customers. The capacity of all call center employees is being upgraded 25,556 with multi-skill education, and people-oriented consulting The main activity is listening to customers’ complaints and centers are operated by enlarging welfare system and open16,457 suggestions, identifying customer needs, and relating them ing up counseling office etc. Retiring rate has decreased by to the relevant departments within the Company. 15% through these actions and Dongbu plans to continue 2010 2011 2012 improving any areas in need. ※ Activity process Listen to customer → Gather opinion → Deliver to relevant Within the home consulting system, home consultants who departments → Establish improvement plan → Dongbu Facebook are capable but forced to retire due to personal problems Carry out improvement → Notify customer of results are given other job opportunities. By doing so, social participation is created and makes it possible for and flexible call center service. In addition, we provide efficient service to our customers through 11 different ARS services, which accounted for7% Customer agreements with affiliates and partners, the compulsory use of shredders to dispose of documents containing private data, of total consultations. We also aim to make improvements to the system aimed at further boosting ARS usage and imPerformance limits on the right to access customer information, and encryption of data during transmission. In addition, individuals who provements in the quality of counseling. have registered as members on the company’s website are provided with their data history by email more than once a year. [Monthly average of call services provided Dongbu Insurance has never been penalized for its handling of (receptive call standards)] [unit : case] personal information. 2) Customer asset protection Dongbu Insurance Smart Zone (1) Insurance fraud prevention and exposure 906,853 The Dongbu Insurance Special Investigation Unit (SIU) en817,301 gages in a wide range of activities aimed at uncovering and 730,171 Monthly average on e-service provided [unit: case] Customer relationship management preventing insurance fraud. From development of products 2010 2011 2012 1) Customer information protection to insurance fraud, the Company is strongly supports a prevention-first policy on insurance fraud monitoring. 2010 2011 2012 e-Service cases 417,250 478,812 623,564 Enterprise-level customer information management Committee and strengthened personal information protection Exposed insurance frauds [unit: KRW 100 million] [Consulting center satisfaction index KSQI] [unit: point] system to safeguard customer privacy, Dongbu Insurance operates an enterprise-level Customer Information ManageCategory 2010 2011 2012 93 95 94 ment Committee and designates an individual information Exposed amount of money 678 734 759 protection officer. The Committee convenes at least once a 38 month. In order to prevent any breach of confidentiality, it over39 sees measures such as the obligatory acquisition of consent Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance for the collection of personal information, information security 2010 2011 2012 [Management organization for customer information protection] (2) e-Services for improved customer communication In addition to its corporate website, Dongbu Insurance provides a variety of e-Services for its customers. Information management head General information management Among the most popular is the Company’s Smart Zone moOverall management of enterprise-level (general affairs manager) bile application. Services available using the application ininformation and security related activities Responsible for the management of printed materials cludes Emergency Road request, insurance policy reference, and documents as well as building and facility security insurance policy loans, insurance requests, and special contract enrollment. In 2012, the use of e-Services rose significantly to a monthly average of 620,000 cases, indicating Personal information management the popularity of the initiative. The Company also provides (strategy marketing manager) e-Services that disabled people can use conveniently and is Responsible for the collection, use, striving to expand the range of e-Service offered to all cusprovision and disposal of customer tomers to provide information more efficiently. information and data Information management committee Responsible for the enactment and IT security management revision of corporate policy for information (strategy innovation manager) management, inspection of relevant activities, coordination of data and Responsible for information system information management, and operation, system failure prevention, establishment of anti-data leak measures and anti-hacking measures Furthermore, the Insurance Fraud Detection System (IFDS) op[Disaster response process] Dongbu Insurance additional services erates in order to uncover and respond to of insurance fraud at an early stage. Dongbu Insurance aims to eradicate all insurSubject Service provided Disaster ance fraud by activating the fraud control programs and enConvocation of New • Promy 3-6-9 Service recognition and couraging customer participation. report disaster management board customers Information on insurance plans and services given in the next third, Sixth and ninth month following the conclusion of the first contract The company expects to create economic profit through pre• Promy Webzine Service ventative measures and runs an insurance fraud education proHealthcare, Leisure and everyday living information provided by e-mail gram in order to improve results and protect customers. Field support Within three hours from outbreak Long-term insurance • Promy Healthcare Service team dispatch customers Health information offered by direct mail and SMS, Pre-care service and after-care service (2) Enterprise-level strengthening of insurance fraud • Smart Life Care Service management system Well-being, Home-care, Beauty-care service provided The Insurance Fraud Prevention Committee was created to • Funeral Service improve internal monitoring of possible insurance crimes. On-site rescue Cooperation with entities • Driver Membership Service Discount on auto parts and cleaning equipments provided Chaired by the compensation service manager, the Committee establishes insurance fraud policy and disciplines those Auto insurance • Promy Car Service involved in such cases in order to ensure the Company’s customers Car services in 36 areas through Promy World Car Service Centers business operations and activities are in compliance with relClaim adjustment Claim calculation and indemnity • SOS Emergency Dispatch 11 Services available backup evant laws and regulations. Safety Education Service: Safe driving, Maintaining sound car condition, etc Civil Affairs Agency Service: Regular check-up agency service, etc VIP • VIP Membership Service customers Promy Healthcare and special VIP services, Discounted toll fees, Accommodation discount, Follow-up Follow-up to field support team 40 Differentiated services for customer services Leisure activity discount, etc., Annual brochure, Basketball camp for the children of VIP customers, 41 Specialized services such as risk management, Loan interest discount, Legal and asset management counseling impression Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance 1) Anti-disaster service The enterprise-level Natural/Man-made Disaster Service was [Disaster countermeasure committee] created to better protect customers’ physical assets in the • Countermeasure event of natural and man-made disasters. Chairman of Committee Member Disaster • Compensation Countermeasure Planning Assistant In the case of a national disaster warning, text messages Manager Committee are sent to alert customers. When disaster strikes, a Disas• Compensation • Promy Service Manager ter Management Board cooperates closely with field support Service Directing • Standard Compensation Manager Assistant Manager teams, rescue workers, and the authorities. We also maintain • Business Management a close relationship with relevant organizations, dispatching Assistant Manager teams within three hours of any incident. Overall On-site Overall Disaster Management Management •O  n-site Measures • Compensation • Compensation •O  n-site Head Manager Planning Manager Director 2) Additional services In addition to insurance contracts, the Company offers additional services related to health care, auto care and convenience services that are increasing customer satisfaction levels. Dongbu Insurance aims to create value for shareholders and investors through stable financial Strat performance. Share egy d mutu vision th al co rough with m the s municati enha takeh o nc older n throu ed work s, g e to inn h consist fficiency ovate ent e mana ffor geme ts nt Plan cused on Vision Strategy fo and ing profit-mak nancial Valuable a nd a re n t fi ny transp el o m pa , e n te rprise-lev trustworth yc ed status on, x im iz of innovati es through m a promotion o c ffi corpora te v a lu e overseas enlarging Major Issues Major Achievements 1. Establishment of Financial 2. Maintainable Innovation and Transparency Its Growth Responsib [As of June 2013] [2012 Performance] le Departme Business Planning nts General A Departme n Financial Management 254.6 % 198.4 KRW billion Managem ffairs Dep ent Innov artment ation Dep t [RBC Rate] New Grow artment stability innovation th Task Fo rce 3. Strengthening Brand 4. Increase in Global Recognition Credibility-Level (AM-BEST, S&P) [Korean Gallup, Increasing brand value Overseas projects and new business Oricom Customer Survey] A-/Stable [S&P Rating] 1 st [First Recognition of AdvertiseA[Excellent] [A.M. Best Rating] ment / Recognition within the Advertisement Sectors] Ryu Yeong-jae DONGBU INSURANCE IS THE ONLY COMPANY IN ITS INDUSTRY TO HAVE CLEAR GOAL RELATED TO CLIMATE CHANGE, AS WELL AS Shareholders and Investors [CEO of Sustinvest] OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENTS IN SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT. IT 4 IS MY HOPE THAT COMPANY CAN EARN THE UNRESERVED TRUST OF ITS CUSTOMERS THROUGH THE ACTIVE PROMOTION OF SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT. Major Issue FINANCIAL STABILITY From the view of an investor, sustainability management corresponding to the characteristics of the insurance company is the most important factor in evaluating sustainable management. Major issues vary by industry, and understanding the differences is critical to sustainably managing a company. Moreover, understanding the risks and opportunities of sustainability management in order to prioritize and distribute resources effectively is more important than meeting standard reporting requirements. As an insurance company, product development, asset management and investment, and premium payment should be sufficiently innovative to address ESG issues, generate greater Economic achievement 2) Profitability profitability, and create new opportunities for sustainable advancement . By successfully maintaining expenses at low levels, the Com1) Management performance pany was able to gain advantage over its competitors and establish a stable structure of investment profit. Summarized management performance data (K-GAAP) [unit: KRW 100 million] Since the global economic crisis of 2008 and the Eurozone Category 2010 2011 2012 crisis of 2010, we have enjoyed steady and sustained growth on the basis of our strong financial structure. Original premium 71,137 90,694 96,925 Insurance sales profit [993] [228] [1,335] Through the maintenance of external growth focused on longInvestment business 4,871 5,847 6,995 term insurance, during the past three years we have achieved 45 profit high profit margin ratios, Return on Assets, and Return on Equity. Dongbu Insurance Net profit during the 2,844 4,031 4,133 term We will strive to sustain profitability through expansion foTotal assets 134,974 175,314 211,894 cused on long-term insurance, strengthened risk management based on RBC, and stable asset management. Working capital 108,755 143,002 174,391 Liability 115,986 153,303 184,333 Profitability [unit: %] Equity capital 18,988 22,011 27,561 Category 2010 2011 2012 Total ratio (%) 100.9 100.3 101.5 SHAREHOLDERS Loss ratio (%) 79.7 83.4 83.8 Dongbu Insurance 3 highestranked Dongbu Insurance 3 highestranked Dongbu Insurance 3 highestranked AND INVESTORS Business ratio (%) 21.2 16.9 17.7 companies* companies* companies* Percentage 18.9 18.5 27.5 18.8 6.9** 11.7 change in original S&P Rating First domestic insurance company As the result of global economic recession, the businesses profit upgraded to ‘A(Stable)’ listed by DJSI World experienced a prolonged period of low growth and low inKorea exchange SRI Index Sales 5.1 4.3 4.8 4.6 4.5 4.2 terest rates that resulted in a contraction of the domestic profit economy and increased loss ratios in the insurance industry. ROA 2.4 1.4 2.7 2.1 2.1 1.5 Despite those difficulties, Dongbu Insurance achieved an inROE 19.2 11.2 20.0 19.4 16.7 12.6 crease in sales and investment profit and ranked second in the automobile insurance. As a result, our original premium * 3 top-ranked companies: High ranked turnover based amounted to KRW 9 trillion 692.5 billion, an increase of 6.9% · The original premium rate decreased in 2012 compared to the top compared with the previous year, while net profit rose 2.5% 3 domestic insurance companies due to a strategy of maximizing profit by Dongbu Insurance’s S&P Rating In 2013, Dongbu Insurance became “maximizing sales” (savings, single-premium policy reduction). Actual in 2013 reflects its stable market the first domestic insurance comto KRW 413.3 billion. market share increased in FY12 by 0.2% on the previous year and the position and the maintenance of the pany to be listed by DJSI World, Dow average rate of the top 3 companies stands at -0.4% current status of its assets Jones’ Global Sustainability Index. We aim to sustain this sound management going forward founded on long-term insurance and external expansion. 3) Financial solvency EV : Embedded Value Domestic insurance companies must secure enough suffiIn September 2009, Dongbu InsurEmbedded Value (EV) is a way of measuring the creatable value of existing longance was included among the 70 term insurance and reflects characteristics that influence the company’s long-term cient capital surplus in order to fulfill their obligations to concompanies on the Korea Exchange profit and loss. Dongbu Insurance calculates and publishes Embedded Value annutractors. Risk Based Capital (RBC) ratio indicates financial SRI Index of corporate sustainability ally. EV calculation methods and results are verified externally. Dongbu Insurance’s management. EV in 2013 amounted to 4 trillion 917.0 billion won, an increase of 19.4% compared solvency. with the previous year. More details are available on Dongbu Insurance website. Dongbu Insurance’s RBC ratio* stood at 261.8% in 2011 and 254.6% in 2012, higher than the top 4 insurance companies Financial solvency [unit: %] Shareholders and Investors 5 nationwide. Until 2010, the Company used he paymentCategory 2010 2011 2012 availability system was used. From 2011, the RBC system RBCrate 245.5 261.8 254.6 Major Issue was adopted. Top 4 253.8 260.1 251.4 MANAGEMENT companies * RBC ratio: Insurance retained ratio between Total Adjusted Capital and (average)* INNOVATION Total Necessary Capital which is used to calculate Supplied Ratio, the capital adequacy index. * Top ranked companies based on profit Management innovation for Value creation and distribution enhanced shareholder value [The stakeholders' profit distribution] [unit: KRW 100 million] 1) Major innovation activities 2010 2011 2012 Dongbu insurance sets goals based on optimized manageThe Innovation Committee is designed to implement innoment efficiency and innovates management to achieve them. vative strategies, manage projects, and cultivate innovative At Innovation Briefing Sessions, which are held four times a manpower. year, the CEO and executives directly lead all core strategies. 75,439 The Sessions provide an effective method of increasing the Dongbu Insurance has its own unique Innovation Process and participation of middle managers and front line staff. is doing its best in the pursuit of innovation. Process Innova46 47 tion (PI) and 6 Sigma, which eliminate non-value-added work 69,790 [5 Innovative success factors] processes, are good examples of our efforts. Customers Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance [Loss amount (insurance payment and etc.)] 51,626 Right Support Interest, support and coaching from the Although we constantly seek ways to offer shareholders and Executives customers added value, we are aware that performance must Right Roadmap Idealized innovation methodology be in the service of results. In consideration of that, we hold the Best Practice Competition twice a year and share ex14,107 Right Project Right innovation project and achieving amples of innovation in practice. Through this activity, we are 12,360 goals reaching our goals and cultivating a smart working culture. 9,642 Right People Creating excellent innovative personnel and companywide participation Partners (goods/servicespurchase and Right Valuation Performance approval and fair evaluation insurance sales expense) management 3,339 3,271 Dimensional innovation Others Top down Bottom down (tax, donation, sports support etc.) 2,570 Category PI 6 Sigma Creating Efficient Work Suggestion 2,690 Employee 2,410 2,661 Innovation Business structure innovation Customer-oriented process Per-stage work innovation Companywide work improvement Personnel expenses (wages, welfare expense) range (biz model) innovation 2,274 791 Internal reserves 760 Objective Competency Quality (reduction in distribution) Efficiency (reducing work-time) Efficiency (work improvement) (evident level upgrade) Direction of Strategy performance Shareholders (dividend) performance Operation performance 686 668 570 PJT owner Executives / Team leaders Champion / Process owners Department manager Employees / Partners Role of Partial crossover type Champion project growth Executives / Team leaders test Monitoring of designated executives/ executives and team leaders promoting one or more GB suitability and performance of proposals and its actual Team are responsible for assigning project from executives / Team new proposals performance Total Profit 69,092 89,528 97,034 leaders tasks leaders (earned premium+return on investment) Major Enactment or executives’ Number of tasks: 1,000 tasks Enactment of total of 8 work All of customers / sales partners / achievePI tasks Number of training belts: 740 people efficiency task employees participate ments Total of 57 tasks were carried BB: 114 people Elimination of 15% of unnecessary Annual average of over 14,000 people out (2004~2005) GB: 626 people (2005~2011) work suggestion registered 3,000 people Securing innovative and next participated Innovation financial performance: KRW 948.2 billion (2004~2011) generation workforce 2) Major innovation achievements Shareholders and Investors Overseas expansion and Localization of overseas branches True innovation does not stop after the completion of a task; differentiation strategy 6 it also measures and manages the results of performances. A key phrase for localization is “Family Trust” through KoreDongbu Insurance conducts year-long evaluations of tasks Dongbu Insurance is focusing its attention on the US market an-style bonding. Major Issue implemented through innovation projects. We focus on manas a foothold in a major international financial market. Unlike OVERSEAS PROJECTS AND aging the innovation results by manually conducting work competitors that sell product-oriented insurance, a characNEW BUSINESS 1) Guam processes in order to ensure sound process integrity. teristic of Dongbu Insurance’s overseas business strategy is the provision of differentiated and localized products. We are After Guam suffered its third-largest storm on record in 2002, In addition, for more accurate performance measures, we already seeing successful results in Guam, Hawaii, Califorthe majority of insurance companies withdrew from the martrain Financial Effect Analysts as accounting experts in actunia, and New York through our profitable localization strategy. ket. Dongbu Insurance, however, overcame the challenges ary and business management departments. and remained to provide much needed services. Gaining the In Guam, we rank No.1 both in growth and profitability among trust of local communities through our actions, we have since Performance is measured by calculating only direct effects, local compensation companies. In Hawaii, we recorded rapid grown to become the No. 2 insurer in Guam with a market and evaluation is made within a year of the financial stateOverseas expansion growth in a short period by launching customized products share of 16%. We now insure more than 10 of Guam’s 45 ment on the basis of profit increases and expenditure reducand introducing a Koreanstyle branch management system. government properties and more than a third of hotels of 23 tions. After establishing a branch office in Guam in 1984, the Comhotels that were previously handled by Japanese and Ameripany continued to grow internationally with the opening of can insurance companies. Current status of office management in the US Innovation projects increase each year. In 2012, 353 projects offices in Hawaii in 2006, California in 2009, and New York in 2011. Category Guam Hawaii California New York resulted in innovation performance of KRW198.4 billion. Foundation of 1984 (1973) 2006 2009 2011 2) Hawaii In Asia, a Beijing branch office was established in 2006. Exbusiness Result of innovation project [unit: KRW 100 million] Dongbu has been successful in Hawaii by providing custompansion in the region continued in 2011with offices opened No. of 5 (2) 18 (13) 15 (8) 12 (6) employees er-oriented products for hurricanes, which represent high Category 2010 2011 2012 in Ho Chi Minh and Jakarta. Most recently, we opened our (local) loss rates for insurance companies. We are also providing 48 Project (case) 186 238 353 London office in 2012. 49 Local product 84% 96% 84% 85% quality customer service through Korean-style marketing, Innovation 1,630 1,660 1,984 rate quicker service, better products, a happier workplace, and Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance result Number of oversea office in other countries (FY’12) (non-Korean mutual trust. For example, we reduced the length of contract (one hundred [unit: number] product) million)* guidance from up to five days to just one day. Also, by meetCategory US China Vietnam Indonesia UK ing each and every customer and Korean-style bonding, we * Result calculation period changed into 1 year. Local 0 0 0 0 0 helped out customers to understand the market better and subsidiary Dongbu Insurance focuses on expanding sales with the aim created interpersonal relationships. of creating profit and, in the midto long-term, establishing a Innovation cases Branch 2 0 0 0 0 strong presence in America. store [The promy promise to ‘Move within 30 minutes’] Office 0 1 1 1 1 3) California & New York Due to difficulties in rapid response, caused by geographical The Company has operated in the Chinese market through In California and New York, Dongbu has implemented localTotal 2 1 1 1 1 factors, such as remote areas or rush hour traffic, we adquota investment since February 2011. A head office in Beiization strategies in order to expand its market share. In adopted a GSP system for emergency agents and motorcycle jing was also established to target the larger Chinese mardition, through sales channels and a culture of cooperation, standby agents for the very first time in the local insurance Status of oversea branches [unit: million dollar] kets. we strive to achieve satisfaction for all by providing a better industry. As a result, response times were reduced to less IT environment. Catergory 2010 2011 2012 than fifteen minutes. Moreover, with South-East Asia growing in economic sigTotal assets 73.6 119.9 186.6 nificance, in 2011 we opened offices in Vietnam and Indone[Call center waiting time] Percentage out of 0.64 0.79 1 sia. We aim to build the Company within the Asia region by We have adopted Key Performance Indicators, such as the rate of the total assets* focusing on quality rather than volume through meticulous calls answered within twenty seconds, and use the Automatic ClasNet profit during the 1.4 1.1 1.4 market research and network development. In doing so, we sification System to help us understand various requirements of our term aim to provide quality services and differentiated insurance customers. As a result of these kinds of efforts, customer satisfac· Oversea Office Performance Report by the Financial Supervisory Service products as a leading global insurance company. tion has increased. * Calculated on the basis of the currency rate at the last day of Fiscal Year. Shareholders and Investors Performance for (2) A.M. Best rating Dongbu Insurance was rated A (Excellent) in 2013 by the 7 Shareholders and global insurance rating company A.M. Best in recognition of its profitability and capital strength. The Company has reMajor Issue INCREASING Investors ceived an A rating for six consecutive years since its upgrade from A(Excellent) in 2008. BRAND VALUE Category 2011 2012 2013 Dongbu A[Excellent] A[Excellent] A[Excellent] insurance IC A A++[Superior] A++[Superior] A++[Superior] Improvement in brand value IC B A-[Excellent] A[Excellent] A[Excellent] 1) Promy integration brand strategy Enhancing shareholder and investor IC C A-[Excellent] A-[Excellent] A-[Excellent] Dongbu Insurance’s Promy brand embodies the idea of Brand evaluation result value keeping our promise to our customers and is central to our Category 2010 2011 2012 1) Enhancing shareholder value management philosophy. The Company is developing an in(1) Dividend status 3) Investment information tegrated brand strategy that includes PromyCar insurance Brand initial awareness 3rd 2nd 2nd and PromyLife long-term insurance. We have maintained a high dividend policy to enhance shareDongbu Insurance provides investor information through Brand total awareness 3rd 2nd 2nd holder value by realizing stable and steady performances. various online and offline channels. The Company provides Commercial initial 1st 2nd 1st timely investment information such as management strateawareness In 2012, the dividend per share was KRW 1,250, while the 2) Brand management system dividend rate as of par value rose to 180%, a 30% increase gies, operating results, shareholder and stock price inforCommercial total 1st 2nd 1st mation, and press releases through regular updates on its 50 The Company uses a Brand Performance Index (BPI) to awareness from the previous year. The dividend payout ratio dropped 51 1% to 20% from the previous year. website. systematically monitor brand management and evaluCommercial preference 1st 1st 1st Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance ate brand value and advertising performance. It also The company participates in IR meetings, conferences and protects the Company brand value through brand regStatus of dividends [unit: KRW 100 million] Non-Deal Roadshows with domestic and international anaistration. RealMeter-SBS CNBC BMSI[Brand Mind-share Index] Category 2010 2011 2012 lysts and investors throughout the year. Full information can [unit: point] Dividends per share 900 1,200 1,250 be found at http://www. idongbu.com or http://dart.fss.or.kr. [unit: KRW million] (KRW) Dongbu Insurance IC A IC B Fiscal Year 2010 2011 2012 Net income 2,844 4,031 4,130 55 Total advertising 22,031 38,449 42,482 Total dividend payment 570 760 791 costs Dividend payout 20.0 18.8 19.2 ratio[%]* 50.7 50.0 50.5 49.4 50 * Ratio of the dividends based on the net income 3) Enhancing brand recognition 49.5 48.8 The Company’s brand communication and recognition 47.4 are strengthened through its Brand Identity (BI) and Vi2) Global credit rating 45 46.6 sual Identity (VI), which communicate a consistent and (1) S&P credit rating distinct Company image. S&P, one of the top three credit rating agencies, rated Dongbu Insurance A-/Stable in 2013, having upgraded the ComIn addition, a brand manual is available on the Compa40 41.4 pany’s rating from Stable to Positive in 2012. ny website for employees and shareholders. Through 41.1 40.3 such efforts, in 2012 Dongbu successfully strength38.5 The investment grade rating attests to the Company’s financial ened its brand recognition with the public. In the result transparency, business efficiency, and stable market position. of a survey conducted by the public opinion research 35 firm REALMETER, SBS CNBC* in March 2013, Dongbu December, 2012 January, 2013 February, 2013 March, 2013 Insurance ranked first in BMSI (Brand Mind-Share InCategory 2011 2012 2013 dex) for four consecutive months from December 2012. Dongbu BBB+/Stable BBB+/Positive A-/Stable insurance * REALMETER, SBS CNBC publishes a monthly BMSI (Brand Mind-Share Index) based on surveys of brand recognition, customer preferences, IC A A+/ Stable A+/ Positive AA-/Stable satisfaction, etc. The research is conducted in cooperation with IC B BBB+/Stable BBB+/Positive A-/Stable the SUNY Korea. IC C BBB+/Stable BBB+/Stable Dongbu Insurance aims to grow together with its employees based on Plan ood communication. A global-s tandard G e (GWP) Work Plac equal providing hment y, establis opportunit rd system wa of a fair re Strat egy Regu lar co with mmu empl found oyee nication a s, a sys tion of tema educ ti ation c al pro gram Vision A working our Responsib ent where le Depart environm s a nd dream HR Depart ments come re a lity ment visions be HRD Dep artment Major Issues Major Achievements 1.Employee Satisfaction Level 2. Obtaining Qualifications and [As of June 2013] Certificates [2012 Performance] Fair performance evaluation and 80.1 point 3,360 person reward 3. Becoming Regular Workers Communication Employee [2011-2013] with employees education and training 1,053 person, 100 % Improvements in Protection of human working environment rights and cooperation with labor and management Yang Gwang-ho THROUGH ITS SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE, DONGBU INSURANCE HAS BEEN ABLE TO DEVELOP A MANAGEEmployees [Dongbu Insurance Strategy Marketing Team CRM Manager] MENT CULTURE WHERE ALL EMPLOYEES CAN ENJOY THEIR DUTIES. THANKS TO REGULAR COMMUNICATION WITH EMPLOYEES 8 AND A DIFFERENTIATED CUSTOMER VALUE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM, I BELIEVE THE COMPANY CAN GROW STILL MORE. Major Issue FAIR PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND Dongbu Insurance operates a welfare system that supports children's education and REWARD medical expenses, and is pursuing an advanced HR system and optional welfare system. Through mutual communication, the Company aims to create a better environment and lifestyle for all of its employees. Dongbu Insurance maintains the highest levels of customer satisfaction by providing products and services that consider the needs of customers, communities, and environments. Aiming to eradicate customer complaints, we pursue Customer Value Management and unique approaches in managing customer relationships. Customers are able to enjoy the best products, while potential customers are Guarantee of equal opportunity attracted through existing customers. 1) Respecting employee diversity (1) Employment of disabled people Regardless of degree of disability, we offer people with disOur telecommuting center provides opportunities for emabilities employment opportunities in any department where ployees who had to retire from the Company for family reathey are willing and able to work. We are also attentive to sons. The center, which has a nursery, has expanded since special needs, such as the provision of parking spaces. 2007 and as of March 2013 employed 306 telecommuters. The telecommuting center provides a win-win situation for [Utilization of handicapped resources state employees, the Company, and the local communities. Cur(accumulated)] [unit: person] rently, 45% of all customer complaint calls are dealt with by 55 the telecommuting system. Dongbu Insurance Fair evaluation 54 53 45 1) Fair performance evaluation system Dongbu Insurance carries out transparent and impartial performance evaluations each month based on a performance management system that uses the Balanced Score Card EMPLOYEES (BSC) method. Feedback from reviews is provided to employees concerned in order to satisfy them as to the fairness 2010 2011 2012 of the assessments and to motivate them. Dongbu receives “Head · As of March every Fiscal Year of Financial Supervisory Service’s” award at the “Tong Tong Tong” Meeting Employees are free to raise objections to assessment of their “True Insurer Awards” 2010 Korea's Excellent with the CEO professional and personal competence and performance. In (2) Recruitment of and career development assistance such cases, the Personnel Committee seeks the opinions of Work Environment for female workers evaluators and relevant departments to ascertain the validGrand Prize Winner We have created a numerous jobs requiring female workers ity of the assessment. This process has done much to raise so that women in Korea can play a larger role in the national employees' understanding of and satisfaction with evaluaeconomy while also achieving personal goals. At the Jeonju tion criteria. In 2012, 34 objections were filed of which 14 Customer Service Center, 212 local female workers were were adjusted. Through “Tong Tong Tong” meethired in 2012, while the Wonju Customer Service Center proDongbu Insurance was awarded ings, Dongbu Insurance employees the “Head of Financial Supervisory vided 97 positions when it opened in 2011. Currently there are able to communicate directly Evaluation objection status and adjusted ratio Service’s” certificate in the field of Product Development & Marketing with the CEO. are 133 female employees. at the 2013 “True Insurer Awards”. Category 2010 2011 2012 At the same time, we have proposed new visions and opNo. of objections[person] 37 32 34 portunities for women’s career development and a high level No. of acceptance[case] 14 14 14 of job stability. There is no discrimination in hiring, promoDongbu Insurance was named by tion, pay, or evaluation among employees. Our HR system Adjusted ratio[%] 37.8 43.8 41.2 GWP Korea as the winner of the also offers all outstanding workers opportunities to become Grand Prize for Korea's Excellent Work Environment in recognition of executives or supervisors. its efforts to create better working environments for its employees. 2) Compensation system Employee salary is divided into base pay, merit pay, and inEmployees 2) Internal communication The Company is establishing various internal channels of 9 centives. Data on the wages of new recruits are made public communication for employees to nurture an enterprise-wide Realization of Dynamical on domestic job information websites. Annual salaries differ Major Issue culture of understanding among Dongbu Insurance staff. Industry Culture solely on rank and performance, not on gender. 2013 Target Drive COMMUNICATION WITH Securing execution EMPLOYEES Major communication programs through participation[Annual income average] [unit: KRW thousand] Strengthening based programs Category Contents Result Enactment 1) Dynamic Day 2) Dynamic Do&Don’t Season 2 3) D  ynamic Cartoon – Monthly Internal broadcasting about On the first day Re-sharing of topics management achievement of management of each month 4) Dynamic Promise briefing performances and progress 2011~12 5) R  ecommendation! Dynamic 64,702 Obtaining Dongbu Personnel Cartoon Season 1, 2 / Open Program in which all employees are 2010~2012, Execution 2010 Poster Continuous activation of meeting encouraged to participate and decide total 271 cases Do&Don’t / Promise communication between on major company policies Dongbu Personnel Award: on-sights and the head 27,851 Yearly / Monthly office Employee communication Suggestion system Opinion acceptance program for management activity and business 2010~2012 Total 41,916 Dynamic Communication: Plus 1) Dynamic Times 2) Do&Don’t PoP environment improvement cases Value Inherence 3) A  lternative operation of 1) Meetings with the CEO Dynamic communication Strengthening enactment 84,763 As a result of the CEO’s desire for open communication with e-Promy Electronic newsletter based on intranet through leaders plaza which is a place for communication 2010~11 Company staff, we have held Call CEO and YES Meetings with all employees 1) S  ecuring execution through 1st and 2nd Dynamic Spiritual 2011 partner leaders and dynamic every month since July 2010. A total of 38 meetings have (including sales partner) Dongbu Employee Program Rearmament leaders been held to date, enabling around 1,800 employees to comGWP plaza Infra which can share many GWP Visit count 36,041 municate directly with the CEO and senior executives. programs of each department and 2010, 190,958 CEO Management Principle Company Core Growth make mutual benchmarking between times them 2011, 306,166 Group Core Value: Management Ideology, 3 Mind Sets, 3 Attitudes times 56 2012, 260,352 57 times Dynamic Customer Satisfaction, Innovation Hold every year Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance 72,746 leader management, Meeting between (after 2011) 4) Mentoring system conference management and staff representatives The Mentoring System helps new employees to adapt swiftly from each department for employee 2012 satisfaction improvement to the Company and its culture. The System helps newcom(suggested proposal subjects are ers to develop their personal skills as well as their business 33,280 actively reflected) capabilities. We select Mentors based on a wide range of criteria including personality, professional ability, reliability, and position. · In the case of year 2011, PI has been reflected by 300%, and in 2012, Also we provide special programs to help both Mentor and IT employees have been counted in numbers, but their income was not Mentee plan and implement in a systematic manner their sixcalculated, hence the decreasing shape. month journey together. · Female workers: Average income, including the new recruits from polytech. 5) Club activities The Company’s support for regular, organized club activities has resulted in employee participation in numerous competitions and many award-winning performances. As of March 2013 there were 19 clubs with a total of 596 members. Club activities include pastimes such as travel, culture and arts, and education. DynamicLeader Conference and Participation Program Notice Board 3) Dynamic dongbu employee program Through the Dynamic Dongbu Employee Program, employees can share the vision and aims of the Company as well as its regulations and principles. Employees are encouraged to Voice-up Chorus Club express problematic work issues through cartoons and posters, etc. and understand each other through communication. In this way the Company is developing a dynamic corporate culture. Employees Employee satisfaction index evaluation Employees 10 11 We compile an Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) Survey once a year to gauge staff morale and enhance their satMajor Issue Major Issue isfaction through companywide improvements. The ESI has IMPROVEMENTS IN continued to rise over the past three years, reaching 80.1 in EMPLOYEE EDUCATION WORKING ENVIRONMENT 2012. AND TRAINING [Employee satisfaction] [unit: point] 79.4 80.1 75.6 Creating an ideal working environment GWP Plaza System Strengthening employee capability We are promoting various programs in pursuit of creating a Dongbu aims to create experts in areas within the industry Great Work Place (GWP) and a Company environment where with its “new training system”. We provide structure leaderemployees feel confident and proud of working. 2010 2011 2012 ship training, professional education and training programs, and special education courses for areas of specific expertise. The GWP Plaza, which opened in 2009, revised major programs based on employee suggestions and a variety of GWP [Dongbu insurance human resource training system] programs are constantly shared among staff. Changed the image and the top menu. Disease prevention and health The Dongbu Insurance Human Resources Training System is promotion a departmental education system that specializes in leader58 ship training, structured courses to strengthen core human 59 To create an environment where all employees are healthy, we resources, core training for different human resources, and a Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance C.C.E Program have continually developed and implemented a variety of health departmental education system for professionalism. care programs. We are also taking measures to prevent issues The C.C.E (Creation, Communication, Empathy) Program related to sedentary work and provide massage care to our aims to help employee development through experiences consulting staff. Education System inside and outside of the organization. Expert per Level Beginner, Disease prevention and health promotion programs Promoter Course Group DLP Course Program Content Group DVP Course Individual [Invitation to C.C.E] is held within the designated month, and other respective fields need to be attended activities individually to outside organizations Employee physical Carry out annual physical checkup for every Training Outstanding SD* checkup staff and their spouses Core Human-force acknowledged Category Terms of conditions SD duration per session Outstanding Health fund Conduct overall campaigns of anti-smoking Human-force Core Leadership Training Global Invitation to C.C.E Attendance & survey submitted 4 hours (antismoking fund, and health for our employees’ health (provide Course Special Human-force Diet fund) special dividend and gift when succeeded) Course for Departments Global Voyager Club Report Personal feelings or opinions within 700 words or less 4 hours Special Course for Individuals Long-term Overseas Counseling Expert Counseling for employees and family Sogang University SHAPE Education Clubs HR department unacknowledged in-company or ex-company clubs who 5 hours members KAIST AIC Oversea Branch OJT can prove their attendance more 6 times a year with visual proof [In partnership with Korea Counselling Center] Dongbu DNA Course Language Capability Volunteer work Accompanied with certificate proving 6 or more involved activities 5 hours Disease response Preventive measure guidelines, checks, Education System per system treatment and sick leave are provided for Core Duty Sector External education Accompanied with certificate proving their completion of education Maximum 10 hours infectious diseases Human-force Individual/Corporate Body/ [Acute hepatitis A, influenza, etc.] External qualification Accompanied with certificate or new training approval 10 hours New Business/Compensation/ Subsidiary/Customer Service/ Accident insurance Provide fundholding to every employee and UWer for all employees their family (including spouse and children) Core Duty * SD: Self Development Human-force Healthinformation Hold seminars of frequently-resulting disease Training System seminar and the method of prevention for counseling center employees 3 Academies The Program comprises a variety of individual activities dePotential Accounting Academy C.C.E highlights Outstanding Marketing Academy signed to nurture creativity and talent, as well as seminars at Human-force Innovation Academy which guest speakers in different fields of expertise motivate Category 2010 2011 2012 Support in obtaining insurance expert employees. The results of participation are reflected in an No. of times 15 13 15 certificate New Training System individual scoring system. Qualification System No. of participants 2,079 1,471 1,588 (in-company qualification) Study Group Music, Art, Psychology, Health, IT, Movies, Newly Main programs New Training Evaluation Travelling etc. Recruited Human-force 1) New training system 2) Hierarchical common curriculum system: Dongbu Insurance has been implementing change and innovaDVP(Dongbu Value Program) and promotion process Result of new training construction tion in order to foster a competitive workforce since the incepWe run structured leadership training courses in order to defications outside the company in areas such as insurance tion of its New Training System in 2004. In order to improve Category 2010 2011 2012 velop leadership skills in different areas and strengthen each auditing. Furthermore, we are preparing Company talent by employee capabilities, the system aims to nurture talent and employee’s ability. Furthermore, we are doing our best to providing support for globally recognized qualifications such Qualification (person) 3,806 3,113 3,360 provide support for self-development. foster the unique talents of our leaders and enable them to CPCU, AICPA, CFA, and AIC. Study group (number) 539 428 496 realize their full leadership potential and professional skills. New training management process Under the new Training Management Process, department 7) Internal academy managers set standards, discovering the ability requirement Insurance professional qualification* rate 3) Specialization through departmental education Dongbu Insurance runs three academy courses aimed at standard and present level of GAP through department staff Category 2010 2011 2012 system fostering departmental expertise. self-diagnosis. Through this system, staff can improve their The Departmental Education System is focused on improving Number 497 542 602 abilities and create annual plans for self-directed growth. knowledge in individual departments. Through the System, we (1) Innovation academy Possession rate (%) 19.1 20.1 20.7 have developed and increased departmental competency. Our Established in 2007, the Innovation Academy’s four-year Testing of necessary capacity * Domestic and foreign qualifications related to insurance, which is Office Management Training System, for example, includes nine courses have positively influenced the culture of managecontinuously enforced for reserving expertise such as CPCU, ARe, actuary, steps that include introduction, training, one to two years of leaderment innovation in Company. Through the Academy, we underwriter etc. ship education, and strengthening specialty knowledge. seek to cultivate professional expertise, executive ability, and Self Gap analysis Manager a mindset that embraces innovation. evaluation evaluation Status of employee education in past 3 years [unit: time, KRW million] 4) Training core manpower In particular, from 2011 we made Innovation Performance Securing self-development plan Category 2010 2011 2012 (Six Sigma project) a mandatory requirement for academy Every October, employees who have achieved outstanding Total training time 441,592 436,973 456,057 qualification progress, which we expect to stimulate genuine performance are selected through the Dongbu Talent Ses60 Advice from head of the Is it suitable? No sion for special training. Through the special training, we are innovation expertise and bridge the gap between academic 61 Training time per person* 105.6 95.3 93.8 department learning and its practical application. encouraging our most talented staff to expand their profesYes Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance Total training expenses 4,942 5,130 5,681 sional competencies. As well as offering opportunities for Finalize Training Goal / Start Training [Innovation academy graduate state] [unit: person] Training expenses per person 1.09 1.11 1.17 self-improvement, the training also helps to cultivate employees’ self-confidence. Year Total * Total training time ÷ the number of training members 233 (permanent worker + temporary worker) · Outstanding Staff Selection: about 10% of full-time staff annually 209 5) Global manpower training 183 Launched in 2009, the Global Voyage Club (GVC) was deExample of self capacity test signed to prepare staff for the Company’s globalization. With 136 Category Description Self Manager 53 overseas postings available each year, the Company is evaluated evaluated aware of the importance of maintaining its global human rescore score 89 sources training. GVC education consists of overseas marBusiness • Is not bound by the stereotypical tradition. Search for new opportunities and new tasks with ket research, training abroad, business language courses, mind and willingness. Find and perform creative solution to successfully accomplish the tasks innovation • Set big and daring goals and strive to achieve despite any hardships B+ A support for special qualifications, and visits to international • Focus on the given tasks with professionalism and strive to achieve better and over-estimated markets. 61 outcomes 47 47 Customer • Actively reflect customers’ needs and expectation upon working tasks, continuously create customer value priority satisfaction by providing the best product and service through customer-oriented thinking 28 26 24 • Communicate excellently with the customers with on-sight-oriented attitude, try one’s best until 6) Qualification system the customer is satisfied through discovering their needs with the market, on-site and the customers B+ A 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 themselves The Company qualification system encourages employees • Flexibly adapt and respond to rapidly changing management environment by not being attached to to continue developing their professional skills and provides the past or focusing only on their perspective staff with the opportunity to receive at least one certification 2012 Innovation academy target state [unit: person, %] Explorative • Continuously make self-development to become the best in the respective field by obtaining new a year. attitude information and knowledge from the help from inside or outside of the company Year or Target Qualified Qualified Certified • Always be open-minded to accept and acknowledge new changes and benchmark other successful studies B+ A In order to equip our workforce with knowledge relevant cases made and reflect upon their own work • Flexibly adapt and respond to rapidly changing management environment by not being attached to 1 87 71 81.6 32 to the insurance business, since 2007 we have developed the past or focusing only on their perspective 2 69 62 89.9 39 some forty certifications. By developing and operating speSelf• Become trustworthy by being fair and diligent through communicating with various people cialized certifications for each department, we are providing 3 45 37 82.2 26 management • Abide by the ethical standards, perform given tasks with self-will and be responsible for the action they take B+ A all employees with the opportunity to develop their industry 4 39 24 61.5 24 • Always stay humble and cooperate excellently with the company to create synergy for themselves and knowledge and perform their jobs to a higher level of proTotal 240 194 80.1 121 the company as well as to achieve mutual goals fessionalism. We are also benefiting from staff gaining quali(2) Marketing academy The Marketing Academy has been in operation since 2004 with about the knowledge, skills, and positional requirements for Employees 12 the goal of developing field managers’ marketing skills and to departments they wish to apply for. In the past 3 years, 502 Major Issue schooling them in the Company’s sales culture. Upon compleemployees have participated in CDP. tion of the 17th course in March 2013, a total of 473 profesPROTECTION OF HUMAN sional sales managers had graduated from the Academy. RIGHTS AND COOPERATION WITH LABOR AND [Management process] MANAGEMENT Recruited by Master trainMA2 Course ing programs MA1 Course the company (Appointed 3/4~4/5 4/8~6/7 (8weeks) with assistance [5weeks] [10weeks] manager) 6/10~9/6 [13weeks] Labor practices Respect for human rights and ban on 1) Freedom of association discrimination Definition of measures / skills per position MA3 Course 9/9~9/27 With the aim of developing a labor–management partnership 1) Respect for human rights [3weeks] bases on trust and cooperation, Dongbu Insurance mainDongbu Insurance conforms to Korean Labor Standard Laws tains numerous open channels of communication. As a reand ILO regulations on forced labor and child labor. There Fulfillment of Allocated with Assistant Manager Branch Manager sult, the Company has not experienced any labor disputes have been no cases of child labor or forced labor at he Comsince 1994. (Industrial accident rate – 2012: 0.02% (industry pany. average: 0.06%), 2011: 0.03% (industry average: 0.07%), 2010: 0.02% (industry average: 0.15%)). As of 2013, 96.3% (1) Human rights education 62 Marketing academy completion state [unit: person] of all employees are covered by collective bargaining agree63 The Company conducts annual online education about sexual Category 2010 2011 2012 Total ments. violence and harassment in the workplace. Any department Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance Completed person 38 52 73 473 can make use of video materials available on the intranet at all [Industrial accident rate] [unit: %] times. 0.02 0.03 0.02 Statement indicating needed knowledge and technology per department for CDP Concrete examples of sexual harassment are provided to serve (3) Actuary academy In order to secure professional actuaries, in 2008 we estab0.06 competing company 0.07 competing company 0.15 as guidelines and raise awareness among employees about violating human rights within the company. lished the Actuary Academy. The Academy course includes 2010 2011 2012 an advance actuarial course (twice a year) and insurance acFurthermore, security personnel stationed at the headquarters tuary and ASA study groups designed to help staff acquire receive human rights education on an average of once a week professional qualifications. (four times a month) for emergency evacuation measures, etiDongbu Insurance guarantees the three labor rights of emquette, and customer service to protect both customers and ployees and conforms to all relevant laws and group agreeemployees and make the workplace safer. A. ACTUARIAL ABILITY ADVANCE COURSE ments. In accordance with labor laws, we abide by regulaThis program includes product development, product maintetions regarding maternity leave and childcare provision. (2) Employees’ grievance settlement system nance work, actuary work, U/W work etc. and is mainlyapplicable toemployees of relevant department. Also provide opporIn order to improve employees’ work performance and qualtunities to who hope to participate in. In addition, employees are given equal opportunities deity of life outside the workplace, the Company provides an pending on their level of abilities and performances. employee counseling system. In 2012, the system was used B. STUDY GROUPOF INSURANCE ACTUARY We started study group of insurance actuary in 2012 and now to resolve 10 grievances. about 30 people are giving challenge to acquiring actuary inConflict between the manager, 2) Notice of major operational changes Counseling surance qualification. In addition, we are encouraging our emConflict with the colleagues, Sexual harassment, ployees’ challenge by carrying out extra certificate programs (Hot line] Conflict in transferring departments Senior management and executives of the Company provide relevent to actuary work. employees with up-to-date information on overall managePsychological Counseling through experts from ment issues such as operating performance and business Counseling Korea Psychological Research Center status through monthly companywide announcements. The Company also provides advance notice of proposed major Legal Legal counseling through company lawyers on 8) Career development program [CDP] operational changes such as HR and employee welfare to Counseling various aspects By facilitating long-term career goals and suggesting poemployees via the corporate intranet. sitions, roles and responsibilities, we are helping our staff gain an increased degree of work understanding and helping them to develop further their career vision. In order to support the CDP of individuals, we provide full information Employee Number of retirees and retirement rate* in recent three years [unit: person] Family friendly workplace Performance Category 2010 2011 2012 Dongbu makes every effort to provide an optimum work-life balance for its employees. Every Wednesday is designated Mle 131[7.3%] 137[7.3%] 94[4.8%] Family Day, while other opportunities for families such as Female 55[6.5%] 27[3.0%] 40[4.2%] overseas travel, etc. are regularly provided. In celebration of Total 186[7.0%] 164[5.9%] 134[4.6%] our 50th anniversary, we held an event where the employees share their thoughts on changing and creating a better work* No. of Retirees / End-of-year average employees x 100 ing environment. The Company is also planning to open an in-company kindergarten. Counseling System in HR Information Intranet Employee welfare and benefits Returning rate of employees after three-year-long childcare leaves [unit: person] Cases solved by official grievance settlement system Creation of job opportunities and 1) Retirement pension system Category 2010 2011 2012 Total [unit: case] employee status Dongbu Insurance applies a Defined Benefits pension plan. PenFemale employees 96 60 81 137 2010 2011 2012 sion funds are managed by Korea Investment & Securities, KookAs of the end of March 2013, the Company employed a total of min Bank, Dongbu Life Insurance, Hana Bank, Shinhan Bank, SamNo. of returnees 90 9 7 123 18 17 10 5,201 staff, including 37 executives. In professional fields such sung Life Insurance, and others. We observe legal standards that Returning rate[%] 93.8 85.0 91.4 89.8 · These cases are all grievance settlement cases in overall personnel manas insurance consulting, medical reviews, and so forth, female stipulate the provision of over one month’s wage in severance pay agement such as personal transfers and sexual harassment. employees accounted for 59.9% of the workforce. · As of end of the FY to individuals who have worked for the company for one year. Over the past three years, we have contributed greatly to cre2) Ban on discrimination ating job opportunities through the recruitment of 933 people. In principle, all employees who take childcare leave are per64 In March 2013, we converted 904 part-time workers to regular 2) Selective welfare and benefit system mitted to return to work. We also make every effort to help65 Although there are differences in employees’ positions, workers. At our businesses and service networks around the Dongbu Insurance has enhanced employee satisfaction by ing returnees re-adapt after leave through initiatives such as responsibilities, and roles, there is no wage or other disSustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance country we give priority to locals when hiring junior and experiimplementing the Selective Welfare and Benefit System that alconsultations before they return to work. crimination based on social status or labor contract type. enced workers. When there is a job vacancy, each local office lows individuals to select their own welfare items and level of In addition, in compliance with recruitment regulations the receives letters of recommendation from its employers or conbenefits within welfare budgets. During the past three years, Family-friendly management programs Company does not discriminate on the basis of race, genducts job interviews to fill the vacancy. New employees then expenditure amounted to KRW 111 billion, of which KRW 44.9 der, age, religion, nationality, or disability. Moreover, in 2013, Programs Content undergo a oneor two-year probationary period before becombillion was spent in 2012. the company actively converted 904 part-time positions into ing eligible for full-time employment. Refresh holiday Award, holidays, holiday expenses are provide to regular positions before the enforcement of the Temporary long-term employees [Annual welfare spending] [unit: KRW 100 million] Worker Act. This reduced the ratio of non-regular employees [Every 5 years after 10th year of employment ] from 20% to less than 3%. Status by rank and gender [unit: person] Childbirth Provides congratulatory bonus (KRW 200,000) to Category G.M. and Manager A.M. and Professional Total 449 congratulatory promote birthrate D.G.M. workers and insurance 355 system · Provides KRW 1 million on 3rd childbirth since Conversion to regular employee status [unit: person] consultant 306 July, 2009. Category 2010 2011 2012 Total Male 484 458 818 328 2,088 Sponsoring Provides all educational fees and preferential Female 3 35 1,327 1,748 3,113 program for hiring to surviving children (including those born Converted 70 38 945 1,053 surviving after their fathers’ death) of employees who workers Total 487 493 2,145 2,076 5,201 2010 2011 2012 dependents worked for Dongbu for three or more years. Conversion 100 100 100 100 Holiday for spouse A half-day paid leave is provided to employees on rate[%]* birthday their spouses’ birthday Recruitment in recent three years [unit: person] * Rate of employees who become regular workers from 2-year contract part3) Other welfare and benefit systems Dongbu family A summer camp for employees’ children time workers. Currently, Dongbu is giving 100% opportunities for all partCategory College Experienced Female Total summer camp (Elementary/middle school) at the Dongbu time workers to become a regular employee, unless in cases of personal graduate worker clerk Insurance Academy offering English and science problems. Other welfare and benefit systems classes 2010 129 31 141 301 2011 139 31 149 319 Systems Details Fetus diagnosis A fetus diagnosis leave system has been managed leave for the health of female workers and their babies 2012 166 27 120 313 Scholarships Giving scholarships to employees for their since July, 2009 graduate school programs and their children Total 434 89 410 933 Congratulatory Congratulatory party is held for employees Company houses and Providing company houses and supplementary party for promoted promoted to assistant managers and their families supplementary living living allowances to those who do not have employees allowances their families or relatives Recruitment in recent three years in local regions [unit: person] Loans for buying or Giving financial support to employees who Category 2010 2011 2012 Total renting houses need to buy or rent a house Mle 25 20 19 301 Holiday homes for Operating free holiday houses for summer Female 23 37 20 319 summer vacation for employees and their families Total 48 57 39 933 Oversea travelling for Operating to reward long-term employees as · As of March, 2013 long-term employees well as creating pride in working for Dongbu Plan l ducationa Expand e c re a s e to in programs o f P rime nalism Dongbu Insurance professio Agents, d evelop sy stems rtal, rs (GA po for partne strives for win-win GTMS, PR M, and Pro my Responsib m) Car Syste le Depa growth with partners Sales Pla nning Dep rtments Support D artment, S through mutual ep Managem artment, Business ent Depart ales Compens m ation Plan ent, cooperation. Departme Compens nt, Long-t ning erm ation Sup Departme port nt, Support D Auto Compensatio Strat epartmen n egy t Prime highAgent gro e w effec fficiency, th, tive s estab supp ystem lish o t with rt and com o partn muni ers cate Vision Establish y trustworth intain ips to ma partnersh g rowth win-win Major Issues Major Achievements 1. Educational Programs for High PA Efficiency KRW 8.9 billion / Total Trainees 207,056 people [Statistics from Past 3 Years] 2. Assisting Establishment 3. Increasing the Number Cooperation with Win-Win growth of IT Sales Program of Annual Awardees sales partners with claims service partners 6,300 pads 485 person [As of March 2013] [Number of Award Winners in 2012] 22 % [Ratio of Long-term Insurance Products Purchased by Mobile] Yun Chan-yeo Yun Cheon-sik [CEO of Songpa Motors] [Partners-Compensation] [Prime Branch] [Partner (Sales)] Partners 13 DONGBU INSURANCE NOT ONLY MAKES PROFDONGBU IS AN ENTERPRISE THAT PURSUES Major Issue IT, BUT ALSO PROVIDES OPPORTUNITIES FOR QUALITY GROWTH THROUGH EFFECTIVE MANWIN-WIN GROWTH WITH ITS PARTNERS WHILE AGEMENT. I ASK PARTNERS TO TRUST IN THE COOPERATION WITH ITS FULFILLING SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES. I COMPANY AND PARTICIPATE IN ACTIVE COMMUSALES PARTNERS THINK DONGBU INSURANCE IS THE FIRST IN NICATION WITH THE COMPANY TO CREATE BETITS FIELD AND A TRUE GLOBAL ENTERPRISE. I TER RELATIONSHIPS. LOOK FORWARD TO THE COMPANY MAINTAINING ITS WIN-WIN SYSTEM TO BECOME THE NO. 1 INSURANCE COMPANY GLOBALLY. The Dongbu sales family In order to co-exist with partners, Dongbu chooses outstanding Dongbu Insurance emphasizes the implementation of various 1) Sales partners 2) Programs to improve PA loyalty clients by fair evaluation of auto service companies. policies to prevent customer claims and aims to Dongbu sales partners continue to increase year on year de(1) Best in insurance industry, differentiated commission We aim to create mutual profit and provide provide greater satisfaction for customers. To spite rapid changes in the economy. In 2012, total sales orsystem an outstanding compensation service. cooperate with partners, onsite-orientated To maintain partnerships and stanpolicies have become the foundation to ganizations reached 32,120 and almost 100,000 employees. Our commission system offers diverse structures to enable dards with repair companies and perform better and more effectively. unlimited growth for PAs. In FY13, Dongbu established a comdispatch centers, we hold conDongbu’s mobile contract system Sales families are classified into Exclusive and Freelance mission support system for the stable grounding of new subsiferences, make site visits, and Promy Guide help to satisfy channels. Exclusive channels comprise Prime Agents (PAs) dies, and a settlement support commission. exchange information, and customers by providing variand their branches as well as freelance branches. The Freecommunicate with our partous practical tools. In addilance channel comprises General Agencies (GAs). We allowed for activities with loyalty towards the Company 69 ners. However, to provide tion, through DBRT seminars through initial sponsorship funds. The commission reward Dongbu Insurance more sincere customer serand more, we reflect onsite Prime Agent solicitor firms are increasing annually; Freelance system is maintained to reward sales families based on their vices, three-way communicomplaints to establish betchannel legal branches have decreased due to branch mergers. abilities and performances. cation — that includes the ter policy and make utmost customers themselves — is efforts to communicate with [Sales partners] [unit: person] (2) Systematic education programs to create consulting experts necessary. the partners. We still hope Prime agent Regular branches to create more specialized Providing systematic education programs relevant to changFreelance branches General agency experts and establish better ing programs and financial consulting of the sales organizaeducational system and wish to tion, we have invested KRW 8.8 billion in the past three years PARTNERS grow as a sustainable manageable 32,149 32,660 32,120 to improve the performance of our sales families. A total of enterprise. 200,000 people received training, enabling them to meet the 14,219 15,633 15,778 demands of customers in a rapidly changing economic environment. 10,654 2011 Excellent partnership The first insurance company to 10,081 9,785 4,856 Education and training in past three years [unit: KRW million] conference promote electronic 5,134 5,395 signature in standard insurance Category 2010 2011 2012 No. of programs 42 53 49 1,701 No. of trainees 64,397 61,905 80,754 1,812 [person] 1,881 Total expenses 2,732 3,067 3,100 Dongbu Insurance is pursuing mutual communication with our partners for better cooperation 2010 2011 2012 In 2013, DCC (Dongbu Communication Class), DLC (Dongbu Long-run Class) were established to develop the communiIn order to strengthen competency, cation and customer management skills of sales organizaDongbu Insurance has expanded its tions. One-stop electronic contract system (3) Advanced programs for PA activities [Yearly PK certification issue(Accumulated)] [unit: person] (6) Dongbu round table (DBRT) hall of fame [Annual long-term insurance performances of GA] In operation since December 2004, the Sales Consulting ProEvery year, Dongbu Insurance awards prizes to excellent [unit: KRW million / monthly average] gram advances PA activities. Since April 2011, the Onsite PAs, who are featured in the DBRT Hall of Fame in acknowl3.794 Execution Strengthening program has enhanced problem21,923 edgement of their contribution to our growth and their exem2,901 2,778 solving skills, strengthened areas of weakness, and improved plary activities. 16,858 performances. 11,783 Annual prizewinners [unit: person] In 2012, the Smart Sales Book was published to support sales activities and improve product knowledge. The book is availCategory Total Grand New Sales DBRT 2010 2011 2012 prize recruit prize 2010 2011 2012 able to sales families to refer to at any time. award 2010 403 190 23 2 188 Additional education is also provided related to finance, (5) IT-based advanced PA sales system 2011 480 221 35 2 222 compensation, and sales. (3) Support programs for cross-sales partners Dongbu Insurance utilizes a business-orientated system in 2012 485 233 29 2 221 Following the introduction of cross-selling between the nonits next-generation sales system. The Company has a highlife and life insurance sectors in August 2008, Dongbu Intech, web-based system that supports sales activities by alsurance is aiming to establish a cross-selling call center, a lowing PAs to access the system at any time. An advanced cross-selling team leader system, and expand cross-selling mobile-based sales system enables fast and efficient sales 2) Win-Win programs for freelance channel partners braches. In addition, we are expanding infrastructure to inprocessing. We ensure that PA activity management is ef(1) Freelance channel head office crease the income of cross-selling partners through the deficient, reinforce competitiveness through sales offices that The Company has established a Head Office for freelance velopment of differentiated products. allow PAs to set on their own targets, and support for knowlchannel partners in order to generate win-win management and edge sharing among PAs related to characteristics of regions sales performance through improved communication with its [Cross-designer assistance system] and sites. In addition, we are advancing the PA Automation 70 System by providing an e-Contact System for differentiated General Agents. We hold GA seminars quarterly to share infor71 Cross-recruitment designer mation and operate the Dongbu Honors Club, which acknowlmarketing. edges outstanding GAs and fosters loyalty. Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance A Promy Guide application and electronic signature system (2) Win-Win program for differentiated income Exclusive call center Cross team manager Crossing point was developed and launched in August 2012 that allows greater efficiency while also providing customers access to Dongbu Insurance operates a commission system differnecessary information on products. As the mobile industry entiated by performance level. For GAs with exemplary urance se insurance ins ct rty se continues to grow, we have distributed some 6,300 smart management efficiency indices such as retention and colife pe L or Pr Life insurance lection rate we provide separate performance-based como ctor pads to PAs, with the total number increasing monthly. In Manages customer risk design + Medical addition to providing the devices, we train PAs in using our missions. Moreover, experienced GA trainers offer educarisk design and insurance risk design savings skills = Joint risk service available mobile system effectively. Currently, 22% of all long-term tion and support to freelance channels nationwide. Fire/standard insurance sales Variable annuity, life annuity, CI, pension, savings, disease, commission insurance products are contracted through mobile devices. Auto insurance sales commission accidents GA Trainers [as of March 2013] [unit: person] Other insurance sales commission Medical insurance commission Category Standard Expert Smart Sales Book Status 216 32 One-stop service available (4) PA knowledge certification program Create profit through expanding product sales field and new market Dongbu Insurance has been providing opportunities for sales GA long-term insurance performance amounted to KRW 1.7 organizations to improve competitiveness through the PK billion in 2008, of KRW 2.7 billion in 2010, and KRW 3.7 bil(PA Knowledge) Certification Program. lion in 2012. We are aiming to maintain steady growth in free(4) PA ethical management program lance channels through our win-win system. As part of its customer satisfaction and consumer protection poliAs of FY2012 a total of 21,923 PAs were certified in longcy, Dongbu prevents unethical sales activities through its consumterm insurance, auto insurance, CS, standard insurance, and er protection department and SIU Department. Regular education consulting under the Program. From 2013, long-term comPromy Guide in Smart Pads and training is conducted in order to reinforce the standards of pensation and auto compensation will be added to create a sales partners and sales managers complete sales and moral risk. total of seven certifications. We will also share model cases In addition, Dongbu shares its ethical commitment with all sales within the sales portal under the “Latest Info” category. partners through its Ethical and Legal Pledge. Partners B. Win-Win growth partnership management with maintenance factories [Mobile promy car system] A one-stop system for accident and breakdown assistance 14 Dongbu Insurance is focusing on and creating synergies with using a smart environment system. outstanding partners to provide customers with superior serMajor Issue vice. As a result, the percentage of customers using our ser[Major contents of the system] WIN-WIN GROWTH vice centers increased by 31.9% in 2012. Customer Info. Protection of customer info. through the latest WITH CLAIMS Management security modules SERVICE PARTNERS Category Contents Checking 4 step auto adjustment Exemplary 619 factories (since April, 2006) Connection Status [Utilizing the location information] maintenance in 2010, 750 -> in 2011, 696 -> in 2012 623 factories* and the operation period Dispatching Dispatching through ARS, call centers and Apps Selection/ [2012 Selection Indicator] Assessment of Contacting available dispatch workers Onsite Evaluation indicator Repair Quality(50%)/Repair Speed(30%)/ Cooperation with compensation partners 2) Win-Win growth with compensation partner Customer Satisfaction(20%) the accident assessment of the accident through mobile app program Evaluation/ Parts exchange rate, average repairing period Checking Reports on the dispatch results and service 1) Present condition of compensation partners (1) Win-Win growth with hospitals and auto maintenance Management etc Results monitoring Dongbu Insurance maintains close partnerships with comcenters Supporting activity Assistance in moving the repaired cars Management of Education and communication through mobile pensation-related organizations such as hospitals, auto reA. Supporting exemplary hospital and medical consulting netManaging accident outline education Dispatch workers promy car system pair shops, and damage assessment companies, in order to work management Achievement The percentage of customers of exemplary provide an efficient compensation process. We also maintain Dongbu provides special services to hospitals and doctors with maintenance factory constantly increased strong partnerships with claims adjustment companies in orIn 2010, 26.2% -> in 2011, 31.1% -> in 2012, 31.9% a high assistance ratio. We provide our customers with the best der manage claims more accurately. *P  artner numbers have fallen since 2011 as a result of our focus on highIts low-cost, high-efficiency strategy helps our partners to possible medical service, and operate a system that prevents performing companies. provide assistance to customers in emergency situations false and inaccurate medical checkups. We are reinforcing our 72 Medical and auto maintenance services are provided through throughout the nation. 73 system that precludes unethical acts, such as false or excessive partners across the nation, while the national Promy Network premiums, through experts in medical auditing. Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance of sites provides quick customer service. In addition, we use the DPS* (Dynamic Partner Supporter) sysContent of the mutual assistance with our partners tem to foster mutual growth and profit with those partners. [The number of exemplary hospitals] [unit: case] Category Content Present condition of compensation partner [no. of partners] * DPS: Used for exemplary partners to provide autonomous 86 86 maintenance CoPromy Car World service in highway stops Category 2012 operative Free service at Promy Car World in highway stops 67 customer Medical/ Hospital 13,071 55 service Development of establishing service centers in areas with its absence repair service Maintenance factory 5,385 Autocare service through co-operation with the Promy Emergency dispatch 469 telecommucation services 2010 2011 2012 network agency [Customers] On-site dispatch 512 High-Maintenance Service, agency Issuing Mutual cooperation activity Compensation Long-term damage 18 3) Fulfillment of social responsibility activities investigation assessment Dongbu insurance Exemplary hospitals through compensation partners corporation Common damage 34 Provide exclusive compensation Provide compensation/ (1) Insurance fraud reporting system assessment consulting service medical consulting Dongbu operates a reporting system to share with partners Run exemplary hospital Support medical education [Dongbu [DPS] any cases of insurance crime. Reports can be made through consultative group (twice a year) Partner numbers per year [no. of partners] Insurance] • Improvement in manageRecommend and support Report insurance fraud the Company’s Special Investigation Unit and its website. • Customer creditability through ment system due to increase in exemplary hospitals/doctors Category 2010 2011 2012 qualitative repair system customers Information is passed to partners, customers and potential • Prevention of issuing • Providing high-quality service customers with the aim or eradicating insurance crime comHospital 10,274 11,367 13,071 excessive bills • Securing customers through pletely. Maintenance factory 3,619 4,772 5,385 Present condition and activities of medical consulting excellent service • HR efficiency Emergency dispatch 584 473 469 Category The number Specialized subject agency of members Report from outside sources [unit: case] On-site dispatch 532 488 509 Automobile/ 104 person neurology/orthopedic/cosmetic surgery/ July-Dec. Jan.-June Report channel [reported route] agency general dental/ internal medicine/psychiatry/ 2012 2013 Long-term damage 18 18 18 ophthalmology/otolaryngology etc. assessment (2) Expanding emergency dispatch partners through 182 185 Promy emergency dispatch service, repair Long-term 65 person obstetrician/urology/streptococcus/ service, company website, phone calls etc. Common damage 33 34 34 oriental medicine/forensic medicine etc. smart environment system assessment Major Activities We have established the Mobile Promy Car System to in· Except for the nominal emergency/on-site dispatch agencies since 2011, Advisory on medical opinions and assessments in relation to insurance crease the efficiency of our partners’ emergency dispatch because of the concentrated management of exemplary agencies accidents services. The system also helps customers to receive quick Assessment and reassurance of medical issues with the customers and convenient service and compensation. Sponsoring of education for the compensation officers and regional compensation centers (2) Insurance fraud detection system (IFDS) IFDS is a statistics analysis system designed to assist detection Partner 2) Communication with compensation partners The company strives to offer a strong foundation for comof insurance fraud in the process of compensational measures. Achievements munication and diverse partnership services with its PAs. IFDS plays a major role in fraud detection by calculating indices We pledge loyalty and communication with co-expansion on insurance assessment and compensation. All Dongbu emand, through win-win partnerships, aim to achieve customer ployees play a role in promoting this system, along with partservices that benefit all. As a socially responsible company, ners who assist Dongbu customers. Dongbu Insurance also shares value with its local communities. (3) Education for safety and emergency training Category Communication Dongbu educates all relevant employees on emergency meaMedical/ · Visiting and conference of outstanding and failing sures and safety in the workplace through agreements with the repair service business partners, chosen by the center or team leaders. Korean Red Cross and runs Rescue and Emergency Measures · Holding medical conference training with the aim of fulfilling social responsibilities and savAttendance of medical advice twice a year ing lives. Partner communication Sharing and discussing medical affairs regarding insurance 1) Communication with sales partners Promy · Holding “Run Together Partner Conference” network (180 companies participate in national Promy network) [Agreement highlights] (1) Prime agent satisfaction survey Outstanding company receives a reward and shares · In-company education seminars for compensation service offices We have been conducting an annual Prime Agent (PA) satfuture plans · Regular conferences with award-receiving teams · Qualitative and quantitative education data provided as well as isfaction survey called the Family Satisfaction Index (FSI) lectures by Korean Red Cross executives Attendance of regional representative once a year since 2004. The survey monitors nine areas such as overall Sharing and solving of problems occurring in work · Mutual advertisements and activities on emergency measures and places blood donation / victim rescue satisfaction, work environment, products, sales support, and training. Overall satisfaction has risen steadily. In 2012 the Investigation · Holding conference of adjustment of damage · Mutual effort to activate fundraising department overall index reached 655 points, while job satisfaction and 74 · Mutual assistance given as necessary Outcome diagnosis and future goal sharing 75 company satisfaction indices also rose compared to the previous year. Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance [Partner satisfaction survey by year] [unit: score] 2010 2011 2012 69.6 71.8 IFDS [Insurance fraud detection system] 67.0 69.2 63.9 63.1 86 58.6 62.0 58.1 67 55 Medical Conference-Awarded with a certificate on excellent medical advice in May 2013 Company Job Income 1. Prediction of crimes 2. Analysis of abnormal be 3. Active use of inside and through different steps havior of the clients outside data • Assignment of clients with high • Data collecting through the • Data mining through past crimes potential rate of insurance fraud through internet on inside and outside 65.5 86 • Providing ratio on the possibility of 62.0 61.5 statistical analysis insurance companies potential crimes 67 Education at Medical Conference 55 Total Score 5. Establishment of risk 4. Assignment of insurance fraud reporting distribution system • Assigning tasks to analyze the crimes by categories (2) PA suggestion system • Categorization of different crimes The PA suggestion system invigorates communication with Partnership Conference • Establishment of user-orientated UI system Prime Agents. Adopted suggestions are integrated into the Company’s policies and systems. Dongbu Insurance shares true values as socially responsible company with the local society. Plan l n of socia on, Vitalizatio a n iz ati on org contributi support execution of Pro m y nt Vision vities, tale ith local corps acti in g in surance Sharing w ll donation regard ies to fulfi stics communit characteri nsibility a s business our respo nterprise. a social e Strat egy Syste m enter atic con prise struc contr fo tion o ibutio r social f Prom n Responsib y sup , continuo activ port us le iti relate es, social rps co Departme nts d c chara to insura ontributio Major Issues Major Achievements CSR Offic cteris nce b n e, HR, Ge tics. usine Affairs, Ris neral ss 1. Increase of social contribution of company k Manage Institute, ment Promy Ba “Companywide Social Contribution Day” was sketball T eam. designated in 2012 to celebrate 50th Anniversary 2. Increase in promy fund expenses Social contribution Communication activities with local communities KRW 670 million was donated as of 2012 (out of total KRW 960 million) Jang Seok-hun DONGBU INSURANCE HAS CHANGED THE IMPRESSION OF THE IN[SRC Sponsoring Division Planning Manager] SURANCE COMPANY BY DEVELOPING SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT INTRO MORE SYSTEMATIC AND STRATEGIC MEANS. I WISH Local Communities 15 TO SEE DONGBU ACTIVELY MAKING SOCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS AND ALLOWING THE TARGET AUDIENCE OF SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION TO Major Issue BE THE LONG-TERM CUSTOMER FOR THE COMPANY. SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Dongbu is making an important contribution to local communities by specialized social ACTIVITIES contribution programs, regular sponsorship with social welfare associations and employee Promy Voluntary work. In order to grow as a sustainably manageable insurance company, under the vision of 'Global Insurance Financial Group pursuing Happy Society with the Customers', we aim to continue our social contribution for foreign workers and multicultural families, and create products and opportunities for the disabled. Social contribution activities Dongbu social contribution activities are supervised by the tion, where all subsidiary companies, executives and staff Sustainability Management Commission. The Administrative members worked together to contribute to society. The Work Committee makes major decisions and consults with event is now held annually. the other commissions. 2) Social contribution activities and progress 1) Current state of social contribution direction Our social contribution activities corps Promy and our ProWith the slogan, “Sharing is happiness! To a future together”, 78 my Heart Fund both encourage Prime Agents to make social the Promy Support Corps and Promy Heart Fund promotes the 79 contributions and do voluntary work. Based on this, we not participation of executives and staff in social contribution activiSustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance only support disabled and underprivileged neighbors, but ties such as helping the families of bereaved by car accidents. also support the environment, cultural and sporting activities, and talent donations. In 2012, we dedicated the Company’s 50th anniversary foundation day to social contribu[Direction of pursuit] LOCAL COMMUNITIES Vision A global insurance financial group which pursues a happy society with customers Shared happiness! future together! Helping multicultural Staff Social Contribution families Day Social contribu2. Activities reflected upon Promy Basketball Team tion promoted 1.Volunteer work by the employees the attributes of the industry 3. Cultural / Sports sponsoring contributing to society Nationwide promy volunteer workers are Regular operation of campaigns/educational Sponsoring various sports activities based operated; donated promy heart fund is activities/ sponsoring which best suits the on running the Promy Basketball team since utilized to support the people in need characteristics of insurance industry 2005 Promy Volunteer Activities Preventing traffic accidents Running Dongbu Promy Basketball Team Rescue activities in disasters Traffic safety education/reducing traffic Dongbu Insurance is putting utmost (Tae-an / flooded damage restoration etc) accident campaign Sports Sponsoring effort into supporting multicultural Self-conducted volunteer work Special vehicle maintenance service families and the closer integration of Dongbu Promy Basketball team and Every year, we invite executives and Sponsored KPGA 2006~2012 social groups the volunteer team help out at farms staff from our branches and partner Construction of Promy Heart Fund Preventing / reporting of insurance crimes Sponsored Deagu Universiad 2003 on the outskirts of Wonju every year companies to perform volunteer FIFA U-17 World Cup Korea 2007 during busy times of year. They also work, through which we share the Income from the work of promy volunteers Sponsored Senior Bowling Competition 2009 run basketball classes for children. art of sharing with others. Utilization of revenues through specialized Risk evaluation of welfare organizations Appointed sponsor of 2014 Incheon Asian social contribution work Games Volunteer work group activity Sponsoring firefighters Operation of companywide Aiding families of the victims 4. Other various donation activities social contribution day of traffic accidents 3) Social contribution activities for insurance [Current stand of the promy heart fund] Supporting familes Coal briquette sharing [unit: KRW thousand] business Supporting total of 24 members Delivery of briquette to senior (1) Safe driving and road accident prevention currently, March 2013 citizens living alone [15,000 briquettes] 276,514 In order promote a safer road culture, we not only share 250,426 our specialized knowledge of vehicles accumulated over 50 years, but also implement regular and extensive safety Rice sharing education. 120,000 Since 2006, we have been delivering rice and needy products to families with low income Traffic Broadcasting Network (4) Fundraising in association with campaigns [About 3,000 families] 2010 2011 2012 Radio traffic broadcasting network Our new products are part of a new campaign called “Gathover 30 times monthly (TBN, YTN, Kimchi making KBS) → over 1,000 times annually ering Hope, Bingo” where we accumulate a certain price per product and donate to children with incurable diseases. Since 2006, we have made kimchi for our neighbors every November and (3) Voluntary group activities December and have delivered them Education for companies and In addition, we donated funds gathered via our website epersonally [About 1,400 families] Our executives and employees do voluntary work and proinstitutions on safety issues services through the Love More Event . Donations are also vide support for a variety of social causes. Education for public office(public officials, fire officers, post office) being made all across the nation to care for sufferers of disAnti-smoking campaign and private companies à 130 times eases. Have participated in campaigns Voluntary group activities annually, more than 3,000 members on the streets along with volunteer partners Name of Major activities association Fire Officer Support Since 2003, we have been Dongbu Love Voluntary work association: Samyook Rehabilitation sponsoring the fire officers and have Dongbu Dream School Project Sharing (In Gwangju, Gyeonggi Province) encouraged fire fighters to let the Regular volunteering and donations (4 places) 80 civilians aware of the risks and safety We have reconstructed schools and supported teaching in regions of 81 issues with KBS 119 award. Dongbu Save Voluntary work association: Jongmyo Vietnam Culture Advertises the importance of cultural assets (Dongbu Dream School number 1, 2) Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance preservation and environmental work Special Vehicle Service Compensation service during Love House with the Promy vacation Basketball Team 2010: 707 vehicles 2011: 477 vehicles Since 2011, helped reconstruct (4) Sales of society-friendly insurance products 2012: 286 vehicles houses for multicultural families (Total of 15 houses) As part of its duties as a socially responsible company, 2013: 1,430 vehicles Dongbu develops and manages products related to social issues. Products include car insurances for the handicapped, Purification of environment and a merchandise discount for the disadvantaged, products protection of nature that donate a proportion of income, micro-credit products (2) Talent donation Picking up litter in mountains and down streams of rivers. for children of low-income families, and products associated Supervised by the Institute for Risk Management, we are visHonam Volunteer Group at with local government to encourage childbirth. iting social welfare facilities to provide safety checks and first Suncheon-man purification activities, volunteer work at the aid kits. We also actively volunteer in other tasks in this field. Amsa Ecological Park, Daegu, We are continuing to do our best to promote products that 4) Executive and staff participation in social Shincheon and nationawide make a closer society. Welfare Facilities Safety Checkup contribution activity programs · In May, 2011, MOU was signed with the Wonju Multi-Cultural Support 22 places visited in 2010, service (1) Promy social contribution corps Center, and many programs such as multicultural flee market, multicultural provided with safety aid kit 12 places visited in 2011, service harmony camp, Love House, Multicultural Band are in progress. Promy was established in 2006 as a voluntary program for provided with safety aid kit Disaster Status Control Center executives and staff. Headed by the CEO, the Corps is orgavolunteer work in 2012 nized regionally in order to fulfill the beauty of sharing. In 2013, (2) Promy heart fund we plan to expand the seven main regional bases and add 29 more regional bases. Under the voluntary Promy Heart Fund, executives and employees donate a percentage of their salaries for social contribution. The Company then matches the total donation with (3) Supporting families and children of car accident victims its own contribution as a matching grant. In each region of the country, the bereaved family of a car accident victim receives financial support and regular visits Staff provide not only financial donation, but also underto provide support. The Road Traffic Safety Authority also take volunteer activities as well. Since 2010, donators to the provides regular financial support. Promy Heart Fund have increased consistently. As of March 2013, there are 2,931 participants. As of 2012, total funds raised amounted to KRW 960 million of which KRW 670 million has so far been donated. Products of society-friendly insurance Local Communities (2) Golf tournament sponsorship Dongbu sponsors golfing events including the KPGA Cham16 Product Details pions Invitational and Matchplay Championship. Promy · Insurance for the disabled, targeting cars owned by the Gomduri Auto disabled Major Issue Insurance · Provides special guarantees for the disabled: Health care · Love Buddy Event expenses and subsidies for the purchase of prosthetics COMMUNICATION WITH The Love Buddy event is held during the Dongbu Insurance LOCAL COMMUNITIES Promy Heart · Insurance specially designed for the recipients of basic Promy Open. KRW 50,000 per buddy is collected and donated Insurance living and people with lower income to marginalized neighbors. In 2012, 1,140 buddies participated · Offers the same guarantee as the existing products · Gives 8% discount when accepting a special contract and a total of KRW 57 million was donated to residents who (sold since April 2011) suffered from the Samcheok gas explosion in Gangwon province. 100-YearHolds an organ donor campaign and operates Old Youth death-benefit-donation system to encourage advanced Insurance donation culture Dream Love Insurance Supports small-amount financial guarantee for children of the marginalized classes bu utilizing dormant insurance Efforts to communicate with money local communities Colorful Provides insurance support for family's third child to Children overcome low birthrate 1) Social services in local communities Safety Insurance (1) Electronic display boards for prevention of road accidents Company-wide Social Contribution Day Volunteering To raise public awareness of traffic accidents, we have supSociety-friendly insurance sales performance ported the purchase of electronic display boards in Seoul, [unit: KRW million] Gyeonggi province, and the capital area. 2) Sports sponsorship Through these events, we were able to promote a more open 82 2010 2011 2012 In order to promote the development of leisure activities, and fair sporting environment and show local residents that 83 Promy Gomduri Auto Insurance 130 177 255 (2) Donations for disasters the Company sponsors a number of sporting events. golf tournaments can benefit the people and environments Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance Through various donations, we are helping those who have where they are held. 100-Year-Old Youth Insurance 8,694 7,843 6,987 suffered loss from disasters. In 2012, we donated a total of (1) Pro basketball team Dream Love Insurance 131 119 173 KRW1.05 billion, including contributions to relief funds for Created in October 2005 and based in Wonju, Gangwon Colorful Children Safety the Cheonan-ham incident, the Yeonpyeongdo incident, and Insurance* 35 0.2 province, the Dongbu Promy Pro Basketball Team contriba major earthquake in Japan. utes to the promotion of sport in the region and brings joy to * Colorful Children Safety Insurance was stopped from sales in 2011. its supporters. (3) Companywide social contribution day with local communities The Promy Basketball Team has been actively participating United in their support for voluntary work, more than 4,000 in volunteer work since 2011, when Dongbu Insurance and Donation made for the victims of the Samcheok gas explosion accident executives and employees perform voluntary activities on Wonju City made an agreement to help the low-income famiSocial Contribution Day, which was launched in 2012 to lies and multi-cultural homes with housing and living conditions. mark the 50th anniversary of the Company’s foundation. Volunteers visited 105 locations across the nation to perform duties including cleaning scenic areas, supporting nursing homes, and holding events for the disabled. Promy Basketball Team [Love House] Volunteering Dongbu Insurance Plan tion in aims to maximize finite Specializa environm e ntal risk ization of ent, Minim global resources through managem issions, Ex carbon em ce and pansion nan of green fi specialization environ m e ntal busin ess in environment Responsib management. Departme le nts General a ffairs, Risk mana gement in Product s stitute, ections Strat egy Decre a emiss se carbon Vision by 20 ions b y 10% 15 leading Become a nt env nme iro ent managem by 2020 company Major Issues Major Achievements 1. Active sales of eco-friendly products [No. of sales in 2012] 318,699 cases 159,515 cases [Evergreen Special Contract] [Driving-Distance Special Contract] 2. Result of energy reduction [Electricity usage in 2012] Climate Environment change response protection activities 1.7% reduction compared to the previous year [211,672 kwh/1000m²] Kim Hyun-jin DONGBU HAS BEEN ACKNOWLEDGED BY DJSI IN 2013 FOR ITS SUS[Professor of Seoul National University of Science] TAINABILITY MANAGEMENT. WE HOPE DONGBU PUTS INTO PRACTICE ORIGINAL STRATEGIES FOR SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT. Environment 17 Major Issue The Company should consider invigoration of environmental insurance when developing environment management. The risk of environmental pollution and the range of its ENVIRONMENT side effects are so vast that Dongbu should prioritize the creation of insurance that will PROTECTION ACTIVITIES properly compensate for accidents caused by environmental disasters. In order to do so, we need professionals and public organizations that will not only establish strategies for green finance, but also continuously and systematically implement programs. The core purpose of environment management for indemnity insurance is to correctly identify the client’s message and respond to it. To develop sustainably, Dongbu should seek profit through customer satisfaction management and pro bono social contribution. Hence, Dongbu should devote effort to responding to clients’ demands and innovate products. Environment management system 1) Environment management strategy Dongbu is an environment-conscious company that uses Environment risk management, minimizing carbon emisenergy efficiently and minimizes carbon emissions and ensions, and expanding environmental business are the three vironmental pollution as part of its social and ethical responprinciples that we will strive towards to reach our goal of besibilities. coming a global green finance business by 2020. Specialization of environ86 ment risk management 87 1. Enforced research team 2. Make international investigation and Environment Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance cooperation system Minimization of 3. More participants needed management leading emitted carbon company by 2020 4. Minimization of affect from company 5. Encourage partner companies to cooperate Decrease amount of 6. Actions to decrease greenhouse gas carbon emission by Green Start MOU with 7. Broaden range of environmental index 10% by 2015 UN Global Compact Ministry of Environment Expansion of green finance and environmental business ENVIRONMENT 8. Supply of eco-friendly products/services Since November 2011, Dongbu has 9. Investment in green business been a member of the UN Global 10. Support of green management for client Compact and pledges to abide its Ten Principles on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Dongbu Insurance is the first insurance company to sign a MOU with the Department of Environment to 2) Environment management principles support the advancement of a green Eco-friendly Insurance CDP Participation pollution caused by the Company’s activities, products, and lifestyle culture. The Company has formulated environment management product development services. Environment management aims to define guideguidelines for the promotion of the sustainable use of re(Auto Insurance Everlines, decisions regarding the environment, and actions to be sources. Its other purposes are to prevent environmental green Special Contract) taken by executives and staff. Guideline for Environmental Management 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 We are participating in creating a cleaner environment by being responsible for greenhouse gas emissions and by openly providing Money saved from reduced paper relevant information. Effected Range Management Environmental Management of Eco-friendly Prevention of Stakeholders usage is donated to create a better Principles Organizations Environmental Index Products Pollution environment and to support schools Employees (domesEstablishment of Foundation of Environmental Products & Service Management Participation of promoting eco-friendly policies. tic & international) 7 Environmental New Department Performance Index Designation of of Energy and Stakeholders Products & Service Business Principles on Environmental Environmental 6 Fields Resources Establishment of Stakeholders etc. Specialists Performance Strengthening Process [Environment Evaluation Environmental Subcommittee] Environmental Activities R&R Grants Management Assessment 3) Environment management certifications 2) Eco-friendly management activity In 2009, the Dongbu Insurance Environment Management System was ISO 14001 certified for risk management. The System 2009-2010 not only conforms to ISO 14001 regulations and standards, but also evaluates environmental management through its policy, planning, management, assessment, corrective measures, management evaluation and continuous improvements. (1) Promy Eco-Love Drawing Banquet This drawing banquet or com(2) Exchange of Hospital Bills to petition is held every year for In 2011, we trained environment experts such as ISO 14001 Environment Management System Auditors. Electronic Document System 2011-2012 children through Kindergarten and Elementary school. The This is a system where writing docutopic of the competition is “Let’s ments are transferred into electronic Save Our Precious Earth,” which data through an entrepot center which suggests saving the earth from increases the efficiency of work and In 2013, Dongbu received Green Management System KSI 7001/7002 certification for the first time in the insurance industry. environmental pollution and minimizing of useless printing of paper. 2013 The Company is effectively managing resources and energy, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and pollution, and fulfilling its climate changes. (5)Call Center role as a social and ethical enterprise. Stay-at-home Task (3)Green Purchase The workers of the call centers When choosing subconwork from home which can tractor and procurement lead to decreasing of CO² Certificate of Green Certificate of Environment Certificate of Safety and Certificate of Product Quality enterprise, we purchase emitted through public transManagement System Management System Health Management System Management System products which have been portation. assessed environmentally, is declared as green product or have a environment (4)Paperless Company mark. Application of EDMS (Electronic Document Management Sys(7)Construction of tem), using electronic payment Green Data Center system, or enforcement of NET System to measure FAX with basis on internet. 88 (6)High-efficiency LED indoor temperature was 89 Lightening applied and lead to Exchange of 186 LED decrease of 10% energy Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance lights in elevators and usage. decreased usage of 3,674Kwh yearly. Environment management 3) Green start Dongbu has participated the Department of Environment’s The Company runs a drawing competition every year for kinachievements Green Start Movement since 2010. dergarten and elementary students. We encourage children to take an interest in saving the environment and provide 1) Evaluation of research and environmental effect (1) Environmental education sponsorship them with opportunities to experience environmental manDongbu uses research data on heavy rainfall, typhoons, seas branches conducted research into contract screening agement. We have been supporting environmental education for teenand other environmental risk when developing insurance and managing risk caused by natural disasters and climate agers since 2011. The programs include education on cliproducts and services in all fields. Recently, Dongbu overchange. mate change, extracurricular activities, and a summer school for climate change. We also support management, staff, and parents with workshops that provide environment, energy saving experiments, and environment conservation certificates. (2) Eco-friendly special contract development and environment fund management Customers who purchase Dongbu Car Insurance are billed by email. Money saved from mailing is donated to an environment fund for Green Start* * Green Start: The Green Start Movement is a government initiative promoting green management by government, society and enterprises Heavy Rain Risk Natural Disaster Overseas Natural to minimize carbon emissions. Research Development RM Papers Disaster Research 4) Green sports Dongbu has contributed to a 2011Ministry of Environment 5) Green purchasing policy In 2012, Dongbu signed an agreement with the Ministry of Environment 18 and Green Sports alliance with campaigns to collect recyEnvironment to purchase office products, printed matter, and cled items for cheering its basketball team. The Company office furnishings that have been certified green and bear an Major Issue has also run campaigns targeted at sports fans to reduce environment mark. CLIMATE greenhouse gases. Broadening its campaigns, in 2012 the CHANGE RESPONSE Dongbu Green Bicycle competition encouraged citizens to As outlined in its Contract Practice Guidelines, the Comride bicycles to basketball games. It also encouraged the pany purchases only environmentally friendly products from wearing heat-tech clothing to conserve energy. wholesalers. If those companies fail to abide by environmental regulations, Dongbu may exclude them from its partner Through the team’s website and social network sites, Dongcompany list or limit business conducted with them. bu has encouraged fans to abide by “Green Sports Rules” and in 2013 built a sports centre in Wonju using technologies Dongbu also purchases products from companies that have that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The basketball team obtained Energy Star (EPA) – (DOE) and Energy Save (KoCarbon Disclosure Project [CDP] 1) Fire insurance also runs basketball camps where children are taught about rea Energy Management Corporation) certification for their The special stipulation of fire insurance regarding damage the importance of the environment. electronic equipment such as computers, laptops, and laser Dongbu has been actively participating in the Carbon Disfrom storm and flood states that the insurance shall only be printers. Also, extra points are awarded to companies that closure Project (CDP) for the reduction of green gases since compensated when client is affected by typhoon, tornado, sell printers bearing the Energy Star Mark. 2009. Around 4,000 companies worldwide currently particistorm, rainstorm, flooding, or tsunami. The special stipupate in the project. For Dongbu, CDP is not only a matter lation of the fire insurance regarding damages from earthof reducing carbon, but also a way to raises awareness of quakes states that only cases of fire caused by earthquakes FY’12 Number of purchase and price of energy efficiency testing equipment environmental issues and help to address them. It is a global or eruption, damages due to fire, destruction, being buried [unit: KRW thousand] initiative that makes managing of environmental risks and under decoys of eruption. Category Desktop Laptop Laser printer sustainable investment possible. 90 91 Number 3,437 874 1,061 By 2015, the Company is aiming to reduce its carbon emis2) Technical insurance Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance Total price 2,132,315 878,273 559,939 sions by 10% of its figure for 2012. Comprehensive Policy Insurance compensates for most damage caused by natural disasters and different from fire insurance for it compensates for also hail or snow damage. Posters Promoting Green Sports Green finance Dongbu Insurance’s eco-friendly products and services aim 3) Storm and flood insurance to encourage clients to conserve nature and support green In the case of public damage caused by typhoons, floods, industries. We are also supporting the insurance industry by heavy rains, tsunamis, gales, high waves, heavy snow, vitalizing green finance and reducing vehicle costs by operstorms or floods, storm and flood insurance takes effect imating a green gas system. mediately. Guiding eco-friendly customer actions Financial product which provides incentives Posters on Green Sports Bicycle Rides Wall Posters inside the Stadium to the customers who conduct eco-friendly lifestyle of business Evergreen special contract in auto insurance, special contract for one-day-carless system Supporting green industry Product / Service to sponsor new green Response to climate change industry technology such as new and renewable energy Product / Service in preparation for any natural disasters caused by traditional Investing fund for new and renewable storm and flood due to climate change energy Storm and flood insurance etc. Children’s Basketball Camp 4) Agricultural insurance In order to stabilize the income of those in the agricultural Environmental [Status of energy saving] [Landfill waste discharge rate ] [unit: tons] sector, this products covers crop damage caused by tyAchievements · Automatic light outs after the operating hours (20:00) phoons and hail, damage from freezing and frost in the · Light outs in offices during lunch time (12:00-13:00) spring and fall, and damage caused by localized heavy rain· Higher cooling temperature in the summer (27C or higher) · Keeping the time length for air-conditioner operation fall in certain rural areas. (operates until 18:00) · Fluorescent lights in the buildings converted to 1,127 1,130 1,004 Electricity LED lightning (since 2009) 5) Bicycle insurance 2010 2011 2012 This product was planned to protect cyclists from accidents · Warming temperature lowered in the winter and to promote protection of the environment. (20C or below) · Keeping the time length for boiler operation (workable until 18:00) [Recycling waste discharge rate] [unit: tons] Gas 6) Car insurance Energy savings 887 888 Clients who subscribe to this product receive the policy and Dongbu Insurance has minimized energy consumption 810 terms by email under the Company’s Evergreen program, by setting and meeting strict goals on energy use. While which provides clients with a discount on insurance fees its overall energy consumption has increased due to · Headquarter is equipped with heavy water supply based on savings the Company makes by not using paper. continuous expansion of offices, CO ² emissions have · Water-saving faucets been consistently reduced. The Company has moniCustomers can also receive discounts when they agree not tored and managed its energy use at all office buildings Water and to drive on a day specified in the contract. Discounts are also Sewage including headquarters since 2008. 2010 2011 2012 offered according to annual mileage. Mileage policy states · The 2011 report on wastes indicates that landfill waste massed up to 92 that when customers drive within an agreed annual mileage, Trend in energy use · Minimizing the use of corporate cars and vehicles 93 651, recyclable waste as 586 tons; these numbers were results of they may receive 4.7%–13.2% refund. In addition, if an in[Corporate building owned by the company] · Recommend using the public transportation over excluding the waste produced by newly acquired office buildings to match sured vehicle uses an eco-friendly component, the customer Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance business trips Category Unit 2010 2011 2012 the equity of previous records. Since there were no additions of office will receive a portion of the cost of the component back in · The Fifth-Day-Driving-Free system Fueling buildings since 2010, the data included the numbers of all offices including Electricity kwh/1,000㎡ 211,732 215,347 211,672 · Activating electronic meetings and conferences to cash when replacing it. Overall, the policy is contributing to a new office areas. minimize external meetings and conferences reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and road congestion. Gas ㎥/1,000㎡ 7,366 7,440 7,432 Kerosene liter/1,000㎡ 965 918 908 Performance on eco-friendly products [unit: KRW 100 million] Tap water ton/1,000㎡ 1,447 1,604 721 2010 2011 2012 Using public transportation to Indirect CO2 ton/1,000㎡ 94 103 100 Evergreen (case) 305,929 358,222 318,699 emissions Waste and pollutant management prevent air pollution Car (electricity) Insurance Distance Driven Special Dongbu Insurance is committed to minimizing vehicle emisContract (case)* 50,193 159,515 Direct CO2 ton/1,000㎡ 19 19 19 All Dongbu Insurance offices recycle. Recyclable waste emissions produced in 2011 and 2012 amounted to 887 tons and sions, a major source of air pollution. Agricultural Insurance 81 110 106 (gas and kerosene) 888 respectively, while landfill waste produced in the * Distance driven contract was sold since 2011. CO2 systems ton/1,000㎡ 113 122 119 same years totaled 1,127 tons and 1,130 tons respecThe company encourages employees to take public transtively. Additionally, the Dongbu Insurance Education portation when commuting by regulating the use of personal Total floor area ㎡ 167,976 167,976 167,976 Institute, located outside the capital region, has filtervehicles and providing incentives such as daily allowances 7) Renewable energy investment · Calculation standard: The amount of use per unit size of buildings of ing apparatus installed to prevent contamination of the for business trips. Dongbu Insurance. Because Korea is in the process of developing its own Dongbu is investing in the Gimchun solar energy plant (KRW water supply that feeds into the metropolitan area, ennational emissions factor, Dongbu Insurance is utilizing the IPCC’s carbon 10 billion), the Hampyung solar energy plant (KRW 6.1 billion) emissions factor. The IPCC advises the application of the net heating value abling the water BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand) to Distance of public transportation used during business trips [unit: 1,000 km] and other renewable energy industries. when calculating CO2 emission. be maintained at 7–10 PPM. Category 2010 2011 2012 · CO2 emissions per area decreased from 2008 to 2010, but increased [Annual sewage purification discharge rate] [unit: 1,000 m³] Air transportation 1,161 1,808 1,386 during 2011, which is due to the surge of electricity consumption with the completion of Dongbu Insurance’s Data Center in 2010. Public transportation 8,503 8,801 (Train/Bus) 121 188 2,999 5,405 · The increase in usage of public transportation (trains & buses) in 2012 compared to previous years is because of the increase of in-house training for all employees, and the installation and implementation of the per diem allowance system that tracks travel distance via real-time map, a means to measure carbon emission. 2010 2011 2012 A GLOBAL INSURANCE FINANCIAL GROUP THAT PURSUES A HAPPY SOCIETY WITH CUSTOMERS Dongbu Insurance, as a truly honest company, fulfills its social responsibility and is growing and developing with society Preparation for the future creating shared value 96 Creating shared value Efforts to creating shared value Plans to creating shared value Creating Efforts to creating shared value shared value The essence of insurance is to promote individuals' recovery from physical or finanDongbu Insurance is always thinking of solving social problems through Creating cial loss that may occur at any time. Dongbu aims not only to be profitable, but also Shared Value. Unlike other industries where they sell physical products, financial to make every effort to communicate with, understand, and assist local communiproduct which has no physical norm needed something in relevance to its own ties by participating in social activities. kind. Many efforts were made to create value shared with social problems. The Company aims to take a step into the social problems and create relief by creDevelopment of product for “uninsurable” customers ating shared value. This means we take extra measures to become integrated into Dongbu has proposed a product for customers who are unable to be insured society rather than merely make donations. due to severe medical conditions. Customer-orientated products in consideration of uninsurable customers were created. The Company believes in solving social problems through Creating Shared Value. High Blood Pressure Plan Diabetes Plan Gold Age Plan 96 97 [Major evaluation categories] Consists of high blood pressure only assurProvides various guarantees on financial asMade for the customers who have difficulties ance (Over 80% of diseases leave after effect, sisting the cost of diabetes complications and being insured due to their high age or acciSustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance the first in the industry to provide support for cancer diagnosis (Over 80% of diseases leave dents suffered etc. 1 coronary artery by-pass operation) after effect, the first in the industry to provide · Promoting shared value creation method through the use of related and professional know-how in the fields of Themes related to insurance, asset management and finance IT. support for coronary artery by-pass operation) Dongbu Industry · Discovering issues which can lead to active participation of the stakeholders (government, supervisory organizations, NGO etc.) Death after effect, 3 common disease diagnoDeath after effect, cancer diagnosis, CI diagDeath after effect, cancer diagnosis, CI diag2 · Designating items capable of creating financial performances in relation to sustainability management sis, CI diagnosis, CI operations, hospitalization nosis, CI operations, diabetes complications, nosis, CI operations, operations on various · Discovering business opportunities which does not only benefit the company, but also the local society and support, living risk, medical insurance living risk diseases, living risk Evident output the stakeholders · Allow for efficient sustainability management through setting financial goals and its performance in relation to sustainability management Themes not overlapping with the competing companies 3 · Promoting unique and differentiated strategies through development of CSV items which represents the company · Responding in forehand on sustainability issues through collecting and analyzing the needs of the stakeholders [Prevalence rate of people over the age of 30] High Blood Pressure High Cholesterol Diabetes [units: %] 4 · Achieving differentiation with the competing companies through exclusive sustainability management strategy Promotable (Yoohan Kimberly etc.) social interests · Responding in forehand on sustainability issues through collecting and analyzing the needs of the stakeholders 30.8 and issues · Enhancing the company image through corresponding practically in the areas of social issues such as moral and 28.9 30 27.2 28 ethical activities by to company 5 25.1 · Maximizing the efficiency level through co-operating with the sustainability management experts from NGO, NPO* Alliance with trustworthy · Co-operating with the government authorities, organizations for disabled, consumer groups to improve relationship stakeholders and work collaboration *NPO: None Profit Organization 20 6 14.1 14.5 · Assigning themes which allow for mid to long-term plans, not one-time donation nor non-volunteer activities Sustainable · Marketing the company as the best and the representative sustainability management based company through 11.1 11.8 themes 10.8 promoting CSV items 10 10.1 10.5 10 10 9.7 [CSR vs CSV] 0 CORPORATE 1. Voluntary work, making donations CREATING 1. Liaison with the company value and social value 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Source: Ministry of Health and Welfare, 2011 Public Health Statistics SOCIAL 2. Differentiated from making profit for the SHARED 2. Re-establishment of company’s total budget company RESPONSIBILITY 3. Limited by the direction of the company VALUE 3. Issues combined with the annual financial report and CSR budget of sustainable management Plans to creating shared value Dongbu is making steady progress in planning midand long-term goals for the creation of sustainable, shared values. We will strive to coexist with society and remain aware of our responsibilities within it. Social Value High Strategic Social Contribution Creating Performance with Creating Shared Value Social Contribution (Enhancing Public Image) Creating Economical 98 2ndStage Value through Social Changes 99 Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance Low Making Donations Advertising Activties One-time Solitary Donation Creating Performance 1 st Stage through Strategic Marketing Low High Economical Value Introductory Phase Growing Phase Maturing Phase Appendix 2014 2015 2016 Expanding social contribution Activation of CSV Creating Shared Value (CSV) activities (CSV discovered) · Expanding CSV business (1 → 2) Business’s Core Strategy · Establishing yearly plans on · Promoting evaluation on the ideas of · CSV Core Business Designated → social contribution per department social enterprises Core Strategy · Promoting a case of CSV business Establishing status as social enterprise · Expanding and discovering B.P from the 100 Third Party’s assurance report GRI G3.1 Index existing CSV History · Establishing TF team Awards and recognitions Memberships in associations and organizations · Promoting after legislative and social evaluation Third party’s assurance report To the management of the dongbu insurance 2013 sustainability report Work undertaken and scope Upon request of Dongbu Insurance, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies as a “third party assurance provider” (hereinafter The Auditor confirmed 1) the inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness of the reported content; 2) the reliability of the reported referred to as the “Assurance Provider”) presents the following third party’s assurance report on the “Dongbu Insurance 2013 performance data; 3) the Report’s level of compliance against GRI G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, and 4) the level of Sustainability Report (hereinafter referred to as the “Report”)” compliance relative to the B.E.S.T Reporting Guidelines through the process outlined below. Interviews with persons responsible for the respective performance dimensions and performance data collection in order to Accountability and objective assess the adequacy of the Report’s content Review of the Company’s materiality testing process and findings Dongbu Insurance is held accountable for all information and claims contained in the Report including sustainability manageReview of processes in place for stakeholder engagement ment goal setting, performance management, data collection and report preparation. The objective of this assurance report is On-site review of the Company’s head office to assess “raw” performance data as well as systems and processes for data to check whether the Report is free of material misstatement or bias and whether the data collection systems used are robust, collection and reporting and to offer advice on improving the quality of the Report through identifying sustainable management issues and reviewing its Review of supportive reference data in the economic, social, and environmental dimensions reporting process. Review of the completeness and accuracy of reported content by sample testing key material issues Independence Limitations 100 The Assurance Provider has no relations with Dongbu Insurance regarding any of its for-profit operations and activities. In addiThis scope of this undertaking was limited to: 101 tion, the Assurance Provider has carried out its assurance process with independence and autonomy as it was not involved in Interviews with persons responsible for the respective performance dimensions and data collection; a review of the the preparation of the Report except for offering comments in the process. Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance adequacy of reported information and content On-site review of Dongbu Insurance’s head office Assurance based on available data and disclosed information for the relevant reporting period Criteria for assurance Review of the reliability of reported performance information The Assurance Provider assessed the Report against the following guidelines: 1) AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008)¹ 2) Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines² Conclusions 3) BEST Guideline³ Based on the assurance scope, methodology, and assessment criteria presented herein, the Auditor did not find the Report to contain any material misstatements or bias. With regard to the reliability of the reported data, The Auditor did not find any data Scope of Assurance Compliance with the three core AA1000S (2008) principles of GRI-checked GRI reporting level errors or data otherwise deemed to have been collected under inappropriate conditions that could have a material impact on the Inclusivity, Materiality, and Responsiveness data contained in the Report. Key assurance findings from the Auditor are included herein, and detailed account of all assurance Assurance Type/ Level Type Ⅱ Moderate Level results and recommendations have been submitted to the management of Dongbu Insurance. Assurance Criteria The three AA1000AS (2008) principles and IPS Assurance GRI G3.1 Sustainability [Inclusivity] Manual standards Reporting Guidelines Are the stakeholder engagement strategies and relevant processes at Dongbu Insurance adequate? IPS Performance Indicators Assurance Criteria ™ The Auditor took note of efforts by the Company to establish a system for stakeholder engagement as well as relevant stakeholder engagement channels, in recognition of the importance of stakeholder participation in implementing sustainability management. The Auditor also noted efforts by the Company to better utilize and broaden its stakeholder engagement channels in 1. AA1000 AS(Assurance Standard) is a sustainability reporting standard developed by Accountability in its pursuit to promote overall organizational order to incorporate those findings in its business management activities. performance and accountability by improving the quality of social and ethical accounting. As a U. K. based not-for-profit organization focusing on corporate social responsibility and business ethics, Accountability first developed AA1000AS in 1999 and amended the standards in 2008 for application in 2010. The following points were found to be particularly commendable. In response to the changing communications environment, the Company has made efforts to broaden the scope of its 2. GRI G3.1 Guidelines: The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which was jointly convened by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies engagement activities to also include SNS and other new channels of communication in order to build greater mutual trust (CERES) and the UNEP in 1997, first released its G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines in October 2006. The G3.1 Guidelines, which is an update with its stakeholders; and and completion of the G3, was published in March 2011, featuring broader guidance on how to report on human rights, gender, and local community issues. G4, the fourth generation of Guidelines, is launched in 2013. The Company provides an account of stakeholder engagement findings by channel, while adequately addressing stakeholder-specific expectations, based on its categorization of stakeholder groups. 3. BEST Guideline or BEST Sustainability Reporting Guideline is a guideline for the preparation and assurance of sustainability reporting and offers five levels of reporting quality assessment. It was jointly developed by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy (MKE), the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies Going forward, however, the Company is advised to make sure that the engagement findings from various stakeholder channels (IPS), and the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) in the Business Ethics Sustainability Management for Top Performers (BEST) forum are better reflected toward actual business management, while also providing a current status update on those activities as well in their endeavor to promote sustainability reporting among local companies. as actual case study examples. Third party’s assurance report [Materiality] Trend of the Dongbu Sustainability Report Fulfillment Does the Report contain information of the highest material importance to Dongbu Insurance stakeholders Reporting Year 2009 2011 2013 across the economic, social, and environmental dimensions? Publications 2nd 3rd 4th It is the Auditor’s view that the Report does not omit or exclude issues of key importance to the stakeholders of Dongbu Insurance. The Company was found to enforce a six-step materiality testing process to identify internal and external issues of material imporLevel Level 3 Level 4 Level 4 tance to its organization. The Company also structured its reporting around these key issues to ensure that the Report adequately reflected topics of interest to its stakeholders. Fulfillment 95.6% 93.9% 94.1% · Assurance findings were converted uniformly into fulfillment ratios as measured against Level 1 through 5 requirements. The following points were found to be particularly commendable. Key materiality findings were distinguished by stakeholder group so that readers can determine what issues the respective groups are most interested in; and The Report was structured around the core-most of the identified material issues, to highlight the current environment faced by Recommendations Dongbu Insurance, its activities, as well as its achieved outcomes. The Auditor found the “2013 Sustainability Report” by Dongbu Insurance commendable in the following respects. The Report (1) is structured around issues of main interest and concern to Company stakeholders and highlights focus on the “core” stakeGoing forward, the Auditor recommends keeping track of and managing not only the high-priority issues but also the low-to-mid holder issues for the given reporting year; (2) represents stronger DMA disclosure, broadening the reporting scope of sustainpriority issues as well, while also continuously improving upon its materiality testing methods to better reflect a more diverse ability management plans and outcomes for respective stakeholder groups; and (3) reflects efforts by the Company to respond 102 breadth of stakeholder perspectives and views. more preemptively to sustainability management by applying newly introduced framework guidelines. 103 Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance For future reports, the Auditor recommends considering the following. [Responsiveness] Collect and reflect stakeholder feedback on the Company’s stakeholder engagement activities as well as its achieved Does the Report provide an adequate response to stakeholder demands and interests? response Apply new stronger reporting criteria in future sustainability management reports The Auditor confirmed efforts by Dongbu Insurance to incorporate engagement findings in its management activities, while reDevelop and report on case studies showcasing Company strategies or initiatives where stakeholder engagement findings porting on how it has addressed the identified concerns. The Company also provided an account of its long-term action plans, were incorporated response measures and achieved outcomes specific to the respective issues in an effort to be more responsive in addressing Consider the balance between quantitative and qualitative information, while enhancing the accuracy of reporting by the demands and concerns of its stakeholders. presenting case studies and other evidence-based data The following points were found to be particularly commendable. The Report highlights examples of efforts by the Company to reflect stakeholder views in its management activities such as “Getting to Know Our Customers,” and “Tong Tong Tong with the CEO” event, the company-wide “Social Contribution Day;” Qualifications of the auditor etc., and Commissioned by Dongbu Insurance as the Auditor for this assurance undertaking, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies Highlights the key-most priority issues as well as their outcomes, providing an account of the Company’s response to the (IPS) was established in 1993 and has since developed into a specialized institution with broad expertise in the areas of busimain needs and concerns of its stakeholders. ness ethics, CSR, and sustainability management since 2002. The Auditor is composed of experts in business management, accounting, and environmental science including professors at Korea’s top universities and practitioners with professional acGoing forward, however, the Auditor suggests establishing a clearer plan outlining its intended response as well as target levels creditation and extensive experience in sustainability management. and goals, while also providing a mid-to-long term update on its achieved outcomes. Moreover, in the interest of greater responsiveness, the Company should strengthen reporting on how it has addressed the needs and concerns of its stakeholders. November 22, 2013 Kim Jae-eun [GRI application level] President, The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies The Assurance Provider found the Report to apply to GRI G3.1 Reporting Framework at the level of A+. [BEST fulfillment level] The Assurance Provider found the Report to fulfill 94.1% of the reporting requirements necessary to qualify for a Level 4 Report (from among Level 1~5). GRI G3.1 Index ● Reported ◐ Partially Reported ◯ Unreported ◇ None ● Reported ◐ Partially Reported ◯ Unreported ◇ None Category No. Description Reported Pages BEST Category No. Description Reported Pages BEST 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ● 18 C_1, C_2 Corporal overview Governance, 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage ● 18 C_1 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization ● 2 A_1 CommitStrategy and ments and Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency or engagement by type and Analysis 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities ● 13, 15~16 A_2 4.16 ● 18~19 C_2 Engageby stakeholder group 2.1 Name of the organization ● 7 A_3 ments Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization 4.17 ● 18~19, 21 C_3 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or. services ● 7, 9 A_4 has responded to those key topics and concerns including through its reporting Operational structure of the organization, including, main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries and 2.3 joint venture ● 6~7 A_5 Economic performance 2.4 Location of the headquarters ● 6 A_7 EC Disclosure on Management Approach ● 42~43 Organization Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee 2.5 ● 7~8 A_7 Profile that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report EC1 compensation, donations and other community Investments, retained earnings and payments to capital ● 46 EC1 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form ● 6~7 A_8 providers and governemnts Economic Financial complications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate 2.7 Markets served (Including geographic breakdown, sectors served and types of customers/beneficiaries) ● 7 A_9 Performance EC2 ● 88~89, 91~92 EC2 change 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization ● 6~8 A_10 EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations ● 65 EC3 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership ● 6~8 B_8 104 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ● 111 CO8 EC4 Significant financial assistance from the government ◐ 9 EC5 105 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant 3.1 Reporting period ● Inside Cover B_3 EC5 ● 56 EM4 locations of operation Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance 3.2 Date of most recent report ● Inside Cover B_8 Markets EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operations ● 49, 65, 90 EC4 3.3 Reporting Cycle ● Inside Cover B_6 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant 3.4 Contacts for questions regarding the report or its contents ● Back Cover B_9 EC7 ● 49, 64 EC4 locations of operations 3.5 Process for defining report content ● 20~21 B_4 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit Indirect EC8 ● 80~81 EC6 3.6 Boundary of the report ● Inside Cover B-1 economic through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement 3.7 Statement on any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report ● Inside Cover B-2 impacts EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts ● 81, 91~92 EC7 Report Basis for reporting on joint ventures , subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities Inside Cover, Parameters 3.8 that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations ● 6~8 A_6 Environmental performance 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the calculation methods ● Inside Cover, 60, 64, 92 EN Disclosure on Management Approach ● 84~85 Explanation of the effect of any re-statement of Information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ● 92 EV10 3.10 ● No re-usage such re-statement Materials EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Input materials ● 93 EV11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods 3.11 ● Inside Cover, 20~21 B_5 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source ◐ 92 EV7 applied in the report EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source ◐ 92 EV8 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report ● 104~108 B_10 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements ● 92~93 EV5 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report ● 100~103 B_7 Energy Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body EN6 ● 91~93 EV5 4.1 ● 10 GR1 energy requirements as a result of these initiatives responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight EV5 4.2 Indication on whether the Chairman of the highest governance body is also a CEO ● 10 GR1 GR3 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved ● 92~93 EV25 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, statement of the number and gender of members of EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 92~93 EV9 4.3 ● 10 GR2 the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members Water EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ◇ None EV20 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and re-used ● 93 EV18 4.4 ● 11, 56 GR12 governance body Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high Relation between compensation for the members of the highest governance body, senior managers, EN11 ◇ None EV22 4.5 ● 12 GR7 biodiversity value outside protected areas executives, and the organization's performance Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity in protected areas and EV22 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided ● 11~12 GR13 EN12 ◇ None Governance, areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EV26 CommitProcess for determining the composition, qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest Biodiversity EN13 Habitats in needs of protection or restoration ◇ None EV27 4.7 ● 11~12 GR4 ments and governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity EV6 EngageEN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity ◇ None Internally developed statements of mission or values, code of conducts and principles relevant to economic, EV26 ments 4.8 ● 12, 27 environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by EN15 ◇ None EV28 operations, by level of extinction risk Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management 4.9 of economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities and adherence ● 11~12 GR5 or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to 4.10 ● 12 GR6 economic, environmental and social performance 4.11 Explanation on whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization ● 13~15 GR11 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 4.12 ● 12, 22~23 GR10 organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations ● 112 A_11 GRI G3.1 Index ● Reported ◐ Partially Reported ◯ Unreported ◇ None ● Reported ◐ Partially Reported ◯ Unreported ◇ None Category No. Description Reported Pages BEST Category No. Description Reported Pages BEST EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 92 EV12 Human rights performance EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ◐ 92 EV13 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved ● 89~93 EV4 HR Disclosure on Management Approach ● 66~67 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight ◇ None EV14 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that includes clauses HR1 ● 34, 39~40 PN2 Incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight ◇ None EV15 Emissions, Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination ● 93 EV17 Abolishment HR2 ● 71 PN3 Effluents and human rights screening and actions taken of DiscrimiWaste EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ◐ 93 EV16 nation Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills ◇ None EV21 HR3 ● 63 EM30 relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ● 64 EM7 EN24 ◇ None EV29 Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected Freedom of EN25 ◇ None EV19 Association by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and and HR5 ● 63~64 EM8 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation ● 88~89, 91~92 EV23 collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk and actions taken to support these rights Products Collective and Services EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category ◇ None EV24 Bargaining Monetary volume of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, 106 Compliance EN28 environmental laws and regulations ● No Violations EV31 Child Labor HR6 and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor ● 63 EM9 107 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for Transport EN29 ● 93 EV30 Prevention the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance of Force and Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ● 90 EV1 HR7 ● 63 EM10 Compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Labor Labor performance Security Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of HR8 ● 63 EM31 Practices human rights that are relevant to operation LA Disclosure on Management Approach ● 52~53 Indigenous LA1 Total workforce by employment type, contract and region, broken down by gender ● 64 EM1 HR9 Total number of incidents of violation involving rights of indigenous people and action taken ◇ None CO2 Rights LA2 Total number and rate of new employees hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region ● 64 EM5 Employment Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major HR10 ● 63~64 LA3 ● 65 EM20 Human assessments operations Rights Number of grievance related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● 63 EM12 ● 64 Labor/ mechanisms Management Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified LA5 ● 63 EM13 relations in collective agreements Social performance Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees LA6 ◐ 63 EM14 SO Disclosure on Management Approach ● 76~77 that help monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programs Local Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, Occupational Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalties by region SO1 ● 39~40, 79~80 CO2 LA7 ● 59, 63 EM19 Communities and development programs Health and and by gender Safety SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption ● 39~40, 71 CO5 Education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, Corruption LA8 ● 59 EM18 their families or community members regarding serious diseases SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures ● 27 CO5 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions ● 59 EM15 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption ● 25 CO5 Public Policy LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category ● 60~62 EM27 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying ● 26 CO6 Training and Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees Competition LA11 ● 59~62 EM28 Total value of financial in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, Education and assist them in managing career endings Inhibiting SO6 ● 26 CO7 and related institution by country Behavior LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender ● 55~56 EM29 AntiComposition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and LA13 ● 10, 64 EM2 Competitive SO7 ● 24 CS3 gender, age group, monitory group membership, and other indicators of diversity their outcomes Diversity and Behavior Equal OpRatio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant LA14 ● 55~56 EM3 Violation of Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with portunity locations of operation SO8 ● 24 CO9 Law laws and regulations LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ● 65 SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities ◇ None Compliances Prevention and mitigation measures implemented In operations with significant potential or actual negative ● 34, 39~40 impacts on local communities GRI G3.1 Index ● Reported ◐ Partially Reported ◯ Unreported ◇ None Category No. Description Reported Pages BEST Product responsibility performance PR Disclosure on Management Approach ● 28~29 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, Customer PR1 ● 34, 39~40 CS4 and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Health and Safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and PR2 ● 26, 39 CS11 safety Impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and PR3 ● 34, 37~38 CS5 services subject to such information requirements Product and Service Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and PR4 ● 26, 34 CS12 Labeling service information and labeling, by type and outcomes PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction ● 31~33 CS9 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, Marketing PR6 ● 34, 39~40 CS13 including advertising, promotion and sponsorship Communication Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing PR7 ● 34, 39~40 CS14 communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, by type of outcomes 108 PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of ● 36~38 CS15 109 Customer customer data Privacy Total number of complaints filed due to breaches of customer privacy 36 CS12 Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance ● FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines ● 39~40, 87~88 FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines ● 13~15, 88~89 Processes for monitoring clients' implementation of and compliance with environmental and social requireFS3 ● 34, 39~40, 88~89 ments included in agreements or transactions Processes for improving staff competency to Implement the environmental and social policies and procedures FS4 ● 25~27, 33 as applied to business lines FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities ● 39~40, 82, 91~92 FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g micro, SME, large) and by sector ● 6~9 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line FS7 ● 81 broken down by purpose Financial Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each FS8 ● 91~92 Industry business line broken down by purpose Extra Indices Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies and FS9 ● 39~40, 87~89 risk assessment procedures Percentage and number of companies held in the institution's portfolio with which the reporting organization FS10 ◐ 81, 91~92 has interacted on environmental or social issues. FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening ● 72~74, 87~89 Voting policies applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting organization holds FS12 ● 16~17 the right to vote shares or advises on voting FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type ● 81 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people ● 81 FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services ● 34~35 FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary ● 37~40, 59~61 History Awards and recognitions 1962-1995 2010-2011 1962. 03 Founded Korea Public Automobile Insurance Company 2010. 01 Completed the construction of the Jukjeon Data Center 1968. 11 Dissolved Korea Public Automobile Insurance Company and 2010. 01 Certified as ‘2010 Excellent Company in Customer Complaint established Public Automobile Insurance Co. Management System (CCMS)’ by Fair Trade Committee 1976. 05 Introduced, for the first time in Korea, unlimited coverage 2010. 02 Completed construction of its Risk Based Capital (RBC) liability insurance for car owner indemnity, a precursor of system current automobile insurance 2010. 10 Announced a new slogan, “Dynamic Dongbu” 1983. 05 Dongbu Group acquired the managerial right of the company 2010. 10 Selected as ‘the Best Industry Company in Korea of 2011 2012 1984. 02 Began selling all lines of non-life insurance products except for Dow Jones Sustainability Index’ for two consecutive years guarantee insurance 2010. 12 Rated A (Excellent) by A.M.Best for 3 consecutive years 1984. 10 Opened a branch in Guam 2011. 05 Approved to start business in New York 1995. 10 Renamed to Dongbu Insurance Co. Ltd 2011. 09 Established office in Vietnam Jan. Jan. 2011. 10 Selected as 2011 Asia’s 50 rising enterprise by Forbes Best Brand Award voted by 2011. 10 Opened New York branch the consumers, hosted by 2001-2006 2011. 11 Joined UN Global Compact Feb. Forbes Korea Feb. 2001. 10 Rated A-(Excellent) by A.M.Best 2002. 09 Adopted PROMY as its auto insurance brand 2012-2013 2004. 02 Launched motorbike-based “PROMY SOS Speed Service” (the industry’s first) 2012. 01 Certified CCM (Customer Centered Management) Mar. Mar. 110 2004. 05 Declared the New Management Innovation 2012. 02 Selected as a global leader group, “Bronze Class” by SAM 111 ‘Change & Challenge No. 1 (C&C No.1)’ 2012. 09 Made a green consuming agreement with the Department of Sustainability Report 2013 Dongbu Insurance 2004. 07 Sales of direct automobile insurance commenced as the Environment a strategic alliance with Tesco Homeplus 2012. 10 Total asset reached KRW 20 trillion Apr. Apr. 2005. 01 Launched Best Life Accident Insurance through 2012. 10 Announced new vision, “A global insurance finance group who Hyundai Home Shopping pursues happy society with the customers” 2005. 10 Established the Dongbu Promy Basketball Team 2012. 10 Selected as ‘the Best Industry Company in Korea of 2006. 04 Opened the Hawaiian branch Dow Jones Sustainability Index’ for 4 consecutive years. May May 2006. 05 Introduced Promy Life, a long-term insurance brand First in the nation to be selected as Asia-Pacific Index 2006. 07 Established an office in China 2013. 01 Selected as a global leader group, “Bronze Class” by SAM (2 consecutive years) 2013. 03 Certified with Green Management System KSI 7001/7002 June June 2007-2009 (First in the domestic insurance industry) Awarded with the Grand Prize in 2013. 04 Reached KOSPI 200 the field of service, held by Korean 2007. 01 Opened Call Center in Jeonju 2013. 06 Rated Aby S&P Standards Association 2007. 12 Acquired patent of BM (Business Method) in claim handling 2013. 07 Certified with WA (Web Approach) in relation to banning July July 2008. 01 Rated ‘BBB+’ by S&P for two consecutive years and Rating discrimination on the disabled Hosted IT Service Outlook was adjusted upward from ‘Stable’ to ‘Positive’ 2013. 09 Selected to be in the World Index by Dow Jones Sustainability Management Forum, 2008. 01 Certified of ‘Excellence in Consumer Complaints Management Index (First in the domestic insurance industry) awarded with itSMF Korea System, CCMS’ for H2, 2007 Award in the field of service Aug. Aug. 2008. 08 Took over Dongbu Securities as a subsidiary Selected as the number one company in the Selected as the number one 2008. 09 The Risk Management Research Center obtained an ISO 14001 field of car insurance in 4 consecutive years company in the field of car certificate, a first for an insurance company in the world by Korea Consumer Well-being Index insurance for 5 consecutive years 2008. 12 Rated A (Excellent) by A.M.Best Sep. Sep. by Korea Consumer Well-being 2009. 01 Certified as ‘the Best Financial Company with Outstanding Index Consumer Protection Program’ by FSS 2009. 02 Won an ISO 27001 certificate 2009. 04 Rated First Grade of Customer Complaints Handling by FSS for five consecutive years Oct. Oct. 2009. 04 Dongbu commercial claims handling service acquired Selected as the number one ISO 9001 certification, a first for a Korean non-life company in the field of property insurance company insurance for 4 consecutive years 2009. 08 The Risk Management Research Center acquired Nov. Nov. by DJSI Korea OHSAS 18001 certification, a first for the risk management Korea's Communication Grand Prize, Selected as the number one area in the world insurance industry Webzine U: Outstanding Publishing Prize company in the field of car 2009. 09 Included as a member of the 70 companies in the SRI of the Korea Stock Exchange Dec. insurance by Korea Service Quality Index 2009. 10 Selected as ‘the Best Industry Company in Korea of Dow Jones Sustainability Index’ Dec. 2009. 12 Opened the LA branch 2009. 12 Rated ‘BBB+’ by S&P for four consecutive years and Rating Outlook of ‘Stable’ Memberships in associations and organizations Federation of Korean Industries Korean Insurance Academic Society Exchanges of opinions and networking among companies Studies theories, laws, regulations, and actual operations of the insurance industry / collects and applies research data Korean Non-Life Insurance Association (KNIA) Deals with industry issues and pushes for joint projects for Korea Management Association public good Exchanges information for management innovation and stronger competitiveness Korean Fire Protection Association Korea Employers Federation Prevents fires, checks fire warning facilities, offers research Exchanges opinions on major issues including labor relations 112 and education on fire-related issues Financial Security Agency Sustainability Report 2013 CFO Forum Exchanges various information protection activities such as preBuilds global CFO networks, suggests opinions on comventing and coping with financial security accidents pany management and capital market, implements ethical management Korea Financial Information Protection Council Exchange opinions with financial institutions and supervising orgaKorea Personnel Improvement Associate nizations to protect information Builds networks to share information on personnel and education and training issues Association of Listed Firms in Korea More information on this report is provided Exchanges opinions and protects rights and interests through the home page and the coporate planning part of the Management Innovation Team National Quality Award (NQA) Winners Kim Jae-hyoung Manager Builds a network of companies which won world-class na(F1042241@dbins.net, 82-2-3011-3148) tional quality prizes Benchmarks global standards Jung Yoon-sung Deputy Manager (F1062429@dbins.net, 82-2-3011-3157) Korean Association of Business Ethics Shares examples of excellent ethical management Fax: 82-0505-181-0016 Dongbu Financial Center, 432, Teheran-ro Gangnam, Seoul, S.Korea 135-523 BESTForum www.idongbu.com Shares examples of excellent ethical management and conducts research on sustainable management World
