Statement of Support and Commitment to United Nations Global Compact Ninth Communication on Progress2014 The Tata Power Company Ltd. submits its 9th Communication on Progress to United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) for exhibiting its commitment to the UNGC Principles. The Company is an inseparable entity of the Tata Group holding fifth position in terms on Market Capital USD 4.17 bn when compared amongst the other Tata Group companies. Tata Power is one of the prominent players in the power sector in India as well as in International markets. The Company is present across the value chain i.e. fuel, fuel logistics, generation (thermal, hydro, solar, wind & geothermal), transmission, distribution and trading. The Company is environmentally conscious and endeavors to generate 20-25% of its generating capacity through Non Carbon Emitting Sources (NCES) as its strategic intent. It is a recognized and powerful brand in India which is well known for its sustainability commitment, community relations, ethics, employee well being, customer centricity etc. Tata Power is about to enter the centenary year and remains committed to its 100 year old legacy of delivering sustainable value to stakeholders. Tata Power presents its commitment to the UNGC principles in its Sustainability Report 13-14 titled ‘The Power of Co-existence’. The Report conforms to G3.1 reporting framework of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), The Netherlands, along with its Electric Utilities Sector Supplement (EUSS).This Report is also externally assured by Ernst & Young and conforms A+ Application Level Check by GRI. The report also features commitment to National Voluntary Guidelines (NVGs) of Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), UK, United Nation Global Compact (UNGC), Schedule VII of the Companies Act 2013 and Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) of United Nations. The progress on UNGC principles have been completely addressed in the report and mapped in the index. Additional achievements of the year were, Being a signatory to India Business and Biodiversity Initiative (IBBI) of Ministry of Environment & Forests (MoEF) initiated by Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) in association with German International Corporation (GIZ). Further, Tata Power is proud to be one of the 1st Indian Company to align with Aichi biodiversity targets of Convention of Biological Diversity (CBD) for conservation of biodiversity across all locations. Tata Power was bestowed with CII ITC Sustainability Award for Significant Achievement on the Journey towards Sustainable Development. This has helped the Company boost its energies to propel further on the Sustainability journey and strengthen the credo of Leadership with Care. Tata Power is proud to be one of the 1st Indian Company to align with Aichi biodiversity targets of Convention of Biological Diversity (CBD) for conservation of biodiversity. Tata Power is committed to sustainability by adhering to the ten principles of the Global Compact not only in intent but in spirit as well. As we say Lighting up lives……..Sustainably!!!! Anil Sardana CEO and Managing Director Tata Power The Tata Power Company Limited Bombay House 24, Homi Mody Street, Mumbai 400 001 Tel: 91 22 6665 8282 Fax: 91 22 6665 8801 www.tatapower.com
