GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2014 (TBSP) “Thai British Security Printing Public Company Limited (TBSP), an affiliated company of the Siam Cement Group (SCG) has been in the security printing business for more than thirty years. The company has strongly supported CSR programs and joined the UN Global Compact in year 2002. The company has realized the values of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, aims to continue the support and ensure all the staff and related third parties will understand and always follow all the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact”. Vision Being a world class Security Solutions Provider in terms of Quality, Services and Productivity Missions 1. Move towards an operational excellence process 2. Develop high value added products & services beyond customer’s expectation. 3. Strengthen international trade both exporting and sourcing. 4. Focus on people development to fit with TBSP’s values. 5. Increase Flexibility in TBSP’s production process. Your sincerely, Mr. Nat Pinitpongskul Managing Director Thai British Security Printing Public Company Limited, Thailand, COP for 2014 HUMAN RIGHTS Human Rights Principle 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. As a public company TBSP must respect the laws of Thailand which encompass the majority of the 30 Articles in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Apart from these regulations prescribed by law, the company tries to ensure the well being of staff in areas such as Health, Safety, Compensation, Development and Retirement. Medical facilities onsite. Periodic X Ray and Screening plus health education. TIS&OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety Free bus service Uniforms and protective clothing are provided Annual appraisal and review Profit sharing bonus Provident Scheme with matching contribution Emergency loans Air-conditioned working environment Annual leave in addition to 14 days national holidays Seminars and courses with overseas visitors TBSP has received National Safety Awards from Minister of Labour and Welfare in July 2014. This the third year of the company to receive the award. 2. Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Apart from ensuring TBSP respects Human Rights and operates on a basis of fair treatment to its entire staff and others, TBSP tries to ensure that they do not indirectly enable or allow others to abuse Human Rights. In this respect TBSP will not knowingly deal with companies who abuse Human Rights especially in the area of child or forced labour. TBSP invited shareholders to visit Wat Thewarat Kunchorn Worawiharn to perform Buddhist traditions in March 2013. LABOUR 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. The Company allows labour unions according to the Thai labour law. The Company continuously supports group activities such as Team Building, New Year Party, Small Group Activities, and Social Activities. In 2013, the company has encouraged the employees to attend the Thailand Kaizen Competition held by the Technology Promotion Association (Thailand-Japan), and one team has won the Golden Award for Kaizen for Office (KO) Category. TBSP Employess have won the Golden Award Kaizen for Office (KO) Category in August 2013. 4. Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Staff are selected based on their suitability for the work and education. Staff can resign when they like subject to notice period. All staff have a written contract of employment. Overtime is voluntary and extra payments are made for overtime and holiday working. Staff keep their ID documents. Termination of staff is in accordance with Thai labour laws. The company provides scholarships to the children of employees. The company will not use suppliers who use compulsory or child labour. 5. Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. There are no staff employed at TBSP below the age of 18 years and contractors are not permitted to bring under-aged children for employment on the site. Human Resources check applicant’s ID prior to employment and Security check visitor ID. The company have provided scholarships to the employees’ children from more than twenty families and have also provided scholarships to disadvantaged local children from the local six schools to keep them at school. TBSP provided Scholarships to the children of employees in May 2013 TBSP provided scholarships to the children from the six local schools in June 2013. 6. Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The company employs staff based on their suitability for that position. No discrimination is allowed regarding gender, religion or ethnic group. Women occupy positions on the board and at senior management level. Mrs. Nuanchan Boonpoijanasoontorn Mrs. Boonsakorn Radomsuttigul Ms. Pattarajit Tantasuth Chairman of Audit Committee Financial Controller Human Resource Director ENVIRONMENT 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. The company has worked with the customers to the fourth Shred2Share Project under the same concept of “Keep Security for Data and Care for the Environment and Community”. The company will collect the used paper donated from the customers and shred them under the secure and environmental friendly environment. The shredded paper will go to SCG Paper for recycling. With the 1,900 tons of shredded paper for recycling, the company can buy the necessary teaching and study kits at 3,800,000 Baht and give them to students from the eighteen Patrol Soldiers schools in Chantaburi and Sra-kaew provinces. The 1,900 tons of recycled paper at SCG Paper can help reduce the carbon monoxide at 490,464 kgs, save water at 194,320 m³ and reduce coal usage at 207,504 kgs. In combination of the mushroom house built for the community, TBSP invited the expert to provide knowledge of mushroom and hydroponics vegetables to teachers and students and interested employees in July 2012. 8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. The management, CSR-TBSP Committee and employees have invited the community and Samrongtai Sub-district Municipality to clean and improve the landscape of Sai Tanoo canal. TBSP have worked with the community and Samrongtai Sub-district Municipality to clean the Sai Tanee canal in October 2013. 9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The company uses energy saving technology in production where heating and cooling is required. Insulation for energy conservation and recycling of waste materials is encouraged. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. TBSP has a board of eleven directors elected by shareholders, who meet quarterly. There are four independent directors on the board. At each AGM one third of the directors retire by rotation. Separate Executive, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees report to the board. The company, as far as possible, operates a principle of dual control with checks and balances. The chairman and CEO are two separate positions. Two signatures on cheques and company documents are required and two staff at supplier meetings. Both internal and external auditors are used for financial, operational, environmental and security checks. The Company Code of Ethics is provided in two languages.
