Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 01 Table of Contents A. Message from the Managing Partner 2 G. Society 27 1. Social Services 27 B. About this Report 3 2. Giving back to Society 27 1. Scope and Boundary 3 3. Volunteering 30 2. Development 3 3. Restrictions 3 H. Environment 32 4. Give us your feedback 3 1. Strategy and Management 32 i. Environmental Policy 32 C. Introduction 4 2. Measures and Initiatives for 1. Company Profile 4 Reducing our Environmental Impact 32 i. Global Sustain at a Glance 4 i. Raw Materials and Waste ii. Vision 5 Management 32 iii. Mission 5 3. Measuring and Reporting our iv. Values 5 Environmental Impact 32 2. Services 6 i. Recycling 32 ii. Greenhouse Gases and other D. Strategy and Management 12 Gases Emissions 33 1. Defining Sustainability 12 iii. Energy and Water Consumption 35 2. Sustainability Pillars and Framework 12 iv. Transportation 35 3. Corporate Governance v. Biodiversity 35 and Compliance 13 vi. Design and Development 4. Stakeholder Engagement 14 of Services that contribute 5. Memberships / Partnerships 17 to Climate Change Mitigation 35 E. Marketplace 17 United Nations Global Compact table 35 1. Financial Contribution 17 2. Social Contribution 18 G3.1 Content Index 39 3. Responsible Operation 18 4. Giving to and Supporting Charities 20 Independent Assurance Statement 44 5. Responsible Procurement 20 6. Public Awareness 20 GRI Application Level Check 46 7. Client Service Satisfaction 22 Abbreviations 47 F. Human Resources 24 1. Workforce 24 Feedback Form 48 2. Fair Employment 24 3. Health and Safety 25 4. Employee Development 26 i. Training 26 ii. Appraisal System 26 5. Internal Communication 27 Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 02 A. Message from the Managing Partner I am pleased to share Global Sustain’s “2012 • The provision of high-quality services to our Sustainability Report”, our very first report in our clients and members, company’s history after our Communication on • The company’s growth with the support Progress that was published last year. The COP of our employees and other stakeholders, and represented the company’s inaugural public • The management of our carbon footprint. communication to stakeholders on the progress made after implementing the Ten Principles of Despite the challenging economic environment the UN Global Compact and in support of the our turnover increased slightly year-on-year, broad UN development goals through while our EBITDA was almost half compared partnerships. to 2011, mainly because of investments in personnel. It is worth mentioning that the Global Sustain has been a founding member company is debt free since its establishment of the Global Compact Network Hellas, Greece’s with no third-party funding or other subsidy Global Compact Local Network (GCLN), since May whatsoever. 2008. Having signed on to the Global Compact, a few months before this GCLN was officially In 2012, we offered innovative on-line and launched. Global Sustain is committed off-line services to more than 500 members and to implementing the Ten Principles in our clients from the corporate, financial, public, third strategies and operations. and academic sectors, managed to establish our Global Sustain firmly believes that corporate presence in social media and facilitated more responsibility and sustainability should be the than one hundred networking opportunities central focus of all companies and investors, among our members. regardless of the size, sector and/or location in which they operate. Although the size of In 2013 we aim higher since this year is a turning our firm, in terms of revenues, and number point for the company that officially changed of full-time staff is still relatively small, our its name from EuroCharity to Global Sustain. approach to sustainability reporting is not The world is changing rapidly and we have an ‘add-on’, but an integral and important to adapt in order to face the new challenges. part of our business strategy, our operations Sustainability is what the world needs and it and values. is highly linked with the People-Planet-Profit mentality that we endorse. Our new corporate Preparing and writing this report helps us both identity reflects all that, signifying dynamism, recognise progress and realise how much evolution and the promise for a better future. important work there still is to do. We are aware of the fact that this first attempt is just one step We view ourselves as sustainability ambassadors of a long journey, and there is much work ahead, world-wide and we want Global Sustain but we are committed to this path, and look to become the leader in our field, offering forward to improving ourselves and our innovative tools to our rapidly-growing family company. Through integrating sustainability of members, clients and partners. Through into our strategic planning we address social, becoming an innovator and a catalyst for change, economic and environmental issues in our we strive to be a role model for new-generation, long-term operations and we undertake high-impact and social entrepreneurs. responsible initiatives on: Michael Spanos Managing Partner of Global Sustain Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 03 B. About this Report 1. Scope and Boundary 3. Restrictions Global Sustain submitted its first Communication As there is no data from other, previous reports, on Progress, the most important expression there is no reference to targets or achievements of our commitment to the UN Global Compact made during the reference year. and its Ten Principles, in September 2012. COP represented the company’s inaugural public 4. Give us your Feedback communication to stakeholders on the progress Global Sustain’s primary target audiences of this made in implementing the Ten Principles of the Report are our employees, our shareholders, our UN Global Compact and in supporting the broad members, our clients and our stakeholders who UN development goals through our partnerships. have a particular interest in our company and our services. We have aimed at ease of reading in the This Sustainability Report represents the hope that you will have the time to review this management practices and the results of our Report, learn more about us and offer your actions for the financial year during January 1, feedback and ideas as we move forward. 2012 December 31, 2012 and we employ the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) international guidelines to ensure that our results are reported objectively and transparently. The content of this year’s report has been rated at GRI application level C+. Our intent in issuing this Report is to depict the impact of our business activity on the Economy, Environment and Society and to enrich the dialogue within and around our company. We do so in the hope that this dialogue will help us expand our understanding of such issues and encourage us to “Be responsible in everything we do.” This Report describes Global Sustain’s activities in relation to its services offered in Greece and it does not include information on its newly opened office in Brussels You are kindly asked to submit your views, in October 2012. comments and recommendations to: 2. Development Ms. Regina Sotra Since this is the first Report published, a special Stakeholder Relations Manager Sustainability Team was formed by Global 2, K. Palama Street & 161, Vouliagmenis Avenue Sustain’s executives so that all the reporting GR-172 37 Dafni, Athens, Greece requirements are met. What is more, a special Tel.: (+30) 210 927 1110 Fax: (+30) 210 927 1119 sustainability training programme was E-mail: regina.sotra@globalsustain.org implemented to help employees deal with all the data and information presented in this Report that stem from its activities. Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 04 C. Introduction 1. Company Profile Global Sustain is a privately-held firm, which owns and operates the climate-neutral popular portal, www.globalsustain.org. This content-rich portal effectively communicates CSR and sustainability news, reports, events and information on behalf of members and clients, with a global audience. Global Sustain offers innovative on-line and off-line services to 365* members and clients from the corporate, financial, public, third and academic sectors, facilitating synergies among members and other key stakeholders. It also participates in, presents at and co-organises numerous conferences and events, including the Sustainability Forum, a training, networking and professional development event. Finally, Global Sustain has been publishing an annual edition since 2007, entitled “Yearbook”, with the scope of creating a platform for public policy, corporate, citizen-sector, and other leaders as well as scientists and experts to share their views on each year’s theme, while at the same time offering a “communication vehicle” for pioneering corporations to showcase their own initiatives and sustainability actions. Global Sustain is a company with five full-time staff, and its turnover in 2012 amounted to EUR 190,464.17 (USD 247,603). *Including Corporate, NGO & Society Premium, NGO Free members. i. Global Sustain at a glance • Established in 2006 with offices in Athens and in Brussels and a rapidly-expanding family of members, clients, partners and ambassadors. • The reference point for sustainability. • A unique social entrepreneurship model in Europe, a values-based, independent firm and catalyst for change. • Facilitates synergies among members and key stakeholders. • Effectively communicates CSR and sustainability news, reports, events and information on behalf of members and clients. • UN Global Compact signatory; founding member of the Global Compact Network Hellas since 2008. • Member and partner of CSRwire. • Collaborates with numerous other leading organisations, including Ethical Performance and Ethical Corporation. • Data Partner for the Global Reporting Initiative and GRI Organisational Stakeholder (OS). Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 05 • Affiliate member of ABIS Academy of Business ii. Vision in Society. A sustainable world where organisations embrace • Annually funds not-for-profit projects making responsibility and respect for human and natural an impact. capital in their quest for growth. • Co-organises numerous conferences and events, including the Sustainability Forum, a training, iii. Mission networking and professional development event. To create awareness, inspire and support companies • Operates as a 100% carbon neutral firm. and organisations in sustainability, through advisory, • Has published five Yearbooks to date. communications, networking and training, guided by the people-planet-profiy concept. iv. Values Our values define who we are and guide the way Memberships / Partnerships we think, act and do business. At Global Sustain, we: • do not view our employees as “assets” or “workers”, but rather as pro-active ambassadors who are passionate about our mission. We encourage our ambassadors to be change makers and go-getters, and be passionately part of Global Sustain’s mission; • strongly believe in encouraging synergies and facilitating strategic partnerships among Global Sustain’s members and our key stakeholders; • believe that making the world a better place starts – first and foremost – from ourselves, our ambassadors and our stakeholders, and are therefore active citizens in our personal and professional lives. We encourage our members to not just be good, but also pro-active corporate and individual citizens; • strongly believe that corporate responsibility, responsible investing, green economy and sustainability should be the central focus of all companies and investors, regardless of size, industry sector or location in which they operate; • participate in our members’ voluntary activities, projects and events; • are dedicated to remain a 100% climate neutral and zero-waste company. This commitment refers to both our operations (e.g., office, logistics, staff movements) and products/services (e.g., Web portals, exhibitions, events, Yearbooks); • donate a percentage of our corporate annual pre-tax earnings to help fund innovative, not-for-profit projects that make an impact; • strongly adhere to ethical decision-making, organisational transparency, and accountability, both internally (to one another, to our ambassadors) and to our external stakeholders, including our members. Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 06 2. Services Global Sustain members a valuable tool Global Sustain offers innovative on-line and to effectively reach out to their stakeholders. off-line services to its members and clients from the corporate, financial, public, academic New media services and citizen sectors in Greece and, increasingly, Global Sustain offers new and cutting-edge from across Europe and worldwide. digital services aiming at effectively communicate its members’ sustainability efforts Advisory and provide opportunities for networking. Global Sustain supports companies and Via its social media presence (facebook, LinkedIn, organisations in formulating their sustainability Twitter, YouTube), Global Sustain facilitates strategy, designing sustainability policies and a constant and constructive dialogue among programmes, preparing reports, conducting its stakeholders, through daily news uploads, research, participating in sustainability indexes, innovative applications, and at the same time as well as networking with pioneering undertakes projects for developing and organisations and institutions. managing social media pages. On-line services Members-to-Members In order to ensure effective communication Global Sustain offers extensive networking of its members, Global Sustain owns among its members through its Membersand daily updates the popular portal to-Members (M2M) service. www.globalsustain.org, hosting articles, press releases, news, sustainability reports, On-line M2M interviews and research. Members have their This service allows corporate members to own dedicated microsite and can utilise communicate new, innovative and sustainable marketing and communication tools such services and products, collaborative synergies as videos, podcasts, banners, mail shots or mutually beneficial projects to a targeted and social media to raise awareness of their audience through the portal. We disseminate sustainability strategy, policies, reports and information and initiate networking using a programmes. combination of our website and direct email alerts to selected members and stakeholders This information is also distributed through in our sustainability database. a partnership network comprised of multiple leading organisations within the sustainability M2M meetings and corporate responsibility sector. In M2M meetings, members can present their products, services, strategy and best practices Newsletter related to sustainability to other Global Committed to timely inform stakeholders Sustain members. These meetings create on sustainability issues, Global Sustain excellent networking opportunities, encourage publishes an electronic newsletter highlighting and inspire members and exchange best the latest news, trends, research and events on practices. sustainability. The newsletter includes the latest developments, press releases, interviews, viewpoints, announcements, presentations, videos, podcasts, and other information of Global Sustain corporate and non-corporate members. The newsletter is distributed to thousands “opt-in” subscribers, including CEOs and senior managers, business leaders, consumers, local and public authorities, academic institutions, journalists, opinion formers, decision makers and non-governmental organisations. This informative newsletter is not only a trusted source of market intelligence but also offers Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 07 Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 08 Conferences-Exhibitions-Events Yearbook Global Sustain organises, co-organises, Yearbook series aim at highlighting critical pro-actively supports and participates in, local sustainability issues and constitute a catalyst and international conferences, exhibitions and for constructive dialogue and positive change. events, in order to effectively communicate its This annual global publication is trusted by top members’ sustainability policies and programmes companies and important stakeholders from all and deliver market intelligence and know-how around the world. to its members on a number of important issues related to sustainability. Each year, Global Sustain choses a topic of universal interest relevant to the people planet Services include: – profit concept and analyses all the aspects • Targeted networking with executives, through the views of internationally renowned companies, organisations and other entities personalities, business leaders, politicians, • Preparation and dissemination of feedback visionaries and academia. reports on international events • Complimentary invitations and discounts Industry opinion formers and decision makers for members across the world contribute with policy and • Distribution of members’ corporate material business intelligence to the publication, while • Extensive and regular update on events leading corporations showcase their best practices and flagship products and services Sustainability Forum in the sustainability field. Every year, Global Sustain organises the Sustainability Forum A training, networking The hard copy publication is presented every and professional development event. The Forum year in special events and venues, with high provides hands-on experience and practical level participants and is distributed to more knowledge through specialised workshops and than 50 countries. brings together prominent speakers and top sustainability experts from all around the world (www.sustainabilityforum.gr) NGO annual funding At the end of each fiscal year, as part of our corporate responsibility policy, Global Sustain finances non-profit projects carried out by non-corporate members, with the aim of funding specific social, environmental or other needs in the citizen sector. To date, 14 charitable projects have been financed, through an electronic voting procedure and the opinion of an NGO Project Funding Committee. This policy is part of the company’s values and aims at promoting and supporting the work of its NGO members with social and environmental impact. Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 09 Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 10 Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 12 D. Strategy and 1. Defining Sustainability As a company, we are part of society and Management we implement our economic, social and environmental responsibility in all spheres of our influence. Sustainability is central to Global Sustain’s core values. Our whole business is conducted in an ethical and responsible way. We maintain a strong sustainability policy for the future, through investing in a number of initiatives such as: • striving for sound financial performance and growth • ensuring a safe and secure work environment for our employees • becoming a 100% climate neutral, zero-waste company, setting an example for others to follow • limiting our transportation by increasing the number of teleconferences for immediate communication with customers and zero environmental impact • supporting the communities in which we do business The triple bottom line approach (e.g. People, Planet, Profit), also known as the three pillars of sustainability, defines the way we do business and our relations with our stakeholders. That is: • “People” (the human capital) refers to beneficial business practices towards labour, the community and region in which we conduct our business. • “Planet” (the natural capital) refers to sustainable environmental practices that we adopt and advocate to our stakeholders. • “Profit” (the economic capital) refers to the economic value created by our company. This refers to our corporate earnings and capital savings for growth, as well as the real economic benefit enjoyed by the society and the real economic impact our company has on its economic environment. 2. Sustainability Pillars and Framework The main pillars of sustainability for our company were determined through a process which combined both internal analysis and dialogue with our stakeholders through an annual survey conducted. Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 13 These are: • Marketplace Corporate governance is the set of processes, • Human Resources customs, policies, laws and institutions affecting • Society the way the company is directed, administered • Environment and/or controlled. Global Sustain stakeholders among others include its partners, employees, members, suppliers, customers, banks, 3. Corporate Governance regulators, public authorities, and the and Compliance community at large. At Global Sustain, we recognise the importance of good corporate governance. Sound corporate We strive for excellence in our products governance and transparency practices are and services and in the way we do business fundamental to achieving our mission of throughout all our operations and this process delivering innovative sustainability solutions commences with our partners, the management to our members, clients and stakeholders. team, all our employees as well as our associates. Global Sustain has four business units, reflecting major areas of responsibility: We try hard to achieve the highest standards Business Development, Stakeholders and we promote this rigorously throughout Relationship, Marketing and Communications the company. and Information Technology. This applies equally to transparency in reporting In addition, the Executive Office includes two and meeting the expectations of stakeholders other units providing specialised services: our regardless of whether this relates to accounting Legal Department and Financial Department. procedures, our product and services standards, The Legal Department is accountable to the ethics in all our dealings with members, clients, Managing Partner for the provision of legal co-workers and the public, or behaving in a safe advice and the Financial Department is and environmentally responsible manner. accountable to the Managing Partner for financial and accounting, human resources Solid principles of corporate governance are and administrative matters. key to maintaining the trust of stakeholders. Global Sustain has adopted corporate governance practices to promote and safeguard the effective functioning and operation of the company. Partners Assembly This reflects the top management’s strong Managing Partner commitment to sound corporate governance and encourages effective policy and decision making across the company as well as Financial Legal appropriate monitoring of both compliance Department Department and performance. These practices are intended to assist top management in the exercise of its governance responsibilities and serve as a flexible framework within which the top Business Stakeholder Marketing & IT management may conduct its business. Development Relations Communications Department These corporate governance practices are not intended to change or interpret any law or regulation and are subject to modification by the top management. Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 14 Corporate Governance Practices: 4. United Nations Global Compact Signatory 1. Occupational Safety and Health The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy Occupational safety and health can be important initiative for businesses that are committed for moral, legal, and financial reasons. Global to aligning their operations and strategies Sustain has a duty to ensure that employees with ten universally accepted principles in and any other person who may be affected the areas of human rights, labour, environment by the company undertakings remain safe and anti-corruption. Global Sustain is a signatory at all times. Global Sustain has in place a to the ten principles and has adopted the comprehensive occupational safety and health transparency and accountability policy known policy known and efficiently communicated as the Communication on Progress (COP), to all staff and associates. as a demonstration of its commitment to the UN Global Compact and its principles. Global 2. Code of Conduct Sustain is also a member of the UN Global Global Sustain commits to encouraging a safe, Compact Networks in Greece and Belgium and its supportive and productive work environment. Managing Partner is a Member of the Secretariat This can only happen when everyone cooperates of the Global Compact Network Hellas. and agrees to suitable standards of professional conduct. The standards endorsed in the Code 4. Stakeholder Engagement of Conduct support Global Sustain’s values For our company, sustainability does not of excellent service, integrity, accountability, constitute an individual activity. On the contrary, equality, collaboration and learning that we treat sustainability as an integral and are expected of all staff and associates. important part of our business strategy, operations and values. As a result, we try 3. Environmental Policy to build an open and honest dialogue with Global Sustain is committed to operating our stakeholders and we are continually trying as a 100% carbon neutral company through to advance the information we share with them. a detailed environmental policy. We measure, manage and offset all carbon emissions on an This is why we have developed a Code of annual basis. Furthermore, Global Sustain has Conduct which is communicated to all our in place a comprehensive recycling policy employees and clearly states the principles followed by all staff, associates and the on which our relationship with our stakeholders respective suppliers. is based on. Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 15 Stakeholder Mapping Primary Stakeholders Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 16 Secondary Stakeholders Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 17 E. Marketplace Global Sustain systematically conducts surveys 1. Financial Contribution focused on our stakeholders’ opinions and At Global Sustain, we use our values to build expectations. Stakeholder engagement is more financial success, environmental excellence, than just holding a public hearing or seeking and social responsibility in partnership with public comment on something new launched. all stakeholders, despite the challenging Effective stakeholder engagement provides economic environment. a method for identifying public concerns and values, developing consensus among affected We develop our business and at the same time parties, and producing efficient and effective offer benefits to our shareholders, employees, solutions through an open, inclusive process. customers, suppliers, and the communities in which we operate. Some of the latest survey findings: • 65.22% of respondents deem the In our first Sustainability Report, we present communication with company’s financial data to inform our stakeholders and executives excellent. those interested about the 2012 and 2011 • 56.52% of respondents consider that Global fiscal years. Sustain fulfill their expectations at the highest possible level. Global Sustain increased its turnover by 1.50%, • 86.96% consider that Global Sustain enjoys from EUR 187,640.70 in 2011, to EUR 190,464.17 a good level of credibility and effectiveness. in 2012. EBITDA was EUR 25.126,08 in 2012, • 43.48% of respondents claim that the 45.7% lower compared to 2011, mainly due to company/organisation they work for is highly the increased social contributions charges for our committed to sustainability. personnel. In the same year, EBIT decreased to EUR 24.088,88 and the total amount invested by Global Sustain was EUR 1,037.46, hence 5. Memberships / Partnerships there is zero debt. Global Sustain is: • An UN Global Compact signatory and founding member of the Global Compact Network Financial sustainability *(in EUR 2012 2011 Hellas since 2008 and a member of Global Compact Network Belgium Turnover 190,464.17 187,640.70 • A member of the Hellenic Network for EBITDA 25.126,08 54.918,11 Corporate Social Responsibility. EBIT 24.088,88 48,148.68 • A member of the American-Hellenic Chamber Investments 1,037.46 6,769.51 of Commerce. Debt 0,00 0,00 • A member of the Greek Association of Environmental Protection Companies. • A member and partner of CSRwire, Inc., U.S.A., *All numbers in EUR The Corporate Social Responsibility Newswire. • A Data Partner for the Global Reporting Initiative and GRI Organisational Stakeholder Our Target for 2013 (OS). We aim to continue improving our financial • An affiliate member of ABIS Academy results and grow our business responsibly of Business in Society, and finally by increasing corporate sales at least by 30%, • Collaborates with numerous other leading and raise EBITDA to 20% by expanding organisations, including Ethical Performance, in global markets and launching new and Ethical Corporation, U.K. innovative services. Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 18 2. Social Contribution 3. Responsible Operation Global Sustain is committed to acting with The values and success of Global Sustain are closely integrity and transparency in all tax matters tied to the question of whether the environmental, as part of our corporate accountability. social and corporate governance considerations We aim to provide transparent and accessible are integrated into its corporate management communication and enable others to be familiar and operations. In 2012, we offered innovative with our tax obligations. on-line and off-line services to 365 members and clients from the corporate, financial, public, We strongly believe that our obligation is to pay third and academic sectors; 46 of them were the amount of tax legally due and to comply with corporate members, 27 were “NGO and Society all applicable rules and regulations in the Greek Premium” members and 292 were “NGO Free” market where we operate. members of Global Sustain’s Network. In 2012, our company paid EUR 2,763.00 for Global Sustain’s policies, practices, and procedures income taxes, EUR 27,869.23 for Value Added offer equal employment opportunities to its Tax and EUR 3,669.89 for duties, fees and employees. In 2012, the gender employment ratio commissions. Social security contributions was 60% for males and 40% for females and the amounted to EUR 22,026.11, 49.62% higher average age of the company’s personnel was 33 compared to 2011. years. In the reference year, Global Sustain received zero administrative or other fines and penalties. A critical component of Global Sustain’s vision is to be a rewarding place to work and develop *Including Corporate, NGO & Society Premium, for its employees. Due to this philosophy, NGO Free members. the company paid EUR 49.627,34 in salaries, **Office operation. compensation and other benefits, in 2012, that is 50% higher compared to 2011. Our Target for 2013 We will continue to offer innovative on-line and Our Target for 2013 off-line services to all our members as well as equal We will continue to act with integrity and opportunities to our employees. Moreover we will transparency in tax matters according state law put in place a special mechanism in order to and we will continue providing an attractive and manage possible member complaints. remunerating place to work. * *All numbers in EUR Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 20 4. Giving to and Supporting Charities In 2012, Global Sustain financed two NGO projects. Since its establishment in 2006, the company has been donating part of its profits to a number of not-for-profit projects carried out by Global Sustain’s NGO members, with the aim of supporting specific social, environmental or other needs in Greece’s citizen sector. Global Sustain stays committed to its annual NGO project funding policy and according to the latest stakeholder survey findings 43.48% of respondents do not wish any change of this programme. In the reference year, Global Sustain has participated in tree-planting efforts and gatherings, in close collaboration with local organisations. Volunteering work counts for 3 man days, slightly higher than the previous year. Our Target for 2013 We will stay committed to our annual NGO funding policy and we will increase our volunteering work. 5. Responsible Procurement the way for a more structured image of Global Global Sustain views its corporate and NGO Sustain and awareness within the business partners as pro-active ambassadors who are community, as well as the media regarding passionate about its mission. We strongly believe its mission. in encouraging synergies and facilitating strategic partnerships among Global Sustain’s members For 2012, Global Sustain issued press releases and our key stakeholders. regarding its own green initiatives (CO2 Finally, we continuously encourage our partners neutralisation of the two portals, the offices and to be pro-active corporate and individual citizens. the Yearbook) and actions (NGO funding) and the company’s ambassadors wrote articles for daily Moreover, in the event of a new collaboration press and specialised magazines. Moreover, through and membership we sign detailed contracts daily postings and its bilingual newsletter, it raised according to state law that safeguard our awareness on its members’ sustainability efforts. clients and suppliers, as well as Global Sustain. The company acted as a communication sponsor (20 local and 13 international) and organised Our Target for 2013 (3 local and 1 international) conferences with Global Sustain will ask all its suppliers to provide special focus on sustainability and shared important the firm with details as to which products information with its network through its service and / or services are sourced from countries, “Conference Report Feedback”. manufacturers and/or suppliers that have a weak or dubious human rights record. For the first time, voting for the annual funding Based on the data gathered, Global Sustain will of NGO programmes was held through examine the possibility of making any changes in Global Sustain’s official page in Facebook the way it sources products and services from its (www.facebook.com/GlobalSustainGR), suppliers, hoping to make its own suppliers more with 7,347 votes. aware of this important matter. Furthermore, Global Sustain will encourage its suppliers to During 2012, there were no incidents of nonbecome signatories to the United Nations Global compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Compact thus contributing to a more responsible concerning marketing communications, advertising, supply chain. promotion and sponsorship. Our Target for 2013 6. Public Awareness We will continue our efforts to raise awareness Last year, Global Sustain invested in marketing regarding Global Sustain’s mission and the value and advertising and encouraged strategic of sustainability, mostly by creating synergies with partnerships with media and advertising high-profile international organisations, launching companies. Collaborations with publishing new services and enhancing our presence in the groups and advertising agencies paved media. Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 21 27 guest au thors 14 CEOs 3 continen ts 16 countries On July 5 le aders take EuroCharity is their place Yearbook on pleased to announce Leadership th for Sustaina e launch of the 5th Eu ! Thursday, July 5, 2012 bility. roCharity 18:00-21:0 0 National Lib 32, Panepisti rary of Gree miou Street ce, Main Re , Athens ading Room *Free entran ce, RSVP req uired Tel.: +30 210 Grand Suppor ter E-mail: info 927 1110-29 @eurocharity .org Supporter Wine Sponso r Communicatio n Sponsors Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 22 7. Client Service Satisfaction Note: Multiple answers were given by participants. At Global Sustain, we strongly believe that our members are the best ambassadors of our work and mission. For this reason, we daily try to keep them satisfied and offer them high quality services. Among the procedures we have put in place in order to meet the needs of our customers is the installation and use of the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) software. The system helps Global Sustain to manage business processes, improve its corporate resource and asset utilisation for greater customer satisfaction. Once per year, we issue a detailed evaluation report for every Corporate and NGO / Society 86.96% consider that Global Sustain enjoys a good level of credibility and effectiveness. Premium member regarding our actions and services that we offered during the year, so in this way we can monitor our professional efficiency. Moreover, we pursue regular in vivo meetings with our members in a more customised way in order to build strong relationships of mutual respect. According to latest stakeholder survey Satisfaction regarding: conducted by Global Sustain: 56.52% of respondents think that the company has high 60.87%* of respondents are quite satisfied as regards utility, while 21.74% think that Global Sustain’s utility is great. the company’s role as an information provider on CSR and sustainability issues. 86.96% of respondents believe that communication services 82.61%* are satisfied with Global Sustain’s communication are the most important benefit they enjoy while being services (websites, newsletter, conferences, and social media). members of the network. Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 23 83.33%* of respondents express satisfaction with regard to Regarding its international publication, the Yearbook, 88.89%* the Sustainability Forum, the training and networking event of the respondents seem to be quite satisfied. that Global Sustain launched in 2012. Note: Only the answers of those concerned were Note: Only the answers of those who are familiar taken into account. with the publication, were taken into account. 56.52%* of respondents are quite satisfied with networking 69.56%* of respondents are satisfied with the Global opportunities that M2M services offer via the website and via Sustain’s networking services that bring together the regular meetings. all members and encourage the creation of synergies. We note that during the past year, Global Sustain received zero complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. * These percentages are referred to total answers given and rated as high and great. Our Target for 2013 We will grow our members’ base as well as the portfolio of our services through regular surveys and personal meetings; Global Sustain will be a 360o partner for sustainability that covers all needs for its members and clients. Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 24 F. Human Resources ources Human resources constitute the most dynamic element for Global Sustain’s growth, and this is why the firm systematically invests in finding, selecting, evaluating, retaining and developing its human capital. Global Sustain’s policies, practices, and procedures offer equal employment opportunities to all of its employees. In 2012, the gender employment ratio was 60% for males and 40% for females and the average age of company’s personnel was 33 years. In 2012, Global Sustain had no administrative or other fines and penalties. Global Sustain aims at ensuring that its human resources department functions in conformity with the values and principles of the Code of Conduct, so that all staff actions are in line with the relevant principles of corporate conduct: • Legality • The customer comes first • Quality of staff • Respect for the environment 1. Workforce A key pillar of our company’s operations is the awareness that all employees must be treated with respect and a constructive staff relationship must be maintained. Worth mentioning is the fact that despite the challenging economic environment and in times where other companies minimise costs and their workforce, Global Sustain increased the number of employees from 4 in 2011 to 5 in 2012. Our Target for 2013 Keeping existing personnel and the recruitment of new, so as to secure the smooth operation of the company and the provision of new innovative services to our members and clients. 2. Fair Employment Our company respects the internationally recognised principles for human rights and fair employment as defined within the UN International Declaration of Human Rights and within the ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Global Sustain reiterates its commitment to the effective abolition of child labour. Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 25 The firm neither employs any children nor is 3. Health and Safety involved in child labour, and is aware – to the Having as a priority to have a safe workplace best of its knowledge – of countries, regions, for our employees, we focus on ensuring sectors and economic activities where there is a suitable work conditions and follow health and greater likelihood of child labour. Global Sustain safety rules so as to avoid potential occupational adheres to the minimum age provisions of hazards and protect our employees. The health local national labour laws and regulations, while and safety of our employees constitute a first the company fully recognises that child labour priority duty for management and we always deprives children of their childhood in order try to fully respect the requirements laid down to assist in the effective abolition of child labour, by legislation. Global Sustain has in place Global Sustain is highly conscious of its a comprehensive occupational safety and health procurement decisions and where the products policy known and efficiently communicated it purchases or services it uses are produced or to all staff and associates so that each and delivered. everyone can contribute to the preservation and improvement of health and safety Global Sustain also reiterates its commitment conditions at work. to the elimination of – and the fact that the company has not been involved in – any forms of forced and/or compulsory labour since the firm’s establishment. Number Global Sustain has ensured that all of accidents / Occupational Lost days injuries diseases >3 its ambassadors have a full understanding of what forced labour is. It should be noted that Women 0 0 0 the firm does not rely on labour providers, such as recruitment agencies and executive search Men 0 0 0 firms, for recruitment, and therefore the need to ensure that no forced labour is supplied has Total number not arisen to date. Fatal Regular of absence accidents Leave from work Finally, part of the firm’s values (and therefore corporate DNA) is not to use, be complicit in, Women 0 43 43 or benefit from forced labour. Men 0 44 44 Finally, Global Sustain respects that its ambassadors may freely and voluntarily establish and join organisations of their own choice for upholding the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. It should be noted that none of Global Sustain’s ambassadors is currently a member of any trade union. Our Target for 2013 Our Target for 2013 We will keep promoting respect, well-being Focusing firmly on creating a culture of Health and work-life balance and we will keep fostering and Safety at work, we aim at conducting a daily diversity in order to preserve our attractiveness training programme on Health and Safety issues, as an employer and to encourage new talent promoting in this way the importance of health to surface. and safety in the workplace. Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 26 4. Employee Development i. Training Global Sustain considers professional skills, expertise and continuing staff training as a key factor for growth, and for sustaining its competitive advantage. Within the frame of our employees’ development we have designed and implemented an extensive training programme, addressing issues related to CSR, sustainability, corporate governance, business ethics, energy efficiency, etc. Indicatively, our employees participated in more than 30 events, conferences and training workshops during the last year. Also, our employees had the opportunity to attend the Sustainability Forum (a full day event) co-organised by Global Sustain and AIT, where internationally-acclaimed speakers and experts shared their hands-on expertise and experience through parallel, expert workshops that focused on: Core principles of sustainability, Green smart cities / Environment, Communicating sustainability, Sustainable facilities and infrastructure systems, Sustainability reporting assurance, etc. Finally, it was the first time that all employees were trained by a Certified Executive Coach who excels in strengthening employees’ competencies, as well as in unlocking their potential to excel in their line of work and lead others efficiently to ensure organisational success. ii. Appraisal system Our appraisal development system is crucial for the development of our employees. Through this system, we identify strengths and improvements areas, while we always record actions that can facilitate employees’ professional advancement. Additionally, our employees’ performance is rewarded every 3 months, as the appraisal system is linked to the bonus scheme. Our Target for 2013 Training and the continuous education of the employees is a source of employee satisfaction while in the meantime; it helps the company retain its competitive edge. That’s why we will continue enhancing our staff’s employability through training and by improving mobility and flexibility. Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 27 5. Internal communication • are dedicated to becoming a 100% climate Regular internal communication aims to keep neutral and zero-waste company and respect staff informed about developments in the the natural environment in which we do business. company and to gather staff opinions and This commitment referred to both our concerns regarding every day issues. It also operations (e.g., office, logistics, staff aims to enhance corporate culture and the movements) and products/services (e.g., Web implementation of strategy, the work climate portals, exhibitions, events, Yearbooks). In view and the overall performance of the company. of this commitment, Global Sustain neutralised its For this reason, we have established a dialogue two popular portals and received the CO2 Neutral with our employees in a systematic way, Seal, a certification providing an integrated GHG via internal communication processes and Management approach. Then the Yearbooks, collective actions, such as: the events, and our office followed and from now on, we operate as a 100% climate neutral and • Weekly internal meetings zero-waste company. • Active participation in voluntary activities • Conducting an employee satisfaction survey Our Target for 2013 We will continue to contribute to the local Our Target for 2013 economy through our capacity to create business We will keep promoting change while and jobs, for example by using local suppliers. We maintaining effective dialogue with our will also encourage our employees to participate employees. Furthermore, we will conduct in development projects by providing human, an employee satisfaction survey. logistical and financial support. 2. Giving back to society Since its establishment in 2006, Global Sustain has been committed to contributing to the community at large. Therefore, every year it G. Society supports a variety of social and environmental projects. At the end of each fiscal year, Global Sustain donates an important percentage of its pre-tax profits to one or two non-profit projects carried out by Non-Governmental Organisations, with 1. Social services the aim of helping fund specific social, Our values define who we are and guide environmental or other needs in the citizen the way we think, act and do business. sector. At Global Sustain, we: This policy is part of the company’s values and • believe that making the world a better place has been clearly stated in Global Sustain’s starts -first and foremost -from ourselves, founding charter and is particularly important our ambassadors and our stakeholders, and we in view of today’s major social, environmental, are therefore active citizens in our personal and governance and other pressing challenges. professional lives. We encourage our members to not just be good, but also pro-active corporate and individual citizens; • strongly believe that corporate responsibility, responsible investing and the green economy should be the central focus of all companies and investors, regardless of their size, the industry sector or the location in which they operate; and this is what we communicate through our websites, yearbooks and events we participate in; Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 28 Funding beneficiaries since 2006 201 2010 2006 2012 Funding in 2012 2 Project: “AROGI guest house for orphaned 1 Project: “We join forces for 60 children and poor children with special needs in Menidi, in danger. United we will make it!” Athens” NGO: The Smile of the Child NGO: AROGI Charity union for social care issues 2 Project: “Sheltered housing” NGO: Association of Parents & Guardians Funding in 2009 People with Special Needs in the prefecture 1 Project: “Acquirement of new apartments of Fthiotida so as to expand its activities” NGO: Floga Greek Parents Association Funding in 2011 of Children with Cancer 1 Project: “Family strengthening and counseling centre of Athens” NGO: SOS Children’s Villages Greece 2 Project: “Elderly adoption programme” NGO: Lifeline Hellas Non-profit, charitable 2 Project: Action for psychosocial support organisation for Telecare and Help at Home for people with mental health problems due to the effects of the crisis 3 Project: “The extraverbal communication NGO: S.O.P.S.I. Patras Association of children with cerebral palsy” for the Mental Health of Patras NGO: The Hadzipaterion Rehabilitation Centre for Children with Cerebral Palsy (R.C.C.C.P.) Funding in 2010 programme of the Social Work Foundation 1 Project: “Psychosocial support of cancer (S.W.F.) patients and their environment” NGO: Society of volunteers against cancer AgaliaZO Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 29 1 2007 2009 Funding in 2008 1 Project: “Revealing the unknown world of Monk Seals in Cyclades” 2008 2013 NGO: MOm/Hellenic Society for the Study and Protection of the Monk Seal 2 Project: “Operation of playground in the refugees’ reception center” NGO: Social Solidarity Funding in 2007 1 Project: “Funding of two polyclinics, one based in central Athens and the other, in Thessaloniki” NGO: Médecins du Monde-Greece 2 Project: “The Aegean Seed Bank” NGO: Archipelagos, Institute of Marine Conservation Funding in 2006 Our Target for 2013 At the end of 2006, Global Sustain donated 25% After the latest survey we conducted to of its annual membership fees to “The Smile our stakeholders, Global Sustain confirmed of the Child”, a voluntary children’s association the importance of annual funding to specific committed to putting a smile on the face of each non-profit projects submitted by NGO abused, lost, abducted, abandoned or troubled members and aims to continue it. child in Greece. Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 30 3. Volunteering Since its establishment, Global Sustain and Furthermore, during the previous year, Global its ambassadors pro-actively support and Sustain’s ambassadors became members of the often participate in local and national events WIND Running Team and participated in the 30th and campaigns that focus on raising awareness Athens Classic Marathon. on a number of pressing and important issues related to CSR, philanthropy, climate change, With their participation contributed to WIND’s environmental protection, sustainability, the initiative for social solidarity in order to support citizen sector, etc. the work of ELEPAP, since, for every participant, WIND offered EUR 10 to ELEPAP children. In the Global Sustain has participated in tree-planting framework of the 30th Athens Classic Marathon, efforts and gatherings, in close collaboration the participation of 26,000 runners, from Greece with local organisations. These educational and and abroad, led to collecting EUR 50,000 for well-publicised tree-planting activities -often ELEPAP children. attended by children with their parents, scouts, voluntary groups, local NGOs, Mayors, journalists Our Target for 2013 and local residentshave been also published We aim to create an annual employee volunteer on the Global Sustain’s portal. In many instances, programme so as to motivate our employees to the voluntary tree-planting activities went hand choose the preferred programme utilising their in hand with cleaning up garbage that was own skills. scattered or, worse, found inside the soil, and it ranged rom plastic and car tyres to glass and metal objects. Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 31 Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 32 H. Environment 1. Strategy and Management 2. Measures and Initiatives for Reducing As a responsible corporate entity, Global Sustain our Environmental Impact is committed to protecting the environment in compliance with the environmental laws and the i. Raw Materials and Waste Management practices of the communities where it operates. As a service company, Global Sustain does not engage in any physical production process. i. Environmental Policy We estimate that we generated approximately Our commitment is summarised in the following 720 kilos of waste in our offices in 2012. principles: Our Target for 2013 • application of good environmental practices; We are supporting comprehensive recycling • consideration of the environmental impact programmes for our office, to reduce waste within the processes of development and at least by 10%, in 2013. engineering of our services; • prevention of pollution by responsible In 2012, Global Sustain increased the percentage management of materials, reduction of reusable “waste” produced by its headquarters. of emissions and waste and efficient use Our focus is to reduce 5% the energy intensity in of energy and natural resources; our office that is utilised through our work and • promotion of the idea of environmental to reduce the resources we use to mitigate the responsibility among our employees; environmental impact of our services. In 2012, they are trained in managing their environmental we calculated our product carbon footprint responsibilities, dealing with day-to-day actions for the first time. to help in preserving a healthy environment and reacting to environmental emergencies; 3. Measuring and Reporting • monitoring of our environmental performance and setting measurable objectives and targets our Environmental Impact for achieving sustainable improvement; • communicating with our employees and local i. Recycling communities regarding our environmental In the following year, our target is to lower commitment and performance; and printing paper consumption. We reduced the • regular audits of our procedures to ensure number of pages printed per employee. conformance to our policy. To achieve this result, we used double-sided printing. Furthermore, we educated and While pursuing our activities, we endeavour encouraged our employees to reduce paper use to minimise any adverse impact on air, water and increase paper recycling. and land by means of pollution prevention and energy and water conservation. By doing We started setting goals and tracking the use of so, we achieve cost savings, an increased recycled materials that we use, such as printing operational efficiency, improved quality paper. Our main objective is to reduce the amount of services and ultimately, a safe environment of paper consumption overall within the company for the community as a whole and a healthy by continuing to review our use of paper for workplace for our employees. marketing material, and other supplies. Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 33 In 2012, Global Sustain used 100% recycled Seal, a certification providing an integrated GHG content paper; we have the same target for Management approach. 2013. In the same year, we used FSC certified paper for the production of the “Yearbook By implementing this integrated approach, the 2011/12” that means the printing process and CO2 Neutral Seal certifies that the appropriate paper used for producing this publication accounting procedure was used and ensures conforms to FSC standards. FSC develops the accuracy, consistency and transparency in the policy and standards to support responsible offset procedure. Global Sustain’s portal forest management world-wide. These include www.globalsustain.org is the first of its kind in guidelines for certification, accreditation, Greece to be certified as being a “Carbon Neutral trademark use and governance, among other Web site”. activities related to the FSC system. This innovative solution not only helps certify Our Target for 2013 the climate neutrality of Global Sustain’s portal, In 2013, Global Sustain will use 100% recycled but is also a step forward for our social venture paper. towards becoming a climate neutral and zero-waste company. ii. Greenhouse Gases and other Gases Emissions We follow a two-sided approach to reduce our Our Target for 2013 GHG emissions. On the one hand, we set new In 2013, Global Sustain aims to reduce technologies and processes in place that help its GHG emissions by 5%. reduce our carbon footprint. On the other hand, we conduct awareness campaigns to educate and encourage our employees to protect natural resources by lowering the use of paper and energy. As part of its values, Global Sustain is a 100% climate neutral and zero-waste company. This vision refers to both its operations (e.g. office, logistics, staff movements) and its products / services (e.g. Web portals, exhibitions, events, the Yearbooks). In view of this commitment, Global Sustain has neutralised its popular portal at www.globalsustain.org and its offices. The company measured, managed and offset 60 tons of CO2 from September 2011 to October 2012, operating as a 100% carbon neutral company and received the CO2 Neutral Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 34 CO2 Neutral Seal The CO2 Neutral Seal is an innovative range of fully-transparent, high-quality and reliable carbon management services, for GHG emissions created from corporate or private IT usage, events and business operations. The certificates that are being issued are generated based on holistic approaches, while the offsetting process is supported by the utilisation of renewable energy projects from which the offsetting is done, along with proof of the retirement that can be traced and verified. Based on advanced open-source tracking and calculation methodology, the carbon footprint of the Web portal has been measured by Global Sustain’s corporate member Green Evolution S.A. More specifically, through traffic data from Google Analytics and advanced website calculations, Green Evolution has measured the carbon footprint of the computers visiting the portal, the servers hosting the portal, and the networks that connect. At the end of each month, CO2 Neutral Seal automatically neutralises the carbon emissions with high-quality carbon credits. These emissions are continuously being fully offset through high-quality carbon credits generated by the Hsikou Hydro Power project in Tainan, South-West Taiwan. The impact achieved by this solution includes: • Reducing GHG emissions / global warming mitigation. • Increasing awareness among portal visitors on climate neutrality and offset schemes to become carbon neutral. • Contributing to sustainable investment in a suburban region, which would not have happened in the absence of project activity. In this case: a small hydro project in Taiwan, a small island. The project is a run-of-river reservoir hydropower plant. The hydro power station was built into an existing irrigation system that belongs to a local farming cooperative. Hydropower is Taiwan’s key to a green future. One that will be free of coal and nuclear energy. Clean energy is vital in Taiwan while, overall, energy consumption is compatible with that in Western Europe. • Clean electricity supply to the equivalent of 12,789 households per annum. • Generating a cost-effective tool for achieving Global Sustain’s climate, environmental and energy efficiency targets. Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 35 iii. Energy and Water Consumption United Nations Global Compact Table In 2012, Global Sustain consumed about 5,890 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global kWh in direct energy. Furthermore, we estimate Compact and how they relate to Global Sustain’s that we used approximately 28 m3 of water in communication on progress 2012. As a service company, our operations are not water-intensive. Due to the limited impact, we do not measure water discharge at this stage. Human rights Our Target for 2013 While our operations are not energy and Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the water-intensive, we will continue to use protection of internationally proclaimed electricity and water as efficiently as possible. human rights Commitment: Report section: F2 iv. Transportation The key sources of our environmental impact Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not through transportation are employee complicit in human rights abuses Commitment: Report section: F2, E3 commuting and business trips. Logistics, such as mail and software downloads, Labour only have a minor impact. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Our Target for 2013 of the right to collective bargaining Our efforts to reduce indirect energy Commitment: Report section: F2 consumption will focus on business-related travel and employee commuting. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory v. Biodiversity labour Global Sustain does not have any buildings Commitment: Report section: F in protected areas or areas of high biodiversity Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective value outside protected area. Nevertheless, abolition of child labour we organise activities to protect biodiversity Commitment: Report section: F, E3 through our stakeholders. We support various community groups and environmental Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination organisations to preserve, restore, and enhance of discrimination in respect of employment existing habitats. Global Sustain has actively and occupation been engaged in encouraging an interactive Commitment: Report section: E3 dialogue among key stakeholders on important issues such as biodiversity, energy security, Environment climate change, Carbon Capture and Storage Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support (CCS), environmental protection and our energy a precautionary approach to future between now and the year 2050. environmental challenges Commitment: Report section: H vi. Design and Development of Services that contribute to Climate Change Mitigation Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives Our environmental policy represents our to promote greater environmental Management’s commitment to operate with responsibility respect to the environment and the social Commitment: Report section: H partners. Company policy seeks to achieve Principle 9: Businesses should encourage much more than an Environmental Management the development and diffusion System has to offer. of environmentally-friendly technologies Commitment: Report section: H It seeks to promote environmental awareness and responsibility, both among our top Anti-corruption management as well as among all employees, Principle 10: Business should work against corruption without exception, and it demands that they in all its forms, including extortion comply with current legislation, and, to where and bribery possible, to go one step further. Commitment: Report section: E3, E5 Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 38 Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 44 Independent assurance statement To the Management of Global Sustain L.P. Accuracy • Whether the text included in section The “Sustainability Report 2012” (“the Report”) “Marketplace” accurately reflect Global of Global Sustain L.P. (“Global Sustain”) Sustain’s sustainability performance has been prepared by the management of Global during 2012. Sustain which is responsible for the collection • Whether quantitative data included in section and presentation of the information contained “Marketplace” have been accurately collated, therein. Our responsibility is limited in at corporate level, and accurately transposed carrying out a limited assurance engagement to the Report. on the quantitative data and the text included in section “Marketplace” of the Report (“the In order to form our conclusions we undertook engagement”). (but were not limited to) the following activities: Our responsibility in performing our assurance 1. Interviewed responsible personnel for engagement is solely to the management of managing, collating and reviewing quantitative Global Sustain and in accordance with the terms data in section “Marketplace” for internal and of reference agreed between us. We neither third party reporting purposes. accept nor we assume any responsibility and for any other purpose to any other person or 2. Reviewed relevant documentation, systems organization. Any reliance any third party may and reporting processes at corporate level, place on the Report is entirely at its own risk. including data collation tools. What we did to form our conclusions 3. Reviewed section “Marketplace” for the The assurance engagement has been planned appropriate presentation of the quantitative and performed in accordance with the data, activity which included the discussion of International Standard on Assurance limitations and assumptions relating to the way Engagements 3000 “Assurance Engagements these data are presented. Other Than Audits or Review of Historical Financial Information” (hereinafter “ISAE 3000”). 4. Reviewed information or explanations about The quantitative data and text included in Management’s statements and assertions section “Marketplace” have been evaluated included in section “Marketplace” of the Report. against completeness and accuracy, based on criteria agreed with the management of Global Level of assurance Sustain as follows: The evidence gathering procedures were designed to obtain a limited level of assurance Completeness (as set out in ISAE 3000) on which we formed our • Whether all material reporting units, as defined conclusions. The extent of these evidence in the boundaries and time period stated in gathering procedures is less than those designed the Report, are included in the quantitative to obtain a reasonable level of assurance and data presented in section “Marketplace”. therefore a lower level of assurance is provided. Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 45 Limitations of review in the collation of the quantitative data Our review did not include testing the at corporate level, included in section Information Technology systems used or upon “Marketplace” or the transposition of these which the collection and aggregation of data data to the Report that would materially affect was based by the company. the way they are presented. Our conclusions Our Independence Based on our review and according to the terms This is the first year that Ernst & Young (Hellas) of reference and the limitations of our work, Certified Auditors Accountants S.A. provided we report the following conclusions on the independent assurance services in relation quantitative data and text included in section to Global Sustain’s Sustainability Report. ”Marketplace” of the Report. We have not provided any other services relating Our conclusions are based on the appropriate to the preparation of Global Sustain’s Report. application of the selected criteria and should be read in conjunction with section “What we did We conducted our engagement in compliance to form our conclusions” above. with the requirements of the IFAC Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, which requires, How plausible is the text included in section among other requirements that the members “Marketplace” of the Report? of the assurance team as well as the assurance firm are independent of the assurance client, • We have reviewed information and including not being involved in writing the explanations on selected claims of the Sustainability Report. management, as presented in section “Marketplace” of the Report, and we are EY has systems and processes in place to not aware of any misstatements in the monitor compliance with the Code and to assertions made. prevent conflicts regarding independence. The firm and all professional personnel How complete and accurate are the quantitative involved in this engagement have met data included in section “Marketplace”? these independence requirements. • Nothing has come to our attention that The assurance team causes us to believe that any one of the units, The team of professionals which participated according to boundary setting and time period in the engagement are members of and are stated in the Report, is not included into supported by the Global Network of Climate the quantitative data found in section Change and Sustainability Services of EY, which “Marketplace”. undertakes similar engagements in Greece and at a Global level. • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that errors or inaccuracies exist Athens, 30 September 2013 For Ernst & Young (Hellas) Certified Auditors Accountants S.A. Vassilios Kaminaris Certified Auditor Accountant S.O.E.L. No. 20411 Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 46 Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 47 Global Sustain has covered all necessary disclosures required for level C+ of GRI-G3.1 Guidelines. Abbreviations AIT Athens Information Technology CCS Carbon Capture and Storage CO2 Carbon Dioxide COP Communication on Progress CSR Corporate Social Responsibility EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ERP Enterprise Resource Planning ΕΥ Εrnst & Young FSC Forest Stewardship Council GCLN Global Compact Local Network GHG Greenhouse Gas GRI Global Reporting Initiative NGO Non-governmental Organisation OS Organisational Stakeholeder SRI Sustainable & Responsible Investing UN United Nations Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 48 Feedback Form: We would be grateful if you could help us improve our first Sustainability Report by completing the form below: Global Sustain 2012 Sustainability Report 49 Are there any comments or suggestions that would you like to make on the report? Personal Details Full Name: ................................................................. Company/Organisation:............................................ Tel.: ............................................................................ E-mail address: .......................................................... Please return this form by post to: Global Sustain 2, K. Palama Street & 161, Vouliagmenis Avenue GR-172 37, Dafni, Athens, Greece Attn: Ms. Regina Sotra, Stakeholder Relations Manager Or send via E-mail to: info@globalsustain.org Or Fax to: (+30) 210 927 1119 All the compiled data will be used only for the improvement of our Sustainability Report and current initiatives. All personal data will be protected as defined by law. www.globalsustain.org
