REDEFINING fur Saga Furs Oyj Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 CONTENTS 4 SAGA FURS IN BRIEF 30 4. Investors 4 Personnel 30 5. Politicians, other opinion makers and the media 4 Main objectives of the company 30 Stakeholder work 31 Stakeholder engagement: 6 MANAGING DIRECTOR’S REVIEW description of management systems 8 SAGA FURS AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 33 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 8 1. The company’s impact on sustainable development 33 The company’s financial profitability 8 2. Probing future trends 33 Indirect impacts of financial responsiblity 33 The impact of pelt sales on rural economies 11 CORPORATE SOCIAL 34 The influence of auctions on RESPONSIBILITY REPORTING the capital city area’s economy 11 SAGA FURS’ SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES 35 The fur industry’s and the company’s tax footprint 12 REPORTING SYSTEM 36 CASE: Nykarleby lives off fur 13 Material aspects of responsibility 37 CASE: Saga Furs awarded with the Vantaa-medal. 17 Other memberships and partnerships 39 Animal welfare 19 SAGA FURS’ VALUE CHAIN 40 CASE: Passionate about animals 23 SAGA FURS’ SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES 43 Environment from THE point of view of STAKEHOLDERs 44 CASE: The carbon footprint of a mink pelt 23 Stakeholders corresponds to a Finn’s carbon footprint for one day 23 Assessment of the materiality of Saga Furs’ sustainability 45 CASE: Green Dressing 23 1. Financial profitability – a new, natural dressing method 23 2. Animal welfare 24 3. Traceability 47 Fur farm certification 24 4. Certified products 24 5. Good human resources management 49 Good management methods 24 6. Greenhouse gases and emissions into soil and managing diversity 25 7. Open communication 50 Employee benefits 25 8. Saga® trademarks 25 9. Product development 53 Product liability 25 10. Value chain management 55 CASE: Seminars targeted at fashion houses and department stores goes more than skin-deep 28 STAKEHOLDER ACTIVITIES 56 GRI G4 comparison chart 28 1. Fur breeders 28 2. Auction customers and their customers Vantaa COPENHAGEN MILAN NEW YORK 29 3. Employees 3 SAGA FURS IN BRIEF Personnel by gender Men Women Saga Furs, regular in Finland: 63 48 Group executive team: 5 2 Saga Furs, fixed-term: 118 90 Ab Finnish Fur Center Oy, regular: 2 5 Subsidiaries Furfix Oy, regular: 4 1 Representation Furfix Oy, fixed-term: 53 48 Saga Furs, rest of the world: 14 17 Group total: 421 345 Workforce seasonal variation (Saga Furs) Total of fixed-term employees: 303, of which new contracts 36. Variation percentage 11.9 Employees within the scope of collective labour agreements: Saga Furs Group is an international fur auction company MAIN OBJECTIVES OF THE COMPANY whose core strengths are a strictly monitored fur production Saga Furs’ main objective is to generate a profit for its shareSaga Furs: total of 622 employees, of which 572 are within the scope chain, the most extensive supply of top-quality furs in the inholders. We want to be part of the value chain of European Ab Finnish Fur Center Oy: six (6) regular employees, which four (4) are within the scope dustry, and high operational quality. Saga Furs Oyj is the only fur breeding in accordance with the principles of sustainability, Furfix Oy: total of 106 employees, of which 105 within the scope publicly listed fur auction company in the world. In addition and to market fox, Finnraccoon and mink pelts under the Group (in Finland) total: 735 employees, of which 681 within the scope to Finland, Saga operates through its subsidiaries in Poland, Saga Furs ® brand at auctions held 4–5 times a year. Our Denmark and the Netherlands, and through its representaoperations also include fur-material product development at tives in Spain, Italy, China, Greece, Sweden, Norway, the the Saga Design Centre. Consolidated key figures 2012/2013 2011/2012 U.S., Russia, and the Baltic countries. Saga Furs is known as a pioneer in ethical fur breeding and Total sales, MEUR 981 695.2 as the company that reintroduced fur as a material used by Consolidated net turnover, MEUR 78.5 60.1 PERSONNEL fashion designers. The Saga Furs brand is a guarantee of Operating profit, MEUR 24.9 17.2 During the financial period, the Group employed an average of the product quality and the openness and sustainability that Profit before tax, MEUR 29.7 22.5 315 people, of whom 141 were employed permanently and 174 today’s consumers demand. Earnings per share, EUR 6.2 4.69 for a fixed term. The number of personnel is averaged over a Return on equity, (ROE)% 25.6 23.1 12-month period. As the Group also has a lot of short-term work The table shows the company’s key figures for the financial period. Return of investment, (ROI)% 22.6 21.7 assignments, for example, auction assistants, these have all Board’s proposal for been taken into account in the gender distribution figures, which distribution of dividend , EUR 2.05 2.10 are therefore considerably higher than those mentioned above. 4 5 MANAGING DIRECTOR’S REVIEW In 2013, Saga Furs celebrated 75 years of operations, and In the sector’s exceptionally long value chain, animal welfare tions and personnel in a total of 13 countries. This spring, the its product development unit, Saga Furs Design Centre, 25 is especially important to Saga Furs (p. 19). Saga Furs has company’s operations will become even more globalised as a years of operation. Our theme for the year was 100+, with the consistently guided its operations in a direction where the high result of the sales co-operation agreement it has signed with plus sign symbolising going forward, our faith in the future, quality of the pelts being auctioned is combined with the qualAmerican Legend Cooperative and Fur Harvesters Auction and the company’s position as a pioneer in its field. Responity of the entire production process. Animal welfare occupies Inc. The more global the operating environment becomes, sibility is a key element of the company’s business strategy, a central place in internal quality. Saga Furs has more than the more important it is to build a strong brand and firmly and its significance among our stakeholders is growing. 2,000 supplier-customers, which are independent companies instil the company’s values among both its personnel and its that determine their own operating methods. The fur Farm expanding group of stakeholders. In CSR reporting, the stakeholder perspective is essential. Certification System, introduced and continuously developed Reporting is not just about marketing communication, but by the Finnish Fur Breeders’ Association (ProFur), is an excelabout responding to the demands of the outside world. As lent tool for the company to instil comprehensive quality thinkPertti Fallenius a significant material supplier to the international fashion ining amongst our supplier-customers. Managing Director dustry, the company must adapt its operations to the code of ethics of this important customer group. The company’s In line with its decision of a year ago, the company is also position as a pioneer in sustainability is also reflected in the offering a selection of 100% certified fox pelts in the 2013– fact that this CSR report complies with the Global Reporting 2014 sales period. The goal of integrating certification and the Initiative’s (GRI) latest G4 framework, which was completed in Saga Furs’ brand-quality promise is going forward according May of 2013. The GRI offers the most prominent sustainability to the previously confirmed schedule. reporting guidelines in the world. The biggest change is that OF THE NEARLY EUR the company has assessed in even greater detail the factors Open communication on non-conformities and problems is ONE BILLION that are most essential in terms of defining its sustainability. also imperative in an industry that divides opinions. Saga IN TOTAL SALES RECORDED Furs wants to engage in dialogue with the surrounding soAT THE FINANCIAL PERIOD ENDED The company has been a member and supporter of the United ciety and use the feedback and suggestions that result from OCTOBER 31ST, ROUGHLY EUR 500 Nations Global Compact Initiative for responsible business for the dialogue to develop the company’s operations. Balanced four years now. This report reflects a commitment to the GCI’s dialogue can only be achieved if both parties, despite their principles, as required by the G4 sustainability guidelines, and differences in opinion, are committed to showing mutual rethe principles are available in their entirety on page 14. spect. Saga Furs will not take part in discussions where the goal is to abolish the industry. The citizens’ initiative to ban MILLION Financial responsibility – i.e. profitability, income flow, and tax fur farms in Finland, which was addressed by Parliament last IS ESSENTIALLY footprint – is the cornerstone of the company’s social responsummer, reinforced the industry’s political backing. It consesibility. In 2013, the company once again broke records both quently also highlighted the need for constructive dialogue EXPORT REVENUE. in total sales and in the resulting income flow channelled to with willing NGOs, i.e. with discussion partners who, on the Finland. Of the nearly EUR one billion in total sales recorded at one hand, challenge us, but on the other, want to work tothe end of the financial period on October 31st, roughly EUR gether with us to develop the industry. 500 million is essentially export revenue that directly supports Finland’s welfare society and its many services. This cash In Saga Furs’ operations, local and global go hand in hand. flow exceeds the export revenue generated by, among other Our employees represent more than 20 nationalities. Most things, the sawn timber trade and electronics industry sales. work at our main premises in Vantaa, but we have opera6 7 SAGA FURS AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 1. THE COMPANY’S IMPACT ON come. In Saga Furs’ view, the core of the ethical nature of fur co-operation partners with whom to engage in dialogue on SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT is its significance as part of sustainable development. It is esthe future of the industry. In co-operation with the Finnish Fur Saga Furs’ business operations link actors together in the sential that animals are well taken care of. Fur, in turn, is a reBreeders’ Association (ProFur), Saga Furs Plc. decided it will overall fur industry value chain. Its customers include fur cyclable and sustainable natural material with a long cultural launch a “Future Forum” project in winter 2014. Under the dibreeders representing primary production, the international history and which may become increasingly appreciated as a rection of the University of Turku’s Finland Futures Research fur trade, and the fashion industry. From the point of view counter to the “throw-away” culture. On the other hand, the Centre, the forum will be based on multi-sector workshops. of sustainable development, Saga Furs’ financial responsibilcompany must also be watchful of social inequality fuelling a ity to Finnish society is considerable and, according to the resistance to furs – not out of concern for animal welfare, but In its extensive report “Finland’s 100 new possibilities: Radistakeholder analysis, it is also the company’s most important because of the label of luxury associated with fur. cal technological solutions”, the Finnish Parliament’s Comarea of sustainability. mittee for the Future named the fur trade as an industry of The company cannot directly influence animal welfare and the the future. (The Parliament of Finland’s Committee for the The cash flow channelled via the company’s operations is environmental impacts of primary production. However, the Future’s publication 6/2013 [In Finnish]). treated in this report from two different perspectives. Cash operations of individual fur breeders have a material impact on flow from the sale of pelts is directed to the Finnish countrythe company’s credibility and its reputation as a quality aucWith Saga Furs’ operations becoming increasingly interside, but also to other rural areas in the EU, where alternative tion house. The traceability of the entire production chain, the national, both pan-European and global trends have had a job opportunities are scarce and where, without subsidies that fact that important stakeholders can assess it as objectively growing impact on the company’s operations. distort competition, the export revenue that is generated helps as possible, and the gradual inclusion of fur farm certification to maintain a welfare society and its services. On page 36 of in the Saga® quality criteria are the company’s most important Political threats concerning the legitimacy of fur breeding have this report is an interview with the Mayor of Nykarleby, which tools for increasing its control over the products it sells. intensified in several European supplier countries, and the represents the heart of the fur farming community in Finland. growing role of social media increases the unpredictability of The first citizens’ initiative, based on a new legal act, in Finpolitical decision-making. All of this requires that Saga Furs folFinancial responsibility is also highlighted in the capital city land’s political history was rejected in a majority vote by Parlows the social debate and reinforces its role as a participant in area, which is where the company’s head office is located. liament in its spring session. The initiative called for a ban on it. The company’s risks and risk management are comprehenThe Pellervo Economic Research (PTT) determined in Nofur farming in Finland. In addition to bringing the arguments of sively addressed of the Report by the Board of Directors. The vember 2013 that the company’s auctions, with their increasthose behind the initiative into the spotlight, the media attenReport by the Board of Directors is available in its entirety on the ing international customer flows, bring roughly EUR 18 million tion it raised also gave the industry the opportunity to make company’s website at www.sagafurs.com. in revenue to the capital city area’s service sector. its voice heard; and, while the initiative was being discussed in Parliament, perspectives that otherwise might not have Pages 34-35 of this report contains a summary of PTT’s rebeen brought to the forefront were raised. Parliament gave port, with graphics explaining the contents of the report. the matter worthy consideration, which is a testament to the effectiveness of civic society and democracy in Finland. 2. PROBING FUTURE TRENDS Parliament’s decision gave the industry the peace it requires Consumers basing their choices on ethical values is a risto carry on its activities. Strong political support does not, ing trend. Ethical consumption cannot be unequivocally and however, mean an end to the dialogue on the legitimacy of exhaustively defined, as a number of variables affect the outthe fur industry. The dialogue continues. The industry needs 8 9 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORTING Saga Furs prepares a corporate social responsibility report for every financial period. The previous report was published in January 2013. SAGA FURS SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES Saga Furs is the only publicly quoted fur auction company in the world and a pioneer in its industry with regard to sustainability. In accordance with its renewed strategy of 2011–2012, the company aims to redefine fur as a beautiful and sustainable natural material. One of the key dimensions of the company’s operations is that, in addition to the technical quality of the product, internal quality – how the animals are kept, the production environment, and the operations of suppliers – plays an increasingly important role in the big picture. Saga Furs is the only auction OUR BASIC VALUES company to publish a corporate social responsibility report annually. We want to encourage all partners within the scope of our operations to comply with the principles of sustainability. RELIABILITY: We operate openly and do what we promise We want to engage in an open dialogue with the surrounding society. Continuous development, quick intervention in the PROFITABILITY: event of errors and deficiencies, and transparent operations We continuously develop and we are a quality leader enable our responsible business conduct. in all areas of our operations SUSTAINABILITY: We value people in our operations and shoulder our responsibility for the environment 10 11 REPORTING SYSTEM Saga Furs is committed to following through with its corporate social responsibility principles in all its operations. Monitoring and reporting corporate social responsibility falls under the responsibility of the Director of Communications and CSR in the Management Group; the company has established a monitoring group to support her in the coordination of the activities. The company’s Board of Directors assesses corporate responsibility and approves the content of the report annually. Saga Furs CSR Report for the recently ended financial period complies with the GRI G4*) “Core” reporting requirements. Unlike the G3.1 guidelines, the G4 model no longer includes categorisation into A, B and C application levels; instead, three adjectives are used to describe the levels: Comprehensive (includes additional disclosures), Core (includes essential elements) and Guideline (includes standard disclosures from the guidelines). A GRI G4 table of comparison, including instructions on how to read it, is attached to the report. Saga Furs complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance MATERIAL ASPECTS OF RESPONSIBILITY Code (October 2010) published by the Securities Market Association for listed companies. Potential deviations are pre(TOPICS) sented with justification in the relevant sections. Corporate governance is described in detail on the company’s website at www.sagafurs.com at investors’ section. A key element of the new reporting model is that the company The company has been a member of the UN Global Compact identifies the material aspects of responsibility in its operaInitiative’s network since 2008. GCI is the most internationally tions. The Topics are selected, and an explanation of where recognised framework for responsible corporate practices. they are situated in Saga Furs’ value chain (Aspects) is proMore than 8,000 companies worldwide have committed to vided. This gives the reader a greater understanding of the the UN GCI principles. Companies that have signed the GCI company’s operational value chain and how the company can principles commit to supporting human rights, labour standinfluence its various parts. ards, environmental responsibility and anti-corruption in their business activities. In addition, it is important that the comThe G4 guidelines also require that the company openly dispany actively communicate with its stakeholders about how it close how its corporate responsibility is managed. The Disimplements the principles in practice. At the heart of the ten *) GRI is generally the most used international model for closure Management Approach is presented in the report for principles for companies is anti-discrimination and promoting corporate social responsibility reporting and is based on every Topic dealt with, such that a few topics are combined and developing technology that respects the environment. the continuous development of operations. under the same DMA. 12 13 The G4 guidelines require that the company’s realisation of the GCI principles be shown in a GRI G4 comparison table, which is included at the end of the report. The GCI principles are: GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES The principles of the Global Compact Initiative are based on and thus in harmony with the following universal principles: • The UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights • The ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • The UN’s Rio Declaration on Environment and Development • The UN’s Convention against Corruption The Global Compact Initiative calls for companies to adopt, support and realise within their sphere of influence these basic values related to human rights, labour principles, and environmental and anti-corruption activities. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Vantaa COPENHAGEN MILAN NEW YORK 14 OTHER MEMBERSHIPS AND PARTNERSHIPS With International The company is also a member, supporter or partner of the Fur Federation, following organisations and associations: Saga Furs defended FUR EUROPE: political operating conditions An organisation being set up in Brussels that represents the of fur industry and interests of the fur industry throughout Europe, and who will freedom take on the political work of the International Fur Federation (IFF) and the European Fur Breeders’ Association (EFBA); of trade with 4,4 member, key financier, member of the Board of Directors. MEUR. INTERNATIONAL FUR FEDERATION (IFF): Organisation responsible for global industry standards, coordinator of political campaigning outside of Europe; member, key financier, member of the Board of Directors. www.wearefur.com CONFEDERATION OF FINNISH INDUSTRIES (EK)/ FINNISH COMMERCE FEDERATION The Finnish Commerce Federation is the second-largest of EK’s 35 member associations. It has the highest number of EUROPEAN FUR BREEDERS’ ASSOCIATION (EFBA): employees and the largest collective agreement in terms of Interest Organization of European fur farmers; supporter number of employees covered by it. Commerce is clearly the www.efba.europa.eu largest of Finland’s service sectors. www.kauppa.fi Baltic Sea Action Group: Supporter; work for the Baltic Sea www.bsag.fi FUR FINLAND: Promoting the legitimacy and visibility of fur in Finland; member; member of the Board of Directors www.turkiskaupanliitto.fi 16 17 SAGA FURS’ VALUE CHAIN In the new G4 reporting guidelines, the scope of corporate reware program that targets continuous improvement in breedsponsibility is defined differently than in the previous G3.1 guideing stocks, the Lumi Mink quarantine farm, and continuously lines, which adhered to the company’s legal framework in terms growing breeding stocks for supplier-customers in Finland and of what the company owns and the areas where it has significant elsewhere in Europe. influence, even if it does not have direct control over the matter. The new reporting model requires that the company evaluate Saga Furs has supplier-customers in all key European supplier its responsibility footprint regardless of whether its connection countries, where it also has either a subsidiary (Netherlands, to the matter at hand is based on ownership or whether it has Denmark or Poland) or representative(s) in pelt procurement. SAGA® IS significant influence over the matter. In order to ensure even The company has more than 1,000 supplier-customers outTHE MOST broader evaluation, the company must identify its value chain. side of Finland. In these countries, a local fur breeder association acts as the company’s partner in quality monitoring, and Saga Furs, an international auction company whose customwhere none exists, the company’s subsidiary or individuals in RECOGNISED FUR ers are found at the beginning and end of the value chain, can directly or indirectly influence various parts of the value chain the company’s representative network handle the task. in many ways through its operations. The fur farm certification programme created and maintained TRADEMARK The Finnish Fur Breeders’ Association (ProFur), the compaby ProFur serves as a means for the company responsible for sales to encourage suppliers to focus on improving the overall IN THE WORLD. ny’s biggest shareholder, is the “owner” of the beginning of the value chain, either directly or indirectly. Fur farms, which quality of their products and on the traceability of their production. In developing and expanding the system, the company has number roughly 1,000 in Finland, are independent companies encouraged certification in an economical manner and such and members of the association through local associations. that it has gradually switched to selling 100% certified pelts. Nearly all the fur farms that operate in Finland are customers of Saga Furs, either through their production or part thereof. Saga Furs sells pelts originating from several European supplier countries. In Norway and Poland, an appointed association, As a rule, the majority of the companies that produce fur anicorresponding to Finland’s ProFur, grants the certificates for apmal feed are owned by fur breeders. The association repreplying the company’s certification system. In countries where sents fur breeders in Finland. Because of its significant finanthere are no co-operation partners comparable to such an ascial responsibility, and because its task is to sell and market sociation, Saga Furs can carry out audits of individual facilities. products to an increasingly demanding international clientele, When a facility fulfils the criteria of the certification system, its Saga Furs is a key co-operation partner in this work. In crisis production can be sold as part of the range of certified products. communication situations and in terms of reputation management, the actions of even a single supplier can have a major In the event of non-conformities, Saga Furs and ProFur have a impact on the image other stakeholders have of the company joint action plan for situations where deficiencies emerge at fur as a responsible corporate citizen. farms. In the action plan, responsibilities are divided according to each organisation’s areas of operation. In countries where a clear Because of its strategy targeting comprehensive quality, Saga legal co-operation partner does not exist, Saga Furs applies its Furs has created tools to influence, for example, the quality of action plan with the help of its broad representative network. the pelts it sells. Among these tools are the WebSampo soft18 19 Compared to other international fur auction companies, Saga teams, those who handle CSR issues, and sellers of the final Value chain Furs is also in a unique position to influence the opposite end product, about pelts and how to detect differences in quality, of the value chain through the product development experand in explaining the brand quality promises to consumers. Value chain Impact boundary of Saga’s topics tise of the Saga Furs Design Centre. For international clients that demand traceability throughout the chain, the company A part of the value chain that is challenging to manage is the can identify auction buyers and dressers that have committed dressing of furs. As part of a traceability programme being rePrimary production (cultivation, fishing) Greenhouse gases and emissions into soil to upholding traceability throughout the entire process (Saga alised together with certain international fashion houses, Saga Fodder production Traceability System® ). Furs helps fashion houses to find dressing company partners that enable traceability (Saga Furs Resource Guide). Saga Saga® is the most recognised fur trademark in the world, Furs’ product development unit has launched, in co-operation Fur farmers Animal welfare, greenhouse gases and emissions into soil, which, in certain markets, brings end consumers into the B2B with a German dressing company, the Green Dressing project product development and certified products company’s value chain and responsibility sphere of influence, to develop new techniques for dressing furs in a way that geneven if the company does not engage in business with them erates even less of a load on the environment. An article on the directly. The company’s representatives train, for example, topic can be found on page 45 of this report. Saga Furs Financial profitability, good human resources management, value the staff of various department store chains, buyers, design chain management, product development, open communication Auction customers Saga® trademarks, traceability, certified products, open communication Dressers Product development Fashion houses Saga® trademarks, traceability, product development, certified products, open communication Retailers Saga® trademarks, open communication Consumers Saga® trademarks, open communication 20 21 SAGA FURS’ SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES FROM THE POINT OF VIEW OF STAKEHOLDERS To ensure impartial interaction with its stakeholders, Saga The definition of materiality helps Saga Furs to develop its Furs complies with the principles laid down in the GRI guideresponsible business practices, as well as to select the focus lines. According to the guidelines, interaction must be based areas for its CSR report and develop its communication to its on the consideration of stakeholders’ reasonable expectastakeholders. The company’s GRI G4 Topics are presented in tions. The starting point for Saga Furs is that demands aimed the chart. The horizontal axis describes the interests of stakeat abolishing the entire fur industry are not reasonable from holders and the vertical axis the importance of the matter to the company’s point of view. For this reason, Saga Furs does Saga Furs. The figure illustrates that different stakeholders not actively seek interaction with parties whose public aim is view the company’s sustainability in different ways, and thus to abolish the fur industry. their expectations also differ. STAKEHOLDERS 1. Financial profitability The company’s most important stakeholders are its customThe most important Topic of the company’s sustainability is its ers (fur breeders, pelt buyers and their customers), sharefinancial success. Saga Furs’ business activity is almost enholders, personnel, political decision-makers and the media. tirely made up of foreign trade, and the cash flow it generates The company mapped out its stakeholders in 2012 in its reis a significant source of income for Finland’s rural areas (See newed strategy. The responsibility for stakeholder work is diCase: Nykarleby lives off furs, p. 36) Indirectly, the company’s vided among the Management Group according to the areas fur auctions additionally bring millions of euros in net sales to of responsibility of its members, and the main responsibility the service sector in the capital city area (See: The impacts of rests with the managing director. Stakeholder work requires fur auctions on the capital city area’s economy, p. 34). the dissemination of up-to-date information on the company and its operations as part of the international fur industry. In a tense economic situation that has shaken all of Europe, the fur trade has proved to be a profitable and sustainable business that can help maintain a welfare society and all the ASSESSMENT OF THE MATERIALITY services it offers. During the reporting period, Saga Furs’ corOF SAGA FURS’ SUSTAINABILITY porate tax contribution to Finnish society was EUR 7,4 million. As it switched to using the GRI G4 reporting guidelines, Saga Furs’ corporate social responsibility monitoring group reevaluated in autumn 2013 the significance of the company’s 2. Animal welfare different functions and requirements coming from the exterHigh levels of animal health and welfare are conditions for the nal operating environment from the point of view of the comentire future of the fur industry. Saga Furs promotes, through pany’s responsibility. The new GRI G4 model uses the term its operations, an improvement in animal welfare and, within Topic to describe the different areas of sustainability. the limits of its authority, intervenes if any deficiencies emerge. As a leading fur auction company, Saga Furs has both the 22 23 obligation and the opportunity to act as a defender of animal tailed documentation steers fur breeders towards even better tal carbon dioxide emissions stemming from fur production large 2 1 welfare. Long-term co-operation with both Finnish and interand more sustainable production methods. Through its sales represent only 0.4% of all emissions from agriculture in Finnational fur breeder associations to develop animal welfare is policy, Saga Furs can steer the development by refraining from land, the corresponding greenhouse gas emissions of Fin4 3 a Topic where success will have an impact well into the future. buying and selling pelts that have not been produced at least land totalled 66.8 million tonnes (CDE) in 2011. Fur farms also 6 7 Stakeholder group according to the conditions stated in the revised recommendagenerate local phosphorous and nitrogen point source load; tions of the Council of Europe or other national regulations. however, catching Baltic herring as feed for fur animals con5 3. Traceability siderably cleans the Baltic Sea. 8 When an international fashion house wants to tell its customers the origins of the fur it uses and about the responsibility 4. Certified products 10 9 of its production methods, the only way to prove it is through The certification programme for fur farms, devised and 7. Open communication precise documentation. Traceability stands for the reliability of launched by the Finnish Fur Breeders’ Association (ProFur) in Saga Furs’ position as a listed company in the middle of the the product’s origins; at the same time, the requirement for de2005, helps to improve animal welfare and ecological producfur industry’s long value chain sets special requirements for tion methods, and helps develop the traceability of fur. Saga its communication. To ensure that stakeholders receive acsmall Furs’ decision to accept (in the first phase the 2011–2012 sales curate, verifiable and reliable information on the industry’s small Company large season) only Finnraccoon pelts from certified fur farms, and in development and the impacts of its activities, the company the second phase (the 2013–2014 sales season), to separately must have open and responsible communication. The comoffer certified and uncertified fox pelts, are tools to steer more pany’s communication has a significant impact on the future and more farms towards certification. In terms of responsibility, of the entire industry throughout Europe. 1. Financial profitability certification increases the transparency of fur production, in ad2. Animal welfare dition to supporting the sustainability of the industry as a whole. 3. Traceability 8. Saga® trademarks 4. Certified products Saga® trademark brands and the information they carry are a 5. Good human resources management 5. Good human resources management tool for communicating responsibility to the company’s custom6. Greenhouse gases and emissions into soil Human capital is a significant factor for Saga Furs’ competiers. At the same time, they give fur manufacturers and retailers 7. Open communication tiveness. For that reason, the level of management is monithe opportunity to inform end consumers about the quality of 8. Saga® trademarks tored regularly using a number of different methods, which the pelts they use and about the sustainability of the value chain. 9. Product development allow us to pinpoint the areas where both individuals and the 10. Value chain management company are successful, as well as to tackle areas that are in need of development. The company’s management principles 9. Product development have been defined. Part of an international company’s basis of Product development carried out at the Saga Furs Design Cenvalues with regard to responsibility is that people are treated tre enhances the sustainability of the value chain after the fur 10. Value chain management according to the same principles, regardless of their religion, auction process. As fur is a valuable natural material, it is imporSaga Furs’ sales conditions, training seminars for suppliers and culture, sex, skin colour, sexual orientation, age or disability. tant to find methods that are compatible with the manufacturbuyers, development of materials, and the continuous developers’ production processes and which do not result in material ment of customers’ and the company’s operations constitute losses. The dressing of furs is the most challenging part of the management of the total fur industry value chain. The compa6. Greenhouse gases and emissions into soil value chain to manage, and the Design Centre is, in fact, part ny’s special role in the middle of the value chain gives it the opThe majority of the environmental impacts from fur producof a project that aims to find dressing methods that are more portunity to influence the sustainable development of manufaction occur in connection with fur farming. Although the toenvironmentally sustainable (See Case: Green Dressing, p. 45). turers in both primary production and in finished fur products. 24 25 TOPIC-ASPECT-DMA-INDICATOR -chart TOPIC ASPECT DMA Indicator Legend Financial profitability Economic performance G4-EC1 Produced and distributed direct financial added value Indirect economic impacts G4-EC8 Key indirect financial impacts and their scope Animal welfare Greenhouse gases and emissions into soil Emissions G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions G4-EN21 Nitrogen and sulphur dioxide emissions and other significant emissions Product development Products & Services G4-EN19 Measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Certified products Supplier environmental Assessment G4-EN27 Measures to reduce the environmental impact of products and services G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria. G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in value chain Good humanresources management Employment G4-LA1 Total number of new employee hired G4-LA2 Employee benefits G4-LA6 Number of accidents and occupational diseases, lost working days and absences Occupational health & safety G4-LA10 Personnel expertise development programmes and learning action programmes Training & education G4-LA11 Development discussions Saga trademarks Procuct & Service Labelling G4-PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction Traceability Procuct & Service Labelling Open communication Marketing communications G4-PR6 Compliance with acts, norms and voluntary rules related to marketing communications Value chain management Marketing communications 26 27 STAKEHOLDER ACTIVITIES 1. FUR BREEDERS gramme, whereas Saga Furs encourages and also obligates More than 90 per cent of Saga Furs supplier-customers its customer-suppliers to adopt it by integrating it gradually come from the EU area and Norway. Through the sales into the Saga Furs brand. co-operation with the fur auction houses American Legend Cooperative and Fur Harvesters Auction Inc. in spring 2014, an even broader selection of furs will be sold on Saga Furs’ 2. AUCTION CUSTOMERS premises and in connection with its auctions, under two other AND THEIR CUSTOMERS strong and independent brands. The selection of Saga Furs Saga Furs’ most important tool for communicating responas a co-operation partner at auctions to be held in March and sibility to auction buyers and their customers is the Saga® June will indirectly expand the company’s group of suppliertrademark and, as an expression thereof, the tag that reflects customer stakeholders. three different quality levels: Saga® Lumi Royal, Saga® Royal Saga Furs’ operations also extend to fur material product deand Saga® Superior. The trademark also spreads visibility of velopment, the aim of which is not only to find new ways of The most important partner for the company in terms of the brand among the end consumers of a finished product. using fur, but also to ensure that the valuable material is used breeders is the Finnish Fur Breeders’ Association (ProFur), as comprehensively as possible so that it is not necessary to which is also the company’s largest shareholder. At the EuOne of the Saga® brand promises is that every pelt sold at an dispose of anything. rope-wide level, Saga Furs has both direct contacts and conauction can be traced back to the fur farm it came from. The tacts through local breeders’ associations with breeders in all identification is kept on the pelts during the entire sorting and The sales co-operation scheduled to begin in spring 2014 with countries from which Saga Furs collects pelts to be sold at its auctioning process, and the company delivers to customers, two North American fur auction houses has been very positively international auctions. based on the purchase orders made, the tags to be used in received among a customer base with a high rate of travel. The the fur garments. By linking the customer’s own origin system “one-stop-shopping” concept enables an even broader client The farm certification programme launched by ProFur is a to the chain in the steps that follow, traceability can in princibase to gather in the same place and at the same time, which practical tool for supervising, maintaining and developing ple be extended all the way to the end consumer. additionally reduces the carbon footprint caused by air travel. animal welfare. The association is responsible for the pro3. EMPLOYEES Saga Furs is growing strongly as an international company and has operations in 13 countries; its employees represent more than 20 nationalities. Due to the diversity of its personnel, openness, tolerance of differences and interest in other cultures is extremely important to the company. Through its human resources policy, the company attempts to ensure that every employee is proud of the company, his or her work there and the entire industry. A key objective of the company’s human resources policy in recent years has been to instil an understanding of the consistent management principles and brand identity among the entire personnel. New tools have been introduced in order to ensure internal communication that is as straightforward as possible. 28 29 gled out for the award because of its consistent communication Stakeholder Expectations Actions Improvement and the respect the company shows to its investors. group schemes Fur producers Marketing support, Communication Customer segmentation 5. POLITICIANS, OTHER OPINION information with efficient tools MAKERS AND THE MEDIA Continuous communication Training events Continuous improvement Saga Furs provides politicians, other opinion leaders and the Support e.g. for Quarantine farm, of product quality media with open and objective information on both the comimproving animal stock research activities Co-operation on breeding pany and the industry as a whole. As a publicly listed company Added value from certification Comprehensive certification Farm based certification that has included corporate social responsibility in its business in countries, where strategy, Saga Furs guarantees that the information it discertification partner seminates is fact based and traceable. In discussions that took is not present place in spring 2013 concerning a citizens’ initiative to ban fur farms in Finland, Saga Furs and ProFur acted in accordance Buyers/their customers Reliable grading Automation Brand enhancement The importance of the entire body of employees to the comwith their clear division of labour, such that ProFur underscored (China, Russia) pany’s success is underscored by the fact that all employees, the importance of fur breeding as a responsible form of keepTraceability Traceability tools Co-branding including temporary staff after a certain period of employment, ing animals for production purposes, while Saga Furs highContinuous communication Communication with are entitled to participate in the incentive scheme confirmed anlighted the global and economic significance of the operations. efficient tools nually by the Board of Directors. The scheme is partly based on Animal welfare Corporate sustainability Corporate sustainability the company’s profits and partly on cost efficiency. The comThe company and the association decided in 2011 that they reporting together with as a competitive advantage pany’s occupational health care services and annual holiday can support politicians who are neutral or have a positive atbreeding associations rights exceed the requirements set by legislation. Our long-term titude towards the industry in their election campaigns, taking human resources policy is illustrated by the fact that, despite into consideration the principles of transparency. The comPolitical decision-makers Open, transparent Visits to company Social media, the cyclical nature of the business and organisational changes, pany and the association required that the politicians agree and media communications and fur farms facilities, other new communication our aim has been to secure our personnel’s jobs and resources. to have their names and the amount of funding received pubReliability of information ongoing communication channels lished on the company’s and the association’s websites. Animal welfare Corporate sustainability reporting 4. INVESTORS Because Saga Furs is a pioneer in its field, it has consistently Finding a NGO-partner Saga Furs’ largest shareholder is the Finnish Fur Breeders’ aimed to respond to the challenges introduced by the growing Association (ProFur), which owns the company’s unlisted A influence of social media. The company has a social media Personnel Unambiguous management Development of One company – one voice in shares, in addition to local associations and a few private indistrategy and it employs several new tools that are important systems management systems global working environment viduals. The company’s C share is listed on the Nasdaq OMX for the company’s operations. It is also important that the Open communications Development of new Cohesive brand identity Small Cap companies list in the personal & household goods company refers feedback, messages and questions that do communication channels sector. Interest in the company has grown substantially as a not fall within its sphere of operations to the appropriate party. result of its strong internationalisation, renewed brand and the Investors Availability, presence Swift response to enquires IR meetings; organizing, financial success of the industry. The company also illustrates participating its financial responsibility and the equal treatment of its shareSTAKEHOLDER WORK Open communications IR communications Social media holders through its dividend policy. The company’s dividend Saga Furs’ stakeholders have different, sometimes even conRevenue based, regular with efficient tools policy is published on its website at http://www.sagafurs.com. flicting, expectations of the company’s responsibilities. The distribution of dividend Responsible financial table describes stakeholder-specific expectations and the management Saga Furs was chosen as “The Best Small-Cap Company” by activities employed to respond to them. In addition, the taCorporate sustainability Corporate sustainability Continuous improvement of private investors, on the basis of a survey they filled out, at an ble introduces development projects through which we aim to reporting the sustainability reporting investors’ event held in November 2013. The company was sinfurther improve our operations. 30 31 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY THE COMPANY’S FINANCIAL PROFITABILITY lion, which is nearly EUR 200 million more than the year before. The company’s financial responsibility is the most essential Thanks to the good market situation, furs sold were delivered at element of its entire social responsibility. In a cyclical indusa brisk rate. During its 14-month financial period, the company try, safeguarding its profitability and productive operations held five auctions, and in its period ended 31 August 2013, four. has allowed Saga Furs to pay its shareholders a reasonable According to the interim report published on 31 October 2013 dividend, even during economic cycles that are weaker than for the “old” financial period, the company sold a total of 9.6 the current one. Doing so also enables the company to best million pelts, 94% of which belonging to the Saga® collection. respond to the expectations of its most important stakeholdAdditional information on the company’s financial performance ers, and to be consistent and predictable in implementing its is available at http://www.sagafurs.com. The company’s key strategy, even as the economic cycle changes. figures are contained in the section Saga Furs in brief. The company’s financial result and future expectations are Saga Furs market position strengthened during the financial communicated in line with the company’s disclosure policy. year, a fact which further emphasises the company’s role as Through the company’s interim reports, financial statements, a pioneer in sustainability. Report by the Board of Directors and the company’s website, stakeholders can monitor and evaluate the realisation of the The importance of cost effectiveness has been cascaded targets and goals of Saga Furs’ financial responsibility. throughout the organisation. This is illustrated by the fact that it is the second indicator in the bonus system for personnel, after the company’s result. The Board of Directors annually sets the target levels for cost efficiency, and these form the basis for part of the bonuses. Disclosure Policy: http://www.sagafurs.com/en/company/ investors/disclosure_policy INDIRECT IMPACTS OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBLITY Financial Reports and Interim reports: http://www.sagafurs.com/en/company/ The impact of pelt sales on rural economies SAGA FURS’ investors/financial_reports The company’s operations as a logistically clear and traceMARKET POSITION able sales channel in the middle of the fur industry’s value STRENGTHENED DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR, chain generate considerable cash flow that is channelled through the company’s operations especially to small rural communities in Finland. Of the nearly EUR 1 billion in sales A FACT WHICH FURTHER generated during the exceptional 14-month financial period EMPHASISES During the financial period that ended on 31 October 2013, ended 31 October, some EUR 500 million is distributed diTHE COMPANY’S ROLE AS which was an exceptional 14 months long due to a change rectly to areas where the cash flow contributes to upholding A PIONEER in the company’s financial calendar, the value of its sales had Finland’s welfare society and its numerous services. Nykarreached close to EUR 1 billion. During the “old” financial period leby, a municipality in South Ostrobothnia with a population IN SUSTAINABILITY. that ended on 31 August 2013, sales had reached EUR 876 milof more than 7,000, is an example of how fur trade stimulates 32 33 Added value to the stakeholders THE FUR INDUSTRY’S AND it is with many other branches of industry, because the cumulaTHE COMPANY’S TAX FOOTPRINT tive impacts are considerable, and because the state subsidies In 2012, in a study commissioned by the Finnish Fur Breeders’ received by the fur industry are smaller than those received by Association (ProFur), the Pellervo Economic Research (PTT), other primary production. According to the report, the tax revlooked into the tax footprint of the entire fur industry. According enue brought in by the fur industry in 2011 amounted to some to Dr Perttu Pyykkönen, PTT’s Research Director, it is easier to EUR 57 million, and in 2012 to EUR 62 million. study the importance of the fur industry to local economies than Salaries 19.6 Meur Sales 78.5 MEur Direct taxes 7.4 MEur The influence of auctions on Fur auction customers expenditure Goods and services Dividends to the capital city area’s economy in the capital area per year purchased 30.2 MEur the shareholders 7.4 MEur Added value 48.3 MEur Net financing payments 0.8 MEur Fur auctions 4 times 5 days/year 600 guests/each Million Euros International guests expenditure in Finland 2.2 air travel tickets 9.9 all other sectors of industry and trade, and where municipal The influence of auctions on Export freight revenues 5.9 decision-makers actively participate in developing the sector. the capital city area’s economy Income to Finland total 18.0 The amount of annual cash flow is naturally influenced by Saga Furs’ four annual auctions, with their influx of internaeconomic cycles, which are beyond the company’s sphere tional customers, are a shot in the arm also for the service of decision-making. A long-standing part of Saga Furs’ busisector in the capital city area: hotels, restaurants, taxi comness strategy has, however, been to bring about a change panies, and shops. The biggest auctions, held in March, May in the distribution channels for fur, and in that, the strategy and June, attract 800 to 900 customers and their staff over Annual air travel expenditure Annual air transportation revenue has been successful. If the fashion and textile industry’s intera period of more than a week, and the smaller auctions held est in the product as a valuable natural material among other in September and December attract 300 to 400 customers. products holds strong, economic fluctuations resulting from The Pellervo Economic Research (PTT), commissioned by economic disturbances can be offset. Saga Furs, assessed the significance of international fur auctions and, according to its report, visitors to the company’s There is a direct connection between the interest of top Western fur auctions bring EUR 18 million in revenue to the capital city brands in the material and demand in East Asian markets. For area. They bring nearly EUR 10 million to Finland in air travel that reason, it is not possible to build a responsible marketing revenue and spend more than EUR 2.0 million on hotel, resstrategy for the material based solely on growing markets; intaurant and other services, and on shopping. Nearly EUR 6.0 stead, realising responsibility requires several pillars of support. million is generated from the export transportation of the furs purchased at auction. 34 35 CASE: NYKARLEBY LIVES OFF FUR Fur trade is the most important tax source for the Town of In contrast to many other municipalities, the municipal budgAccording to him, it has been influenced by the successful gather the world’s fur traders to compete for products all at Nykarleby. Around one-fifth of the town’s tax revenues comes et has a surplus thanks to the fur trade. transition from one generation to the next, the stable financial the same time, and Saga Furs is able to forecast the direction from its roughly 250 fur farms. That means that the taxes paid situation of fur breeders, the human capital, and naturally the of the market,” says Willman. by fur breeders already amounted to EUR 4.2 million in 2011, Willman says that the cash flow generated from furs boosts excellent future prospects of the business. Throughout the the year for which confirmed data are available. Now, that business and trade for the entire town. For example, companies years, Nykarleby has had an entrepreneurial spirit and a willsum is even higher. that sell equipment and technology to fur farms flourish. As aningness to invest. The town’s long tradition of fur trade flows in other example, Willman cites lorry entrepreneurs who sell sand: the blood of its civil servants and municipal decision makers. Case: “When it comes to the importance of furs to a municipal with full order books, they are busy filling the needs of fur farms. economy, Nykarleby is in a class of its own,” says Mayor And the citizens of the town also embrace it as a form of liveliSaga Furs Gösta Willman. Evijärvi and Korsnäs are next on the list: fur The mayor says the municipality bears its responsibility and hood. For the most part, no one questions it. trade accounts for 10 per cent of their tax revenues. strives to answer to the needs of fur breeders as fully as possible. AWARDEd WITH “This year, Nykarleby is expected to receive roughly 100 mil“As an example of this, each of the town’s 750 employees lion euros from fur sales,” says Willman. “In order to respond to the strongly growing investment received a wool hat with a fur pompom on it as a Christmas THE VANTAAneeds, we have hired new employees for the city’s envigift, and we have never heard a negative comment about it. ronment department. Now, in addition to an environmental On the contrary: the hat was the most popular gift we have MEDAL. protection inspector, we have two environment secretaries. given out in ten years,” says Willman. There was a great need for these additions, as this year, permits have been granted for the construction of 30 kilometres Willman is convinced that without its dynamic fur economy, of new sheds,” he explains. there would have been a much greater migration of inhabitants from Nykarleby, both to Sweden and other parts of FinWillman believes it is the town’s duty to take care of environland, than what has been seen. On November 15th, 2013 Saga Furs was awarded with mental and construction permit applications as quickly and the highest accolade the company’s hometown Vantaa flexibly as possible. “Traditional forms of agriculture would not be able to support can offer which is the Vantaa-medal. The medal has all fur breeders. We have also been lucky in that our livelihood been awarded to both businesses and non-profits since “Setting up municipal, shared areas for fur farming is no longrests on many pillars of support,” he says. 1974, when Vantaa became a city. er on the agenda. Instead, Nykarleby supports fur breeders in finding suitable land areas for their new buildings and for Of course, there are risks in putting all the eggs in one basket. “Saga Furs work has been long-term and successful. The expanding their old farms. The town has also acted as an Willman nevertheless sees it as a great competitive advancompany has over the years been part of creating Vanintermediary in projects involving land owners and fur breedtage that the area has excellent infrastructure in terms of feed taa’s prosperity and supporting functionality of the city”, ers,” he points out. transport and other required logistics. said Kari Nenonen, Mayor of Vantaa, motivating the award. Besides the fact that the industry needs enough space that Willman is unequivocal in his opinion of Saga Furs: meets certain permit conditions, the areas must also have access to municipal utilities, i.e. electricity and water. So far, “It is important that producers have a reliable sales channel to the town has also succeeded in meeting this target. get their products onto the global markets. Willman can’t single out one specific reason why Nykarleby “Despite the growth and increasing popularity of online trade, in particular has become the fur industry hub that it is today. auctions are still the most sensible way to sell pelts. Auctions 36 37 ANIMAL WELFARE Of the Topics of responsibility, animal welfare does not fit into Breeders’ Association (ProFur) offers fur breeders advice and the G4 framework, because the framework only offers wellparticipates in the development of national legislation. being indicators that apply to people and the environment. Saga Furs and the association have a joint action plan in place, Although Saga Furs cannot directly influence animal welfare on with tasks distributed between each organisation, thus allowTHE INTERNATIONAL fur farms, the matter has such great significance to the coming them to react quickly in the event of deficiencies. Saga FASHION INDUSTRY IS pany’s reputation as a seller of high-quality furs that it cannot Furs’ Terms and Conditions state that the company reserves VERY be overlooked in assessing the company’s social responsibility. the right to refuse pelts that come from fur farms that do not comply at least with the recommendations set by the Council of The company’s growing new customer group, the internationEurope on the welfare of animals kept for production purposes. al fashion industry, is, because of its own code of ethics, very INTERESTED IN interested in the conditions in which fur animals are bred. The In the management systems related to animal welfare, the THE CONDITIONS fashion industry also communicates directly with consumers. Saga Furs must therefore have a means of guidance in the company’s co-operation partnerships with associations that represent national fur breeders are in a central position. In IN WHICH FUR ANIMALS ARE matter, even though within the value chain animal welfare is countries where a clear partnership does not exist, Saga BRED. ultimately the responsibility of the individual fur farm entrepreneurs who operate at the beginning of the value chain. Furs’ subsidiary or representative(s) bear the responsibility of monitoring and reporting back to the company. The representative and advisory association the Finnish Fur 38 39 Case: PASSIONATE ABOUT ANIMALS Hannu Sillanpää, who received Saga Furs’ special recogniout and buying a good breeding animal is just the start of the ”We’re not always in agreement; we squabble once in a while, tion for several Lumi Royal pelts at a pelt exhibition in October process, and if you get caught up at that point, you might not but that’s the way it is.” 2013, considers the job of breeding and improving pelt qualget very far. The next phase involves careful analysis of the ity as an on-going process. He says there are no short cuts animals’ traits, followed by consideration of which combination For a number of years, Finnish fur breeders have systemto positive results. of characteristics would create better offspring. atically worked towards expanded production of short-haired minks. The results of this long-term work are beginning to “I am passionate about my animals. I work among them all “It is mind work, and vision. It is also important to get outside show, and at the pelt exhibition, in addition to the traditional the time and know their habits inside and out,” says Sillanhelp from others in the process of determining breeding soluawards for quality, Saga Furs Lumi Royal certificates were pää, a second-generation fur breeder and a member of Saga tions. If you work alone, you often become blind to your own also granted to a number of breeders. Furs’ Board of Directors. operations,” he says. Sillanpää recounts how he began to breed his own short-haired Sillanpää stresses how breeders who want to produce top Sillanpää praises the pelt and animal specialists connected mink on his farm in Veteli. The starting point was the classic quality animals must have a knack for the profession, and must to Saga Furs, who he meets several times each year. short-haired American species, which Sillanpää crossed with continuously train and educate themselves. Breeders can gain Danish mink having a slightly coarser type of hair. Sillanpää’s perspective and insight by networking with their peers. Going pelts had short, silky guard hairs and he received special mention for their exceptionally high quality. Without individually analysing breeding solutions, it is unlikely he would have reached such an optimal end result. Sillanpää’s best pelts have been sold at auction as “Top Lots”, i.e. furs that fetch sky-high prices and which buyers use primarily for special products. All routine tasks on a farm influence the quality of the pelts. Sillanpää notes proper feeding as one of the cornerstones of animal welfare. For a long time now, he has been feeding his animals individually; each animal gets the most precise mixture of nutrients and portion size. Machines that serve individual portions are used on a daily basis at Sillanpää’s farm in Veteli. The two employees at Sillanpää’s farm share his quality philosophy. This allows him to attend festive occasions like the pelt exhibition. “Everything at the farm runs as though I were there myself,” he says with a smile. 40 41 ENVIRONMENT As specified on pages 23-25 Saga Furs “Sustainability principles from the point of view of stakeholders”, the most significant environmental impacts in the fur production value chain are generated in connection with fur farms. Saga Furs is not in a position, nor does it have a management system in place, to directly influence these emissions. However, because environmental impacts are generally an important part of the responsibility footprint, the company strives to indirectly support projects and technologies that reduce the environmental load. In Finland, ProFur bears primary responsibility for such endeavours, and in other breeder countries, the task is handled by co-operation partners. A summary of MTT’s life cycle assessment of fox and mink pelts produced in Finland, commissioned by the Finnish Fur A FIVEBreeders’ Association (ProFur) and Saga Furs (then Finnish Fur Sales), is contained after the section that describes the environmental impact management system. (Case: Life cycle assessment of furs). FOLD international fashion houses to dressing companies capable Saga Furs strongly encourages its customer-suppliers to of guaranteeing the continuity of the product’s traceability join ProFur’s certification system, which is one of the indichain and whose processes are transparent. AMOUNT OF NUTRIENTS rect management systems in place, as certified farms have IS REMOVED strict requirements also in terms of environmental protection. In collaboration with a German dressing company, Saga Furs’ WITH THE FISH The system is presented in the next section. As part of the product development unit Saga Furs Design Centre is enUSED IN MINK FEED IN RELATION TO long-term work aimed at improving the quality of pelts, Saga gaged in a Green Dressing project to test out natural dressing THE NUTRIENT Furs has also participated in research projects on the indimethods that generate a minimal load on the environment. EMISSIONS vidual feeding of animals. The purpose of so-called precision feeding, which is used on several farms, is to ensure that the OVER THE LIFE CYCLE OF animals receive just the right amount of nutrition they need, A MINK PELT. which improves the animals’ well-being, in addition to lowering the farm’s environmental emissions. The dressing of furs at the end of the fur trade value chain is a stage that may have, depending on the dressing company and dressing method used, substantial environmental impacts. Saga Furs has no direct influence here, but refers, when they so wish, its customers who represent demanding 42 43 Case: THE CARBON FOOTPRINT in the study, where the useful life of furs is ten times longer not taken into account in the study. The difference between than that of an alternative product. the products is that fur products are manufactured from reOF A MINK PELT CORRESPONDS newable raw material. The study furthermore did not take the The carbon footprint of alternative products is smaller than impact of the different end uses of the products into account. TO A FINN’S CARBON FOOTPRINT that of fur products; at its smallest, only approximately onefifth of that of a mink coat. Taking the thermal insulation ca*) Report for the Finnish Fur Breeders’ Association (ProFur) and FOR ONE DAY pacity into account would, however, change the results. It Finnish Fur Sales: “Life cycle assessment of mink and fox pelts produced in was impossible to compare the thermal insulation capacity Finland”. A commissioned study carried out by MTT Agrifood Research of the comparative products in the study. The determination Authors: Frans Silvenius1, Nita Koskinen2, Sirpa Kurppa1, Teppo Rekilä2, of thermal value is not currently appropriate in all respects, as Juhani Sepponen2, Helena Hyvärinen1 furs are used in many product combinations attached to other 1. MTT Biotechnology and Food Research/Sustainable bioeconomy According to a study carried out by MTT in 2011 on the life and 1,080 tonnes N/year. Thus, 3.6% of the total phosphorus materials. In addition, the final processing of the products was 2. MTT Animal Production Research/Fur economy 29 March 2011 cycle assessment of pelts*, the carbon footprint of a mink or load and 1.4% of the total nitrogen load are removed with fox pelt used for fur clothing is rather minor when compared fished Baltic herring in Finland. Case: GREEN DRESSING – A NEW, with the carbon footprint of other habitual consumption. The carbon footprint of a mink pelt corresponds to the carbon The impact of a mink fur on reducing the load on water sysNATURAL DRESSING METHOD footprint of one day of an average Finnish consumer and that tems corresponds to the daily load of 17 consumers and the of a fox pelt to a three-day carbon footprint. load of approximately 55 lunches. Fox fur has a slightly higher impact, i.e. the daily load of approximately 22 consumers and However, the fur production chain clearly reduces nutrient the load of 78 lunches. emissions that make water systems eutrophic. A five-fold amount of nutrients is removed with the fish used in mink As alternative products for mink and fox fur coats, garments Saga Furs Design Centre is, for the second year now, part of a Saga Furs and its German partner have taken advantage of feed in relation to the nutrient emissions over the life cycle of a manufactured from polyester and cotton were chosen. Their project that aims to find new dressing methods for fur that have the opportunity. If it was possible to dress and dye furs natumink pelt. In the case of a fox pelt, the corresponding removal compositions were: 65% polyester and 35% cotton; acrylic an even lower environment load. “Green” dressing also has rally for hundreds of years, why can’t we also do it in this day of nutrients is more than four-fold in relation to the nutrient and cotton (65% acrylic, 7% modacrylic and 28% cotton); environmental impacts, but processes that can help dressing and age! Our co-operation partners have successfully caremissions over the life cycle of a fox pelt. The negative valand an artificial fur coat made of 100% acrylic. companies to reduce this load are being developed as part of ried out dye tests using, for example, tree bark, fruits, seeds ues of eutrophic emissions are due to the utilisation of Baltic the project, which is being carried out with a German company. and their shells – everything that represents by-products of herring and fish caught specifically for feeding fur animals The carbon footprint values presented for comparative prodSaga Furs has had a long-standing policy of recommending to another branch of production. and the impact of fishing on reducing eutrophication. In the ucts are indicative. The difficulty was in assessing the differits buyer-customers dressing partners that comply with strict fishing of feed fish, the amount of phosphorus and nitrogen ent useful life of the products and their different thermal insunational/international regulations with regard to emissions. The tests have shown that some methods work, and others removed from the Baltic Sea is significant: 155 tonnes P/year lation capacity. A rough calculation scenario was conducted don’t. After a few years of trial and error, advancements have Without dressing, pelts dry out and harden, and cannot be also been made – possibly even ones containing the seed of processed. The dressing methods are used to transform the success. Although the tests are on-going and their results comparison of fox and mink pelt emissions pelt so that it can be sewn and made into garments. After might be used, the condition is that the final result must be in Greenhouse gas Eutrophying Acidifying dressing, the pelts can be dyed according to the wishes of line with Saga Furs®’ general quality standards. emissions emissions emissions fashion houses. kg CO2 equiv./product unit g PO4 3equiv./product unit kg AE equiv./product unit The results of the most recent tests have been encouraging. Mink pelt 28 -170 0.23 Organic compounds have been used in fur dressing for cenThey show that “green” dressing methods can make pelts Fox pelt 83 -220 0.55 turies. Later, they were completely replaced by chemicals, in soft and pliable. In the next phase, prototypes employing the Emissions of average Finnish consumer, 27 9.7 0.05 addition to which, dying requires its own chemicals. Due to sample techniques will be made and tested in production per inhabitant per day the environmental impacts of the chemicals, many of those processes. Dying is performed using colours from plants, 100 km travel by car 18 used previously have been developed further or they have and dye professionals are seeking possibilities to expand the Average lunch portion 1.7 3.0 0.001 been entirely discontinued pursuant to legislation. range of available colours. 44 45 FUR FARM CERTIFICATION The fur farm certification system, which is still being develcertified pelt suppliers/ oped, was launched by the Finnish Fur Breeders’ Associanumber of farms tion (ProFur) in 2005 together with its stakeholders. ProFur is responsible for taking the project forward. 2013 2012 2011 2010 Certified Certification is a special topic for Saga Furs, as it serves as a suppliers 846 652 503 462 tool for ensuring the transparency of fur farm operations, and a means of monitoring the welfare of fur animals and to acquire information about possible non-conformities. Saga Furs’ role in fur farm certification is to gradually increase the share of The company has appointed co-operation partners in both certified pelts. Of the roughly 1,000 fur farms in Finland, 846 Norway and Poland: In Norway, Norges Pelsdyrsalslag and were certified as of 18 November 2013 (652 on 31 Aug. 2012); in Poland, Polski Zwiazek Hodowcow Zwierzat Futerkow97 per cent of the total fox production and 87 per cent of mink ych, both of which grant certification to their own members. production were certified. In Norway, certification is a prerequisite of membership in the association. The certification criteria used in both of the In the previous financial period, the company received Finnabove-mentioned countries were built on the basis of Finraccoon only from certified farms. In its new financial period land’s model, but they do contain minor deviations related to beginning 1 November 2013, the company will realise the national legislation. The certification percentage of Norwegoal it set for itself in the previous period: to switch to 100% gian farms is close to 100, and in Poland almost 50 per cent. certified fox pelts. Blue, Shadow, Silver and Blue Frost fox pelts are also offered as part of the non-certified range, but Because the continuous improvement of the quality of pelts is other fox species are only procured from certified farms. part of Saga Furs business strategy, and because animal welfare and the technical quality of pelts cannot be isolated from Even though certification is ProFur’s project, Saga Furs has one another, Saga Furs’ adequately trained representative its own management system for it. Saga Furs Plc. has a procan audit individual farms in countries where a co-operation ject manager who is responsible for administering the syspartner such as those mentioned above does not exist. Saga tem in the company, as well as a development manager who Furs only grants certificates outside of Finland. There are 13 looks after, e.g., required farm visits and co-operation in the such farms in total, in different countries. In Finland, Saga Furs field. As a member of the association’s certification commithas conducted its own audits, according to which the inclutee, the company’s representative, together with veterinarian sion of fox pelts in the certified range was approved at four fur and auditor members, follows up on whether the criteria are farm, where fox production fulfilled all the conditions for cerup to date, whether there is a need to change the criteria, tification, but the certification of mink production is on-going. and whether non-conformities have emerged on farms that have been certified, among other activities. Final decisions on these matters are made by the Board of the Finnish Fur Breeders’ Association (ProFur). Saga Furs has a system in place for the daily monitoring of certified farms. 46 47 GOOD MANAGEMENT METHODS AND MANAGING DIVERSITY OUR EMPLOYEES REPRESENT Human resources management in an international and multiand in the number of people whose work involves a lot of MORE cultural company is more challenging than in a company with travel and specialised work, physical presence at an office a homogeneous personnel structure. Saga Furs employs tools desk is not essential, nor is it even always possible. Changes to regularly monitor the success of its management. Developin work life also require management practices to be updated. ment discussions are carried out in September–November THAN 20 with the company’s permanent staff and in December–JanuA major, multi-phase renovation project on office premises ary with temporary staff. The company also requires that deand other spaces is being launched at the Fur Centre propvelopment discussions be carried out at its foreign locations. erty. As part of the project, the work environment will change NATIONALITIES. in response to the changing nature of the work. The company Employees in a supervisory position are offered coaching will determine as comprehensively as possible the need for opportunities and, as a new option, group coaching, which various work environment solutions in order to find a concept was just recently introduced. Successes and areas in need of that best serves its operations. development are monitored regularly using 360-degree feedback and more extensive personnel satisfaction and work Looking after occupational safety is a key area in a company atmosphere surveys. In terms of the Management Group, where hundreds of employees every year work in physically feedback is openly discussed both in the group and with the demanding and at times monotonous jobs. The line organiemployees who are supervised by the members of the group. sation oversees occupational health and safety, with support provided by the OHS Committee. Indicators used for OHS The results of the personnel surveys have been rather encourmonitoring are number of accidents, absences due to illness, aging. Commitment to the company is at a high level, and the safety observations and various personnel surveys. A culture employees trust the company’s management (3.98 -> max. 5). of universal responsibility for occupational safety has been They also want to be working at the company in the near fusystematically built within the company. Among the means of ture (4.30). Areas considered in clear need of development are giving feedback and internal communications. Key areas of the company’s operational plan during the financial period were improving internal communications to ensure that modTHE COMPANY HAS DEFINED ITS ern, simple communication tools are in use, and encouraging MANAGEMENT PRINCIPLES AS FOLLOWS: senior management, supervisors and management to more • Targets must be clear and their results measurable fully embrace their key role in communicating with employees. • Sufficient time must be reserved for supervisory work – time management is key Managing diversity is natural for Saga Furs due to the global • People must be coached in bearing nature of its operations and its multicultural personnel. In that their responsibility respect, the company truly is a pioneer. The work carried out • Interaction must function well at the company is production-related, physical labour that is • Attitudes must be positive impossible to perform outside of the work location. At the • We must challenge ourselves to develop same time, with the increase in technological developments 48 49 instilling this approach is having employees bear responsibilThe grading and auctioneering that are central to the ity for making safety observations. Safety observations concompany’s business could not be carried out without temposist of so-called “near miss” situations and of encouraging rary employees. The strategic importance of temporary staff employees to make constructive suggestions for improving is highlighted by the fact that the fairly extensive employee occupational safety. benefits provided by the company are similar for permanent and temporary staff after a certain period of employment. A new method of reporting safety observations is the mobile application for safety observations. Safety observations One of the benefits exceeding the statutory level is an addican be submitted via smart phones by reading the QR code, tional week of paid holiday. This results from the fact that, at which opens up an electronic safety observation form. The Saga Furs Saturdays are not included in annual holidays, even system speeds up the processing of and reaction to observathough Saturdays are included under the Finnish Annual Hotions, and it improves the analysis thereof. lidays Act. Employees in production duties have a ten-minute break per working hour. Temporary staff is paid 2.5 days per The number of accidents (incl. workplace accidents and month in holiday compensation if separate temporary emplocommuting accidents) that occurred during the period under yment relationships have lasted at least 18 months in aggrereview remained at the same level as the previous period. gate. The collective labour agreement and the Finnish Annual Costs arising from workplace accidents declined, however, Holidays Act do not require this. whereas costs from commuting accidents increased on the previous period. There were no cases of occupational disAfter 18 months’ work history, all employees, both permanent eases during the reporting period, and there was one case of and temporary staff, fall within the scope of the company’s a suspected occupational disease. annual bonus scheme. Its objectives of are revised by the Board of Directors annually. It is based on the company’s profits and the realisation of cost-efficiency. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS In all its operating countries, Saga Furs provides its permanent and temporary staff with the employee benefits required by local legislation. sickness absences Accidents 2013 2012 Seasonal employees Regular employees Accidents, excluding 9 9 4.79 3.89 commuting accidents Commuting accidents 3 3 accident frequency 2013 2012 Accident frequency 34 34 % of theoretical regular working hours Average loss 1,973 1,973 Sickness day frequency 509 509 Sickness days per accident 15 15 Vantaa COPENHAGEN MILAN NEW YORK 50 PRODUCT LIABILITY THE NEED FOR EXTENSIVE The traceability of the production chain is growing in imporResponsible marketing also means that the company moniDOCUMENTATION tance. Saga Furs develops, monitors and encourages the entire industry and, also through its own activities, strives totors discussions that take place in the scientific community about the Latin names of the pelts it markets. The names may THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE wards even more sustainable fur production. The company’s change on the basis of new scientific discoveries, as new VALUE CHAIN HAS LED TO auction logistics guarantee that information about the origin of names are introduced in literature as new research results MORE AND MORE the product and the farm it came from remains in the product become available. In terms of traceability, it is important that INTERNATIONAL FASHION COMPANIES throughout the entire process (Saga Traceability System® ). the same names are used at all levels of trade. REQUIRING Garment tags or decorative tags for pelts that are entitled to The need for extensive documentation throughout the entire THAT THEIR SUPPLIERS use the Saga® trademarks (Saga® Lumi Royal, Saga® Royal value chain has led to more and more international fashion USE SAGA® PELTS. and Saga® Superior) are given to customers on the basis of the products they purchase. By linking the customer’s own origin system to the chain in the steps that follow, traceability companies requiring that their suppliers use Saga® pelts. As a result, interest in the trademark has increased further among Chinese clothing manufacturers working as subconcan be extended all the way to the end consumer. tractors for Western companies. As early as in the 2009/2010 financial year, the company created a traceability management system in co-operation with the international fashion company Burberry. It is possible to trace the farms that produced the pelts on the basis of pelt purchases. The company has been active in designating dressers and manufacturers among its partners that enable the same traceability to a number of international fashion companies. Communication related to the Saga® trademark begins with the company’s values: reliability, profitability and responsibility. The company does not claim to be perfect, but it does do more to promote responsibility than other operators in the industry. Saga Furs communicates openly about possible deficiencies and problems. At farm visits, representatives of international fashion houses have been shown, for instance, the section containing sick animals. In co-operation with ProFur’s veterinarian, the type of illness, how to treat it and how to proceed if treatment does not help is determined. Although issues concerning animal welfare fall under the responsibility of the company’s co-operation associations, as a seller of pelts, Saga Furs forwards the information to its customers if something out of the ordinary occurs. 52 53 Case: SEMINARS TARGETED AT FASHION HOUSES AND DEPARTMENT STORES GOES MORE THAN SKIN-DEEP In order to assist retailers in addressing consumers’ questions In many cases, the decision is not based solely on the beauty, about fur, Saga Furs regularly organises seminars for the staff quality and chicness of the product, but on internal quality, i.e. of department stores and fashion houses in all market areas how, where, and in what conditions the animals were bred. – in the Far East, Russia, North America and Europe. Those who attend the seminars are buyers, design teams and sales Answers to these questions are offered at Saga Furs’ training staff working at the consumer interface. seminars. In recent years at these seminars, we have had to increasingly rectify misinformation spread through social meConsumer choices do not affect sales alone; they also affect dia. The participants at these seminars are briefed on Pan-Eusociety in general. Informed consumers demand their money’s ropean legislation as well as on Finnish fur farm certification. worth. When it comes to fur, through their responsible choices, consumers indirectly promote good animal care, proper workTraining in pelts in also offered at the seminars. The particiing conditions in fur industry companies, environmental considpants are given the opportunity to see how even a small fur erations, and many other aspects along fur’s long value chain. feature, carried out using the proper techniques, can add value to a product. The training always includes a segment dediMore and more buyers of fur garments are making increascated to how to take care of the garment, because good care ingly detailed inquiries before making a purchasing decision. will keep the valuable product in good condition for decades. 54 55 GRI G4 comparison chart According to its own assessment, Saga has applied the GRI G4 reporting guidelines according to “Core” principle. The report has not been validated by an external auditor, and GRI calculation criteria have not been followed with regard to all key figures. G4 Explanation CORE UNGC CORE + page additional information G4-3 Name of the organisation X 4 G4-4 Most important trademarks, products and services X 4 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s head offi ce X 60 G4-6 Area of operations X 4 G4-7 Operational structure of the organisation X 5 G4-17 Ownership structure and form of company X 5 G4-8 Market areas X 4 G4-9 Size of the reporting organisation X 5 G4-13 Significant changes to the size, structure, or ownership structure of the organisation X 57 No significant changes during the reporting period. G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract and gender X X 5 G4-LA1 Total number of new employee hired 5 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreement X X 5 G4-1 Managing director’s review X 6-7 G4-2 Key impacts of the organisation, risks and possibilities X 8-9 G4-28 Reporting period X 11 G4-29 Time of publication of the previous report X 11 G4-30 Report publication frequency X 11 G4-48 Highest governance body approving organization’s sustaibility report X 12 G4-56 Organization’s values, principles and standards X 10-12 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization X 19-21 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization X 19-21 G4-22 Causes for and impact of information deviating from previous reports X 19 G4-23 Most important changes to the scope of the report, its delimitations or measurement methods X 12-13 G4-18 Defining the report content and aspect boundaries X 12-13, 19-21 G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation X 12 G4-15 Commitment to external corporate social responsibility initiatives X 14 56 57 G4 Explanation CORE UNGC CORE + page additional information G4-16 Memberships in organisations X 17 G4-12 Organization’s value chain X 19-21 G4-25 Definition and selection criteria for stakeholders X 23-24 G4-26 Principles of stakeholder activities X 23 G4-19 Material aspects X 23-27 G4-27 Topics brought up by stakeholders X 31 G4-24 Stakeholders of the organisation X 28-30 G4-DMA Disclousure of the Management approach (Finance) X 33 G4-EC1 Produced and distributed direct financial added value X 34 G4-EC8 Key indirect financial impacts and their scope X 34-37 Significance of fur production, the influence of auctions on the capital city area G4-DMA Disclousure of the Management approach (Animal welfare) X 39 Included as a material aspect: GRI G4 guidelines does not contain DMA for animal welfare G4-DMA Disclousure of the Management approach (Environmental) X 43 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions X X 44 G4-EN19 Measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions X X 44-45 Fodder development G4-EN21 Nitrogen and sulphur dioxide emissions and other significant emissions X X 44 Fur farms emissions to ground and water sources G4-DMA Disclousure of the Management approach (Certified products) X 47 G4-EN27 Measures to reduce the environmental impact of products and services X X 45 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria X 47 Number of certified fur farms and changes to the previous report G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in value chain X 45 Dressing of furs (Case Green Dressing) G4-DMA Disclousure of the Management approach (Human resources) X 49 G4-LA2 Employee benefits X 50 G4-LA6 Number of accidents and occupational diseases, lost working days and absences x 50 G4-LA10 Personnel expertise development programmes and learning action programmes X 50 G4-LA11 Development discussions X 50 G4-DMA Disclousure of the Management approach (Product responsibility) X 53 G4-PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction X 55 G4-PR6 Compliance with acts, norms and voluntary rules related to marketing communications X 53 GRI G4 content comparison X 56-59 Contact information X 60 58 59 Street address: Telephone: +358 9 84981 Martinkyläntie 48, Vantaa, Finland Fax: +358 9 849 8319 E-mail: info@sagafurs.com Postal address: P.O. Box 4, 01601 Vantaa, Finland Communications: Päivi Mononen-Mikkilä Director of Communications and CSR Telephone: +358 9 849 8332
