Communication on Progress 2014 United Nations Global Compact Statement of support Dear readers, It is my pleasure to present the Communication on Progress Report prepared according to the UN Global Compact guidelines, which covers our activities in the field of human and labour rights, environmental protection and the fight against corruption for 2013-2014. Our hopes that 2013 would be remembered as the year of a turnaround in the economy have proved to be wishful thinking. Unfortunately, trends from the past have not reversed and 2013 is the fifth year of negative GDP growth in Croatia. Nevertheless, the good news is that, after long negotiations, on 1 July 2013 Croatia acceded to the EU. With already established NATO membership, the long term strategic goals of Croatia (i.e. joining Euro-Atlantic integrations), have been fulfilled and this should be recognized as a huge success. However, protracted economic and financial crisis in the world and in EU, as well as our domestic problems, have inhibited appearance of any noticeable economic benefits from the integration at this point. Still, we are confident that EU membership will bring benefits to our economy in the medium term. Five years of stagnating or falling GDP have had an impact on the real economy and, naturally, on the banking industry as a whole. So, during 2013 banking industry was faced with very low demand for loans while the government sector was the only exception to this trend. Additionally, the industry is faced with high liquidity that is pushing domestic interest rates on money market and T-bills to historical lows thus having negative influence on the net profits. Non-performing loans continued to grow although they are manageable. Current regulatory burden remained high while regulatory uncertainty could become an issue in 2014. In spite of this, Privredna banka Zagreb and its subsidiaries, supported by our strategic partners Intesa Sanpaolo and European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, managed to perform better than many peers. In spite of already mentioned unfavourable economic environment, we kept a steady course, also reflecting the resilience of our earnings power in challenging conditions and the strength of customer relations that we have been continuously building. The PBZ Group is well-fitted not only to face up to challenges, but also to seize opportunities. We have a strong capital base, liquidity and funding positions, preparing us for potential market uncertainties and for tighter regulation. We are continuously transiting to a better balanced, more diversified and lower-risk business model. Within this framework, we have defined our plans focusing on strengthening our position as fully client oriented providers of financial services. Needless to say, we will continue to respect all regulatory changes, as well as following technological developments and changes in business environment in refining our strategy. Responsible growth will continue to be our main strategic choice. Božo Prka, M.S. President of the Management Board 2 Brief description of the nature of our business Privredna banka Zagreb (PBZ) was founded in 1966 and has consistently been a leading financial institution in the Croatian market, with an established business base and a highly recognized national brand name. During all periods of its history, PBZ supported the largest investment programs in tourism, agriculture, industrialisation, shipbuilding, electrification and road construction. PBZ has become a synonym for economic vitality, continuity and the Croatian identity. Privredna banka Zagreb today is a modern and dynamic financial institution, which has actively sought and won the role of market leader on the financial markets in Croatia. It is a fully licensed bank with nationwide branch network. With its nationwide network of branches and outlets, as well as a broad group of banking and non-banking subsidiaries, PBZ is one of the universal banks that cover the whole territory of the Republic of Croatia. Nowadays, PBZ is the leading bank in Croatia in terms of subscribed share capital and the second bank in terms of total assets. Upon successful privatisation in December 1999, PBZ became a member of Gruppo Intesa Sanpaolo – the largest Italian banking group and one of the most significant financial institutions in Europe. With this partnership, supported by the EBRD through its non-controlling shareholding stake, PBZ has retained its business strategy aimed at modern forms of banking and new products, confirming its image of a dynamic and modern European bank, which meets the demands of the market and its clients. Privredna banka Zagreb currently employs some 3,713 employees and provides a full range of specialized services in the areas of retail, corporate and investment banking services. Our Vision To be a model company and a center of excellence in creating new values, as well as in providing high quality service in all of our activities to the benefit of our clients, the community, our stakeholders and employees. Our Mission Our mission is to make long-term and effective use of all resources at our disposal to continuously improve all aspects of our business activities, including human resources, technology and business processes. Our Corporate values: Integrity We pursue our goals with honesty, fairness and responsibility with the full and true respect of the rules and professional ethics and in the spirit of signed agreements. Excellence We set ourselves the goal of continuous improvement, farsightedness, anticipating challenges, cultivating extensive creativity aimed at innovation; moreover we recognize and reward merit. 3 Transparency We are committed to making transparency the basis of our activities, advertising and contracts in order to allow all our stakeholders to make independent and informed decisions. Respect for individuals It is our intention to combine large-scale operations with deep local roots and to be a bank with a broad vision, without losing sight of individuals. Equity We are committed to eliminating all forms of discrimination from our conduct and to respect differences in sex, age, race, religion, political and union persuasions, language or disability. Individual values The value of each single person is a guide for our modus operandi: we use listening and dialogue as tools for continuously improving our relationships with all our stakeholders. Responsibility in the use of resources We aim to use all our resources carefully, promote behavior based on the best use of resources and the avoidance of waste and ostentation, and we give priority to choices that take sustainability into account. 2014 Organizational chart: More information on: www.pbz.hr 4 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Unfortunately, macroeconomic trends from the past have not reversed and 2013 is the fifth year of negative GDP growth in Croatia. Among the rare good news, in July Croatia became a fully-fledged EU member after long negotiations. However, protracted economic and financial crisis in the world, and in particular in EU, as well as domestic problems have not so far brought economic benefits from the integration. In 2013 Croatia lost its investment credit rating that it got in 1996 and managed to maintain ever since. Current low interest rates present in the global financial markets are hiding the risk of much higher cost of servicing both public and private external debt. The beginning of 2014 brought some additional bad news for sovereign rating as Croatia was further downgraded. Main culprits for those downgrades are lack of fiscal consolidation and structural reforms. Soon after acceding to the EU it was clear that Croatia will be subject to the excessive deficit procedure (as defined by EU). As far as monetary policy is concerned, there were no major changes, apart from small amendments related to banking regulation. We are confident that maintaining the stability of the kuna exchange rate to euro will remain to be one of the main operative targets of the central bank in the future. As a result of negative trends in the real sector, unemployment continuously increased, while living standard decreased. The average annual inflation rate decreased to 2.2 percent. One can hope that in 2014, especially after expected positive effects from EU accession, the reform process will speed up, together with additional fiscal consolidation. In the text to follow, we give an overview of CSR activities in Privredna banka Zagreb in respect to the Global Compact Principles: Human Rights & Labour PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHT ABUSES PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION 5 PBZ completely respects all guidelines related to respect for human and labour rights which are regulated by the laws and Constitution of the RoC. Moreover, we continuously improve the quality of our working conditions, education and satisfaction of our employees. All employees are protected from any kind of discrimination by the PBZ Labour Relations Code and all decisions, regarding the employees, are approved by the Labour Council. We take all the necessary measures to protect our clients and improve our relationships with our suppliers. Actions taken: Code of Conduct The Bank recognizes the principles established by international conventions and has adopted the protection and maintenance of human rights as established by the Universal Declaration of 1948, as values of the Group. Our Code of Conduct, adopted in May 2010, was updated in September 2013 in order to additionally describe measures aimed at reinforcement of preventing the conflict of interest situations, even if potential ones. Our Code of Ethics is founded on a common system of values recognized within the Intesa Sanpaolo Group, of which we are a part. It is the framework within which we shape our everyday operations in relation to our stakeholders. In 2008 we undertook a series of activities aimed at promoting and establishing these common values amongst our employees. In 2009 the Code of Ethics was updated on the issue of transparency in remuneration. The model for the implementation and monitoring of the Code of Ethics was adopted in 2010. Latest update of the Code of Ethics was adopted in May 2012, further promoting values and principles at ISP Group level. Working conditions According to the principles of the Global Compact, respect for human rights is also seen in all the measures taken to ensure good working conditions and a safe and comfortable working environment for our employees.  Selection procedure and employment Employment policy is based on objectivity and transparency ensured by use of psychometric methodology consisted of psychological tests (intellectual ability, numerical and verbal reasoning, personality profile) and motivational interview. All candidates go through the same steps during their evaluation: application, psychological testing, interview, hiring. The experts in psychological evaluation are in charge for professional, trait evaluation and additional mutual evaluation of HR experts and competent manager ensures objective and adequate evaluation of candidates’ expertise. The selection procedure enables equal opportunities for all candidates and tries to match job requirements with the competencies of candidates to ensure best performance and long-term employees' satisfaction. All personal data of candidates are protected and confidential. The great accent is put on sending feedbacks to all candidates that have participated in selection procedure. Starting from 2013, changes in selection process and internal rotation were made. Retail experience was put as a cornerstone for all new employees which should result in improved 6 internal communications and understanding between different organizational parts. Changes in internal rotation procedure made possible for employees to make a career change more easily.  Structure of employees and management bodies → Total employment in the Bank State as on 31st Dec 2013: 3,713 employees Structure (31st Dec 2013): 980 men (26%) 2,733 women (74%) → Education Break-down of work force according to level of education and gender (degree, diploma, other): University Degree: 53,2 % (Bachelor, Master) High school: 46,0 % Other: 0,8 % → Age structure Executives: 65 (2%) Officers: 553 (15%) Employees: 3,095 (83%) <=30: 493 (13%) 31-50: 2,227 (60%) >50: 993 (27%) According to the age and category, the majority in PBZ are employees between 31 and 50 years old.  Education and development of employees PBZ carefully and thoroughly plans the development and training of all employees, investing in creating a pleasant work environment, and endeavors to enable the fulfillment of the professional goals of individuals. Alongside the standard intern program, in cooperation with other companies and external experts, we continuously run courses in foreign languages, information technology, specialist programs, in-house academies and programs aimed at developing managerial and highly technical skills. In 2013 the total number of participants in these educational programs was 2.721 and a total of 13.680 days of training. It brings us to the respective average number of 3.7 training days per employee. In February 2007, the bank established the PBZ Business School that provides continuous managerial training programs for employees with high managerial potential on three levels: young potentials, junior managers, senior managers. In 2013 the fifth generation graduated the 3 year program. In 2013 PBZ business school counted 158 active participants. By having more than 19 % of our employees involved in these programs we have made a significant impact in the sense of company identity 7 In March 2012 PBZ launched new educational project IT – academy. Target group of this internal educational program are IT-employees who through the 8-module program develop their professional skills having in focus specific requirements of finance branch and PBZ activities. In 2013 the first generation, in total 48 IT experts, graduated one year program. Also new generation, which counts 46 participants, started program in year 2013.  Evaluation of work results and individual results Work results and individual results are being evaluated through the annual performance appraisal. Each employee is being evaluated through Key Performance Indicators achievement. For balancing goals that will ensure professional growth and success with those that ensure responsible business two sets of goals are predefined. One set of goals are financial/quantitative goals that as a target have objective measures and easily evaluated results. However, in the same time and equally weighted, as their key goals for the year managers get a set of sustainability goals that are qualitative, based on criteria that do not have direct financial impact and that ensure responsible business towards all sides included. All employees have also differentiated goals concerning the team role in their fulfillment. Through sharing one of the goals on the team level, team work and striving towards team goals is encouraged. In addition to goals setting and evaluating, 'soft' criteria as level of key competencies development and customer satisfaction index are included in performance evaluation to encourage cooperation and client-oriented approach. New system empowers and gives employees responsibility for fulfilling goal's which are more closely related to bank's results. From 2013, a novelty in evaluation of work results for sales force was implemented. Through it, the additional focus is put on balancing sales results and responsible, long-term business activities on all sales levels from strategic to individual decisions. Important part of annual appraisal is setting goals for the next year with mutual (manager and employee) evaluation conversation where it is important for both sides to discuss their viewpoints, expectations and possible problems. Through HR IT system, eHR every employee has insight in his own performance goals, expected date of fulfillment and comprehensive performance evaluations history. In case of dispute regarding performance appraisal, employee has a right to ask for internal arbitration which is mediated by HR.  Organizational climate and satisfaction at work The 2013 Worldwide ISP Group employee survey was conducted in order to collect relevant information about the organizational climate in the PBZ Group. Responses from 1600 PBZ Group employees were collected meaning that a total of 41.3% PBZ Group employees participated in the survey. This shows a slight increase in the response rate, compared to previously conduct annual surveys. The survey results offer valuable and useful information about PBZ Group and its functioning within the ISP Group. Our employees report the highest level of job satisfaction within the ISP Group, with this trend continuing since previous years. The responses indicate that our employees rank third in the ISP Group by their pride of their job. Relationships with colleagues and education opportunities stand out as the most important aspect of work for our employees, while income and prestige are the least important. The survey offered important insight in the problems our employees face and what they see as troublesome for our clients. The employees miss adequate information and they feel our client satisfaction is mostly reduced due to bureaucratic processes and hard to understand procedures. The biggest improvement since last year is noticeable in our employee perception of their direct superiors. Employees perceived a noticeable shift of direct superiors towards cooperative leadership and they are seen in a more positive way. Regarding the ISP Group, a slightly less positive perception is noticeable than in the previous years. PBZ Group employees report an insufficient familiarity with the ISP Group and its management. This trend of reduced positive perception is present in the entire ISP Group. *Thanks to the implementation of a series of socially responsible practices, PBZ is one of the first Croatian companies that have obtained the basic 'Mamforce Company' Standard. The same is awarded to organizations that implement 'family friendly' policies which means that 8 were successful in achieving a work-life balance, i.e. a successful organization of work and working environment, especially for working mothers who, in this way, are enabled to realize both a smooth professional career development and responsible parenting.  Trade unions The right to participate actively in activities promoted by the Trade Union organization for the protection of the rights of the individual and the collective is guaranteed to all employees. Trade Union of PBZ Employees has 1444 members.  Incentives PBZ incentive system is based on different types of incentives such as:  managerial bonus for managers and key employees  network incentive system (for Retail, SME, Corporate and Recovery Division employees) that came into the force on 1st Jan 2013*  Easter, Holiday and Christmas rewards for all employees  project bonuses for employees included in different Bank projects  system of promotion according to individual performance and achievement of each employee  other benefits (company cars for managers, lap tops, mobile phones etc.) PBZ also has a range of nonmaterial motivators that offers to its employees (PBZ Standard association for sport activities and recreation, health examination every 2 nd year, discounts on product and services of PBZ clients etc.) * In accordance with the initiative from the mother company Intesa Sanpaolo, International Subsidiary Bank Division (ISBD) and with regards to the need to establish the unified methodology of remuneration at the level of the entire ISP Group for sales network staff, Human resources Division in co-operation with relevant business Groups at the end of 2012 implemented the new system of stimulating sales, that includes sales jobs in the following business Groups/organisational parts: Retail Group – branch offices and outlets Small and Medium Enterprises Group – SME business centres Corporate, Treasury & Investment Banking Group – sales segment Recovery Division – employees in recovery activities The new system is based on stimulating sales activities, transparent and objective motivation of sales staff, within the budget framework, while maintaining an adequate risk control.  Safety at work and health Socioeconomic and health care activities are organized within the Human Resources Division and these are: health checks for trainees and persons who will be recruited in the Bank, preventive health care examinations for all employees at the best Croatian medical institutions (every second year), flu vaccinations, providing support to employees who are on longer maternity leave with sick child or who work part time job, giving help to employees and their family members in purchasing medicaments and paying for medical treatment etc. Socioeconomic care include: protection of former and current employees of the Bank and giving scholarships for their children. In this domains are also include psychological crisis intervention (organized for employees and clients who were witnesses of bank robbery) and organize summer holidays in Follonica for children of PBZ group and ISP Card employees. 9 Besides the above, in this domain was conducted education of employees from the Bank, named How to manage personal finances providing help with making personal financial decisions, to determine their short-and long-term goals, and alignment with the capabilities and preferences with regard to income and expenditure in order to change some of their habits and behavior and achieve better and more secure financial future. Education included all employees who wanted to learn the technique of managing personal finances. In line with the Safety at Work Act, a Safety at Work Committee has been founded, and the responsibilities of the committee are regulated by a Book of Rules. The role of the committee is also to supervise the application of safety at work regulations, informing employees of the situation regarding safety at work, and implementing policies to prevent injuries and occupational diseases. Also, one person is appointed by a special Management Board Decision as a Safety Protection Commissioner. There is a sport and recreation association in the Bank called PBZ Standard, which offers various sports and recreational programs as well as the educational program Towards Better Health for employees of the PBZ Group (and members of their families).  PBZ Standard PBZ STANDARD Association for sport recreation and health improvement is an association whose registered scope of activity includes organization of recreational and sports-educational activities and whose members can be PBZ Group employees. Use of organized recreation is also open to the immediate families of employees, meaning their spouses and children. The Association has been active for nine years. In September 2014 PBZ Standard has about 2,200 members from all PBZ Group Subsidiaries. The fundamental purpose of the Association is to achieve better health and general well-being through the achievement of its objectives, which will positively affect the satisfaction and welfare of employees, directly improving their mental and physical health. This effect may significantly contribute to reducing the rate of sick leaves which are increasingly caused by a sedentary lifestyle and reduced physical activity of employees. With the help of PBZ Standard, employees are encouraged to engage in more physical exercise and sports activities, i.e. to lead a more active lifestyle which also increases their quality of life. PBZ STANDARD strives to provide recreation through as many sports as possible so as to stimulate Bank employees to socialize with each other and jointly contribute to the achievement of set goals, as well as to strengthen their team spirit and make them aware of the fact that it is easier to achieve such goals with joint forces. That is why PBZ Standard expands its recreation offer throughout Croatia, ensuring that employees in as many as possible cities have possibility for recreation. PBZ STANDARD organizes activities under the TOWARDS BETTER HEALTH initiative. Through that initiative the Association organizes lectures and workshops on prevention of the most common diseases of modern times and introduces new special recreational possibilities like medical gymnastics. One of PBZ Standard's activities is also arranging a large number of discounts with the PBZ Group clients that offer discounts on their products and services to PBZ Group employees. About all its activities and news the Association is regularly informing PBZ Group employees through internal house organ and intranet. From 2013 greater focus is put on cycling and encouraging employees for greater use of bicycles as a mean of transport. Steps toward improvement of cycling infrastructure are already done and some special prices for cycling equipment are agreed.  Internal communications The internal communications system is very well developed through various channels: Intranet, email, the internal magazine Moja Banka (published in the on-line edition) and the monthly internal newspaper PBZXpress (regular published every 15th in month, 12 times in year, specificity is that readers manage content employees correspondents). 10 Through internal newspaper – PBZXpress, we organize a number of contents and activities for our employees and their children. After the action in which we are the last two years with the help of the children's employees collected toys for some children's home, in November 2013th we decided to make a step forward and organized humanitarian action „Make my wish come through“ in which all PBZ employees could participate. We have contacted 8 children’s home and collected individual whishes from their children. Our idea was to give our employees opportunity to fulfill their wishes. Thanks to the exceptional interest of employees we have fulfilled 380 whishes. The action lasted until 20 December. Also, as part of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group, we are connected with colleagues from other banks through internal newsletters (Wats up, News from the group), and internal communication channels (Sharing Forum, etc...).They contain all relevant information and interesting details from the Banks within the Group and in this way contribute to a feeling of belonging to this large international and multinational group. Also, all employees are invited to contribute to the content of all the internal communication channels. Security and safety We believe that protecting the security of our customers, as well as their assets and confidential information, is not only a primary duty but also the basis of the trusting relationship that we wish to maintain with them and we:  undertake to protect persons, their assets and valuables, as well as their fund of information and internal organizational processes in such a way as to provide a service that completely meets the requisites of reliability, continuity and confidentiality  guarantee constant compliance with the law  observe criteria of absolute transparency in informing our customers about their rights to privacy and the way in which we handle their personal information. The Bank implements physical and technical security, fire protection, safety at work and other measures that ensure the protection of our clients and employees, their assets and valuables. The Bank also implements informational security measures and protocols that provide confidentiality to our clients. All security and safety measures are completely compliant to the legal regulations, and some even meet higher security standards than those required by law. Since 2009. PBZ has a certificate for information security ISO/IEC 27001:2005 for the system of authentication for the PBZ365@NET, mPBZ and PBZmToken users. Suppliers' chain We guarantee equal opportunity in the selection of suppliers, taking into account their compatibility with the size and needs of our company. We undertake to make sure that the contracts stipulated with our suppliers are based on fairness, especially regarding terms of payment and administrative compliance. In 2014 we have adopted new procurement rules according to ISP Group standards regarding the all aspects of procurement process including transparency, environmental and social responsibility. . Future goals: In the future period we will continue to promote company unity and increase transparency in employee relations through internal communication channels. Also, our goal is to adopt policies and offer conditions that will result in a first-rate working environment for all employees. In relation to our suppliers, we will ensure that the process of supplier selection is transparent and fair and establish a cooperative relationship based on dialogue and mutual trust. In 2015 we will 11 implement so called Supplier Portal, e.g. publicly available pages where any interested company can apply as a potential PBZ Group and ISP Group supplier Environment PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES We pursue the conscientious consumption of the resources necessary for carrying out our business and actively improving the energy efficiency of our activities. Actions taken: In 2011 we adopted the Environmental Policy with a view to clearly defining and emphasising our points on this exceptionally important and ever-present issue and in order to set up an official framework for further activities within PBZ Group. We have continuously been keeping track of our energy consumption and with various activities aim to reduce the consumption, while raising awareness of our employees on the importance of caring for the environment. On a regular basis we have been sending to our employees personalised emails so as to remind them about mandatory shutting down of their PCs after office hours, turning off their-conditioning and heating over the weekend, separating used paper from other waste for recycling purposes. Double sided copying of documents, which we introduced as our standard setting, reusable envelopes and other activities in that direction have resulted in a substantial decrease in the consumption of paper, which is clearly shown in the below table: Also, since June 01 2012, all the envelopes used in the Bank are made of recycled paper as well as A4 paper for automatic letter folding which resulted in a substantial increase in recycled paper 12 usage.We have introduced the additional recycled paper confectionary and some hygienic products (recycled paper towels and toilet paper). Installing energy efficient light bulbs and electronic ballast in order to cut energy consumption for lighting is a common practice. Upon replacement of worn-out equipment, attention is paid to having such equipment replaced with one of optimal characteristics (classic light bulbs are replaced with energy efficient bulbs, air-conditioning devices with inverter technology and of higher energy efficiency degree are installed, the material and elements of good insulation properties are used in construction, LED lighting is used in advertising signs and also, heat recovery ventilation is installed. As a result of our efforts in that direction since January 2013 we are official Partner in GreenLight Program. Future goals: We will continue to promote responsible use of environmental resources, especially efficient use of energy and paper and proper waste management. Also, we will increase employee training and information on environmental issues to raise awareness. Anti-Corruption PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY PBZ Group does not tolerate any form of corruption or bribery. 13 Actions taken: Corporate Governance PBZ systematically monitors best practice principles in the field of corporate governance, which are incorporated into PBZ’s operations in accordance with the principles of good banking practice. The principles of corporate governance are implemented through the principle of publicly accessible operations, the powers of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board, internal control systems and co-operation between the Management Board and the Supervisory Board. Suitability assessment of members of Management and Supervisory Board, as well as Key Function Holders is conducted on annual basis. An integral part of the Bank's internal control systems is the compliance function. Along with risk control functions and internal audits, it is a system of processes established with the goal of insuring that the Bank operates pursuant to all relevant legal and regulatory requirements, along with guidelines of the parent bank, codes and adopted professional practices. The compliance function guarantees the existence of rules, procedures and operating practices which efficiently prevent the breach or violation of applicable regulations in the area of all the Bank's business activities, including the areas of financial mediation, anti-money laundering, usury, transparency, embargo, payment systems, safety and health at work, personal data protection, as well as regulations in the area of environmental protection. In this respect, PBZ has appointed a Compliance Officer who investigates complaints or anonymous reports which may be sent by any employee on significant irregularities, illegal and/or unethical conduct. The Compliance Officer will insure, on the basis of such reports and pursuant to the internal regulations of the Bank, an independent investigation and adequate activities to followup such an investigation. Concerning these investigations, employees who report irregularities, illegal and/or unethical conduct in good faith, are protected from disciplinary measures or any other procedure or any other activity which might threaten the legitimate rights of such persons. Policies, Systems and Commitments that support anti-corruption principle include: ISP Group's Code of Ethics ISP Group's Code of Conduct PBZ Code of Ethics PBZ Code of Conduct Croatian Chamber of Commerce Business Code of Ethics Rulebook on Measures and Actions for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing with its constituent part – Indicators for suspicious transactions Guidelines for the Fight against Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing and for the Handling of Embargoes Sanction Management Rules. Moreover, Whistleblowing procedures have been enacted, as a part of this efforts, accomplishing alignment with new Credit Institutions Act. 14 Anti –Money Laundering, Combating Terrorism and Embargo The Republic of Croatia, with the aim of preserving or re-establishing international peace and security, has adopted restrictive measures and embargos imposed by the United Nations Security Council Resolution, resulting in the partial or full suspension or weakening of economic relations with one or more third world countries. When rendering decisions on implementing restrictive measures and embargos the Republic of Croatia, as a member state of the European Union since 1st July 2013, applies the common position or joint action of the member countries of the European Union. In addition, PBZ, as a member of the ISP S.p.A. Group, accepts the regulations on embargo stipulated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), in charge of management and implementation of economic and trade sanctions which the United States of America impose on foreign countries, terrorists, drug traffickers and all entities suspected of being involved in trade, manufacture or use of weapons of mass destruction. The repression of corruption in all its forms is an integral part of AML measures and activities conducted by PBZ. In that way the Know Your Customer standard which is incorporated in the Rulebook on Measures and Actions for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing implies learning more about the customers' habits, their activities, income, business environment and reasons for choosing our Bank as their commercial bank, including all other details that help us to have an overall picture of our prospective and existing customers, to minimize potential risks and to protect the good name and reputation of our Bank. In the aim to perform needed sanction checks of payment transactions as well as to perform customer due diligence the Bank implemented certain tools and regularly improves its applications and business procedures to be in line with new sanction demands imposed by relevant bodies.. In that sense, in the beginning of 2013 the Bank implemented new application Norkom/Detica for automated processing of certain AML activities (the Customer Due Diligence CDD and Know Your Customer KYC processes and detection of unusual and suspicious transactions and customers). This new application replaced solutions that the Bank has been using for CDD-KYC purposes and which solutions were developed in in-house applications. The Bank was Pilot Bank in the parent company’s Project to standardize IT and business performing of CDD-KYC and AML processes in its subsidiaries. In the framework of that Project and in line with obligations proscribed by the valid Anti Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Law PBZ adopted new Rulebook on Measures and Actions for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing in which are defined measures, actions and regulations to fight money laundering and terrorism financing, especially: money laundering and terrorism financing possible abuse, risk assessment, periodically risk reassessment, client due-diligence, highly risk categories of customers, process of the verification during establishing business relationship with customers assessed as high or medium risk or when customer risk increase during the duration of business relationship, appointing an authorized person and deputies, regular professional training and bank employee education, in-depth analysis measures conducted during business relation set up or transactions related according to the bank’s estimation, to publicly exposed political persons (PEP). These measures include a PEP statement on the sources of funds or assets that are the subject of business relations and transactions. In the framework of mentioned Project – new Guidelines for the Fight against Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing and for the Handling of Embargoes were adopted. Also, new Sanctions Management Rules were adopted. IT support is being continuously developing in other applications related to AML processes directly or indirectly. The Bank performed second overall yearly evaluation of AML Risk Exposure and internal control system. The overall evaluated risk is Medium, same as it was for previous year. It is based on the objective criteria throughout of the assessment of each of 17 indicators set out in the parent bank's document AML Risk Assessment – International Network. Subsidiaries. 15 Training The main purpose of PBZ’s training programs/activities is to introduce the basic values and principles which all employees should adhere to when performing their duties and professional tasks and obligations in order to become and remain in compliance. In the 2013 further number of employees were educated throughout: Classroom training – 1678 Bank's front office employees attended the classroom education in 63 educations (classroom trainings including case-studies). Education was organized by the Compliance Division regarding anti money laundering, combating terrorism and embargo issues, ethical principles, dealing with conflict of interest and personal transactions in general (including personal transactions in financial instruments), non armament policy, off shore policy. Training was organized through 4 regional branches (Zagreb, Split, Osijek, Rijeka) for all front-office staff. e-learning course – 1122 branch employees (Retail and LC/SME) went through e-learning module Introducing new AML processes and newly implemented application Norkom/Detica v.6.1 and changes in existing in-house applications NIS and FOR . In this view PBZ also uses various other channels of internal communication: Rulebook on Measures and Actions for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing distributed to all PBZ employees Video-presentation PBZ newsletter. These documents are also available to every employee on the Intranet. Capital Markets In the area of capital markets PBZ assumes dual role as issuer of financial instruments (PBZ shares are listed on Zagreb Stock Exchange) and provider of investment and ancillary services. Therefore, PBZ has adopted direct measures and procedures with the clear aim of preventing or interrupting any form of corruption or conduct that may be interpreted as being on the level of less than professional involving both of the previously mentioned roles. In that sense, and in addition to the previously mentioned tools, PBZ has three main principles around which its anti-corruption efforts (in the area of the capital market) revolve:  prevention of conflict of interest  management of the price sensitive information  supervision of the personal transactions of relevant employees. In December 2013, new Conflict of Interest Management Policy was adopted by the Management Board of the Bank, fully compliant with regulatory provisions valid in Republic of Croatia and with the Conflict of Interest Management Policy of the parent bank, which sets the standard for MiFIDscope subsidiaries on the level of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, with an objective to promote transparency and protection of clients and Banks interests, thus ensuring a safe and stable operation harmonized with legal and regulatory requirements. Conflict of Interest Policy prescribes the scope and measures intended to: 16  identify potential and/or existing conflicts of interest that may arise when providing investment and auxiliary services and performing investment activities (with a comprehensive list of situations which are presumed to imply potential conflict of interest),  define precautionary measures and procedures for the purpose of preventing or eliminating conflicts of interest,  define the process of resolving conflicts of interest in situations where precautionary measures are inapplicable,  set a high code of conduct standards and transparency in conducting business, expected to be observed by relevant persons,  have all Bank employees and relevant persons acquainted with the rules of procedure pertaining to the management of conflicts of interest in the field of provision of investment services and performance of investment activities. This Policy is designed as a supplement to the PBZ Code of Ethics, Code of Conduct and the Bank's other regulations and procedures, with particular focus on the capital markets and investment services issues. The Policy for Personal Transactions with Financial Instruments sets standards for professional conduct and:  defines and manages the price sensitive information and introduction of required measures securing that each person with access to the information fulfills all the prescribed obligations and is aware of sanctions prescribed for cases of misuse or unauthorized dissemination of such information,  designs measures and tools for management of personal transactions by relevant persons, i.e. the obligation to undertake measures in order to prevent the execution of prohibited personal transactions by relevant persons, inform the Bank in good time of all personal transactions by relevant persons and maintain records of personal transactions of relevant persons,  informs relevant persons and insiders and introduces them to their rights and obligations with regard to the price sensitive information and personal transactions in connection with using investment services and ancillary activities in terms of the Capital Market Act. Specifically, any relevant person intending to trade in financial instruments issued by PBZ should obtain the consent of the Compliance Division before giving an order for the purchase/sale of a financial instrument. Also, PBZ regulates comprehensively personal transactions of employees who manage relations with clients of the Bank/issuers of listed financial instruments with financial instruments pertaining to those clients as issuers. These internal acts demonstrate PBZ’s commitment to transparent conduct in providing investment services and activities and ancillary services pursuant to the Capital Market Act and relevant subordinate regulations, in order to ensure the best possible management of legal and reputation risks in relation to the price sensitive information. Note: All activities performed within PBZ are implemented throughout PBZ Group. 17 Membership PBZ is member of: the Croatian Banking Association Bank Association at the Croatian Chamber of Commerce Banking Association for Central and Eastern Europe Future goals: Since the PBZ Group does not tolerate any form of corruption or bribery or any form of improper conduct, it continuously strives to pass on its corporate values to all employees (training, e-learning etc) and to efficiently implement measures of control in relation to money laundering and terrorism financing. Further and continuous development and IT system support and sustained educational efforts are needed to improve and facilitate the suppression of money laundering and terrorism financing. Beside the Global Compact web site, this report will be available on www.pbz.hr. Contact information: Management Board Office for Corporate Communications John Knezović, Executive director Suzana Markotić Šilović, Corporate Communications Senior manager Adress: Radnička cesta 50, 10 000 Zagreb, Croatia E-mail: smsilovic@pbz.hr, www.pbz.hr Zagreb 2014 18
