Prevent group in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a member of global company that has over 14.000 employees and works at 35 locations worldwide. Idea of starting up production of car seat covers in Visoko dates back to August 1998. when Prevent Sarajevo d.o.o. Visoko was established. During the past 14 years, Prevent has grown rapidly and spread its core portfolio in all directions. Its portfolio consists of automotive and nonautomotive divisions. Automotive refers to the production of seat covers, leather and break disks and this is 90 % of its business here. Production of protective clothing, gummy boats and interior for yachts is under non-automotive division. Today, Prevent group BH employs 5000 workers at six sites and produces over 1, 5 million seat covers sets for 15% of automobiles in Europe. Supporting progress and knowledge acquisition Over the past fourteen years, Prevent employed one new person every day. It is the leading private employer in Bosnia and Herzegovina today and continuously invests in local community. Its corporate policy imposes establishment of standards of social responsibly in all segments of the company. Thus, Prevent takes care about transparency in the business, anti-corruption and respect of human rights. Knowing all this it tends to develop local community which grew together with Prevent throughout the years. Based on the corporate policy, Prevents uses domestic suppliers and therefore contributes to its further establishment. This company recognizes efforts for knowledge acquisition and progress. By support to Foundation Hastor Prevent yearly gives out 900 scholarships to socially vulnerable students. After finishing their studies these students have chance to work in the Prevent group and make further progress learning from the best economists, engineers, production managers etc. There is constant cooperation with universities both public and private in order to improve student’s understanding of theoretical studies as well as enhance their practical trainings. As a part of this collaboration 30 graduates from different faculties have gone throughout “Prevent school of automotive”. After training and testing was done 20 of these graduates were employed in the company. The aim of the training was to introduce automotive industry to students and show them how various segments in Prevent work. Each of them had chance to see the actual production flow and logistics management process. When it comes to surrounding local community there are different interest groups or target audience that Prevent takes care of. It mainly invests in youth and their development. Also, Prevent is traditional sponsor of local community festivals, sport clubs and cultural events. It has been partner of local handball club for over 6 years. There is also very close collaboration with kindergarten and tremendous support to schools at the local communities surrounding all six sites. Prevent supports young and very successful skiing talent thirteen years old Elvedina Muzaferija. This thirteen years old prodigy has been national champion for past few years and has won gold medals on the regional and world cups in Slovenia, Italy and Austria. “Prevent has been awarded as best practice in Corporate Philanthropy two years in a raw at the competition organized by Foundation Mozaik and agency Masta with partnership of IFC and UNDP.” Another very important aspect of Prevent’s corporate social responsibility is environment protection. Prevent wants to ensure clean and orderly environment in the plants as well as in local community. Wastewater treatment and biological filtration system for odors are integral part of the production facilities. This has been established in order to advance influence of Prevent production to the environment. In addition, Prevent is continuously seeking for new solutions to improve its production and water treatment. It tends to promote innovations and new technologies in order to enhance solutions for environmental issues. Nowadays, Prevent is in the process of obtaining ISO 14001. Prevent constantly invests in new projects and it is fully committed to development of national economy. Its success and way of business provides foreign investors best practice example. This makes Prevent leading private system and most wanted employer in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
