Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Contents Comments from the CEO Key events 2013 1 During 2013, we solidified the turnaround of the company. Our key operational Transcom in brief 2 ­performance indicators continued to improve, with a positive impact on profitComments from the CEO 4 ability. See page 4. Markets and trends 8 Business model and value creation 10 Client cases 18 Markets and trends Regional overview 20 The market for customer care outsourcing continues to grow at a healthy rate. At the People and sustainability 22 same time, client requirements are changCorporate governance 27 ing rapidly, emphasizing customer experience. See page 8. Risk management 32 Executive management 34 Board of Directors 36 Business model and value creation The Transcom share and shareholders 38 PROCESS Transcom’s customer experience frameBusiness IMPROVEMENT work is founded on solid business intelliDirectors’ report 39 ­intelligence and How we analytics deliver gence. The insight we gain through analytFive-year summary 42 customer experience ics enables innovation and also drives efficiency and cost savings through process Financial statements and notes 43 optimization. See page 10. INNOVATION Audit report 73 Financial calendar 74 People and sustainability Transcom’s CSR focus areas are people development, equality & diversity, and ­community engagement. See page 22. This integrated annual and CSR report serves as HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT Transcom’s Communication On Progress to the UN Principle 1–2: Principle 7–9: pages 1, 6, 7, 22–26, 33 pages 1, 6 22–26 Global Compact and is for the first time prepared in accordance with the International Integrated ReportLABOR ANTI-CORRUPTION ing Council’s Framework Principles. Principle 3–6: Principle 10: UN Global Compact principles are ­primarily pages 1, 6, 7, 22–26, 32, pages 1, 6 22–26, 31, 33 ­addressed on the following pages, but also in other 46, 52 parts throughout the Annual Report. ­Several other issues of importance, such as ­supply chain management, are also described in our Code of Business Conduct, Supplier Code of Business Conduct and on our website, www.transcom.com. Key events 2013 SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT SIGNED CONCERNING FORMER FRENCH SUBSIDIARY Transcom signed a €5.3 million settlement agreement in August Key financial highlights 2013, releasing it from any further liabilities with respect to the liquidation of its former loss-making French subsidiary. The €5.3 million cost should be viewed in the context of the significant Revenues Gross profit and EBIT negative cash flows generated by the former French subsidiary € million € million during the last few years, amounting to €12.5 million in 2012 800 150 alone. While Transcom no longer has any operations in France, 123,4 131,1 EBIT (adjuste we ­continue to offer French-language services to our clients from 605,6 653,2 120 111,9 111,8 EBIT (reporte 589,1 our near shore centers in Europe and North Africa. 600 560,2 554,1 95,8 90 SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT RESOLVING TAX DISPUTE IN ITALY 400 60 During the year, Transcom agreed with Italian tax authorities to resolve a tax dispute concerning the fiscal years 2003–2009. 30 The agreed amount was lower than the gross provision booked 200 0 against the initial tax claims, resulting in a positive effect on net income in 2013 amounting to €3.8 million. 0 -30 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 DIVESTMENT OF GERMAN CREDIT ■ ■ Gross profit MANAGEMENT SERVICES OPERATIONS EBIT On December 30, 2013, Transcom announced the successful EBIT (adjusted, excluding closing of the divestment of its German Credit Management non-recurring items) ­Services operations (CMS Germany) to Tesch Group, a portfolio company of Avedon Capital Partners, for €9.0 million on a cash and debt free basis. CMS Germany had a turnover of €9.0 million • 9.3% revenue growth in core CRM in 2012. business, net of currency effects ESTABLISHMENT OF OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA Transcom has opened a contact center in Cali, Colombia, sup­ • Adjusted EBIT increased by porting the company’s strategy to expand in fast-growing Latin ­American markets. The new site in Colombia will also strengthen €8.7 million to €17.6 million Transcom’s capability to offer near-shore English and Spanish-­ language services to North American clients, as well as offshore Spanish-­language services to clients in Spain. ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGES IN TRANSCOM CARES LAUNCHED AS OVERARCHING CORPOTHE NORTH AMERICA & ASIA PACIFIC REGION RATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE PROGRAM In order to increase focus and accountability in strategic markets, In November 2013, Transcom announced that the company has driving profitable growth in North America and the Asia Pacific established “Transcom Cares” as the overarching governance region, Transcom announced a realignment of the management ­program for its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities. structure in this region in December 2013. Transcom’s President Three prioritized focus areas make up the core of the program: & CEO, Johan Eriksson, has also assumed responsibility for the people development, equality & diversity, and community engageNorth America & Asia Pacific region. Neil Rae, formerly General ment. In addition to these focus areas, Transcom fully supports Manager for the North America & Asia Pacific region, has taken the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to responsibility for our operations in North America. Siva Subramahuman rights, labor rights, environmental care and anti-corruption niam, formerly Country Manager for the Philippines and Head of work. Therefore, as part of our on-going pledge to deliver an outSales for Asia Pacific, has taken over responsibility for our activities standing customer experience in a global sustainable society, in Asia Pacific. Transcom is a continued signatory of the UN Global Compact. Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 1 Transcom in brief A global customer experience ­specialist Transcom is a global customer experience specialist, providing customer care, sales, technical support and credit management services through our network of 62 contact centers and work-at-home agents across 26 countries on five continents. Transcom’s principal role is to positively impact customer loyalty and, thus, increase revenue through making service and support interactions as effortless and enjoyable as ­possible for our clients’ customers. global presence In Europe, Transcom has one of the largest customer management delivering outstanding customer experiences, helping our clients footprints in the industry and is also one of the larger customer drive satisfaction, brand loyalty and additional sales, while also care outsourcing operators serving North America. Whether improving process efficiency. onshore, ­offshore or near shore, Transcom’s people are focused on • Transcom is a global customer experience specialist, providing outsourced customer and credit management services • Established in 1995 and listed on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm since 2001 • €653.2 million revenue in 2013 • 29,000 people representing over 100 nationalities • 400+ clients in various industry sectors • 62 onshore, near shore and off-shore contact centers across 26 countries • Delivering services in 33 languages 2 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Transcom in brief Vision Mission Recognized as a global leader in Transcom enables companies • Innovative technology for ­customer experience.­ to ­enhance their business per­ ­capturing, processing and formance by improving the ­analyzing customer intelligence ­experience of their ­customers. • Continuously improved proWe accomplish this through: cesses, working methods and systems, for serving customers • Talented, experienced and and advising clients committed people, who deliver outstanding customer experi• Deep understanding of ence across a multitude of ­customer trends, needs and channels behavior Services and solutions Transcom’s service portfolio is designed to enable the creation of outstanding customer experiences, while also reducing cost and helping to drive growth for our clients. Our suite of services includes ­customer care, sales, technical support and credit management services, delivered through our extensive network of contact centers and work-at-home agents. Our customer experience specialists engage with our clients’ customers in multiple channels, including phone, e-mail, chat and in social media communities. Please read more about Transcom’s service portfolio on page 12. Revenues by region Revenues by industry Number of employees by region Other, 4% CMS, 9% Healthcare, 3% Communications, CMS, 3% North Europe, 18% North Services, 4% 61% North America Public Europe, North America & Asia sector, 6% 30% & Asia Pacific, 19% Retail, 7% Pacific, 37% Central & South Europe, 21% Iberia & Financial Latam, 20% ­services, 15% Central & South Iberia & Europe, 22% Latam, 21% Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 3 Comments from the CEO Transcom’s turnaround solidified During 2013, we solidified the turnaround of the company. Our key operational performance indicators continued to improve, with a positive impact on profitability. At the same time, we continued to grow our revenue at a healthy rate. In 2014, we will focus on three priorities in order to further enhance our performance: improving efficiency and creating profitable growth in North America, strengthening operational performance and financial predictability in the North Europe region, and driving efficiency and growth in Latin America. In 2013, we launched Transcom Cares as our global CSR governance program in order to ensure that we meet the expectations of all our key stakeholders. Three focus areas make up the foundation of the program: people development, equality & diversity, and community engagement. IMPROVED OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL STABILITY signed a settlement agreement concerning our former French subDuring 2013, we continued to focus on enhancing Transcom’s persidiary, stopping the considerable losses generated there over the formance. I am happy with the results we achieved in terms of past several years. While Transcom no longer has any operations in improving the company’s operational and financial stability, creatFrance, we will continue to offer French-language services to our cliing a solid foundation for future profitable growth. Transcom’s ents from our near shore centers in Europe and North Africa. We adjusted EBIT in 2013 was €17.6 million, an increase by €8.7 million also reached a satisfactory agreement with Italian tax authorities compared to 2012 (€8.9 million). We achieved this primarily during the year, resolving a tax dispute in that country. These issues through improved efficiency, higher business volumes and the had weighed on our results, created uncertainty, and have also conimplementation of cost savings measures. We continued to sumed significant attention from management. Therefore, I am improve on key operational metrics. Our seat utilization ratio very pleased that we were able to finalize these agreements in 2013. increased by one percentage point to 86%, and the proportion of The fact that we are now generating a stronger cash flow is revenue that we generate offshore, at higher margins, increased by important and very positive. During the last quarter of 2013, our net two percentage points to 22%. Our efficiency measures also debt decreased by €13.5 million. Our financial flexibility has also strengthened, while staff attrition was stable compared to 2012. improved following the successful renegotiation of our existing During the year, we resolved a number of short-term challenges, Revolving Credit Facility, which was due to expire in October 2014. which I described in last year’s annual report. For example, we Improvements on four KPIs vs. previous year We soldified the turnaround of Transcom in 2013 Key performance driver Trend vs. 2013 vs. 6 2012 2012 800 6.0 Average Seat Utilization ratio 87% vs. 85% 700 631.8 653.2 5 599.2 589.1 605.6 600 560.2 Share of revenue generated 554.1 4.4 4 offshore 22% vs. 20% 500 4.3 Average Efficiency ratio positive 400 3 (­billable over worked hours) ­development 300 2.7 Monthly staff attrition stable 2.2 2 200 1.5 1 100 0.7 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ■ Revenue, (€m) Operating margin*, % * Excluding non-recurring items. 4 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Comments from the CEO “We continued to focus on enhancing Transcom’s performance in 2013. I am happy with the results we achieved in terms of improving operational and financial stability, creating a solid foundation for future profitable growth.” ALL REGIONS CONTRIBUTED clients in the Asia Pacific region, e.g. in Australia and the PhilipTO HEALTHY TOP-LINE GROWTH pines. In the years ahead, we expect demand from companies in We continued to grow our top line at a healthy rate in 2013. Organic the Asia Pacific region to continue to grow at a rapid pace. We will growth in our core CRM business, net of currency effects, was focus on positioning Transcom to make the most of these attrac9.3%. All our regions contributed positively, mainly through tive market opportunities. expanding relationships with existing clients. In several cases, the Delivering on these plans, and improving results in the North excellent work from our delivery teams has allowed us to grow with America & Asia Pacific region, is of the highest priority for us. current clients in new geographies. I expect that this development Therefore, in order to increase focus and accountability, we will continue in 2014. Our long-term goal is to grow revenue at realigned the management structure and expanded the manageleast in line with the overall industry growth in the markets where ment team in the region, effective January 1, 2014. In addition to we choose to compete. my role as President & CEO, I have assumed responsibility for the North America & Asia Pacific region on an interim basis. Neil Rae is IMPORTANT PRIORITIES IN 2014 responsible for our operations in North America, and Siva SubraEfficiency and profitable growth in maniam leads our activities in Asia Pacific. Neil and Siva both the North ­America & Asia Pacific region report to me in my capacity as General Manager for the North While we made good progress in 2013, there are a number of America & Asia Pacific region. important issues we need to address in order to further improve profitability and complete the turnaround of the company. One of Improve operational performance and financial the most important priorities for 2014 is to improve results in North predictability in the North Europe region America, both through new business development and increased The pricing model currently used in the North Europe region efficiency. In response to the decreased seat utilization we have implies a relatively greater exposure to the accuracy of volume experienced in North America, partly due to the shift of volumes to forecasts, compared to other regions. Our staffing levels are deteroffshore locations, we have closed six contact centers since 2012. mined based on detailed volume forecasts, and an inaccurate proOur primary objective is to improve profitability while creating jection often leads to a situation where we are either overstaffed or opportunities for future profitable growth in North America. We are understaffed. This affects profitability as well as service quality for focusing on developing new business to be delivered from onshore the client. We did experience this situation at times during 2013, sites, complementing our offshore business. impacting our performance and financial predictability negatively. Since 2012, we have successfully more than doubled the busiOur target is to achieve an appropriate mix of pricing models used ness volumes we handle in our contact centers in the Philippines. in all regions, in order to avoid excessive financial risk associated In addition to expanding our offshore business, primarily serving with poor forecast accuracy. Consequently, we have begun impleclients in North America and the UK, we have also won several new menting a new agreement with one of our largest clients in the Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 5 Comments from the CEO region. This implementation will continue during 2014 with the TRANSCOM CARES, OUR GLOBAL objective of improving efficiency and financial predictability, while CSR GOVERNANCE PROGRAM also delivering a better service quality to our client. In order to be successful and create value, we need to meet the expectations of all our key stakeholders: our clients, employees Efficiency and growth in Latin America and investors, as well as the communities that we are a part of. This During the year, volumes delivered in Chile fell, necessitating the clois the basis for our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) work, sure of one of our sites in the country towards the end of the year. At which forms an integral part of our day-to-day business activities. the same time, we ramped up business with clients in Peru and At Transcom, CSR means that we always do our utmost to do the Colombia, also opening a new site in Cali, Colombia. These signifiright thing by our clients, our people and our communities. This cant volume adjustments have weighed on margins, and the stabiliambition is encapsulated in Transcom Cares, the overarching govzation of our operations in Latin America will be a key activity in 2014. ernance program for our CSR activities. While this program initially The establishment of operations in Colombia will support our covered our community engagement activities, we broadened the goal to expand in fast-growing Latin American markets. Colombia program’s scope in 2013 in order to provide strengthened govercontinues to evolve quickly as an attractive location for the delivery nance and coordination for all Transcom’s CSR focus areas. During of customer care outsourcing services, providing a competitive 2013, we also expanded our stakeholder dialogues, validating the cost structure, a growing labor pool, government support and an materiality analysis we performed in 2012 in order to identify and expanding economy. Our new site will also strengthen Transcom’s prioritize sustainability issues as well as risks and opportunities. capability to offer near shore English and Spanish-language serThree prioritized focus areas make up the core of the Transcom vices to North American clients, as well as offshore Spanish-lanCares program: people development, equality & diversity, and guage services to clients in Spain. community engagement. FOCUS ON DELIVERING OUTSTANDING People development CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE Every year, we hire thousands of new people on whom our busiTranscom enables companies to enhance their business perforness results depend. So it is not an exaggeration to say that people mance by improving the experience of their customers. Our vision truly make all the difference in our business. It is important for us to is to be recognized as a global leader in customer experience. be recognized as a responsible employer, attracting people and In order to succeed, we need to create an environment that brings strengthening our brand in all our local markets. We aim to create together innovative solutions, processes and technology with honest, flexible, safe and comfortable working environments where ­people. I am very pleased with the many projects we implemented our people can develop their careers and enjoy their working lives. during 2013 in order to improve business processes and create a better customer experience. I invite you to read more about our Equality and diversity approach on pages 10–19. You will also find a couple of cases there The global presence and demands from the more than 400 interthat exemplify how we work together with our clients to enhance national brands that we serve has made us a forerunner in equality customer loyalty and improve process efficiency. and diversity. We are focused on attracting top talent and retaining Important priorities in 2014  Increase onshore seat utilization in North America  Successfully implement action plan to improve operational p ­ erformance in the North region  Improve operational performance in Latin America 6 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Comments from the CEO people to build a truly global company that is prepared to meet and deliver towards diverse business cultures in all corners of the world. We strive for gender equality on all levels, and are dedicated to showing that equal opportunity employment is part of our DNA. Community engagement We believe that a committed involvement in the communities in which we operate not only strengthens our employer brand, but also maintains our license to operate in the markets where we choose to compete. Many of our community engagement activities depend on our employees’ passion to contribute their time and energy, making us all proud to work at Transcom. UN Global Compact In addition to the three CSR focus areas described above, Transcom fully supports the ten principles of the UN Global C ­ ompact with respect to human rights, labor rights, environmental care and anti-corruption work. These principles are an integral part of our corporate strategy, business culture and day-to-day operations. Therefore, as part of our on-going pledge to deliver an outstanding customer experience in a global sustainable society, Transcom is a continued signatory of the UN Global Compact. We are wholeheartedly committed to ensuring that we comply with the UN Global Compact and its principles. Let me close by thanking all our employees for your hard work and strong commitment, which were central to our achievements in 2013. Johan Eriksson President & CEO of Transcom Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 7 Markets and trends Changing and growing market for customer management outsourcing Continued industry growth driven by domestic markets Customer management BPO markets in Asia Pacific and Latin America USD million The global customer management outsourcing market is expected to grow 40,139 40 000 2013–17 CAGR by approximately 5% annually from 2012 to 2017. In some markets, the Other growth rate is expected to be significantly higher: ~20% in emerging Asian 32,924 5.5% North America Emerging economies and 8–9% in Latin America. 30 000 8.6% Latin America A growing middle class and an increased penetration of smartphones and 2.7% Western Europe Mature A mobile technologies in emerging markets will drive the need for services in 1.7% Eastern Europe native (non-English) languages. This domestic expansion will generate new20 000 1.3% Mature Asia/Pacific Eastern E growth opportunities for customer care outsourcing companies. 19.6% Emerging Asia/Pacific Western An increased use of outsourcing also presents an opportunity for addi10 000 14.1% Other tional growth. Only 20% of the global customer care market is outsourced Latin Am today, but the number of new contracts has grown steadily since 2010. North Am Source: Gartner 2013 and Everest Group 2014 0 2013 2017e Non-voice interactions set to overtake phone in 2017 Customer management BPO markets Digital natives expect customer service to be accessible at all times. They by channels also expect to be able to resolve their issues via the channel of their choice, without the hassle of having to switch modes of communication. 100 Today, almost 80% of revenue for customer care outsourcing companies 22% is generated by voice-based services, i.e. phone. However, multichannel and 80 automated self-service solutions are growing rapidly. Gartner predicts that 50% Nonvoice non-voice services will overtake the voice channel in 2016 or 2017. 60 Growth is expected to be highest in the web, chat, SMS and mobile app 78% channels. Less complex issues will increasingly be resolved via self-service 40 tools or non-voice interactions, resulting in fewer voice calls for contact cen50% Voice ters. At the same time, more complex issues will migrate to the voice channel. 20 This will put pressure on current business models, e.g. in terms of staff recruitment and training, price models and performance measurement. 0 2013 2017e Source: Gartner Businesses need to invest in processes and Percentage of companies that have invested in solutions to handle the non-voice shift multi-channel customer service strategy According to a study by Gartner, most organizations are ill-prepared to 20% ­handle the rapid shift towards non-voice solutions for customer service. 20 In 2013, only 2% of the companies had invested in a multichannel customer service strategy, enabling them to provide a consistent customer 15 experience in all channels. Up to 2015, it is estimated that this number will grow to 20%, creating new business opportunities for service providers with strong non-voice capabilities and offerings. 10 Source: Gartner 2013 5 2% 0 2013 2015e 8 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Markets and trends Proactive engagement increases loyalty Studies have concluded that reducing the effort and time customers have to spend to get their issue resolved drives increased loyalty. Research shows that exceeding customer expectations during service interactions (e.g. by offering a refund or a free product) makes little difference in terms of customer loyalty. Instead, what customers really want is a ­simple, quick solution to their issue. Forrester expects an increasing number of companies to explore proactive engagement in order to improve customer service and reduce effort. For example, customer insight can be used to proactively reach out to customers at the right time, when they are likely to require assistance. For example, if a customer has spent more than 45 seconds on a self-service website, they might automatically be invited to chat with a customer service representative who will help solve their problem before they have to call customer service. Source: Corporate Executive Board 2013 and Forrester Research, 2013 Customer experience is becoming more important What are the top three most important objectives your as a competitive differentiator organization strives to achieve through outsourcing? The top three most prioritized objectives for businesses to outsource their customer care are to reduce costs (52%), improve the Reduce costs quality of business processes (42%) and improving customer 23% 15% 14% experience (33%). To be able to meet client expectations, customer care outsourcImprove the quality of your business processes ing companies need to continue to optimize processes and deliver 15% 15% 12% cost efficiencies while at the same time developing new Improve customer experience approaches and business models in order to stay relevant. Suppli11% 11% 11% ers need to improve their knowledge about customers’ channel preferences, as well as train and empower their agents to deliver excellent customer experience in all channels. Ranked 1st Ranked 2nd Ranked 3rd Source: Gartner 2013 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 9 Business model and value creation What is customer experience? Customer experience has become a popular catchphrase in the last few years, as companies in many industry sectors attempt to differentiate themselves in an increasingly competitive market“I feel good about that.” Enjoyable place. One can think about the notion of customer experience from many different angles, since it is really the sum total of a customer’s experience with a product, a service, or a brand. There is a multitude of “touch points” where a customer can interact with an “I didn’t have to work hard.” Easy organization, e.g. when evaluating, purchasing, using, or getting support for a product. And a customer’s perception of his or her interactions at each of these touch points influences the overall “I accomplished experience and, ultimately, customer loyalty. my goal.” Meets needs Forrester Research highlights the importance of perception in their definition of customer experience: “Customer experience is how your customers perceive their interactions with your comSource: Forrester Research pany.” Forrester also argues that customers perceive their experiences at three levels: meets needs, easy, and enjoyable. Our brand promise: Delivering outstanding customer experience 10 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business model and value creation What is Transcom’s role? Transcom’s principal role is to positively impact customer loyalty Transcom has an important role in helping to make sure that cusand, thus, revenue through making service and support interactomers form positive perceptions of their interactions with our clitions as effortless and enjoyable as possible. Our clients expect us ents’ companies. To many of our clients, the quality of their custo deliver service to their customers in a reliable, consistent, and tomer care operations is indeed fundamental to their ability to cost-effective way. At the same time, it is essential to stay agile as execute their service-based strategies to increase loyalty, retention conditions and client requirements can change quickly. Also, the and customer sales. This is why they partner with Transcom, proliferation of new channels and technologies requires us to conwhose core business is to deliver excellent multi-channel customer stantly innovate and refine best practices together with our clients service and support. in order to remain competitive. CUSTOMERS transcom Clients Value for our clients’ customers Transcom Value for our clients • Ability to get information, or resolve an • Transcom’s operations add value to • Improved customer experience, leading issue, quickly and with minimal effort our clients’ businesses by supporting to higher loyalty • Ability to use voice and non-voice the creation of outstanding customer • Increased sales channels as required. experiences, while reducing cost and • Lower cost and improved quality of helping to drive growth • Receive attractive, personalized offers, business processes based on an understanding of potential • Access to technology and best practices needs • Analytics capabilities, improving customer understanding Service and support in multiple channels Companies have to invest in, and conPrimary channels used: sistently engage with customers, in • Telephone, including voice and interactive an ever-growing number of channels. voice response (IVR) self-service Transcom can assist clients in providing • Email response management a consistent, customized customer experience that can move seamlessly • Web chat across voice and non-voice channels as • Social media monitoring and response the customer requires. • Knowledge management for Web-based self-service Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11 Business model and value creation How Transcom contributes to a better customer experience Besides cost savings, the most important reasons for outsourcing customer care are to improve business processes and create a better customer experience. Transcom’s approach is built on the collection and analysis of sound and solid data. The insight we gain together with our clients enables innovation and also drives efficiency and cost savings through operational process optimization. Our Services Customer acquisition Customer retention Acquiring new customers cost-­ Preventing defection and maximizing efficiently, and building strong custhe lifetime of a customer. tomer relationships as a basis for future interactions. Customer service Technical support Customer experience specialists Tiered support models, from the sim­trained to support best-in-class plest questions to more complex sup­product, service and brand experiport scenarios. ences for our clients’ customers. Crossand upselling Credit management Building relationships and identifying services (CMS) customer needs during any type of Early collections, Contingent interaction, and taking appropriate ­collections and Legal collections. action to satisfy the customer’s need. 12 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business model and value creation Transcom’s customer experience framework Business intelligence and analytics PROCESS IMPROVEMENT • Data Mining • Continuous Improvement • Reporting and Information Accuracy –Process Development • Analytics –Process Implementation –Operational Efficiency –Process Audit and Control –Business Process Improvement –Change Management Business PROCESS intelligence IMPROVEMENT • Performance Management –Operational Insight and analytics How we deliver customer experience INNOVATION INNOVATION • Knowledge Management • Web/self-service design • Social Media • System Development • Marketing and Promotion –Portfolio Management –Cost Benefit Analysis ANALYTICS – THE KEY TO HAVING REAL IMPACT ON ple. This is a technology that delivers rapid insight into a range of CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE improvement opportunities, based on an analysis of a large numThe customer care industry is exceptionally data-driven. In order to ber of customer conversations. Some of the benefits of speech run the business efficiently and track our performance against key analytics include an improved understanding of customer behavperformance indicators, an immense amount of data is automatiiors, potential revenue opportunities, as well as positive and negacally collected on Transcom’s 1.4 million daily customer interactive aspects of service interactions. tions. This is complemented by significant amounts of additional At Transcom, analytics is all about understanding how to maxiinformation, most of which is gathered during live customer intermize the positive impact we have on our clients’ organizations. Data actions. collection and analysis is becoming more critical as our clients The data can offer crucial insights for Transcom and our clients expect us to play an ever-greater role in improving customer loyin terms of enhancing the understanding of customers, and the alty. Also, analytics is being applied to an increasing number of drivers of loyalty and disloyalty. Root cause analysis is a powerful areas, both to improve customer experience and create efficiency example, giving insight into the fundamental reasons that customimprovements. For example, as the number of interaction channels ers contact us. This type of analysis can, for example, uncover keeps growing, structured analysis can help make better decisions issues that drive unnecessary contacts. Successfully addressing in terms of “right channeling” different types of issues, i.e. proacthese factors often reduces customer effort, thus improving custively directing contacts to the channel that is best suited to tomer experience and loyalty. Speech analytics is another examaddressing the customer’s need. Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13 Business model and value creation ONGOING PROCESS IMPROVEMENTS, DRIVING EFFICIENCY ment and organizational culture adaptation has been refined over AND COST SAVINGS many years across several hundreds of deployments in different Given the high level of complexity in successfully managing a conindustries and geographies. tact center, coupled with the rapid pace of change, effective proWe are also continuously investing in processes, methods and cess management is vital. Streamlining and standardizing basic tools that help our people deliver better services with lower risk, aspects of service delivery, and ensuring quality control, is fundahigher consistency and better efficiency. One example of this is a mental. Our clients expect us to continuously improve our working knowledge base that Transcom created in 2013 for a global conprocesses in order to ensure efficiency as well as high-quality intersumer electronics client in order to lower handle time and improve actions with their customers. Analytics can have a powerful impact quality and productivity. Before the implementation of the new tool, in this area as well, creating new insights into how processes, techthe information supporting the customer service representatives nology and people can come together in order to generate superior was inconsistent and resided in multiple, non-integrated, systems. results. The new one-stop-shop solution brought together process maps, Although automation and self-service solutions are becoming decision trees, simulators, FAQs and product how-to information. more important in our industry, effective workforce management is The information is continuously refined and enriched by agent fundamental to running a customer care operation, not least to feedback, content ratings and rankings of the most viewed secmanage the inherent volatility in our industry. Therefore, workforce tions. Since the launch of the system, average handling time has optimization is at the very core of Transcom’s client proposition. decreased while customer satisfaction scores are up by 14 percentOur approach to recruitment, induction, performance manageage points. 1.4 million daily customer interactions 14 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business model and value creation CONTINUOUS INNOVATION IN ORDER TO STAY AHEAD Transcom’s management model encapsulates a set of common Innovation, agility, and best practice implementation are some of value creation elements that we apply to most situations. However, the most important things our clients say they expect Transcom to the use of the model is tailored to each specific case, and the methbring to their customer service organizations. They want us to push ods we employ are constantly sharpened and refined in our day-tothem to stay ahead and to help put them in a position from which day work with clients. they are able to benefit from the unrelenting change that characMultichannel solutions are an area which has been in particular terizes many industries today. focus in recent years. Defining and implementing the right channel Contact centers are complex environments which merge many strategy has become even more critical for our clients as the popudifferent disciplines and skills. Continuous improvement is neceslarity of social media has exploded. Companies have had to invest, sary in each individual area, but also in terms of how the different and consistently engage with customers, in an ever-growing numcomponents are combined into customized solutions for each cliber of channels. Transcom helps clients who want to provide a ent. Transcom uses a structured, fact-based approach to enhancconsistent customer experience that can move seamlessly across ing the value we add to our clients and their customers. This is voiceand non-voice channels as the customer requires. The share reflected in our management model, which serves as the basic of non-voice in our overall service mix continued to increase in foundation for how all our units deliver value. Innovation is embed2013, and we expect this development to accelerate in the coming ded through our daily work with clients. years. Innovation and continuous improvement through our daily work with clients Revenue growth Improve customer experience Baseline Apply our Apply Maximize Manage Optimize operational operating industry segmented workforce sourcing mix performance environment experience channel options effectiveness and business results Improve employee experience Cost decrease Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15 Business model and value creation Customer care – a real-time business The continuous balancing of cost efficiency and productivity with the ­delivery of great customer experience is a challenge that Transcom helps its clients face up to every day. Success hinges on continuous real-time resource management, and a client-vendor partnership that is characterized by trust, open communication, and collaborative decision-making. CONTINUOUS REAL-TIME MANAGEMENT ESSENTIAL paigns, new product launches, invoicing changes, recent volume IN ORDER TO MANAGE VOLATILITY trends, seasonality factors, etc. The customer care business truly runs in real time. A high degree Based on the demand forecast, a formula is used to calculate of flexibility and responsiveness is vital as the volume of customer the number of people needed to meet the projected demand at a interactions can vary significantly, both during the course of a singiven time of day or night. However, the target is continuously movgle day and from month to month. Even though self-service chaning as various hard-to-predict events influence the actual number nels are on the rise, a significant share of customer contacts is hanof customer contacts that need to be responded to, e.g. weather dled by people interacting directly with people using various conditions, service changes or interruptions, delays in sending out communications channels. invoices, etc. At the same time, changes in staffing availability can Ensuring a consistently high service level, at a justifiable cost, occur, e.g. due to sickness or staff attrition. This makes it necessary depends in large part on the ability to make available the approprito make continuous, real-time adjustments to staffing schedules in ate number of customer service representatives with the right order to accommodate changes to both the demand side (volume skills, at the right time. A multitude of factors have a direct impact of customer contacts) and the supply side (available resources to on the volume of customer inquiries a company can expect to handle the contacts). Recruiting and training new staff takes a few receive at any given point in time. In order to estimate future cusweeks, so significant gaps can be challenging to address in the tomer service staffing requirements, a volume forecast is created, short term, e.g. a large increase in the expected number of cusbased on an aggregate view of known factors, e.g. planned camtomer inquiries as a result of an unplanned product campaign. The customer care business truly runs in real time 16 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business model and value creation Transcom’s capability to successfully manage this inherent tion scores. Performance against these KPIs is usually tied to ­volatility in customer care management operations is fundamental bonuses or financial penalties. to delivering a great customer experience while at the same time The pricing model used also has important implications for keeping costs under control and generating a profit. An effective Transcom in terms of financial predictability and stability. For partnership with clients is critical to success, with close collaboraexample, models based on a price per customer contact or per tion on important issues such as volume forecasting and process minute spent resolving a customer issue, imply a higher exposure improvements. to the accuracy of volume forecasts than a contract based on an agreed staffing level (price per hour worked). Transcom’s target is THE PRICING MODEL – AN IMPORTANT TOOL to achieve an appropriate mix of pricing models used in all regions, IN STRIKING THE RIGHT BALANCE in order to avoid excessive financial risk associated with poor foreThe commercial model, governing the relationship between Transcast accuracy. For example, the business model mix currently used com and our clients, is also a very important factor in striking the in the North Europe region is more exposed to the accuracy of volright balance between revenue, service levels and cost. This balume forecasts, compared to other regions. However, a new agreeance varies, e.g. depending on the industry, the type of customer ment with one of our largest clients in the region is gradually being contacts, and client priorities. The pricing models that Transcom implemented during 2014, improving financial predictability. uses with its clients generally fall into four key categories, as outIrrespective of the commercial model used, effective workforce lined in the table below. Although the basic terms are usually set management is fundamental to successfully operating a contact out in multi-year frame agreements, the models are regularly center, not least in order to manage volatile demand. Therefore, reviewed and adjusted, as our partnerships evolve over time and workforce optimization is at the very core of Transcom’s client our clients’ priorities shift. proposition, and is an integral part of our Customer Experience Each pricing model has its own tradeoffs in terms of cost, qualManagement framework, which is described on pages 12–15. ity, and predictability for Transcom and our clients. For example, a cost-per-contact unit rate creates an incentive to reduce handling times, in contrast to a cost-per-minute model. This can, in turn, have implications in terms of customer service quality and, ultimately, customer loyalty. Therefore, various KPIs are used in order to manage quality, e.g. first-call resolution and customer satisfacPricing Model Key characteristics Pricing Model Key characteristics Price per transaction • Transcom gets paid for each transaction, e.g. Price per minute • Transcom gets paid based on the time the agent (e.g. call or data entry) each call taken spends with each customer (usually no cap) • Time spent per transaction is capped – critical • Accuracy of volume forecast is key to planning to balance quality and time spent on each and profitability, but less risk than in price per transaction call models • Accuracy of volume forecast is key to planning and profitability Price per activity • Typically used for back-office tasks/processes Price per hour • Provides a greater degree of financial predict• Time spent per activity is capped – important ability and stability to balance quality and time spent on each task • Transcom uses client systems and pre-defined processes • B ack-office tasks usually take longer to complete than the typical call Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17 Client case Improved customer experience and reduced cost through process efficiency The client situation The solution The results This client is an established leader in the Transcom’s Customer Experience ManageAs a result of this project, we managed to global consumer electronics market, with ment team allocated a Process Improvereduce the number of incorrect service a strong position in high-tech electronics ment Manager who assessed, reviewed, booking requests from a 7% threshold (the manufacturing and digital media. and assisted in mapping our client’s busitarget set by our client) to 3%. The reducAt the start of Transcom’s partnership ness processes. tion in errors translates directly into a with this client, we realized that the cost By mapping out the existing service reduction of our client’s costs for service associated with the service booking probooking procedure, we discovered that the bookings – from approximately $500,000 cess was too high. The analysis of the situaunderstanding of policies was poor, and in 2013 to $250,000 (projected) in 2014. tion revealed a lack of a clearly defined that there was no well-documented stepAfter this project, Transcom has become end-to-end service booking process. There by-step process. Hence, all individuals a trusted business partner to this client, was a need to create stronger alignment involved, from the customer service repreexpanding our service delivery to them between Transcom’s customer service repsentatives through to the Claims Departfrom Customer Service to Customer Experesentatives, our client’s claims processing ment and the technicians, were together rience Management – supporting our client department, and their technicians. performing a set of procedures that did not on process improvements and innovation generate the correct resolution for the endactivities. users. The negative impact to our client’s bottom line was clear. The cost of each incorrect service booking, resulting from the process misalignment, was estimated at $120. Each month, approximately 6,000 service booking requests are launched. After Transcom completed the process mapping and documentation, there was an official review and sign-off by the client. Transcom then translated the process maps into robust training materials and created decision trees that are easy to follow for our customer service representatives. We shared the information with our client’s Claims Department and Service Center teams. We also updated our Quality Monitoring Form to ensure that we have an efficient audit mechanism in place for monitoring compliance to the agreed process. 18 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Client case Innovative knowledge management solution, ­enhancing productivity and customer experience The client situation The solution The results At the start of this client project, we Transcom’s Customer Experience ManageAs usage of the KB tool increased, we also observed performance gaps on agent proment team analyzed the situation and started experiencing improvements in ductivity and quality of support, due to a lack arrived at a solution through a detailed agent productivity and performance qualof appropriate tools. The issue was that we review and mapping of processes and key ity. Average Handle Time was reduced by did not have a dynamic and well-designed issues. In order to improve overall agent 23 seconds, and Customer Satisfaction Knowledge Base (KB) system that could aid performance, customer satisfaction, and survey results reached an all-time high of our agents in supporting and resolving cussolution accuracy, there was clearly a need 85% vs. the 80% target. tomer issues. Also, our client’s existing to develop and implement a robust and Knowledge Base had no reporting capabilidynamic knowledge base (KB) system. This ties. Thus, our Management Team and ProKB system had to address known gaps on cess Owners did not have the capability to agent productivity and quality. monitor and analyze data trends for planWe proposed a “One-Stop-Shop” reposning and decision-making purposes. They itory of support tools and materials. This also did not have dedicated Knowledge system features a User Interface design Management resources to analyze, design, that includes a responsive “Search” funcdevelop, manage and maintain knowledge tionality, clearly outlined “Decision Trees” base content. The reference information for troubleshooting top call drivers, as well that our agents had to use was spread out as robust product simulators that help the across many different documents, affecting agents walk a customer through troubletheir productivity negatively. shooting steps, take less time to handle their calls, and ensure compliance to policies and procedures. Included in Transcom’s proposal was the creation of a team of experienced content developers who focus on designing and managing the Knowledge Base learning materials. This same group of individuals is also tasked with functioning as point of contact for all the KB-related needs of the client and our internal Operations Team. Following approval by our client, the KM program was launched in late September 2013, initially supporting almost 200 agents. The KM team has grown from three dedicated content developers to nine members by January 2014, as requested by the client. The team has since developed a significant amount of content, supporting four lines of business. Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 Regional overview An extensive global footprint Our global delivery network with 62 sites across five continents is one of the most extensive in our industry. We deliver services from onshore, near shore as well as from offshore contact centers. Our wide geographic presence means that we can offer our clients flexibility with regards to sourcing options and devise solutions that are welladapted to clients’ needs. Transcom’s global business is managed within five units. NORTH EUROPE CENTRAL & SOUTH EUROPE IBERIA & LATAM The North Region consists of ­Sweden, Norway, The Central & South Europe region consists of The Iberia & Latam region consists of Chile, Peru, Denmark, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, and Austria, Belgium, Croatia, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Portugal, Spain and Colombia. the Netherlands. Luxembourg, Poland, Switzerland, and Tunisia. Share of total revenue Share of total revenue Share of total revenue 30% 22% 20% Highlights 2013 Highlights 2013 Highlights 2013 • Implementation of new price model with large • Deconsolidation of Transcom’s former • New contact center opened in Cali, Colombia client, improving financial predictability and ­loss-making French subsidiary • Valdivia site in Chile closed ­stability • B elgian operation divested • Volume increase with telecom and financial • Closure of loss-making Danish CRM operations • Renegotiation of labor agreements in Germany, ­services clients in Spain • Significant growth in interpretation business lowering costs and increasing flexibility •N  ew sites in Umeå, Sweden and Oslo, Norway • Significant volume increase with installed • Closure of the Norrköping site in Sweden client base in Italy • A number of smaller, unprofitable contracts were ended Priorities 2014 Priorities 2014 Priorities 2014 • Continued implementation of new price • Further develop near shore, multilingual delivery • Expansion with local clients in Latin America model with large client, enhancing financial capacity ­predictability and stability • New business development 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 (€m) Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Growth (€m) Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Growth (€m) Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Growth Revenue 197.0 180.4 9.2% Revenue 145.8 138.3 5.5% Revenue 130.9 119.4 9.6% Gross profit 30.3 28.2 7.4% Gross profit 27.6 18.7 48.1% Gross profit 25.2 24.3 3.7% Gross margin 15.4% 15.6% Gross margin 18.9% 13.5% Gross margin 19.3% 20.4% EBIT 4.4 6.0 –27.0% EBIT 4.5 –7.4 – EBIT 3.1 5.1 –39.3% EBIT margin 2.2% 3.3% EBIT margin 3.1% –5.4% EBIT margin 2.3% 4.2% EBIT adj* 5.0 6.6 EBIT adj* 4.2 –5.3 EBIT adj* 3.7 5.4 EBIT margin adj 2.5% 3.7% EBIT margin adj 2.9% –3.8% EBIT margin adj 2.8% 4.6% * Excluding non-recurring costs 20 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Regional overview NORTH AMERICA & ASIA PACIFIC credit management services The North America & Asia Pacific region consists CMS operations in Austria, the Czech Republic, of Canada, the Philippines, USA, the United Kingthe United Kingdom, Poland, Denmark, Norway dom and Australia. and Sweden (Germany deconsolidated as per December 30, 2013). Share of total revenue Share of total revenue 19% 9% Highlights 2013 Highlights 2013 • Significant expansion of operations in the • CMS Germany sold to Tesch Group, a portfolio ­Philippines company of Avedon Capital Partners, for €9.0 • London, Ontario site closed in order to improve million on a cash and debt free basis capacity utilization onshore • Measures implemented to lower production • Realignment of management structure, and and overhead costs expansion of management team, in order to • CMS UK integrated with the Central & South increase focus and accountability region, effective January 1, 2014 Priorities 2014 Priorities 2014 • Continue expanding in local markets • Finalize strategic review for remaining CMS in Asia Pacific country units. Primary options considered • Create opportunities for profitable growth include a divestment and/or the integration in North America of parts of the business with Transcom’s CRM operations. 2013 2012 2013 2012 (€m) Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Growth (€m) Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Growth Revenue 122.7 112.1 9.4% Revenue 56.8 55.3 2.7% Gross profit 30.4 27.1 12.4% Gross profit 17.5 13.6 28.8% Gross margin 24.8% 24.1% Gross margin 30.9% 24.6% EBIT –1.4 –2.3 – EBIT 5.1 1.7 194.3% EBIT margin –1.1% –2.1% EBIT margin 9.0% 3.1% EBIT adj* –1.4 0.2 EBIT adj* 6.2 1.9 EBIT margin adj –1.2% 0.2% EBIT margin adj 10.9% 3.5% * Excluding non-recurring costs Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21 People and sustainability Building sustainability through people At Transcom, our 29,000 people make all the difference. Every day, our customer experience specialists handle approximately 1.4 million interactions with our clients’ customers in more than 33 languages. We rely on knowledgeable, motivated people to deliver a great customer experience every time – in any customer situation and throughout any channel. Our ability to find the right people with the right skills and ­attitudes, in combination with efficient training methods and processes to drive ­performance, is essential to making this happen. In a people-intensive business like ours, where long-term success investors to keep them informed of our performance, challenges largely depends on the ability to attract and develop the right peoand opportunities. ple, we believe it makes sense to focus our corporate social This year, Transcom also conducted specific external stakeresponsibility (CSR) efforts on people as well. During 2013, our holder dialogues though web-based surveys and feedback meetstakeholder dialogues verified this view. ings on significant CSR aspects with key groups, such as investors, ESG and equity analysts, clients and media. Materiality result The result can be seen in the matrix below. It shows the rated Transcom has conducted a materiality analysis in order to identify importance and relevance of all sustainability issues to internal and which sustainability aspects are considered to be most material external stakeholder groups. Materiality analysis is an on-going and to prioritize amongst these in order to allocate adequate process at Transcom which needs to continuously adapt to our resources to achieve the highest impact. The process began in fast-growing business. At the moment, two aspects are rated only 2012 when employees were involved via internal stakeholder diaby external stakeholders: customer satisfaction and customer logues on the topic of CSR. Regular dialogues are conducted with brand experience. As they are an integral part of Transcom’s operations, these aspects will be rated internally during 2014. Materiality Matrix Perceived degree of importance to Transcom’s business Economic A Be transparent with financial reporting B Work proactively with anticorruption C Conduct sustainability risk assessments on emerging ­markets High importance to D Source from local suppliers Transcom’s business E Ensure a sustainable supply chain F F Ensure high degree of customer satisfaction A G Have a great customer experience brand external stakeholders O M L J Social and Environmental I N H Strengthen our commitment to community engagement G B I Uphold freedom of association and right to collective ­bargaining for employees E K C J Have fair and transparent recruitment practices K Recruit from the local communities H L Be an equal opportunity employer P D M Provide continuous training for employees N Focus on health and safety management for employees O Focus on fair working conditions for employees P Reduce our CO2 emissions Low importance to Internal High importance to F G Internal rating in progress results not available yet. Transcom’s business Transcom’s business stakeholders 22 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 People and sustainability Given the nature of our operations, both internal and external operations. In 2013, Transcom decided to launch a redesigned groups rated environmental issues the lowest. This does not mean ­Talent Management Program, putting the necessary tools in place that they are unimportant, but simply that they are considered to to manage the process on a global level, ensuring greater transparbe the least material sustainability aspect for Transcom. Therefore, ency and efficiency. This program will be implemented in 2014. In we have limited our environmental KPIs to business travel, which 2013, Transcom also decided to design and implement a program we try to minimize. with the objective of identifying top candidates in a structured way. The issues considered most material were the following: being Transcom does not promote a single operating model that has transparent with financial reporting, being an equal opportunity to work everywhere in our global operation. We manage people employer and to provide continuous training for employees. The according to a different philosophy – for everyone’s benefit. We use external and internal rating was very similar with no major discrepconsistent structures and processes, but adapt our personnel ancies. The results overall confirmed the relevance of the focus management to local conditions. We see our employees in their areas of Transcom’s CSR program, further described below. social context. So starting with the same expectations and the same framework for measurement in five different business units, “Transcom Cares” launched in 2013 we can manage people in five different ways, while still achieving At Transcom, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) means that we the same top results. Transcom’s flexibility extends to building up always do our utmost to do the right thing by our clients, our people networks of qualified home agents in many markets, as well as and our communities. We are convinced that our commitment to service centers. This extends our recruiting base and also contribsustainability also helps us to attract, retain and develop the best utes to expertise development and lower attrition rates. people, which is critical to our long-term success. Our investment in people and internal mobility also simplifies In November 2013, we established Transcom Cares as the overour recruiting activities. All of our Business Managers, and five out arching governance program for Transcom’s Corporate Social of six Team Leaders, are internally recruited. When we do recruit responsibility (CSR) activities. Transcom Cares was initially started externally, approximately 20 percent of our recruitments come several years ago as a concept for our community engagement through recommendations – up to 40 percent in some markets. activities in the Philippines. Now, we are making Transcom Cares A people’s business requires good leaders. Therefore, Transcom global and we are also broadening the program’s scope to provide is committed to ensuring good leadership on all levels of managestrengthened governance and coordination for all Transcom’s CSR ment. In 2012 Transcom launched a global trainingand coaching focus areas: people development, equality & diversity, and commuprogram addressing first line management. We continued the nity engagement. implementation of this program during 2013 with good results. Read more about our CSR governance in the Corporate Governance report on pages 27–33. most important aspects People development to each stakeholder group Transcom’s ability to attract and develop top talents is business Employees • Be an equal opportunity employer critical. In order to ensure that we are successful in finding the right • Be transparent with financial reporting people, the company has a clear goal of becoming an employer of • Work proactively with anticorruption choice in our industry. Besides offering a stimulating working expeOwners • Provide continuous training for employees rience, competitive compensation and robust training, the opportu• Be transparent with financial reporting nity for career development is one of the key factors that attracts • Have fair and transparent recruitment practices new talents to the company. Investors • Provide continuous training for employees We offer a multitude of opportunities for employees to develop • Focus on fair working conditions for employees in their roles. There is a clearly defined career progression, either as • Ensure high degree of customer satisfaction a line manager or specialist. There are hundreds of examples of • Focus on health and safety management for employees senior leaders at Transcom who started out as agents or in junior Equity analysts • Be transparent with financial reporting support roles. We have a high retention of the best people because • Focus on fair working conditions for employees we are strong on promoting training and career development. This • Be an equal opportunity employer translates into a skilled workforce with a high degree of specialist ESG analysts • Focus on fair working conditions for employees knowledge. • Uphold freedom of association and right to collective The absolute majority of our first line management positions, bargaining as well as functional specialist roles, are filled by internal candi• Ensure high degree of customer satisfaction dates. In 2012, Transcom launched a careers portal accessible to Clients • Have fair and transparent recruitment practices all employees where they can search for positions of interest within • Be an equal opportunity employer the company and apply directly online. Career growth opportuni• Focus on fair working conditions for employees ties within Transcom are attractive, not least in our fastest-growing Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23 People and sustainability Equal Opportunities Transcom is focused on attracting top talent and retaining people CSR area Target to build a truly global company that is prepared to meet and deliver towards diverse business cultures in all corners of the world. We Equal opportunities • Increase the number of women in managerial positions in the coming three years strive for gender equality on all levels, and are dedicated to showin order to better reflect the gender distriing that equal opportunity employment is part of our DNA. Diverbution for the total workforce. sity of cultures and languages is fundamental to our service deliv• Promote equal opportunities by increasing ery capability, e.g. in our multilingual near shore centers. awareness and focus on the issue The gender distribution among managers is good overall, with throughout the organization. women making up 51 percent of managerial employees. Our tarPeople development • B ecome the employer of choice in the get is to improve this number even more. industry, in order to attract and retain top A unique position that Transcom is proud to fill in many markets talent. • Promote internal career development is that of a platform for career development for young people and through bringing inspiring case examples new graduates. In many countries, we are a top employer of people to light. aged 18–26. Our agents learn about direct client interaction in a • Introduce a global Talent Management dynamic environment, strengthening their communication and program. technology skills; they become product specialists, handle conflicts Anticorruption • Continue with anticorruption training, and, in turn, are rewarded for a job well done. Transcom is proud of reaching all managers by 2015. the role we play in the lives of our current and former employees. • Complete anticorruption screening of major suppliers during 2014. Community engagement Climate Change and • Reduce CO2 emissions by minimizing energy consumption business travel and increasing use of Local community engagement is how Transcom Cares started. ­teleconferencing. Getting involved in the communities in which we operate not only • Review the energy consumption at all strengthens our employer brand, but also maintains our license to facilities and sites. operate in the markets where we choose to compete. Many of our Human rights • Complete CSR assessment of 20 largest community engagement activities depend on our employees’ passuppliers during 2014. sion to contribute their time and energy. • Perform CSR risk analysis of value chain. People want to work for a company that has a sustainable • Initiate complete CSR procurement proapproach to business and that contributes to building communities. cess with self-assessments, evaluation and audits. It is clear that our community engagement activities support recruitment and staff retention. Transcom also runs programs to make life easier for our employees. On-site child care centers, pharmacies, and employee microloans are some examples. Environmental care Transcom has a precautionary approach to all environmental chalCarbon emissions 2013 2012 lenges in our operations. We undertake training and support local CO2 emission, business travel (tonnes) 1,827 1,508 initiatives with our employees to encourage greater environmental responsibility in our workplaces and always promote environmenCO2 emission, per employee (tonnes/employee) 0.065 0.051 tally friendly technologies and equipment. Our focus is on minimizCO2 emission, by revenue ing our greenhouse gas emissions through limiting business travel (tonnes/­million €) 2.80 2.49 and decreasing energy consumption in all our facilities. Our data from 2013 reflect our increased monitoring, measurement and reductions of carbon emission. 24 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 People and sustainability Many of our senior leaders started as agents or in junior support roles Juan Brun, Spain Øistein Lund, Norway Dyne del Rosario-Tubbs, ­Philippines First job at Transcom? First job at Transcom? First job at Transcom? Started as team leader in July 2002 Started as agent in 1997 Started as Quality Assurance Specialist Current position? Current position? in April 2006 Operations Director for Iberia & Latam Contact Center Manager Norway (2006) Current position? Region (2010) What do you like the most about Senior Client Operations Manager (2013) What do you like the most about a career at Transcom? What do you like the most about a career a career at Transcom? “The possibility to continuously take on at Transcom? “To be able to work with committed and new challenges as the career path is “I was given the opportunity to test the talented people as our people makes the evolving. For me it has been a great waters in different departments enabling difference in our business, they are the experience to be part of the Transcom me to find out where I would like to build engine of the company.” Norway journey from the beginning in a career. Transcom has always been 1997.” good at looking after me and addressing my concerns.” >85% of Transcom’s managers Country Manager are recruited internally Support Functions: Contact Center Manager – IT – Quality Business Manager – Operations Team Leader – HR – Finance Agent Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 People and sustainability Total number of employees per region Percentage of managers who Full-time employees and Region Total # of employees have received anti­corruption temporary staff, 2013 North Europe 5,050 training Central & South Europe 5,947 7% 4,276 Iberia & Latam 6,056 North America & Asia Pacific 10,632 93% 24,315 CMS 761 Corporate 145 ■ Full-time employees ■ Trained ■ To be trained ■ Temporary staff Composition of governance body per employee category according to gender Employee Category % men % women Managers 49 51 Teamleaders 47 53 Employees 43 57 Transcom’s core values: PASSION • We are relationship-, networkand service-driven • We see our clients’ customers’ challenges as our own, and always go that extra mile to deliver service • We are passionate about improving customer experience – whenever and wherever possible EXCELLENCE • We have high ambitions – going for leadership in ­customer experience • We focus on quality in everything we do • We incorporate industry and company best practices to continuously improve the way we deliver INNOVATION • We are progressive and move quickly to anticipate new customer trends and needs • We are open-minded, exploring new ways to support and deliver improved customer experience • We greet new ways of working with openness and ­enthusiasm 26 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance Corporate governance 1 Overview Corporate governance within Transcom is 2 Shareholders’ Meeting Transcom WorldWide S.A. (“Transcom”) is based on the Luxembourg law and the listThe Shareholders’ meeting is the apex gova Luxembourg public limited liability coming requirements of the NASDAQ OMX erning body for Transcom. Amongst other pany (a société anonyme), and its SDRs are Stockholm. Transcom follows the ‘’Ten key powers provided for by the applicable listed on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm Principles of Corporate Governance’’ of the Luxembourg laws, the general meeting of Exchange. Luxembourg Stock Exchange, as published shareholders is also the only one authoTranscom recognizes the importance of, in May 2013. Refer to page 31-32 for rized to amend the articles of association of and is committed to the highest standards related explanations. the Company. The quorum and majority of corporate governance. Among other Internal regulations that affect corporate requirements vary depending on the nature things, this means that Transcom: governance include Articles of Association, of the resolution in question, as per applica• Maintains an efficient organizational the Corporate Governance Charter, the ble Luxembourg law and the articles of structure with clearly defined areas of Board’s instructions to the CEO, CFO and association of the Company. responsibility, Regional General Managers (RGMs), Code The Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) is • Ensures that its financial reporting is of Business Conduct, Insider Trading policy convened in Luxembourg each year on the transparent and and other policies/steering documents last Wednesday of the month of May at 10 • Continuously strives to be a good corpoissued within the Group. The Corporate am at the registered office of the Company rate citizen. Governance Charter is available on the or at such other place as may be specified company’s website. in the notice convening the Meeting. Transcom’s corporate governance structure is illustrated below: Transcom Governance model Shareholders Independent Opinion Vote at General meetings Proposal Elects for Board Nomination Committee General Meeting External Audit Results of self evaluation Elects Board Provides updates & findings Charters & Charters & instructions instructions Remuneration Committee Board of Directors Audit Committee Reporting, Appointment, Reporting, Reporting, Internal Audit Reporting, Updates Instructions, Updates Updates plan, Charter Updates Strategy & Instructions Reporting, Updates President & CEO Internal Audit Internal steering documents Reporting, Internal steering documents Updates Group Operations Group CIO Group CFO & HR Director Reporting, Updates Reporting, Updates Reporting, Updates Regional General Managers Respective business functions Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27 Corporate governance The Annual general meeting has the rights • Approval of the procedures for the the Fourth Swedish National Pension Fund conferred by Luxembourg laws and the ­Nomination committee. (Fjärde AP-fonden). Mia Brunell Livfors has operating processes of the AGM are in line • Approval for guidelines on remuneration been elected Chairman of the Nomination with the applicable Luxembourg laws. of Senior Executives. Committee. In 2013, one shareholders’ meeting was • Approval of a long term incentive plan The Nomination Committee invites proheld: the statutory AGM on May 29, 2013. for executive management for 2013 posals from shareholders wishing to proAt the meeting, shareholders representing (the “LTIP 2013”). pose candidates for election to the Board of 59.78 percent (rounded) of the total numDirectors. The Nomination Committee will ber of class A shares, were present either The minutes of the AGM are available on submit a proposal for the composition of personally or by proxy. (For further details Transcom’s website. The next AGM will be the Board of Directors; remuneration for the on voting rights, refer to page 38 and Note held on May 28th, 2014. Board of Directors and the auditor; and a 15 to accounts. Information related to numproposal on the Chairman of the 2014 ber of shares issued, the number of shares 3 Major holdings Annual General Meeting, which will be prewith voting rights and the number of treaTranscom’s share ownership is disclosed on sented to the 2014 Annual General Meetsury shares is available on Page 38). page 38 under “The Transcom share and ing for approval. The Nomination Commitshareholders” section. All other significant tee met three times during 2013. Shareholders exercised their rights to relationships between Transcom and its decide on the key affairs and the following major shareholders, in so far as it is aware No of meetings attended resolutions were adopted by the AGM: of them, are described in note 27 “Related • Approval of the annual accounts and the Party Transactions”. Mia Brunell Livfors 3/3 consolidated accounts for the financial (Chair) year ended 31 December 2012. 4 Nomination Committee Stefan Charette 3/3 • Allocation of the results as of 31 DecemThe Nomination Committee is formed each Arne Lööw 1/3 ber 2012. year in October in consultation with the • Discharge of the liability of the members largest shareholders of Transcom. of the board of directors for, and in conA Nomination Committee of major 5 Board of Directors nection with, the financial year ended 31 shareholders in Transcom has been formed As per the applicable Luxembourg laws, the December 2012. in accordance with the resolution of the board of directors is elected by sharehold• Re-election of all existing Directors for the 2013 Annual General Meeting. The Nomiers’ meetings, and can be removed at any period until the close of the next AGM. nation Committee is comprised of Mia time, with or without cause, by a resolution • Election of Statutory auditors. Brunell Livfors on behalf of Investment AB in shareholders’ meetings. • Determination of Directors’ fees. Kinnevik, Stefan Charette on behalf of Creades AB, and Arne Lööw on behalf of Independence status Remuneration attendance Vis-à-vis the Vis-à-vis major ­company and its Incl. any remuneraAudit Remuneration­ shareholders management tion for Committees Board Committee Committee Laurie Bowen Independent Independent 46,000 7 6 Henning Boysen Independent Independent 94,500 8 (C) 6 3 (C) Stefan Charette Not independent Independent 46,000 8 6 Alexander Izosimov Independent Independent 42,500 7 3 Dermot Jenkinson Independent Independent 42,500 6 3 Mikael Larsson1 Not independent Independent 57,500 8 6 (C) 2 Roel Louwhoff Independent Independent 40,000 5 Number of meetings (Total) 8 6 3 – Physical meetings 5 4 3 – Conference calls 3 2 – 1) Mikael Larsson joined the Remuneration Committee after AGM held in May 2013 and attended both meetings held thereafter (C) Chairman of Board/Committees The President and CEO and CFO were present at all Board meetings. 28 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance The Board of Directors is ultimately responof, the activities of the Executive Commitmary of the evaluation is also presented to sible for the organization of Transcom and tee. It is responsible for the performance of the Nomination Committee. This process is the management of its operations. The all acts of administration necessary or useconducted in accordance with the corpoPresident and CEO, appointed by the Board ful for accomplishing the Company’s purrate governance charter of the Company. of Directors, is responsible for handling the poses, except for matters reserved by LuxConsequently, the remuneration committee day-to-day management of the Company embourg law to the general meeting of was strengthened further in 2013. in accordance with instructions from the shareholders. Board. The President and CEO is supported In order to carry out its work more effec5.3 Remuneration Committee by the Executive Management Committee tively, the Board of Directors has created At the statutory Board of Directors meeting (the “Executive Committee”) which includes a Remuneration Committee and an Audit following the 2013 Annual General MeetHead of Group functions and Regional Committee. These committees handle ing, the Board of Directors decided that the ­General Managers (RGM’s). business within their respective areas and Remuneration Committee be comprised of The Board of Directors, in addition to the present recommendations and reports on Henning Boysen, Mikael Larsson, Alexaninstructions to The President and CEO, has which the Board of Directors may base its der Izosimov, and Dermot Jenkinson. Henalso issued formal instructions to the Chief decisions and actions. The internal regulaning Boysen was elected as its Chairman. Financial Officer and Regional General tions of the Audit Committee and the The responsibilities of the Remuneration Managers following the “Grandfather PrinRemuneration Committee along with the Committee include issues regarding salaciple”. internal regulations of the Nomination ries, pension plans, bonus programs and Committee have been formally defined other employment terms for the President 5.1 Composition of the Board of Directors in the corporate governance charter. & CEO and senior management. of the Company (“The Board of Directors”) The Remuneration Committee held The Board of Directors is comprised of In 2013, the Board addressed and disthree meetings during 2013; all the memseven directors whereof: cussed the following (apart from regular bers attended the meetings. • Five Directors are independent vis-à-vis matters in the annual Board work cycle): major shareholders and • Continuous work relating to strategic 5.4 Audit Committee • All Directors are independent vis-à-vis the plans and direction At the statutory Board of Directors meeting management. • Settlement agreement concerning former following the 2013 Annual General MeetSummary curriculum vitae for each French subsidiary ing, the Board of Directors decided that the Director and the list of paid positions held • Review and approval of new sites and Audit Committee be comprised of Mikael by them in other companies is disclosed on other investment proposals Larsson, Stefan Charette and Laurie pages 36–37. • Corporate social responsibility related Bowen. Mikael Larsson was elected as its The table on page 28 gives an overview matters Chairman. of the meetings held by the Board of Direc• Divestment of German CMS operations On behalf of the Board, the Audit Comtors and its committees in 2013, as well as • Tax matters mittee discharges its responsibilities in the information about the attendance and • Financing matters following areas: remuneration of Directors in 2013. • Organizational design and alignment a. The scope and correctness of financial The principal criteria used by the Com• Executive Committee’s updated risk statements pany in order to determine the independassessment. b. Compliance with legal and regulatory ence of the members of its Board of Direcrequirements tors are those listed in Annex ii of the Evaluation of the Board and its c. I nternal control environment European Commission recommen­dations Committees d. Risk management of February 15, 2005 on the role of NonThe Board of Directors carries out an e. Code of Business conduct Executive Directors (and members of the annual assessment wherein the Board of Supervisory Board) of listed companies and Directors evaluates its own performance The Audit Committee focuses on ensuring on the committees of the Board (or Super­ and the performance of its committees. As quality and accuracy in the Company’s visory Board). part of the evaluation process, the Chairfinancial reporting, the internal controls man carried out one-on-one feedback seswithin the Company, the qualification and 5.2 The responsibility of the Board of sions with each individual board member, independence of the auditors and the ­Directors and work in 2013 which also included feedback on perforCompany’s adherence to prevailing rules The Board of Directors is in charge of the mance in committees. This annual assessand regulations. Where applicable, it overall governance and strategic direction ment process also entails a review of comreviews transactions between the Comof the Company. The Board of Directors petencies, board process and internal pany and related parties. provides effective support for, and control communication within the board. A sumTranscom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29 Corporate governance For details of audit committee meetings 8 Market abuse related zation, which means that those on the and attendance, refer to the table on page ­considerations Executive Committee are responsible for 28. The CEO, CFO, Statutory audit engageTranscom has adopted and applies an ensuring that the work within their regions ment partner, Head of Internal Audit, Group insider trading policy. is carried out efficiently. Financial Controller, Head of Group Tax, etc. Lines of responsibility and delegated were called to the meeting as required. The 9 Internal Control authorities are clearly defined. The Group’s Audit Committee met once in 2013 with The Board of Directors has overall responpolicies and procedures are regularly the Statutory auditors, without the presence sibility for Transcom’s risk and internal conupdated and distributed throughout the of the management. trol systems and for monitoring their effecGroup. The principal features of the Group’s tiveness. The Board of Directors monitors systems of internal control are designed to: 6 Executive Committee the ongoing process by which critical risks • Maintain proper accounting records; The Board of Directors has appointed an to the business are identified, evaluated and • Provide reliable financial information; executive management team (the “Manmanaged. The Board of Directors also reg• Identify and manage business risks; agement Team” or Executive Committee). ularly reviews the actual performance of • Maintain compliance with appropriate A full list of its members is provided on the business compared with budgets and legislation and regulation; and pages 34-35. forecasts, as well as other key performance • Identify and adopt best practice; and indicators. • Safeguard assets. 6.1 Responsibility and reporting Transcom’s internal control systems are – corporate social responsibility (csr) designed to manage, rather than eliminate, Internal audit (referred to as Group Internal Jörgen Skoog, Global Operations & HR risks that might impact on the achievement Control in the Company) reviews the effecDirector, is responsible for the implementaof its objectives, and can only provide reativeness of risk and internal control systems tion of Transcom’s CSR strategy. Regional sonable, and not absolute assurance throughout the Group. The principal feaGeneral Managers inform Jörgen on a regagainst material misstatement or loss. In tures of the control framework and the ular basis about CSR activities and results assessing what constitutes reasonable methods by which the Board of Directors in their respective business units. Jörgen assurance, the Board of Directors considers satisfies itself that it is operating effectively regularly reports on CSR to Transcom’s the materiality of financial and non-finanare detailed below. Executive Committee, and President & CEO cial risks and the relationship between the Johan Eriksson informs the Board of Direccosts of, and benefit from, internal control Control environment tors on progress and challenges specifically systems. Transcom has an established governance related to CSR. Each year the Audit Committee framework, the key features of which assesses the effectiveness of Transcom’s include: 7 Remuneration risk management and internal controls sys• Terms of reference for the Board of DirecThe guidelines for remuneration for memtem (including financial, operational and tors and each of its committees; bers of the Executive Committee are compliance controls) on the basis of: • A clear organizational structure, with docapproved by the Annual General Meeting • Established procedures, including those umented delegation of authority to Execuof Shareholders. Refer to the AGM minutes already described, which are in place to tives from the Board. on Transcom’s website for details. Further manage perceived risks; • A Group policy framework, which sets out details on the remuneration policy for • Management reviews and responds to risk management and control standards Board members and members of Executive internal audit and Statutory auditors’ for the Group’s operations worldwide; and Committee can be found in the Corporate reports, and advises the Audit Committee • The Group’s basic guidelines for manageGovernance Charter on the website. The on controls; ment of its activities and decision-making total amount of remuneration and other • The continuous Group-wide process for processes are governed by the Group’s benefits granted directly or indirectly by the formally identifying, evaluating and mancode of conduct. Company to the members of its Board of aging the significant risks to the achieve• Defined procedures for the approval of Directors is provided in note 3. The total ment of the Group’s objectives; and major transactions and capital allocations. amount of remuneration and other benefits • Reports to the Audit Committee on the granted directly or indirectly by the Comresults of internal audit reviews. Financial reporting: Transcom has estabpany to the members of its Management lished an accounting policy which is Team is provided in note 3. Executive Committee and senior manageupdated as required. It contains detailed Transcom did not grant any loan to any ment are responsible for the implementaguidelines of the financial reporting princimember of its Board of Directors or to any tion and maintenance of the risk and interples adopted by the Company. The Group member of the Management Team. nal control systems, which are reviewed Financial Controller manages the reporting periodically. Transcom has a matrix organiprocess to ensure the completeness and 30 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance correctness of financial reporting and its Performance monitoring Transcom continuously works to improve compliance with IFRS requirements. and review the policies which govern the management Anticorruption management: Monthly performance and financial reports and control of both financial and non-finanTranscom’s Code of Business Conduct, are produced for each business unit, with cial risks. The adoption of these policies available in 17 languages, covers the four comparisons to budget. Reports are conthroughout the Group enables a broadly areas of The UN Global Compact, environsolidated for overall review by the Manageconsistent approach to the management of mental care, human rights, labour rights ment Team together with forecasts for the risk at business unit level. and anticorruption practices, all of which income statement and cash flow. Detailed The table on pages 32–33 sets out a Transcom respects and supports fully. All reports are presented to the Board of Direcsummary of key risks Transcom faces while employees are required to sign the Code tors on a regular basis. operating in a highly fragmented and comwhen starting their employment with petitive global industry. Transcom and are given suitable training on Risk identification, assessment the key values of the Code. Further, we have and management Monitoring implemented a Supplier Code of Business The Group’s risk management and control The Board of Directors reviews the effecConduct to promote ethical business pracframework is designed to support the identiveness of established internal controls tices in our supply chain. tification, assessment, monitoring, manthrough the Audit Committee, which Whistleblower process: The Board of agement and control of risks that are signifreceives reports from the Management Directors has established a whistleblowing icant to the achievement of the Group’s Team and the Group’s internal control funcprocess which enables personnel to report business objectives. tion as described above. violations in accounting, reporting, internal Transcom’s risk management frameTranscom’s Internal Control function is controls, non-compliance with Code of work is based on the following responsible for following up on critical risks Business Conduct, Group policies, applicakey ­principles: and action plans and reporting the status of ble laws, etc. Personnel are requested to a. Comprehensive scope: Risks are action plans to the Audit Committee on a report the matters to local Human assessed for a number of defined categoperiodic basis. Resources manager or to Transcom’s interries. The Executive committee is responnal whistleblower function at whistleblower. sible for reviewing and monitoring the 10 Explanation from the Company reporting@transcom.com. The whistlefinancial, strategic, human resources, of its decision relating to corpoblower reporting mechanism also facilitates operational, commercial, technological, rate governance and key deviaanonymous reporting. All allegations are compliance and other applicable risks. It tions from the Swedish Corpotaken seriously and an enquiry is conducted monitors the completeness of the Group’s rate Governance Code to not only investigate the alleged violarisk profile on a regular basis through a Corporate governance within the Company tions, but also to identify root causes to Group risk monitoring framework. This is based on Luxembourg law and the Comfacilitate further strengthening of internal helps the Company to proactively identify pany follows the “Ten Principles of Corpocontrols. the most important risks. The risk assessrate Governance” issued by the Luxemment process also entails identification of bourg Stock Exchange, except as described Corporate plan risk owners in the Company. below. The Management Team submits an annual b. Regular reporting: Risks are evaluated in Instead of recommendation 4.2 and the corporate plan to the Board of Directors for terms of their potential impact and likeliassociated recommendations related to approval. The plan includes a quantified hood. The results of the risk assessment structure of nomination committee of the assessment of its planned operating and along with mitigation plans for key risks Ten Principles of Corporate Governance, financial performance for the next financial are presented to the Audit Committee on the Nomination Committee of the Comyear for each business unit, together with a a periodic basis for review. pany is made up of representatives of major strategic plan for the group for the followc. Follow up: Risk mitigation plans are folshareholders and two out of three repreing two years. lowed up on a periodic basis and the stasentatives are not members of the Board of Group management reviews the plans tus of mitigation plans/activities are perithe Company. The nomination committee is with each operational team. The individual odically reported to the Audit Committee. elected during the third quarter of the year. plans are based on key economic and Instead of recommendation 9.3, the curfinancial assumptions and incorporate an The Group Internal Control function is rent Audit Committee is composed of three assessment of the risk and sensitivities responsible for coordinating and monitordirectors, two of whom are not independent underlying the projections. ing the risk management processes in the vis-à-vis the shareholders and one director Group and consolidating the periodic risk is independent vis-à-vis both the managereporting for the Board of Directors and the ment and the shareholders of the ComAudit Committee. pany. However, all Audit committee meetTranscom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31 Corporate governance ings held in 2013 were also attended by the Instead of rule 1.5 and 1.7 of the Swedish board is elected by the Board of Directors at Chairman of the Board, who is independent Corporate Governance Code, the sharethe statutory board meeting following the vis-à-vis both the management and the holders’ meetings are conducted in English; Annual General Meeting. This is in line with shareholders, ensuring adequate independthe related material presented at such the Luxembourg law, the Company’s artience in the functioning of the Audit Commeetings and the minutes is also in English. cles of association and the recommendamittee, thereby aligning with the intent of English is the official language of the Comtion 2.4 of the Ten Principles of Corporate the recommendation cited above. pany and the only language comprehensiGovernance. The governance framework adopted by ble to all key stakeholders given that the the Company is in principle compliant with Company’s place of registration and stock the regulations contained in the Swedish market listing are in different countries. Corporate Governance Code, subject to key Instead of rule 6.1 of the Swedish Corporate deviations mentioned below. Governance Code, the chairman of the Risk How it may impact Transcom Transcom’s management of risks Business risks Economic risks Ongoing volatility in the global economy may have We continuously observe the economic developan adverse effect on our clients’ businesses which ment to align our strategy and goals in view of the could have a material adverse effect on our reveever-evolving economic condition. nue, profitability & strategy. Client & industry concentration A significant portion of the Company’s revenues is We systematically monitor this risk with multiple generated from a limited number of key clients in variables at site level. Our strategy aims to increasfew industry sectors. Any significant loss of work ingly diversify the risks by operating in different from one or more of these clients, or a prolonged geographies, clients and industry verticals. downturn in one or more of these industry verticals, could adversely affect our business. Capacity utilization & productivity/efficiency risks Our financial results depend on our capacity utilizaWe have established a governance structure for tion and our ability to manage our workforce effireview of investments in capacity. ciently in view of client demands. Any sustained Our core processes are designed to optimize failure in ensuring optimal capacity utilization and/ these critical KPIs. or optimal productivity/efficiency may have a We systematically and continuously monitor material adverse effect on the Company’s overall capacity utilization and efficiency for each client, profitability. site, and program and continuously identify remediation plans and focus areas for improvement. People related risks If Transcom is unable to attract and retain skilled Transcom has deployed robust talent management staff, this may adversely impact the Company’s and career development programs which help us in business. The customer care outsourcing industry talent retention, more details are available in pages is prone to high staff attrition. 23–24. Furthermore, the Company carries out periodic employee satisfaction surveys and other benchmarking exercises to identify improvement areas and further strengthen our position as employer of choice in our industry. Disasters, disruption & hazard risks Continuity of our operations may be affected by We carry out detailed business impact analysis and natural events, wars, terrorist attacks, other civil have developed business continuity plans, which disturbances, epidemics, technical failures etc. Any are periodically tested through drills and updates. sustained disruption of our services may lead to For technological risks, we have developed back significant deterioration in our profitability from the up & disaster recovery plans and strategies. affected site/country/region. Also, we have secured insurance against business interruptions and loss of profit for a limited period. Exchange rate fluctuation risks We are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations: Transcom continuously monitors foreign exchange Transaction exposure: In some contracts (mostly fluctuations. As a principle, we aim to avoid foreign offshore delivery) we have costs and revenues in exchange fluctuation risks by trying to negotiate different currencies. contracts with costs and revenues in the same Translation exposure: A movement in the value ­currency. Furthermore, the Audit Committee has of a currency relative to the Euro (which is Transapproved a formal hedging policy which governs com’s reporting currency) could impact the results. the terms, conditions and procedure for any hedging transaction executed by the Company. 32 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance Risk How it may impact Transcom Transcom’s management of risks Impairment risk A substantial part of our assets consists of goodwill We annually evaluate the Goodwill on our balance and any significant impairment would affect our sheet to identify any necessary impairment results and shareholders’ equity. requirements, in view of the best available information; Significant increase in input costs If we are unable to pass on any significant increase Transcom tries to apply bespoke pricing and/or in our key input costs – Human resources, technolcommercial models with clients, where possible, ogy, telecommunication, etc. to clients, our operatWe continuously monitor events and legislations ing results could be adversely affected. which can lead to significant increases in our input costs. Also, we are continuously evaluating new locations for our delivery centers in countries with stable and competitive wages and other input costs. Tax audits & litigation risks The Group is subject to tax audits in the normal We observe all applicable laws, rules, regulation course of business. A negative outcome in respect and disclosure requirements. of such audits or litigation may have a materially We seek to plan and manage our tax affairs effiadverse effect on the Group’s business, financial ciently in all the jurisdictions in which we operate condition and results of operations, beyond what and to ensure that decisions taken are supported has already been provided for. with documentation that supports the facts, conclusions and risks involved. We engage external tax experts for advice in complex matters to ensure that our interpretation and application of tax laws of the concerned jurisdiction is consistent and prudent. We follow tax litigations closely and create provisions in relation to tax risks for which management believes it is probable. All transactions we engage in must have business purpose or commercial rationale. Corporate Social Responsibility-related risks Corruption and other unethical practices We have operations in countries which have been We have zero tolerance towards any corrupt and assessed as more risky for corrupt practices. Any unethical practices. Our Code of Business Conduct corrupt practices engaged in by our employee(s) is available in 17 languages. All our employees sign may affect our goal to be a responsible corporate this document when they start their employment. citizen. They are given suitable training on the key values of the Code including current anti-corruption practices. All managers receive training on this topic every year. Supply chain malpractices Any violations of ethical business practices by our We have a formal Supplier Code of Business Convendor(s) may affect our goal to be a responsible duct (SCBC) based on the 10 principles of the UN corporate citizen. Global compact. SCBC covers ethical business practices, respect for human and labor rights, and environmental care. All suppliers, including their employees, agents and subcontractors are expected to adhere to SCBC and make a commitment by signing. In 2013, we have established a process of supplier self-assessment to control adherence to the requirements in our SCBC, starting with the largest suppliers. Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 33 Executive management Executive management Johan Eriksson, Roberto Boggio, President & Chief General Manager, Executive Officer and Central & South Acting General ManaEurope Region ger, North America & Asia Pacific region Born: 1965 Born: 1959 Share ownership, including related natural and legal persons, as at Dec 31, Share ownership, including related natural and legal persons, as at Dec 31, 2013: 250,000 Class A shares and 750,000 Class B shares 2013: 214,000 A shares and 208,000 B shares. Johan was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer of Transcom Roberto joined Transcom’s Group Executive team in July 2011, and is in 2011. He joined Transcom in October 2010 to head up our operations in responsible for our operations in Italy, Croatia, Germany, Hungary, Poland the Nordics as General Manager of the North Europe Region. and the United Kingdom as well as the offshore operations in Tunisia that Immediately before joining Transcom Johan spent three years as Presiserve the French and Italian markets. dent & CEO of international staffing and recruitment company, Poolia AB Prior to his current role, Roberto served as Transcom’s Italy Country (publ). He joined Poolia from Loomis, one of the world’s leading players in Manager for seven years. Cash Handling services, where he held the post of Chief Operating Officer, Before joining Transcom, Roberto’s career in the outsourcing industry responsible for operations in 14 countries. Between 1992 and 2007 he includes ten years of general management experience, and an additional worked for the global outsourced security business, Securitas, latterly as ten years at Hewlett Packard (HP). Roberto is a member of the Board of the Regional President for the Nordic Region. During his time with the company Italian Call Center Association since the late 1990s, and is currently vice he also held posts in the UK, Germany, Austria and Sweden. president of the Association. Johan holds a Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Business Administration and Roberto holds a degree in Business Administration from Bocconi UniverEconomics from the University of Karlstad. sity in Milan. Significant commitments outside of Transcom: Member of the Board of Scan Coin Holding AB. Pär Christiansen, Christian Hultén, Chief Financial General Manager, Officer (CFO) and North Europe Acting General Region Manager, CMS business unit Born: 1973 Born: 1967 Share ownership, including related natural and legal persons, as at Dec 31, Share ownership, including related natural and legal persons, as at Dec 31, 2013: 0 Class A shares and 100,000 Class B shares 2013: 135,857 Class A shares and 42,000 Class B shares Pär Christiansen joined Transcom in 2013 as Chief Financial Officer Christian joined Transcom in 2012 as General Manager of the North (CFO). Europe Region, with responsibility for Transcom’s operations in Sweden, Before joining Transcom, Pär served as CFO of MTR Stockholm, the Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands, and the Baltic countries. MTR company that operates the Stockholm underground system. Prior to Prior to joining Transcom, Christian was CEO of ZeroLime, a software this role, Mr Christiansen held a number of senior management positions at company developing and deploying video-based recruitment solutions. SAS Group, the Scandinavian airline carrier, most recently as Vice President Christian also spent several years in senior management roles at Sykes. Group Business & Financial Control at SAS Operations. He also has manHe was also part of the management team that established the Excellent agement consulting experience from Establish Inc. Group in the Nordics. Pär Christiansen holds a Master of Science Degree in Mechanical Christian holds a Masters Degree in Political Science, International RelaEngineering from the Lund Institute of Technology, as well as a Bachelor’s tions from the University of Uppsala. Degree in Economics and Business Administration from the University of Lund. 34 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Executive management Sytze Koopmans, Neil Rae, Chief Information General Manager Officer (CIO) (North America) Born: 1954 Born: 1975 Share ownership, including related natural and legal persons, as at Dec 31, Share ownership, including related natural and legal persons, as at Dec 31, 2013: 198,000 Class A shares and 0 Class B shares 2013: 494,465 Class A shares and 0 Class B shares Sytze Koopmans joined Transcom as CIO in 2013, and is responsible In 2014, Neil Rae was given responsibility for Transcom’s operations in for Transcom’s ICT infrastructure, ICT infrastructure operations, client North America, reporting to the General Manager for the North America & ICT offering support and maintaining and implementing the ICT strategic Asia Pacific region. Neil joined Transcom in 2004 as a Key Account Managroadmap. er and has also served in the roles of Director of Client Services, Director for Prior to joining Transcom, Sytze held a number of CIO and CTO posiSales and Account Management, Country Manager in North America, and tions in the telecommunication, engineering, fulfillment and contact center as General Manager for the North America & Asia Pacific region between industries, including with ClientLogic International Operations (now: Sitel). January 2012 and December 2013. Sytze holds Master degrees in Electrical Engineering and Computer SciBefore joining Transcom, Neil spent two years at the helm of a training ence from the Twente University in the Netherlands. and development consulting firm in Toronto, Canada. Neil has also held a leadership position at a business services company specializing in working with commercial properties. Neil holds a BA from the University of Guelph. Isabel SánchezJörgen Skoog, Lozano, Global Operations General Manager, and HR Director Iberia & Latam Region Born: 1963 Born: 1960 Share ownership, including related natural and legal persons, as at Dec 31, Share ownership, including related natural and legal persons, as at Dec 31, 2013: 161,640 Class A shares and 0 Class B shares 2013: 50,000 Class A shares and 50,000 Class B shares Isabel joined Transcom in 2011 as General Manager of Iberia and Latin Jörgen was appointed to Transcom’s Group Executive team in 2011. He America. She is responsible for our operations and business activities in joined Transcom in 2002 as HR manager for the North Region and has also Spain, Portugal and Latin America. served as Head of Operations for North Europe, Acting General Manager Before joining Transcom, Isabel spent more than 20 years in the contact for the North Europe Region, and Acting General Manager for the former center industry, holding senior roles at several key customer care outsourcCentral Europe Region. ing players, including Teleperformance Spain, where she served as CEO Jörgen’s experience prior to joining Transcom includes 13 years with the and President for more than 11 years. Ericsson Group, where he held positions in global management of Human Isabel is also the president of the Spanish Contact Centre Association. Resources as well as in Administration. Isabel holds a Degree in Law from the Universidad Autónoma de Madrid Jörgen holds a degree in Human Resource Management and Enterprise and a Masters in Marketing, Communication and Publicity, which she comOrganization from University of Karlstad. pleted at the Instituto de Directivos de Empresa. Born: 1958 Siva Share ownership, including related natural and legal persons, as at Dec 31, 2013: 0 Class A shares and 0 Class B shares Subramaniam, In 2014, Siva Subramaniam was given the responsibility for Transcom’s General Manager activities in Asia Pacific, reporting to the General Manager for the North America & Asia Pacific region. (Asia Pacific) Prior to this role, Siva served as Transcom’s Country Manager for The Philippines and Head of Sales for the Asia Pacific region since 2009. Siva has more than 26 years of contact center management experience. Prior to joining Transcom, Siva was the Vice President for Customer Experience at AIG Consumer Finance Group in Asia. He also held senior roles with Aspect Software as the Vice President for Business Development & Marketing (Asia Pacific & Middle-East), TeleTech International, Avaya Global Services Asia Pacific and Deloitte Consulting (Customer Relationship Management Practice). Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35 Board of Directors Board of Directors Henning Boysen, Chairman of the Board Laurie Bowen Chairman of the Board of Transcom WorldWide S.A. since 2012. Joined Transcom WorldWide S.A.’s Board in 2012. Member of the Audit Joined Transcom WorldWide S.A.’s Board in 2009. Chairman of the RemuCommittee of Transcom WorldWide S.A. neration Committee of Transcom Worldwide S.A. Born: 1961 Born: 1946 Nationality: American and British citizen Nationality: Danish citizen Share ownership, including related natural and legal persons, as at Dec 31, Share ownership, including related natural and legal persons, as at Dec 31, 2013: 0 Class A shares and 0 Class B shares 2013: 75,353 Class A shares and 75,352 Class B shares Mrs Bowen is currently CEO, Cable & Wireless Business Solutions. Mr Boysen is Chairman of Kuoni, one of Europe’s leading leisure travel She has held numerous international leadership roles including President, companies, a position he has held since 2006, board member since 2003. Enterprise Business for Tata Communications (part of the multinational Other board assignments: Chairman of Apodan Nordic and member of Indian Tata Group), President of British Telecom’s Global Financial Services the board of Nupo AS. Mr Boysen was formerly President and CEO of Gate business and the Chief Executive of BT Radianz. Mrs Bowen spent over Gourmet from 1996 to 2004. Between 1988 and 1992 he was COO and twenty years at IBM working in the USA and Europe in a number of senior Deputy President of Saudia Catering in Saudi Arabia. Mr Boysen holds a leadership positions, including global roles in the telecommunications Masters in Economics from Aarhus University, Denmark. and financial services sectors. Mrs Bowen graduated from Washington University in St Louis, USA, with an MBA and BSc degrees in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. Stefan Charette Alexander Izosimov Member of the Board of Transcom WorldWide S.A. since 2011. Member of Joined Transcom WorldWide S.A.’s Board in 2012. Member of the Remuthe Audit Committee of Transcom WorldWide S.A. neration Committee of Transcom WorldWide S.A. Born: 1972 Born: 1964 Nationality: Swedish citizen Nationality: Russian citizen Share ownership, including related natural and legal persons, as at Dec 31, Share ownership, including related natural and legal persons, as at Dec 31, 2013: 786,490 Class A shares and 183,300 Class B shares 2013: 0 Class A shares and 7,000,000 Class B shares Chairman of the Board of the public companies Concentric AB and Mr.Izosimov is a director of LM Ericsson AB, Modern Times Group Note AB and board member of the public companies Haldex, Lindab and (MTG), East Capital AB, EVRAZ Group S.A., EVRAZ Plc and Dynasty FounCreades. Experience from 9 public boards and 6 nomination committees. dation. He is also on the Executive Board of ICC (International Chamber CEO of public investment company Creades AB. Previously CEO of the of Commerce), and has been a member of the Board of the GSMA (the public companies Investment AB Öresund, AB Custos and private company governing body for the global mobile telecommunications industry), as Brokk AB. Mr Charette holds a MSc in Mathematical Finance from Cass well a member of the Russian Prime Minister’s Council for CompetitiveBusiness School and a BSc in Electrical Engineering from the Royal Institute ness and Entrepreneurship. Alexander Izosimov served as Chief Executive of Technology. Officer of the VimpelCom Group and, latterly, the enlarged VimpelCom Ltd, which is one of the world’s largest emerging market telecommunications companies, between 2003 and 2011. Mr. Izosimov previously held several senior management positions at Mars, Inc. over a period of seven years, including as a member of the Global Executive Management Board and as Regional President for Russia, the CIS, Eastern Europe and the Nordics. Mr. Izosimov also worked as a consultant for McKinsey & Co in Stockholm and London for five years. Mr. Izosimov graduated from the Moscow Aviation Institute with a Master’s degree in Science and from INSEAD with an MBA. 36 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Board of Directors Dermot Jenkinson Mikael Larsson Joined Transcom WorldWide S.A.’s Board in 2012. Member of the RemuJoined Transcom WorldWide S.A.’s Board in 2012. Chairman of the Audit neration Committee of Transcom WorldWide S.A. Committee of Transcom WorldWide S.A. Member of the Remuneration Born: 1954 Committee of Transcom WorldWide S.A. Nationality: British citizen Born: 1968 Share ownership, including related natural and legal persons, as at Dec 31, Nationality: Swedish citizen 2013: 1,800,000 Class A shares and 0 Class B shares Share ownership, including related natural and legal persons, as at Dec 31, Dermot Jenkinson is the founder of beCogent Ltd, and was the com2013: 0 Class A shares and 0 Class B shares pany’s Chairman until its sale in August 2010. Mr. Jenkinson remained Mr. Larsson is a member of the boards of BillerudKorsnäs AB, Vireo Enwith the business in an advisory capacity until March 2011. Mr. Jenkinson ergy AB, and a number of wholly owned companies within the Investment has a wide range of other business interests, including membership of the AB Kinnevik group. Mikael Larsson is Chief Financial Officer of Investment boards of John Menzies plc and the Scottish Friendly Society. Mr. Jenkinson AB Kinnevik since 2001. Prior to joining Kinnevik, Mr. Larsson worked six was previously Executive Chairman of Early Learning Centre and Execuyears with audit and transaction advisory services at Arthur Andersen in tive Chairman of Smythsons. Mr. Jenkinson was also one of the founder Stockholm. He also has experience from his position as Group Controller shareholders of Regal Hotel Group, and was its director from inception until at Scandinavian Leisure Group (today Thomas Cook Northern Europe). Mr. the business was sold in 1999. Mr. Jenkinson won Scottish Entrepreneur of Larsson is a graduate in Business Administration from Uppsala University. the Year 2009, and is a graduate of the GSIA program at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, USA. Roel Louwhoff Member of the Board of Transcom WorldWide S.A. since 2007. Born: 1965 Nationality: Dutch citizen Share ownership, including related natural and legal persons, as at Dec 31, 2013: 8,499 Class A shares and 8,323 Class B shares Previously Chief Executive Officer of BT Operate, part of British Telecom plc. and responsible for all communication-services during the London 2012 Olympic Games. Before that Chief Operating Officer for the international business process outsourcer ClientLogic Corporation. Before that, Chief Operating Officer at SNT Group, a European call center provider. His early career was as a management consultant with Andersen Consulting (now Accenture) where he worked in the CRM practice in Europe and North America. Mr Louwhoff holds an MBA from University of Groningen in the Netherlands. Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37 Transcom share The Transcom share and shareholders The Annual General Meeting of Kinnevik shareholders held on May 622,764,910 are of class B with no voting rights. The total number 18, 2001 voted to distribute new A and B shares in Transcom of voting rights in Transcom, including Transcom treasury shares, WorldWide on the Stockholmsbörsen O-List and on the NASDAQ as per 31 December 2013 is 622,767,8231. The total number of Stock Exchange in New York. The new shares consequently began voting rights in Transcom, excluding Transcom treasury shares2, as trading on September 6, 2001, under the symbols TWWA and per 31 December 2013 is 622,755,130. TWWB in Stockholm, and TRCMA and TRCMB in New York. In May The market capitalization of Transcom WorldWide S.A. at the 2003, Transcom delisted its shares from the NASDAQ Stock close of business on December 31, 2013 was SEK 1,525.8 million Exchange. Transcom class A and B Share SDRs are currently listed (€172.3 million). on the NASDAQ OMX Nordic Exchange’s Small Cap list under the 1) This is the number of voting rights to be taken into account for the c­ alculation of the thressymbols “TWW SDB A” and “TWW SDB B”. holds provided for in Article 8 of the Luxembourg law of 11 January 2008 on transparency As per 31 December 2013, Transcom had an issued capital of requirements for issuers of securities. EUR 53,557,907.519 divided into a total of 1,245,532,733 shares of 2)  he voting rights attached to the treasury shares held by Transcom are suspended in acT which 622,767,823 are of class A with one voting right each and cordance with Luxembourg applicable law. The Transcom Share (SEK) Volume (thousand) 1.50 20,000 1.25 15,000 1.00 10,000 0.75 5,000 0.50 0 02.01.2013 28.12.2013 Transcom WorldWide B Volume (TWW SDB B) NASDAQ OMX Nordic Small Cap Index (rebased) Transcom shareholders as at Dec 31, 2013* SDB A SDB B Total shares (A+B) % of capital % of votes Investment AB Kinnevik 247,164,416 163,806,834 410,971,250 33.0% 39.7% Creades AB 82,152,249 0 82,152,249 6.6% 13.2% Avanza Pension 25,255,461 54,682,968 79,938,429 6.4% 4.1% Nordnet Pensionsförsäkring AB 13,388,587 64,870,413 78,259,000 6.3% 2.1% Fjärde AP-fonden 25,242,492 28,322,625 53,565,117 4.3% 4.1% Unionen 22,517,200 24,117,200 46,634,400 3.7% 3.6% Nordea Fonder 20,963,978 23,456,789 44,420,767 3.6% 3.4% Total, top 7 shareholders 436,684,383 359,256,829 795,941,212 63.9% 70.1% * Shareholders owning at least 3 percent of capital 38 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors’ Report Directors’ Report Principal activities Executive Management Transcom (the “Company”) is a global customer experience speJohan Eriksson was appointed President and Chief Executive Officialist, providing customer care, sales, technical support and credit cer of Transcom in 2011 (joined Transcom in 2010 as General management services through an extensive network of contact Manager of the North Europe Region). Mr Eriksson also currently centers and work-at-home agents. serves as Acting General Manager of Transcom’s North America & Transcom’s operations add value to clients’ businesses by supAsia Pacific region. porting the creation of outstanding customer experiences, while Pär Christiansen joined the company as Chief Financial Officer reducing cost and helping to drive growth. Transcom does this in 2013. directly, by delivering exceptional multi-channel customer service Sytze Koopmans joined Transcom in 2013 as Chief Information and support in a cost-effective way. But Transcom’s goal is also Officer. In 2013, Neil Rae was appointed General Manager North that the Company’s activities benefit other parts of clients’ busiAmerica, reporting to the General Manager of the North America & nesses. For example, Transcom’s analytics capabilities can generAsia Pacific region (joined Transcom in 2004). ate insights that ultimately contribute to the creation of a differentiSiva Subramaniam was appointed General Manager Asia ated customer experience, setting Transcom’s clients apart in an Pacific in 2013, reporting to the General Manager of the North increasingly competitive marketplace. America & Asia Pacific region (joined Transcom in 2009). At the end of 2013, Transcom employed approximately 29,000 Christian Hultén joined Transcom as General Manager of the customer experience specialists at 62 contact centers across 26 North Europe region in 2012. During 2011, Isabel Sánchez-Lozano countries, delivering services in 33 languages to over 400 internajoined the Company as General Manager of the Iberia & Latam tional brands in various industry verticals. Whether onshore, offregion, and Roberto Boggio was appointed General Manager of the shore or near shore, Transcom agents are focused on delivering former South region, now Central & South Europe (joined Transoutstanding customer experiences, driving satisfaction, brand loycom in 2004). alty and additional sales while also adding insights and value to cliJörgen Skoog, Operations & HR Director, was appointed to ents’ business operations. Transcom’s Group Executive team in 2011 (joined Transcom in 2002). Capitalization As at December 31, 2013, the issued and outstanding share capital Board procedures was €53,557,907.519 consisting of 622,767,823 Transcom WorldTranscom’s Board held eight Board meetings during 2013, of which Wide Class A voting shares, each with a nominal value of €0.043, five were physical meetings and three were held via conference and 622,764,910 Transcom WorldWide Class B non-voting shares, calls. The Audit Committee held six meetings during 2013, of each with a nominal value of €0.043, with a total market capitalwhich four were physical meetings and two were held via conferization of SEK 1,525.8 million (€172.3 million). ence calls. The Remuneration Committee held three meetings in 2013, of which two were physical meetings and one was held via Stock Exchange Listing conference call. On September 6, 2001, Transcom was listed on the O-list of the Stockholm Stock Exchange, the Stockholmsbörsen. Transcom 2013 activities class A and B shares are currently listed on the NASDAQ OMX Business review Nordic Small Cap list under the symbols “TWW SDB A” and “TWW At the end of 2013, The Company had 62 operating centers SDB B”. employing almost 29,000 people, providing services from 26 country markets. Transcom’s global operations are divided into five units: North Europe, Central & South Europe, Iberia & Latam, North America & Asia Pacific, and Credit Management Services (CMS). Please refer to pages 20–21 for a review of performance and significant developments during the year in each region. Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39 Directors’ Report Consolidated results Requirements of article 11 (1) of the law of 19 May 2006 Net revenue in 2013 increased by 7.9% to €653.2 million (2012: on takeover bids (“Law on Takeover Bids’’) €605.6 million). Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) According to the Law on Takeover Bids, Transcom is required to increased to €–5.4 million (2012: €–17.6 million). Operating publish certain information on the following items: income in 2013 was impacted by a €21.1 million write-down of (a) Structure of the share capital with, among other, the indication goodwill related to the CMS business unit. This impairment is a of different classes of shares and the rights attached to them non-recurring, non-cash charge to earnings. It will not affect Transtogether with the percentage of total share capital represented com’s liquidity, cash flow or bank covenants, or have any impact on by each class. Such information is provided on page 38 in the future operations. The charges are based on long-term assesssection “The Transcom share and shareholders” of this Annual ments, and not specifically related to the short-term performance Report. of the respective business unit. (b) Restrictions on transfer of securities – As per the articles of Transcom reported a pretax loss of €–12.2 million (2012: association of Transcom, there are no restrictions on the trans€–23.6 million), with a net loss of €–18.6 million, compared with fer of shares. However, Transcom’s insider trading policy €–30.6 million in 2012. Transcom reported earnings per share includes an approval process (CEO/CFO approval) for insider (before dilution) of –1.5 Euro cents (–2.4 Euro cents in 2012). trading. Transcom’s 2013 results were impacted by restructuring and (c) Direct and indirect shareholding is presented on page 38 in the other non-recurring costs amounting to €23.0 million. These costs section “The Transcom share and shareholders”. are mainly related to the goodwill write-down described above, as (d) This section is not applicable to Transcom as there are no holdwell as to capacity adjustments and organizational restructuring ers of any securities at Transcom with special control rights. undertaken during the year in order to increase efficiency and lower (e) The system of control of any employee share scheme where the cost base. the control rights are not exercised directly by the employees. Excluding the effect of restructuring and other non-recurring The Long Term Incentive Programs for 2012 and 2013 were costs, earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) in 2013 increased approved by the annual general meeting of shareholders in to €17.6 million (2012: €8.9 million). 2012 and 2013 respectively and they are published on ­Transcom’s website (www.transcom.com). Financial position (f) Apart from the existence of class A voting shares and class B Operating cash flow before changes in working capital in 2013 was non-voting shares in the share capital of Transcom, there are no €7.1 million (2012: €–9.3 million). Net cash flows used in investing restrictions on voting rights attached to the shares. activities amounted to €–4.5 million (2012: €–9.4 million). The (g) As of the date hereof, Transcom is not aware of any agreements working capital movement was €2.8 million (2012: €–3.1 million). between the shareholders that may result in restrictions on the Transcom made no acquisitions in the financial year ended transfer of securities and/or affect their voting rights. December 31, 2013. Transcom had liquid funds of €58.4 million (h) The corporate governance of the Company is described and (2012: €42.6 million) at December 31, 2013. Gross debt was €94.4 can be found in the articles of association of Transcom and the million (2012: €80.7 million) giving a net debt of €36.2 million. The corporate governance charter posted on Transcom’s website, as equity to assets ratio at December 31, 2013 was 32.2% (37.1% at well as in the corporate governance section of this annual December 31, 2012). report. (i) The powers of the board members, and in particular the power Research and Development to issue and buy back shares can be found in the articles of assoDuring the year ended 31 December 2013, the Company did not ciation of Transcom, corporate governance charter and the resoconduct R&D activities. lutions of the annual general meeting of the shareholders taken on 29 May 2013, all posted on Transcom’s website. Risk Management (j) This section of the Law of Takeover Bids is not applicable to The Company’s operations are affected by several risks which, to Transcom. varying degrees, have an impact on the Company’s revenue and (k) The remuneration guidelines for senior executives were financial position. These risks are monitored and to the extent posapproved by of the annual general meeting of the shareholders sible, controlled by the Company. The risk factors which are on 29 May 2013. Any agreements between Transcom and the deemed to be of most significance to the Company are described board members or the employees are made on a case by case in the Corporate Governance report on pages 32–33. basis according to the customary laws in the country in which they are employed. 40 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors’ Report Post Balance Sheet Events Transcom has renegotiated its existing Revolving Credit Facility, which was due to expire in October 2014. An agreement, coming into effect on January 29, 2014, has been reached with all existing lenders – SEB, DNB and Handelsbanken – to implement a new €103.8 million three-year facility to replace the existing one. The new facility is composed of a €40.0 million term loan with partial amortization starting in 2015, as well as a €55.0 million multicurrency revolving credit facility, and an €8.8 million short-term facility. The implementation of the new loan agreement does not lead to the extinguishment of the previous loan, under IAS 39. Transcom’s CMS operation in the United Kingdom will form part of the company’s Central & South Europe region, effective January 1, 2014. Starting in Q1 2014, Transcom’s segment reporting will reflect this change. Outlook Entering 2014, Transcom will continue to focus on revenue growth and improved profitability through operational efficiency and business development. Transcom’s seat capacity utilization continued to improve in 2013 as a result of successful business development and necessary capacity adjustments in some geographical areas. Transcom’s target will always be to optimize the utilization of available capacity, and this will continue to be an important focus area throughout 2014. Henning Boysen Chairman of the Board of Directors, Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg April 10, 2014 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41 Five-year summary 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Revenue (€m) 653.2 605.6 554.1 589.1 560.2 Profit/loss before tax (€m) -12.2 -23.6 -32.0 -5.6 25.3 Profit/loss for the year (€m) -18.6 -30.6 -50.4 -8.0 20.6 Net cash flow from operating activities (€m) 9.9 -12.4 27.5 29.1 17.7 Net cash flow from operating activities per share (Euro cents) 1 -1 32 40 24 Earnings per share (Euro cents) -1.5 -2.4 -63.0 -11.0 28.0 Return on Equity -15.2% -23.0% -29.5% -4.6% 12.0% Operating margin -0.8% -2.9% -5.1% -1.1% 4.3% Equity ratio 32.2% 37.1% 43.0% 45.8% 45.6% Net debt/EBITDA 1.5 2.0 0.8 2.5 2.3 42 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Consolidated income statement for the year ended December 31, 2013 € 000 Note 2013 2012 Revenue 2 653,184 605,581 Cost of sales 3, 4, 6 -522,086 -493,749 Gross profit 2 131,098 111,832 Marketing expenses 3, 4 -5,963 -6,459 Administrative expenses 3, 4, 5 -107,255 -102,742 Restructuring expenses 19, 25 -7,082 -247 Impairment of intangible assets 6 -21,125 -20,641 Net gain on disposal of business 25 5,128 – Other operating income/expenses -246 622 Operating loss 2 -5,445 -17,635 Financial income 7 123 366 Financial expenses 7 -6,913 -6,320 Loss before tax -12,235 -23,589 Income tax expense 8 -6,328 -6,975 Loss for the year -18,563 -30,564 Attributable to: – equity holders of the parent -18,563 -30,564 – non-controlling interests – – Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the parent 9 Earnings before and after dilution per A class share, Euro cent per common share -1.5 -2.4 Earnings before and after dilution per B class share, Euro cent per common share -1.5 -2.4 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2013 € 000 2013 2012 Loss for the year -18,563 -30,564 Other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations -3,198 1,522 -3,198 1,522 Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Actuarial profit/loss on post employment benefit obligations -138 -388 Income tax effect 75 – -63 -388 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax -3,261 1,134 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax -21,824 -29,430 Attributable to: – equity holders of the parent -21,824 -29,430 – non-controlling interests – – 44 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Consolidated statement of financial position for the year ended December 31, 2013 € 000 Note Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 10 116,334 147,921 Property, plant and equipment 11 15,609 14,518 Deferred tax assets 8 4,784 3,540 Other receivables 24 1,143 1,350 137,870 167,329 Current assets Trade receivables 12, 24 98,557 89,827 Income tax receivables 4,823 3,542 Other receivables 13, 24 26,039 25,149 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 24 19,966 29,685 Cash and cash equivalents 14, 24 58,362 42,600 207,747 190,803 Total assets 345,617 358,132 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 Consolidated statement of financial position (continued) for the year ended December 31, 2013 € 000 Note Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 15 Share capital 53,558 53,558 Other contributed capital 11,458 11,458 Reserves 17,583 20,704 Retained earnings including net loss for the year 28,743 47,306 111,342 133,026 Non-current liabilities Interest bearing liabilities 17, 24 16 70,572 Employee benefit obligations 18 2,635 2,834 Provisions 19 2,225 10,518 Deferred tax liabilities 8 2,680 2,650 Income tax payables 4,417 – Other liabilities 73 67 12,046 86,641 Current liabilities Interest bearing liabilities 17, 24 94,425 10,167 Provisions 19 2,576 16,559 Trade payables 24 25,562 24,797 Income tax payables 9,809 544 Other liabilities 20, 24 37,931 24,726 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 21, 24 51,926 61,672 222,229 138,465 Total liabilities 234,275 225,106 Total equity and liabilities 345,617 358,132 46 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended December 31, 2013 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Reserves Other Equity Foreign Share contributed Legal based translation Other Retained € 000 capital capital ­reserve payments ­reserve reserves earnings Total As at January 1, 2013 53,558 11,458 4,213 42 -11,461 27,910 47,306 133,026 Loss for the year – – – – – – -18,563 -18,563 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – – – – -3,198 -63 – -3,261 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – – – – -3,198 -63 -18,563 -21,824 Equity based payments – – – 140 – – – 140 As at December 31, 2013 53,558 11,458 4,213 182 -14,659 27,847 28,743 111,342 As at January 1, 2012 53,558 11,458 3,908 – –12,983 28,298 78,175 162,414 Loss for the year – – – – – – -30,564 -30,564 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – – – – 1,522 -388 – 1,134 Transfer of legal reserve – – 305 – – – -305 0 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – – 305 – 1,522 -388 -30,869 -29,430 Equity based payments – – – 42 – – – 42 As at December 31, 2012 53,558 11,458 4,213 42 -11,461 27,910 47,306 133,026 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47 Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2013 € 000 Note 2013 2012 Cash flows from operating activities Loss before tax -12,235 -23,589 Adjustments for non cash items: Depreciation and amortization 6 9,123 11,083 Impairment losses 6 21,125 20,641 Change in provisions including employee benefit obligations 18, 19 1,678 -13,496 Result from disposal of business -5,128 – Other non-cash adjustments 431 3,207 Income taxes paid -7,885 -7,136 Cash flows from operating activities before changes in working capital 7,109 -9,290 Change in operating receivables -5,500 -14,158 Change in operating liabilities 8,301 11,009 Changes in working capital 2,801 -3,149 Net cash flow from operating activities 9,910 -12,439 Cash flows from investing activities Investments in property, plant and equipment 11 -8,467 -8,530 Investments in intangible assets 10 -631 -823 Investments in business, net of cash -80 – Disposals of property plant and equipment 193 – Disposals of business, net of cash 25 4,475 – Changes in other non-current assets -8 – Net cash flow from investing activities -4,518 -9,353 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 17 14,000 15,244 Payments of finance lease liabilities -147 – Interest paid -2,630 -2,981 Net cash flow from financing activities 11,223 12,263 Net cash flow for the year 16,615 -9,529 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 42,600 52,076 Net cash flow for the year 16,615 -9,529 Exchange rate differences in cash and cash equivalents -853 53 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 14 58,362 42,600 48 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013 Note 1 Summary of significant • IFRS 13 Fair value measurement establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements. IFRS 13 does not accounting and valuation policies change when an entity is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS when fair 1.1 General value is required or permitted. The adoption of this standard did not Transcom WorldWide S.A. (the “Company” or the “parent entity”) and have any impact on the financial position or performance of the its subsidiaries (together, “Transcom” or the “Group”) provide multi­ Group. language customer relationship management products and services • The revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits has not had any significant (“CRM”) and credit management services (“CMS”), including customer impact on the report and therefore not led to any change. help lines and other telephone-based marketing and customer service • Other changes to IFRS have not had material effect on the consoliprograms (“teleservices”) to clients in customer-intensive industries. dated accounts nor the disclosures. The Company is a limited liability Company (“Société Anonyme”) incorporated and existing under the laws of the Grand Duchy of LuxemStandards issued but not yet effective bourg. The Company was registered on June 11, 1997 with the Luxem• The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effecbourg Register of Commerce under the number RCS B59528. The registive, up to the date of issuance of the Group’s financial statements tered office of the Company is at 45, Rue des Scillas, L-2529, are disclosed below. The Group intends to adopt these standards, if Luxembourg. Transcom WorldWide S.A. class A and class B shares are applicable, when they become effective. listed on the Nordic Exchange Small Cap list under the symbols “TWW • IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, as issued, reflects the first phase of SDB A” and “TWW SDB B”. the IASB’s work on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classiThe consolidated financial statements were authorized for issue by the fication and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities Board of Directors on April 10, 2014. These consolidated financial stateas defined in IAS 39. The adoption of the first phase of IFRS 9 will ments will be submitted for approval at the Annual General Meeting on have an effect on the classification and measurements of the May 28, 2014. Group’s financial liabilities. The Group will quantify the effect in conjunction with the other phases, when the final standard including all 1.2 Basis of preparation phases is issued. The consolidated financial statements of Transcom WorldWide S.A. • Investment Entities (Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27), have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reportthese amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or ing Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. The consoliafter 1 January 2014 and provide an exception to the consolidation dated financial statements have been prepared under the historical requirement for entities that meet the definition of an investment cost basis. The consolidated financial statements are presented in entity to account for subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss. Euros which is the Group’s reporting currency, rounded in thousands It is not expected that this amendment would be relevant to the of Euros. The consolidated and annual accounts pertain to January 1– Group, since none of the entities in the Group would qualify to be an December 31 for income statement items and December 31 for balinvestment entity under IFRS 10. ance sheet items. • IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities – The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in conformity with IFRS Amendments to IAS 32 clarifies the meaning of “currently has a requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires legally enforceable right to set-off” and the criteria for non-simultamanagement to exercise its judgment in the process of applying the neous settlement mechanisms of clearing houses to clarify for offGroup’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of setting. These are effective for annual periods beginning on or after judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates 1 January 2014. These amendments are not expected to be relevant are signiﬁcant to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements are disclosed to the Group. in note 26. • IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies (IFRIC 21) clarifies that an entity recThe principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these ognizes a liability for a levy when the activity that triggers payment, consolidated ﬁnancial statements are set out below. These policies as identified by the relevant legislation, occurs. For a levy that is trighave been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless othergered upon reaching a minimum threshold, the interpretation clariwise stated. fies that no liability should be anticipated before the specified miniAs at 31 December 2013, current liabilities amounted to €222,229 mum threshold is reached. IFRIC 21 is effective for annual periods thousand and exceeded current assets (€207,747) mainly due to the beginning on or after 1 January 2014. The Group does not expect short term nature of the existing loan facility described in note 17. On that IFRIC 21 will have material financial impact in future financial 29 January 2014, the Company refinanced on a long term basis its statements. loan facility as further explained in notes 17 and 28 so that it will be • IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accountable to face its short term payment obligations. ing – Amendments to IAS 39 provide relief from discontinuing hedge accounting when novation of derivative designated as a 1.2.1 Changes in accounting policies and disclosures hedging instrument meets certain criteria. These amendments are New and amended standards that are effective for the first time for the effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. financial year beginning January 1, 2013 adopted by the Group. The Group has not novated its derivatives during the current period. • A new version of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements states However, these amendments would be considered for future novahow items within Other comprehensive income should be presenttions. ed. The change requires the items to be divided into two categories: items that will be reclassified under earnings for the year and items 1.3 Consolidation that will not be reclassified. Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to • The amended IFRS 7 Financial instruments require new disclosure ­govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a requirements for the settling of financial assets and liabilities. shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49 convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls • assets and liabilities for each statement of financial position preanother entity. The Group also assesses existence of control where it sented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that statement does not have more than 50% of the voting power but is able to govern of financial position; the financial and operating policies by virtue of de-facto control. De• income and expenses for each income statement are translated at facto control may arise in circumstances where the size of the Group’s average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of other approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the shareholders give the Group the power to govern the financial and transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated operating policies, etc. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date at the rate on the dates of the transactions); and on which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated • all resulting exchange differences are recognized in other comprefrom the date that control ceases. hensive income. The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities the net investment in foreign operations, and of borrowings and other incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair recognized directly in other comprehensive income. When a foreign value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent were recorded in equity are recognized in the income statement as part liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at of the gain or loss on sale. their fair values at the acquisition date. The Group recognizes any nonGoodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a controlling interest in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionand translated at the closing rate. Exchange differences arising are recate share of the recognized amounts of acquiree’s identifiable net ognized directly in other comprehensive income as the year’s change assets. in the foreign translation reserve. If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the 1.5 Property, plant and equipment acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through All property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less profit or loss. depreciation. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attribAny contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recutable to the acquisition of the items. ognized at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable or liability is recognized in accordance with IAS 39 either in the income that future economic beneﬁts associated with the item will ﬂow to the statement or as a change to other comprehensive income. Contingent Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured, and its subamount of the replaced part is derecognized. All other repairs and sequent settlement is accounted for within equity. maintenance are charged to the income statement during the ﬁnancial In acquisitions where the net value of acquired assets and assumed period in which they are incurred. liabilities and contingent liabilities, the difference is reported as goodDepreciation on assets is calculated using the straight-line method will. When the difference is negative, it is recognized in the Income to allocate their cost less their residual values over their estimated statement. ­useful lives, as follows: Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, revenue and expenses, and • Telephone switch 5 years unrealized gains and losses that arise from transactions between • Fixtures and fittings 3–5 years Group companies are eliminated in the consolidated accounts. • Computer, hardware and software 3–5 years The financial reports of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated • Office improvements and others 3–5 years accounts from the acquisition date until control ceases. When the Group ceases to have control any retained interest in the entity is reThe assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted measured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, with the if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period. An asset’s carrying change in carrying amount recognized in profit or loss. The fair value is amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset. amount (note 1.7). In addition, any amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognized within ‘other directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that income/ other expenses’ in the income statement. amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. 1.6 Intangible assets (a) Goodwill 1.4 Foreign currency translation Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the (a) Functional and presentation currency fair value of the Group’s share of the net identiﬁable assets of the Items included in the ﬁnancial statements of each of the Group’s entiacquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions ties are measured using the currency of the primary economic environof subsidiaries is included in ‘intangible assets’. Goodwill is tested ment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The conannually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairsolidated ﬁnancial statements are presented in ‘Euro (€)’, which is the ment losses. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. Gains Group’s presentation currency. and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. (b) Transactions and balances Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currenimpairment testing. The allocation is made to those cash-generating cy using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions units or Groups of cash-generating units that are expected to beneﬁt or valuation where items are re-measured. Foreign exchange gains and from the business combination in which the goodwill arose, identiﬁed losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the according to operating segment. translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in the income (b) Customer relationships statement within “finance income/finance costs”. Contractual customer relationships acquired in a business combination are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. The contractual cus(c) Group companies tomer relations have a ﬁnite useful life and are carried at cost less The results and ﬁnancial position of all the Group entities (none of accumulated amortization and are assessed for impairment whenever which has the currency of a hyper-inﬂationary economy) that have a there is an indication that the asset is impaired. Amortization is calcufunctional currency different from the presentation currency are translated using the straight-line method over the expected life of the cuslated into the Group’s presentation currency as follows: tomer relationship which is between 7 to 15 years. 50 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 (c) Development costs A financial asset or financial liability is recognized in the balance sheet Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are when the company becomes party to the instrument’s contractual recognized as an expense as incurred. Development costs that are terms. Receivables are recognized when the company has performed directly attributable to the design and testing of identiﬁable and unique and there is a contractual obligation on the counterparty to pay, even if software products controlled by the Group are recognized as intangible an invoice has not yet been received. Accounts receivable are recogassets when the following criteria are met: nized in the balance sheet when an invoice has been sent. Liabilities are • it is technically feasible to complete the software product so that it recognized when the counterparty has performed and there is a conwill be available for use; tractual obligation to pay, even if an invoice has not yet been received. • management intends to complete the software product and use or Trade accounts payable are recognized when an invoice is received. sell it; A financial asset is removed from the balance sheet when the rights • there is an ability to use or sell the software product; in the agreement are realized, expire or the company loses control over • it can be demonstrated how the software product will generate them. A financial liability is removed from the balance sheet when the probable future economic beneﬁts; obligation in the agreement has been discharged or otherwise extin• adequate technical, ﬁnancial and other resources to complete the guished. development and to use or sell the software product are available; Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reportand ed in the statement of financial position when there is a legally enforce• the expenditure attributable to the software product during its develable right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention to opment can be reliably measured. settle on a net basis or realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Directly attributable costs that are capitalized as part of the software product, include the software development employee costs and an 1.9 Non-current receivables and other receivables appropriate portion of relevant overheads. These receivables fall into the category Loans and accounts receivable Other development expenditures that do not meet these criteria are and are assessed at their discounted current value if their expected recognized as an expense as incurred. Development costs previously maturity exceeds 12 months. If their maturities are shorter, they are recognized as an expense are not recognized as an asset in a subseassessed at accrued cost. quent period. Computer software development costs recognized as assets are 1.10 Trade receivables amortized over their estimated useful lives, which is between 3 to 5 Trade receivables are classified in the category loans and receivables. years. Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for services performed in the ordinary course of business. If collection is expected in 1.7 Impairment of non-financial assets one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if lonAssets that have an indeﬁnite useful life – for example, goodwill or ger), they are classiﬁed as current assets. If not, they are presented as intangible assets not ready to use – are not subject to amortization and non-current assets. are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortizaTrade receivables are recognized initially at fair value and subsetion are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in cirquently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest methcumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. od, less provision for impairment. The anticipated receivable is short, The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs so they are carried at accrued cost without discounting. to sell and value in use. Impairment are determined individually or according to statistical For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at models based on historical experience in each country. Impairment the lowest levels for which there are separately identiﬁable cash ﬂows needs are addressed when receivables have fallen overdue for pay(cash-generating units). Transcom’s operations in each segmental ment by a certain number of days, which differs between countries, or region are considered the Group’s cash-generating units in this regard. if Transcom becomes aware that the counterparty has become insolNon-ﬁnancial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment vent. Provisions for impaired receivables are recognized as administraare reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting tive expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement. date. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s carrying amount exceeds its recover1.11 Cash and cash equivalents able amount. In the consolidated statement of cash ﬂows, cash and cash equivalents Impairment losses are recognized in the income statement. Impairincludes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term ment losses attributable to a cash-generating unit are mainly allocated highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less to goodwill after which they are divided proportionately among other and bank overdrafts. In the consolidated statement of financial position, assets in the unit. The recoverable amount of cash-generating units is bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities. the higher of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Value in use is measured by discounting future cash flows using a discounting 1.12 Borrowings factor that takes into account the risk-free rate of interest and the risk Borrowings are classified as other financial liabilities, which means associated with the specific asset. that they are recognized initially at fair value, net of transaction costs Impairment of goodwill is not reversed. Impairment of other assets incurred. Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortized cost; any is reversed if a change has been made in the assumptions that served difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the as the basis for determining the recoverable amount. Impairment is redemption value is recognized in the income statement over the perireversed only to the extent the carrying value of the assets following od of the borrowings using the effective interest method. Non-current the reversal does not exceed the carrying value that the asset would borrowings have an anticipated maturity of more than one year, while have had if the impairment had not been recognized. current borrowings have a maturity of less than one year. The Group’s non-current borrowings generally have short or long fixed interest peri1.8 Financial assets and liabilities ods, which means that the nominal loan amount plus accrued interest A financial instrument is defined as any form of agreement giving rise is a good approximation of the borrowing calculated according to the to a financial asset in a company and a financial liability or equity effective rate model. instrument in a counterparty. Financial instruments recognized in the balance sheet include, on the asset side, cash and bank balances, 1.13 Trade Payables accounts receivable and other equity instruments, loans receivable. Trade payables are classified in the category other financial liabilities. Included among liabilities and equity are accounts payable, debt and Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have equity instruments in issue and loan liabilities. been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers. Trade Financial instruments are initially recognized at cost, corresponding payables are classiﬁed as current liabilities if payment is due within one to the instrument’s fair value plus transaction expenses. An exception year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer). is made for financial instruments in the category financial assets or liaIf not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. bilities recognized at fair value through profit and loss, that are recogTrade payables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently nized at fair value excluding transaction costs. Measurement depends measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. on how they are classified, as indicated below. Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51 1.14 Other payables, other liabilities, accrued expenses Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a and prepaid income legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax Other payables, other liabilities, accrued expenses and prepaid income liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured at relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either amortized cost using the effective interest method. the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis. 1.15 Leasing Leasing is classified in the consolidated accounts as either finance or 1.17 Employee benefits operating leasing. Group companies operate various pension schemes. The schemes are When the Group, as lessee, essentially enjoys the economic benefits generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trusteeand bears the economic risks attributable to the leased asset, it is clasadministered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations. The sified as a finance lease. The leased asset is recognized in the balance Group has both deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned contribution plans. sheet as a fixed asset, while the estimated present value of future lease A deﬁned contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group payments is recognized as a liability. The portion of the lease fee that pays ﬁxed contributions into a separate entity. The Group has no legal falls due for payment within one year is recognized as a current liability, or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does while the remainder is recognized as a long-term liability. not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the beneﬁts relating to Minimum lease fees for finance leases are divided between interest employee service in the current and prior periods. expense and amortization of the outstanding liability. Interest expense A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contriis divided over the lease term so that each reporting period is charged bution plan. Typically deﬁned beneﬁt plans deﬁne an amount of penwith an amount corresponding to a fixed interest rate for the liability sion beneﬁt that an employee will receive on retirement, usually depenrecognized in each period. Variable fees are expensed in the period in dent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and which they arise. compensation. The liability recognized in the statement of financial Leases in which a signiﬁcant portion of the risks and rewards of position in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans is the present value ownership are retained by the lessor are classiﬁed as operating leases. of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the end of the reporting period less Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecogfrom the lessor) are charged to the income statement on a straight-line nized past-service costs. The deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is calculated basis over the period of the lease. annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment. Leases of method. The present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is deterproperty, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all mined by discounting the estimated future cash outﬂows using interest the risks and rewards of ownership are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases. rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the curFinance leases are capitalized at the lease’s commencement at the rency in which the beneﬁts will be paid, and that have terms to maturity lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. the minimum lease payments. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and ﬁnance changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to other charges. The corresponding rental obligations, net of ﬁnance charges, comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. are included in other long-term payables. The interest element of the Past-service costs are recognized immediately in income, unless the ﬁnance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remainso as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining ing in service for a speciﬁed period of time (the vesting period). In this balance of the liability for each period. The property, plant and equipcase, the past-service costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over ment acquired under ﬁnance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the vesting period. the useful life of the asset and the lease term. The Group’s main defined benefit plans are termination indemnity plan in Italy and a pension plan in Philippines. 1.16 Current and deferred income tax The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. 1.18 Share capital and treasury shares Tax is recognized in the income statement, except to the extent that it Ordinary shares are classiﬁed as equity. relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income or directly Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognized in other comprehensive shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from income or directly in equity, respectively. the proceeds. The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax Where any Group Company purchases the Company’s equity share laws enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date in the councapital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly tries where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxattributable incremental costs (net of income taxes) is deducted from able income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is cancelled or reissued. Where such ordinary shares are subsequently subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is Deferred income tax is recognized, using the liability method, on included in equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders. temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated ﬁnancial state1.19 Equity based payments ments. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognized if they arise The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain emfrom the initial recognition of goodwill; deferred income tax is not ployees and key management. Equity-settled share based payments accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability are measured at fair value (excluding the effect of non market-based in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of vesting conditions) at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt or loss. grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is recognized as Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have an expense on a graded vesting basis over the vesting period, based on been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date and are the Group’s estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realfor the effect of non market vesting conditions. Fair value is measured ized or the deferred income tax liability is settled. using the Black-Scholes pricing model or any relevant valuation model. Deferred income tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it The expected life used in the model is adjusted at the end of each reis probable that future taxable proﬁt will be available against which the porting period, based on management’s best estimate, for the effect of temporary differences can be utilized. non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioral considerations. Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except for deferred income 1.20 Dividend tax liability where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference Dividend is recognized as a liability in the Group’s ﬁnancial statements is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary differin the period in which the dividends are approved by the Annual Generence will not reverse in the foreseeable future. al Meeting. 52 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 1.21 Provisions 1.25 Fair value measurement Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims are recognized The Group measures financial instruments, such as, derivatives, and when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a non-financial assets, at fair value at each balance sheet date. Also, fair result of past events; it is probable that an outﬂow of resources will be values of financial instruments measured at amortized cost are disrequired to settle the obligation; and the amount has been reliably esticlosed in note 24. mated. Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid and employee termination payments. Provisions are not recognized for to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market particifuture operating losses. pants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the an outﬂow will be required in settlement is determined by considering liability takes place either: the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognized even if the • In the principal market for the asset or liability, or likelihood of an outﬂow with respect to any one item included in the • In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous same class of obligations may be small. market for the asset or liability Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to reﬂects current market assessments of the time value of money and by the Group. the risks speciﬁc to the obligation. The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset 1.22 Contingent liabilities or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic A contingent liability is recognized when there is a possible obligation best interest. that arises from past events whose existence will be confirmed only by A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into one or more uncertain future events or when there is an obligation that account a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by is not recognized as a liability or provision because it is not probable using the asset in its highest and best use by selling it to another marthat an outflow of resources will be required. ket participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use. The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the cir1.23 Revenue recognition cumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimizing receivable for the sale of services in the ordinary course of the Group’s the use of unobservable inputs. activities. Revenue is shown net of value-added tax, returns, rebates All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarThe Group has two primary sources of revenues being its CRM chy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is signifi(Customer Relationship Management) and its CMS (Credit Managecant to the fair value measurement as a whole: ment Services) businesses. • Level 1 – Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for In relation to its CRM business, revenue mainly arise from call servicidentical assets or liabilities es operations. The Group recognizes revenue when the amount of reve• Level 2 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that nue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly beneﬁts will ﬂow to the Group and when speciﬁc criteria have been met observable for each of the Group’s activities as described below. The Group bases • Level 3 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that its estimates on historical results, taking into consideration the type of is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable. customer, the type of transaction and the speciﬁcs of each arrangement. • Revenues related to inbound teleservices are recognized at the time For assets and liabilities that are recognized in the financial statements services are provided on a per-call basis. on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have • Revenues on outbound teleservices and debt collection are recogoccurred between Levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorizanized at the time services are provided on either a per-call, per-sale tion (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value or per-collection basis under a fully executed contractual agreement measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period. and record reductions to revenues for contractual penalties and holdbacks for failure to meet specified minimum service levels and 1.3 Cash flow statement other performance based contingencies. The cash flow statement includes changes in the balance of liquid • Revenues from other CRM services are recognized as services are assets. The Group’s liquid assets consist of cash and bank balances. provided. Generally service revenues are billed in the month followCash flow is divided into cash flows from operating activities, investing ing provision of related services. Contracts to provide call center activities and financing activities. services typically do not involve fees related to customer set-up, Cash flow from investing activities includes only actual disburse­initiation or activation. ments for investments during the year. Foreign subsidiaries’ transactions are translated in the cash flow stateIn relation to its CMS business, revenue mainly arise from fees and ment at the average exchange rate for the period. Acquired and divested commissions generated from the collection of receivables on behalf of subsidiaries are recognized as cash flow from investing activities, net, customers. after deducting liquid assets in the acquired or divested company. Accrued income on CMS activities is recognized on incomplete activities where a fair assessment of the work achieved to date and the 1.4 Segment reporting future cash inflows associated with it can be measured with reasonable Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the interaccuracy. The Company calculates accrued income based on the numnal reporting provided to and is evaluated regularly by the chief operatber of collection cases expected to be solved (“success rates”) in the ing decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker, who is responfuture multiplied by the estimated cost incurred per case. sible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identiﬁed as the regional general man1.24 Financial income and expenses ager that makes strategic decisions. Transcom’s operating segments Financial income and expenses consist of interest income on bank balare North Europe CRM (Denmark, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Estoances and receivables and interest-bearing securities, bank fees, internia, Latvia and Lithuania), Central & South Europe CRM (Austria, Belest expenses on loans, dividend income, exchange rate differences, gium, Croatia, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Luxembourg, Poland, Slovakia, realized and unrealized gains on financial investments, and derivatives Switzerland, and Tunisia), Iberia & Latam CRM (Chile, Peru, Portugal used in financial operations. and Spain), North America & Asia Pacific CRM (Canada, the Philippines, USA, the United Kingdom and Australia), and CMS (Austria, the Czech Republic, the United Kingdom, Poland, Denmark, Norway and Sweden). Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 Note 2 Segmental information 2013 CRM CMS North Central & Iberia & America Total € 000 North Europe South Europe Latam & AP Total CRM Total CMS Group Revenue Total segment revenue 205,049 167,603 131,805 167,775 672,232 57,481 729,713 Inter-segment revenue -8,043 -21,775 -938 -45,098 -75,854 -675 -76,529 Revenue from external customers 197,006 145,828 130,867 122,677 596,378 56,806 653,184 Gross profit 30,289 27,629 25,220 30,426 113,564 17,534 131,098 Profit/loss from segments 4,358 4,537 3,068 -1,408 10,555 5,125 15,680 Intangible asset impairment -21,125 Operating loss -5,445 2012 CRM CMS North Central & Iberia & America Total € 000 North Europe South Europe Latam & AP Total CRM Total CMS Group Revenue Total segment revenue 188,307 155,482 119,791 114,512 578,092 56,043 634,135 Inter-segment revenue -7,877 -17,195 -358 -2,381 -27,811 -742 -28,553 Revenue from external customers 180,430 138,287 119,433 112,131 550,280 55,301 605,582 Gross profit 28,190 18,654 24,314 27,062 98,220 13,612 111,832 Profit/loss from segments 5,969 -7,444 5,051 -2,312 1,264 1,741 3,005 Intangible asset impairment -20,641 Operating loss -17,635 In 2013, the management changed the structure of the internal organiInter-segment transfer prices between operating segments are on an zation of the Group in a manner that has caused the composition of the arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. Group reportable segments to change, compared to the prior financial An appropriate mark-up is being applied according to Transcom’s year. Consequently, the corresponding items of segment information Transfer Pricing Policy, in order to encourage use of Group resources. for the year ended 31 December 2012 have been restated. Since 2012, Revenues from the two largest single customers and arising from revenue is reported in the segment in which it is delivered. sales by both the CRM and CMS segments amounted to €111,794 For management purposes the business is considered from a thousand December 31, 2013 (December 31, 2012: €106,746 thou­service perspective where management separately considers multi-­ sand) and €64,634 thousand December 31, 2013 (December 31, 2012: language customer relationship management products and services €58,344 thousand) respectively. The revenues amounting to €111,794 (“CRM”) and credit management services (“CMS”). thousand are derived from the segments CMS, Central & South Europe and North Europe and the revenues amounting to €64,634 thousand The Group reportable segments are composed as follows: are derived from the segments Iberia & Latam and Central & South • CRM North America & Asia Pacific: Canada, the Philippines, USA, Europe. the United Kingdom and Australia; • CRM Central and South Europe: Austria, Belgium, Croatia, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Luxembourg, Poland, Slovakia, Switzerland and ­Tunisia (France deconsolidated per March 1, 2013); • CRM Iberia & Latam: Chile, Peru, Portugal, Spain and Colombia; • CRM North Europe: Denmark, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, ­Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania; • CMS: Austria, the Czech Republic, the United Kingdom, Poland, ­Denmark, Norway and Sweden (Germany deconsolidated per December 30, 2013). 54 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Note 3 Personnel expenses Salaries, other remuneration and social security charges were as follows: 2013 2012 Board of Directors and Board of Directors and € 000 senior management Other employees ­senior management Other employees Salaries and other remunerations 2,835 423,083 3,045 394,931 Social security charges 503 65,592 598 62,836 Pension expenses 301 8,648 234 8,971 Personnel expenses are recognized in the following line items in the income statement: 2013 2012 Cost of sales 457,701 432,327 Marketing expenses 3,563 3,808 Administrative expenses 39,698 34,480 Total 500,962 470,615 Directors’ remuneration; The President and Chief Executive Officer, €275 thousand as Board fees (2012: €292 thousand). The Board Johan Eriksson, received salary and remuneration of €627 thousand fees are determined by the Annual General Meeting, compensation of in the year (2012: €641 thousand). The Chairman of the Board, Mr the President and Chief Executive Officer is determined by the Board, Henning Boysen, received €95 thousand as Board fees (2012: €95 compensation of senior management is determined by the Board in thousand), and the other members of the Board received a total of conjunction with the President and Chief Executive Officer. Note 4 Leases Operating leases Finance leases Operating lease expenses amounting to €34,494 thousand (2012: Property, plant and equipment (note 11) includes the following amounts €30,630 thousand) mainly relating to the lease of office building and where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: equipment, are included in the income statement. In 2013, €24,525 € 000 2013 2012 thousand (2012: €22,218 thousand) was paid for rent related to noncancellable leases. Generally, the Group’s lease contracts require Cost – capitalized finance leases 293 259 deposits and certain provisions for inflation-indexed rental increases. Accumulated depreciation -158 -72 Future payments for rent on non-cancellable leases for premises are Net book value 135 187 as follows: Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased € 000 2013 2012 assets revert to the lessor in the event of default. Less than one year 27,636 23,141 Between one and five years 35,389 39,448 Gross finance lease liabilities – minimum lease payments: More than five years – 1,212 € 000 2013 2012 Total 63,025 63,801 Less than one year 53 137 Between one and five years 16 108 69 245 Future finance charges on finance leases -9 -36 Present value of finance lease liabilities 60 209 The present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows: € 000 2013 2012 Less than one year 44 167 Between one and five years 16 42 Present value of finance lease liabilities 60 209 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55 Note 5 Remuneration to auditors Note 7 Financial income and expenses For the financial year ended December 31, 2013 and December 31, Financial income 2012 the approved statutory auditor, and as the case may be affiliated € 000 2013 2012 companies of the auditor, billed fees to the Group in relation with the following services: Interest income on bank deposits 123 366 € 000 2013 2012 Total 123 366 Audit of the statutory and consolidated accounts 678 707 Financial expenses Interim review 70 70 € 000 2013 2012 Other services 58 60 Interest expense on bank borrowings -3,275 -2,628 Total 806 837 Other financing costs -2,333 -2,211 Exchange difference, net -1,305 -1,481 Total -6,913 -6,320 Note 6 Amortization, depreciation and impairment Amortization and depreciation € 000 2013 2012 Customer relationships -1,941 -2,781 Development costs -894 -1,114 Other intangibles -179 -130 Telephone switch -626 -1,505 Fixture and fittings -1,575 -1,592 Computer hardware and software -2,847 -2,201 Office improvements -1,061 -1,761 -9,123 -11,084 Impairment Goodwill -21,125 -14,729 Customer relationships – -5,912 -21,125 -20,641 Total -30,248 -31,725 Amortization, depreciation and impairment are recognized in the ­following line items in the income statement: € 000 2013 2012 Cost of sales -6,305 -7,189 Impairment of intangible assets -21,125 -20,641 Other operating expenses -2,818 -3,895 Total -30,248 -31,725 56 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Note 8 Taxes Income tax expense Deferred tax liabilities € 000 2013 2012 Property, plant and IntangiCurrent income tax on profit/loss for the year -9,987 -6,031 equipble Adjustments in respect of prior years (a) 2,285 -2,067 € 000 ment ­assets Others Total Current taxes -7,702 -8,098 As at ­January 1, 2013 447 1,156 1,047 2,650 Income statement movement -403 347 91 35 Current year origination and reversal of Exchange differences – – -5 -5 temporary differences 930 1,638 As at December 31, 2013 44 1,503 1,133 2,680 Adjustments in respect of prior years 444 -515 Deferred taxes 1,374 1,123 As at ­January 1, 2012 200 3,694 1,448 5,342 Income tax expense -6,328 -6,975 Income statement movement 247 -2,495 -433 -2,681 (a) This  amount mainly represents provisions, or reversal thereof, with respect to legal claims brought against the Group by tax a­ uthorities in variExchange differences – -43 32 -11 ous jurisdictions. As at December 31, 2012 447 1,156 1,047 2,650 Effective tax rate A reconciliation of the statutory tax rate to the Company’s effective tax Deferred tax assets are recognized for tax losses carried forward to the rate applicable to income from continuous operations was: extent that the realization of the related tax benefit through future taxable profit is probable. The Group did not recognize deferred tax assets € 000 2013 % 2012 % of €80,072 thousand (2012: €55,448 thousand) in respect of losses Profit/loss before tax -12,235 -23,589 amounting to €274,405 thousand (2012: €192,100 thousand) which do not expire. Calculated tax based on No deferred tax liability was recognized in respect of €146,783 tax rate in Luxembourg 3,667 -30.0 6,953 -29.6 thousand (2012 €133,069 thousand) of unremitted earnings of subsi­ Foreign tax rate differential 3,378 -27.6 3,445 -14.6 diaries because the Group was in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it was unlikely that such Losses for which no tax ­differences would reverse in a foreseeable future. ­benefit is recognized -13,800 112.8 -10,508 44.6 Losses utilized for which no deferred tax assets were previously recognized 448 -3.7 1,097 -4.7 Note 9 Earnings per share Adjustments in respect of Basic earnings per share amounts were calculated by dividing profit/ ­prior years 2,729 -22.3 -2,582 11.0 loss for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent by the Expenses not allowable for weighted average number of shares in issue during the year. tax purposes -5,837 47.7 -7,152 30.3 2013 2012 Income not taxable for Profit/loss for the year attributable to equity tax purposes 3,134 -25.6 1,540 -6.5 holders of the parent (€ 000) -18,563 -30,564 Other -47 0.4 232 -1.0 Weighted average number of shares in issue Income tax expense -6,328 51.6 -6,975 29.6 during the year (000) 1,245,532 1,245,532 Basic earnings per share (Euro cent) -1,5 -2,4 The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting balances within Diluted earnings per share amounts were calculated by dividing profit/ the same tax jurisdictions, is as follows: loss for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent by the Deferred tax assets weighted average number of shares in issue during the year adjusted for outstanding share options of nil (2012: nil). Property, plant and 2013 2012 equipTax € 000 ment losses Others Total Profit/loss for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent (€ 000) -18,563 -30,564 As at ­January 1, 2013 98 2,912 530 3,540 Weighted average number of shares in issue Income statement movement 782 -15 641 1,408 during the year adjusted for outstanding Exchange differences – -160 -4 -164 stock options (000) 1,245,532 1,245,532 As at December 31, 2013 880 2,737 1,167 4,784 Diluted earnings per share (Euro cent) -1,5 -2,4 As at ­January 1, 2012 1,158 3,325 605 5,088 During 2013, there were 622,768 thousand weighted average Class A Shares and 622,764 thousand weighted average Class B shares in Income statement movement -1,060 -418 -81 -1,559 issue (2012: 622,768 thousand Class A shares, 622,764 thousand Tax relating to components of Class B shares). other comprehensive income – 5 6 11 There are no subsequent events which could have an impact on the basic earnings per share or the diluted earnings per share. As at December 31, 2012 98 2,912 530 3,540 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57 Note 10 Intangible assets Cost Customer Development € 000 Goodwill ­relationships cost Others Total As at January 1, 2013 154,962 26,126 10,137 2,533 193,758 Investments – 2 469 160 631 Acquisition of business 310 – – – 310 Disposal – – – -4 -4 Disposal of business* -8,577 – – -28 -8,605 Exchange differences -2,783 -503 – 2 -3,284 As at December 31, 2013 143,912 25,625 10,606 2,663 182,806 * For further information, see note 25 Amortization and impairment As at January 1, 2013 -14,729 -21,016 -7,968 -2,124 -45,837 Amortization for the year – -1,941 -894 -179 -3,014 Impairment charge for the year -21,125 – – – -21,125 Disposal – – – 4 4 Disposal of business* 2,688 – – 19 2,707 Exchange differences 373 466 – -46 793 As at December 31, 2013 -32,793 -22,491 -8,862 -2,326 -66,472 Net book value as at December 31, 2013 111,119 3,134 1,744 337 116,334 * For further information, see note 25 Cost As at January 1, 2012 154,795 26,333 9,680 2,234 193,042 Investments – – 457 366 823 Reclassifications 50 – – -50 0 Exchange differences 117 -207 – -17 -107 As at December 31, 2012 154,962 26,126 10,137 2,533 193,758 Amortization and impairment As at January 1, 2012 – -12,487 -6,854 -2,019 -21,360 Amortization for the year – -2,781 -1,114 -130 -4,025 Impairment charge for the year -14,729 -5,912 – – -20,641 Exchange differences – 164 – 25 189 As at December 31, 2012 -14,729 -21,016 -7,968 -2,124 -45,837 Net book value as at December 31, 2012 140,233 5,110 2,169 409 147,921 58 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Note 10 Intangible assets (cont.) Goodwill Impairment testing for cash generating units containing goodwill Post-tax discount rates ranging from 9.3% to 14.0% (2012: 9.6% to For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the 14.7%) were applied in determining the recoverable amounts of the Group’s operating divisions which represent the lowest level within the units. The discount rates were estimated based on past experience, Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management industry average weighted cost of capital and Group’s industry related purposes, which is not higher than the Group’s operating segments beta adjusted to reflect management’s assessment of specific risks as reported in note 2. related to the unit. While management applied post-tax discount rates to post-tax cash flows, it has concluded that the result were not materiThe aggregate carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each unit after ally different from applying pre-tax discount rates to pre-tax cash flows. impairment is as follows: In general, the impairment tests for 2013 were to a large extent affected by the global economic slowdown and the continued revenue € 000 2013 2012 erosion which significantly reduced the estimated recoverable amounts North Europe (CRM) 36,096 36,216 of the different cash-generating units compared to prior year. In spite of the various recovery actions taken by the Company, the future Central & South Europe (CRM) 1,395 1,131 development is still uncertain, including the development in market Iberia & Latam (CRM) 10,121 10,120 prices and demand, cost and efficiency development. North America & Asia Pacific (CRM) 41,621 43,046 Based on the results of the testing, the management of the Group CMS 21,886 49,720 has recognized an impairment charge of €21,125 thousand in 2013 (2012: €14,729 thousand) in relation to the CMS segment. Total* 111,119 140,233 Management has performed a sensitivity analysis on the key * As explained in note 2, in 2013, the management changed the structure of assumptions underlying the computation of the value in use of the the internal organization of the Group in a manner that has caused the ­segments using the following reasonably possible changes: composition of the Group reportable segments to change, compared to a) d  iscount rate : increase/decrease ranging from 0.5% to 1% the prior financial year. Consequently, the carrying value of the goodwill alb) long term growth rate : increase/decrease ranging from 0.5% to 1% located to each operating division has been modified compared to the pric) E  BITA margin variation : increase/decrease ranging from 1% to 2% or financial year in order to reflect the new Group structure. For North Europe, Central and South Europe, Iberia and Latam, and North America and Asia Pacific units: reasonably possible changes in Value in use was determined by discounting the future cash flows genkey assumptions as above would not trigger an impairment loss to be erated from the continuing use of the units and it was concluded that recognized. the fair value less cost to sell did not exceed the value in use. The calculation of the value in use was based on the following key Customer relationships and development costs assumptions: Customer relationships mainly consist of intangible assets that were Cash flows were projected based on past experience, actual operatidentified during the past acquisitions based on the discounted cash ing results and the 3-year financial plans approved by the Board of flows expected to be derived from the use and eventual sale of the Directors. Beyond the specifically forecasted period of three years, the asset, determined at the date of acquisition. As at December 31, 2013 Company extrapolates cash flows for the remaining years based on these assets were tested for impairment. Based on the results of the estimated constant growth rates ranging from 2.0% to 2.1% (2012: testing, the management has recognised no impairment charge in 1.75% to 2.25%) depending on management’s understanding of the 2013 (2012: €5,912 thousand). market in the region in which the unit is based. The anticipated annual Development costs consist of amounts identified by management revenue growth included in the cash-flow projections has been based where it is considered that technological and economical feasibility on historical experience and expectations of future changes in the exists, usually determined by reference to the achievement of defined market conditions. Market conditions take into account the nature of milestones according to an established project management model. risk within geographical markets and management’s estimations of These costs relate to development of assets for the use in the Group. change within these markets. These rates do not exceed the average As at December 31, 2013 these assets were tested for impairment. long-term growth rates for the relevant markets. Based on the results of the testing, the management has recognised no impairment charge in 2013 (2012: nil). Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59 Note 11 Property, plant and equipment Cost Telephone Fixtures Computer hardOffice € 000 switch and fittings ware and software ­improvements Total As at January 1, 2013 36,132 27,058 54,644 22,332 140,166 Investments 97 3,195 3,966 1,209 8,467 Disposals -1,364 -1,992 -1,832 -1,994 -7,182 Disposal of business* -3,144 -1,372 -4,348 -3,049 -11,913 Reclassifications -6 184 -179 1 0 Exchange differences -825 -379 -789 -388 -2,381 As at December 31, 2013 30,890 26,694 51,462 18,111 127,157 * For further information, see note 25. Depreciation and impairment As at January 1, 2013 -34,611 -23,801 -48,655 -18,581 -125,648 Depreciation for the year -626 -1,575 -2,847 -1,061 -6,109 Disposals 1,295 1,895 1,661 1,975 6,826 Disposal of business* 3111 1363 4,246 2,477 11,197 Reclassifications 3 -50 45 2 0 Exchange differences 811 339 706 330 2,186 As at December 31, 2013 -30,017 -21,829 -44,844 -14,858 -111,548 Net book value as at December 31, 2013 873 4,865 6,618 3,253 15,609 * For further information, see note 25. Cost As at January 1, 2012 36,204 24,962 50,832 21,120 133,118 Investments 856 1,744 4,808 1,122 8,530 Disposals -524 -255 -1,006 -540 -2,325 Reclassifications -763 231 -106 – -638 Exchange differences 359 376 116 630 1,481 As at December 31, 2012 36,132 27,058 54,644 22,332 140,166 Depreciation and impairment As at January 1, 2012 -34,083 -22,202 -47,549 -16,898 -120,732 Depreciation for the year -1,505 -1,592 -2,201 -1,761 -7,059 Disposals 504 255 1,005 528 2,292 Reclassifications 763 -17 106 -214 638 Exchange differences -290 -245 -16 -236 -787 As at December 31, 2012 -34,611 -23,801 -48,655 -18,581 -125,648 Net book value as at December 31, 2012 1,521 3,257 5,989 3,751 14,518 60 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Note 12 Trade receivables Note 14 Cash and cash equivalents € 000 2013 2012 € 000 2013 2012 Trade receivables gross 99,692 91,612 Cash 55,925 40,032 Provision for impairment of trade Restricted cash 2,437 2,568 ­receivables -1,135 -1,785 Total 58,362 42,600 Trade receivables net 98,557 89,827 Provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: Note 15 Equity € 000 2013 2012 As at January 1 -1,785 -2,905 Authorized capital Number 000 2013 2012 Changes during the year Class A voting shares of €0.043 nominal –provisions made -77 -102 value (2012: €0.043 nominal value) 710,000 710,000 –provisions used 63 1,182 Class B non-voting shares of €0.043 –provisions reversed 45 57 ­nominal value (2012: €0.043 nominal ­value) 710,000 710,000 –disposal of business* 616 – Exchange differences 3 -17 Ordinary shares issued and fully paid As at 31 December -1,135 -1,785 Number Value * For further information, see note 25 Class A shares 000 € 000 As at January 1, 2013 622,768 26,779 The following table provides an overview of the ageing of trade ­receivables: Share capital increase/decrease – – € 000 2013 2012 As at December 31, 2013 622,768 26,779 Nondue 91,669 86,341 31–60 days 4,185 1,814 As at January 1, 2012 622,768 26,779 61–90 days 655 393 Share capital increase/decrease – – 91–120 days 108 584 As at December 31, 2012 622,768 26,779 >121 days 1,940 695 Total 98,557 89,827 Number Value Class B shares 000 € 000 As at January 1, 2013 622,764 26,779 The Group operates in several jurisdictions and payment terms vary upon this, and also vary on a client by client basis. Therefore, based Share capital increase/decrease – – upon the maximum payment terms, trade receivables of €6,888 thouAs at December 31, 2013 622,764 26,779 sand are past due more than 30 days but not provided for (2012: €3,486 thousand). These relates to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default. Details of credit risk As at January 1, 2012 622,764 26,779 are included in note 24. Share capital increase/decrease – – As at December 31, 2012 622,764 26,779 Note 13 Other receivables Total as at December 31, 2013 1,245,532 53,558 € 000 2013 2012 VAT recoverable 2,160 3,848 Total as at December 31, 2012 1,245,532 53,558 Amount due from public authorities 3,028 8,019 As of December 31, 2013 the share capital amounts to €53,558 thouCMS performance contracts 15,152 10,160 sand (December 31, 2012: €53,558 thousand). The share capital is Other receivables 5,699 3,122 divided into 622,768 thousand Class A voting shares (December 31, 2012: 622,768 thousand), with a nominal value of €0.043 each, and Total 26,039 25,149 622,764 thousand Class B non voting shares (December 31, 2012: 622,764 thousand), with a nominal value of €0.043 each; All shares are fully paid. Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61 Note 15 Equity (cont.) Share capital The shareholders have the authority to declare dividends, upon Each Class A share has one vote attached and has the right to receive the recommendation of the Board of Directors, out of retained earnings dividends as shown below. Each Class B share has no voting rights of the parent Company subject to the Luxembourg Companies Act. attached and has the right to receive dividends as shown below. The Articles provide the Board of Directors with the general authority to make dividend payments in advance of shareholder approval and Dividends to fix the amount and the payment date of any such advance dividend Dividends may be paid in Euros or in the Company’s shares or otherpayment. Dividends declared by the Board of Directors are subject to wise as the Board may determine in accordance with the provisions the approval of the shareholders at the next general meeting of shareof the Luxembourg Companies Act. The Transcom WorldWide Class holders. B Shares are entitled to the greater of (i) a cumulative preferred dividend corresponding to 5% of the nominal value of the Class B non Equity-based payments reserves ­voting shares in the Company; and (ii) 2% of the overall dividend distriThe equity-based payments reserve is used to record the value of equibutions made in a given year. Any balance of dividends must be paid ty-settled payments provided to certain employees, including key manequally on each Transcom WorldWide Class A and Transcom Worldagement personnel, as part of their remuneration package (note 15). Wide Class B Share. No cumulative preferred dividend was paid to Class B shareholders Foreign currency translation reserve in relation to the 2013 financial year. According to article 46 (2) of LuxThe foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange embourg law on commercial companies dated 10 August 1915, as differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of amended, Class B shareholders may obtain voting rights if, despite the subsidiaries reporting in a non-functional currency. existence of distributable profits, the Company does not distribute the preferred dividends for a period of two consecutive years. Given that Treasury shares reserve there were no distributable profits in 2013 and in 2012, article 46 (2) The treasury shares reserve is used to record purchases of the is not applicable this year and Class B shareholders will therefore not ­Company’s own shares from the market. receive voting rights. Class B shareholders’ right to the preferred dividend is cumulative, even though there are no distributable profits availActuarial reserve able in a given year, the preferred dividend right continues to accrue, The pension reserve is used to record actuarial losses and gains on and Class B shareholders will have a right to recover their minimum post employment benefit obligation plans (note 18). preferred dividend right in future profitable years, even for the financial years in which there were no distributable profits available. The class B The movement of other reserves during the year is as follows: shareholders are entitled to annual cumulative preferred dividends for 2011, 2012 and 2013 totaling a minimum of €4,016 thousand. The Other Annual General Meeting to be held on May 28, 2014 will determine Treasury non disTotal whether any dividends are to be paid. Actuarial shares tributable other € 000 reserve reserve reserve ­reserves Nature and purpose of reserves As at ­January 1, 2013 -349 -134 28,393 27,910 Legal reserve In accordance with statutory requirements in Luxembourg, the parent Other comprehensive income Company must maintain reserves not available for distribution. The for the year, net of tax -63 – – -63 parent Company is required under Luxembourg law to transfer 5% Total comprehensive income of its annual net profits to a restricted legal reserve until such reserve for the year, net of tax -63 – – -63 amounts to 10% of the subscribed share capital. Similar restrictions are applicable for some of the subsidiaries. As at December 31, 2013 -412 -134 28,393 27,847 Retained earnings The Luxembourg Companies Act provides that the parent Company’s As at ­January 1, 2012 39 -134 28,393 28,298 own earnings, after allocation to its legal reserve and after covering Other comprehensive income losses for previous years, shall be available for distribution to sharefor the year, net of tax -388 – – -388 holders. Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax -388 – – -388 As at December 31, 2012 -349 -134 28,393 27,910 62 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Note 16 Share-based payments Note 17 Interest bearing liabilities Long-term incentive plan 2013 (“2013 LTIP”) 2013 2012 The 2013-2016 LTIP was approved at the Annual General Meeting, held on 29 May 2013. This plan consists of two elements, a perforTerm loan – € 000 40,000 50,000 mance share plan (“performance element”) and a matching share Revolving credit facility – € 000 39,000 15,000 award plan (“loyalty element”). This LTIP was granted to Transcom’s executives and the grant date was determined to be May 29, 2013. Revolving credit facility – USD 22 000 15,952 16,674 The shares awarded are subject to market conditions based on the Unamortized transaction costs -571 -1,144 “total shareholder return”, the accumulated normalized EBIT, the average normalized EBIT and average normalized seat utilization ratio 94,381 80,530 under the performance element vest over a three year period, however Finance leases 60 209 that entitlement to shares based on fulfilment of th EBIT related conditions may also accrue on a year-for-year basis. Total 94,441 80,739 The achievement of a certain level of each condition, measured at each vesting date, yields a specific percentage of shares awarded to each employee at the grant date. The loyalty element requires eligible At December 31, 2013, the Company had a 3-year syndicated credit employees to invest a certain percentage of their salary in shares of facility for an amount of €105 million divided into a €40 million term the Company on the market in order to receive potential matching loan and a €55 million revolving credit facility. The interest rates are shares. The shares awarded under this plan vest at the end of a three based on IBOR for non-Euro drawings and EURIBOR for Euro drawings year period. plus margins which may vary based on the Transcom’s Consolidated The value of the plan is apportioned equally over the total period Net Debt to Consolidated EBITDA ratio at the end of each quarter. The of the plan and charged as necessary through the income statement. The facility was due to expire on October 18, 2014. The facility was multiexpense recognized in the consolidated income statement as at Decemcurrency with elements denominated in Euros. The Company was ber 31, 2013 with respect to 2013 LTIP amounted to €23 thousand. committed under this agreement to maintain a number of covenants requiring certain financial ratios to be maintained within agreed limits Long-term incentive plan 2012 (“2012 LTIP”) in order to provide sufficient security to the lender. There was no breach In May 2012, at the Annual General Meeting, the 2012–2015 LTIP was of these covenants during the year. The loan was unsecured. approved. This plan consists of two elements, a performance share In December 2013 the credit facility was in the process of being plan (“performance element”) and a matching share award plan (“loy­refinanced with the existing lenders. The new facility, which was signed alty element”). This LTIP was granted to Transcom’s executives and the on January 22, 2014, is a 3-year syndicated credit facility of €103.8 grant date was determined to be May 30, 2012. million composed of three tranches; the first being a €40 million term The shares awarded under the performance element vest over a loan expiring on January 21, 2017; the second being a €55 million three year period, subject to market conditions based on the “total revolving credit facility expiring also on January 21, 2017; whilst the shareholder return”, the average normalized EBIT and average normalthird is a term loan expiring on October 21, 2014. Similar to the previous ized seat utilization ratio. The achievement of a certain level of each facility, interest rates are based on IBOR and EURIBOR for Euro drawcondition, measured at each vesting date, yields a specific percentage ings plus margins which may vary albeit based on the Transcom’s of shares awarded to each employee at the grant date. The loyalty eleConsolidated Gross Debt to Consolidated EBITDA ratio. The Company ment requires eligible employees to invest a certain percentage of their is also committed under this agreement to maintain certain financial salary in shares of the Company on the market in order to receive ratios within agreed limits. The loan is unsecured. potential matching shares. The shares awarded under this plan vest at As of December 31, 2013, an amount of €79 million and US$ 22 the end of a three year period. million was drawn (December 31, 2012: €65 million and US$ 22 milThe value of the plan is apportioned equally over the total period lion). The table above shows the drawn amounts in each of the currenof the plan and charged as necessary through the income statement. The cies utilized by the Group. In addition, an equivalent of €2.5 million of expense recognized in the consolidated income statement as at Decemthe facility is utilized to cover the issuance of bank guarantees. An ber 31, 2013 with respect to 2012 LTIP amounted to €83 thousand (2012: unused amount of €7.5 million on the revolving borrowing facility €42 thousand). exists at December 31, 2013 (December 31, 2012: €21.7 million). The fair value of borrowings equals their carrying amount, after Share option agreement unamortized transaction costs, as the interest rates are based on In 2006, the Company granted options to key management employ­market rates. ees and executive officers of the Company to purchase shares in the Company. The options were granted for a fixed number of shares and The exposure of the Group’s borrowings to interest rate changes is as at a fixed exercise price that was equal to the estimated fair market valfollows: ue on the date of grant. Each option vests in three equal parts: the first € 000 2013 2012 after one year, the second after two years and the third after three years. These share options vested on June 30, 2007, June 30, 2008 Less than six months 7,500 81,674 and June 30, 2009, and can be exercised up to June 30, 2012. Between six and twelve months 87,452 – The right to exercise the share options expired on June 30, 2012 and no shares were granted, exercised, forfeited or cancelled during Total 94,952 81,674 2012. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, the number of share options outstanding amounted to nil. Movements during the year The following table illustrates the number and movements in share awards during 2013. LTIP 2013 LTIP 2012 Outstanding at 1 January 2013 – 1,803,612 Granted during the year* 638,509 – Cancelled during the year – -300,273 Outstanding at 31 December 2013 638,509 1,503,339 * Excluding investments made by some participants after Dec. 31, 2013 (due to regulatory requirements). Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63 Note 18 Employee benefit obligations The Group has employee benefit schemes in Italy and Philippines in relation to termination indemnity and defined benefit pensions. A full actuarial valuation was carried out to December 31, 2013 by a qualified, independent actuary. Reconciliation to the statement of financial position 2013 2012 Long-term rate of Long-term rate of ­return ­expected at Value at 31/12/13 ­return ­expected at Value at 31/12/13, % € 000 31/12/12, % 31/12/12, € 000 Italy – – – – Norway – – 2.2 1,329 Philippines – – – – Market value of assets – – – 1,329 Italy – 2,147 – 2,069 Norway – – – 2,094 Philippines – 487 – – Present value of scheme liabilities – 2,634 – 4,163 Italy – 2,147 – 2,069 Norway – – – 765 Philippines – 487 – – Net scheme liability – 2,634 – 2,834 Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit 2013 2012 € 000 Italy Norway Philippines Total Italy Norway Total Current service cost – – 102 102 – 226 226 Total operating charge – – 102 102 – 226 226 Analysis of the amount credited to other finance costs 2013 2012 € 000 Italy Norway Philippines Total Italy Norway Total Expected return on pension scheme assets – – – – – 8 8 Interest on pension scheme ­liabilities 59 – 16 75 77 45 122 Total finance cost 59 – 16 75 77 53 130 The major assumptions used by the actuary for the calculation of the defined benefit pension scheme were: Italy Norway Philippines % 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Rate of increase in salaries 2.0 2.0 – 3.3 3.0 Rate of increase in pensions in payment – 2.0 – – – Discount rate 3.8 4.3 – 2.2 6.0 The expected return on plan assets is equal to the weighted average return appropriate to each class of asset within the schemes. Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set in accordance with published statistics and experience in each territory. 64 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Note 18 Employee benefit obligations (cont.) Amount recognized in the statement of financial position – movement in deficit during the year 2013 2012 € 000 Italy Norway Philippines Total Italy Norway Total As at January 1 2,069 765 – 2,834 1,967 447 2,414 Movement in the year Current service cost and settlements – – 102 102 – 226 226 Interest cost 59 – 16 75 77 45 122 Contributions – – 277 277 – -231 -231 Expected return on plan assets – – – – – 8 8 Actuarial gains/losses 132 – 144 276 188 200 388 Benefits paid -113 – – -113 -163 – -163 Exchange difference – – -52 -52 – 70 70 Cancellation* – -765 – – – – – As at December 31 2,147 0 487 2,634 2,069 765 2,834 * During 2013, the Norway defined benefit pension plan has been cancelled and replaced by a defined contribution plan. The Italian liability would increase with €33 thousand if the discount The liability in the Philippines should increase with €84 thousand if the rate would be lowered by 5%. An increase with the same percentage discount rate should be lowered by 1%. An increase with the same perwould lower the liability with €32 thousand. If the inflation rate centage would lower the liability with €69 thousand. If the inflation rate assumption in Italy would increase with 0.5% the liability should be assumption in the Philippines would increase with 1% the liability would €69 thousand lower, the correspondent decrease would lower the be €82 thousand lower, the correspondent decrease would lower the ­liability with €65 thousand. liability with €69 thousand. Note 19 Provisions Onerous Analysis of total provisions: conLegal Restruc€ 000 2013 2012 € 000 tracts claims turing Others Total Non-current 2,225 10,518 As at January 1, 2013 3,161 16,246 4,901 2,769 27,077 Current 2,576 16,559 Changes during the year Total 4,801 27,077 –provisions made 51 2,661 7,082 84 9,878 Provision which are not expected to be paid within the next 12 months –provisions used -2,187 -301 -7,756 -345 -10,589 have been classified as non-current liabilities. –provisions reversed – -5,133 – -4 -5,137 Onerous contracts –reclassification -1 -8,363 4 -829 -9,189 The provision of onerous contracts is related to the disposal of 2 sites –disposal of in France as well as a restructuring program from 2012. During 2013 ­business -730 -2,552 -2,458 -1,340 -7,080 most of this provision has been used. For further information see note 25. Exchange differences -26 -78 -44 -11 -159 As at December 31, Legal claims 2013 268 2,480 1,729 324 4,801 This amount represents a provision with respect to claims brought against the Group by tax authorities in different jurisdictions. During the year, a reclassification of €9.2 million has been made of which the Onerous main part has been moved to Income tax liabilities in the balance conLegal Restrucsheet. € 000 tracts claims turing Others Total As at January 1, 2012 12,209 18,575 6,869 3,341 40,994 Restructuring and others Please see note 25 for further details. Changes during the year –provisions made – 4,845 4,954 375 10,174 –provisions used -5,110 -5,874 -6,153 -747 -17,884 –provisions reversed -3,938 -1,300 -769 -200 -6,207 As at December 31, 2012 3,161 16,246 4,901 2,769 27,077 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65 Note 20 Other liabilities Note 22 Commitments and contingencies € 000 2013 2012 The Group has contingent liabilities related to litigations and legal claims arising in the ordinary course of business. VAT payable 7,942 7,747 The integrated worldwide nature of Transcom’s operations involves Liabilities to public authorities 10,288 11,462 a significant level of intra-group transactions which can give rise to complexity and delays in agreeing the Group’s tax position with the CMS client funds 8,493 1,507 various tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates. Other current liabilities 11,208 4,010 The Group occasionally faces tax audits which, in some cases, result in disputes with tax authorities. During these tax audits, local tax authoriTotal 37,931 24,726 ties may question or challenge the Group’s tax positions. Disputes with tax authorities can lead to litigations in front of several courts resulting in lengthy legal proceedings. As of December 31, 2013, there are four ongoing tax audits. Some Note 21 Accrued expenses of these tax enquiries have resulted in re-assessments, while others are and prepaid income still at an early stage and no re-assessment has yet been raised. Management is required to make estimates and judgments about the ultimate outcome of these investigations or litigations in determining legal € 000 2013 2012 provisions. Final claims or court rulings may differ from management estimates. In relation to one of these four tax audits , Transcom has Accrued staff related expenses 30,328 30,145 received a notice of reassessment for the financial year 2008, which Other accrued expenses 21,183 31,400 has been provided for. This particular audit also concerns the financial years 2009–2011. For these years, the factual circumstances are not Deferred income 415 127 the same as for 2008. No provision has been recorded for these years. Total 51,926 61,672 The Group has provided €2,375 thousand (2012: €16,246 thousand) in relation to tax risks for which management believes it is probable that there will be cash outflows. Based on its analysis and risk assessment, management does not recognize any additional tax exposure (2012: €17,600 thousand) other than the amount provided for, to disclose. In addition to the above tax risks, the Group may be subject to other tax claims going forward for which the risk of future economic outflows is currently evaluated to be remote. € 000 2013 2012 Tax risks estimated with probable cash outflows and therefore provided for (note 19) 2,375 16,246 Tax risks estimated with less than ­probable cash outflows and therefore not provided for – 17,600 Total tax exposure estimated by management 2,375 33,846 Guarantees At December 31, 2013 the Group had outstanding bank guarantees for an amount of €3.6 million (2012: €13.0 million) with respect to performance and warranty guarantees mainly for the provision of services/ rental agreements. The Company is also supporting its subsidiaries through guarantees issued in the normal course of business. 66 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Note 23 Investment in subsidiaries 2013 2012 Country of Capital/voting Capital/voting Subsidiary incorporation Domicile interest (%) interest (%) Transcom WorldWide (Australia) Pty Ltd Australia Sydney 100 100 IS Forderungsmanagement GmbH Austria Linz 100 100 IS-Inkasso Service GmbH Austria Linz 100 100 Transcom WorldWide GmbH Austria Vienna 100 100 Transcom WorldWide Belgium S.A. Belgium Milmort 100 100 Transcom WorldWide (North America) Inc. Canada St.Catharine’s 100 100 Transcom Insurance Agency Inc. Canada St.Catharine’s 100 100 Transcom WorldWide Chile Limitada Chile Santiago de Chile 100 100 TWW Colombia SAS Colombia Cali 100 – IS Inkasso Servis d.o.o. Croatia Osijek 100 100 Transcom WorldWide d.o.o. Croatia Osijek 100 100 Transcom WorldWide Czech Republic s.r.o. Czech Republic Praha 100 100 Transcom CMS A/S Denmark Albertslund 100 100 Transcom Denmark A/S Denmark Vordingborg 100 100 Transcom Eesti OÜ Estonia Tallinn 100 100 Transcom Finland OY Finland Helsinki 100 100 Transcom WorldWide (France) SAS* France Velizy Villacoublay – 100 CIS International GmbH Germany Tönisvorst 100 100 IK Transcom Europe GmbH Germany Düsseldorf 100 100 Transcom CMS Forderungsmanagement GmbH* Germany Tönisvorst – 100 Transcom WorldWide GmbH Germany Rostock 100 100 Transcom Halle GmbH Germany Halle 100 – Transcom Rostock GmbH Germany Rostock 100 – Transcom Services GmbH Germany Rostock 100 – Transcom WorldWide (Hong Kong) Limited (in liquidation) Hong Kong Hong Kong 100 100 CEE Holding Kft. Hungary Budapest 100 100 Transcom Hungary Kft. Hungary Budapest 100 100 Transcom WorldWide SpA Italy Milan 100 100 SIA Transcom WorldWide Latvia Latvia Riga 100 100 Transcom WorldWide Vilnius UAB Lithuania Vilnius 100 100 Transcom WorldWide Luxembourg S.a.r.l. Luxembourg Howald 100 – Transcom Europe Holding B.V. The Netherlands Amsterdam 100 100 Transcom WorldWide B.V. The Netherlands Groningen 100 100 CIS Concept AS Norway Oslo 100 100 Transcom Collection AS Norway Oslo 100 100 Transcom AS Norway Rolvsoy 100 100 Transcom Financial Services AS Norway Oslo 100 100 Transcom Norge AS Norway Rolvsoy 100 100 Transcom Worldwide Peru S.A.C. Peru Lima 100 100 NuComm International Philippines Inc. (under dissolution) Philippines Pasig City 100 100 Transcom WorldWide (Philippines), Inc. Philippines Pasig City 100 100 Transcom WorldWide (Philippines) Holding, Inc. Philippines Pasig City 100 100 Transcom WorldWide CMS Poland Sp. z o.o. Poland Wroclaw 100 100 Kancelaria Prawna Transcom Jolanta Żmijewska – Siadak sp. k. Poland Olsztyn 100 100 Transcom WorldWide Poland Sp. z o.o. Poland Olsztyn 100 100 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67 Note 23 Investment in subsidiaries (cont.) 2013 2012 Country of Capital/voting Capital/voting Subsidiary incorporation Domicile interest (%) interest (%) TWW Serviços de Helpline e de Atendimento Telefónico Lda Portugal Vila Nova de Famalicão 100 100 Transcom WorldWide Slovakia s.r.o. Slovakia Bratislava 100 100 Transcom WorldWide Spain S.L.U. Spain Madrid 100 100 Transcom Worldwide Global S.L. Spain Madrid 100 100 Stockholms Tolkförmedling AB Sweden Stockholm 100 100 Tolkoch språktjänst i Östergötland AB Sweden Norrköping 100 100 Transcom AB Sweden Karlskoga 100 100 Transcom Credit Management Services AB Sweden Karlskoga 100 100 Transvoice Sweden AB Sweden Karlskoga 100 100 Transcom WorldWide AB Sweden Stockholm 100 – IS Inkasso Service GmbH Switzerland Rheineck 100 100 Transcom WorldWide AG Switzerland Zurich 100 100 Transcom WorldWide Tunisie Sarl Tunisia Tunis 100 100 Top Up Mortgages Limited** United Kingdom St Albans, Herts 100 100 Transcom WorldWide (UK) Limited** United Kingdom St Albans, Herts 100 100 Newman & Company Limited** United Kingdom Leeds 100 100 Cloud 10 Corp United States Denver 100 100 Transcom WorldWide (US) Inc. United States Delaware 100 100 * In 2013, the French subsidiary Transcom WorldWide France SAS was deconsolidated and the German subsidiary Transcom CMS ­Forderungsmanagement GmbH, was disposed. For further information, see note 25. ** The subsidiaries in United Kingdom are exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the audits of its respectively individual ­accounts. Note 24 Financial instrument risk management objectives and policies Like other businesses internationally operating, the Group is exposed liquidity, credit/counterparty, foreign exchange and interest rate risks to risks related to foreign exchange, interest rates and counterparties. are managed by the Group’s treasury department under policies This note describes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for approved by the Board of Directors. Further details regarding these managing these risks and the methods used to measure them. Further policies are set out below. quantitative information with respect to these risks is presented Risk exposures are monitored and reported to management on a throughout the financial statements. quarterly basis, together with required actions when tolerance limits The Group’s principal financial liabilities comprise of bank loans, are exceeded. trade and other payables and accruals and deferred income. The main For the presentation of market risks, IFRS 7 requires sensitivity analpurpose of these instruments is to raise finance for the Group’s operaysis that shows the effects of hypothetical changes of relevant risk tions. The Group has various financial assets consisting of trade and variables on the income statement and shareholders’ equity. Transcom other receivables, prepayments and accrued income and cash and is exposed to liquidity risk and interest rate risk, the periodic effects of short term deposits which arise directly from its operations. which are determined by relating the hypothetical changes in the risk The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are variables to the balance of financial instruments at the reporting date liquidity risk, credit/counterparty risk, foreign currency risk, and interest (cf below). It is assumed that the balance at the reporting date is reprerate risk. The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for mansentative for the year as a whole. aging each of these risks which are summarized below. Unless stated in this note, there have been no substantive changes from the previous Interest rate risk period in the Group’s exposure to financial instrument risks, its objecThe Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates tives, policies and processes for managing those risks, or the methods relates primarily to the Group’s revolving credit facility. used to measure them. The interest is calculated on each loan under the facility agreement for each term as the aggregate of the Interbank offered rate (IBOR), Management controls and procedures plus a margin calculated on the basis of consolidated total net debt to The Board has overall responsibility for the determination of the consolidated EBITDA. As old loans expire and are replaced with new Group’s risk management objectives and policies. The overall objective ones, the new interest rates may increase due to external or internal of the Board is to set policies that seek to reduce risk as far as possible, conditions, thereby increasing financial costs for the Group. without unduly affecting the Group’s competitiveness and flexibility. It Interest rate risk is not hedged today, either through derivative finanhas delegated the authority for designing and operating the associated cial instruments or otherwise. processes to the Group’s treasury department. As such, the Group’s 68 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Note 24 Financial instrument risk manageThe following table demonstrates the sensitivity of translation and transaction risks to a reasonably possible change in the currencies the ment objectives and policies (cont.) Group is most exposed to, with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s operating profit/loss and the impact on the profit/loss for the The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a possible change in year. Exposures in other currencies have an immaterial impact. interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s profit before tax (through the impact on floating rate borrowings). There is 2013 2012 no impact on the Group’s equity. Effect on Effect on Increase/ Effect on profit/ Effect on profit/ 2013 2012 decrease in Operating loss for Operating loss for Euro rate profit/loss the year profit/loss the year Increase/­ Effect Effect decrease in on profit on profit US Dollar 10% -252 889 131 -300 basis points before tax before tax Swedish Euro 10 -80 -65 Krona 10% -1,095 953 571 560 US Dollar 10 -16 -17 Norwegian Euro -10 80 65 Krona 10% 26 156 21 100 US Dollar -10 16 17 Great Britain Pound 10% 11 245 -125 -250 US Dollar -10% 252 -889 -196 450 Foreign exchange rates Exchange rates is the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates will negaSwedish tively affect the Group’s income statement, balance sheet and/or cash Krona -10% 1,095 -953 -856 -840 flows. The most important currencies for Transcom Group, other than Norwegian euro (EUR), are US Dollar, Swedish Krona, Norwegian Krona and Great Krona -10% -26 -156 -32 -150 Britain Pound. The following exchange rates have been used to translate transactions in foreign currency in the financial accounts: Great Britain Pound -10% -11 -245 187 375 Foreign exchange rates 2013 2012 Credit / Counterparty risk Average Closing Average Closing With respect to credit risk arising from the financial assets of the Currency rate rate rate rate Group, which comprise balances from credit sales and cash and cash US Dollar 1.33 1.38 1.29 1.32 equivalents, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying value Swedish Krona 8.66 8.86 8.68 8.58 of these instruments. Norwegian Krona 7.82 8.36 7.46 7.35 Prior to accepting new accounts and wherever practicable, credit checks are performed using a reputable external source. Credit risk is Great Britain Pound 0.85 0.83 0.81 0.82 reviewed monthly by senior management based on the aged debt reports, and corrective action is taken if pre-agreed limits are exceeded. Bank counterparty risk is mitigated by concentrating the Group’s Due to its activities in a large number of countries and currencies, the cash management activity and cash balances with a limited number Group is subject to foreign exchange risks of two different types. of top tier banks in each of the Group’s regions. The first type of risk, transactional risk, may occur when the Group The risk of default of a Client is considered to be limited based on invoices clients in one currency and must pay its costs in another curhistorical default rates, credit checks and the fact that the Group deals rency. Foreign exchange variations may lead to unexpected volatility with only a limited number of Clients. However, if needed, appropriate of margins and deterioration or improvement of profitability and cash provisions are made in accordance with Group policy. flow at the entity level. The Group seeks to minimise these movements Further analysis on gross trade debtors, provisions and ageing of net by matching the currency of revenue with the currency of costs where trade debtors are provided in note 12. The maximum exposure to credit possible, by negotiating pricing adjustments and/or indexation of conrisk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset on tracts to foreign exchange rates, and by implementing hedging instruthe statement of financial position. ments on a case-by-case basis, under close supervision of the Board and Audit Committee. At closing of the 2013 and 2012 accounts, no Liquidity risk hedging instruments are in place. Liquidity risk arises from the Group’s management of its working capiThe second type of risk, translation risk, results from the conversion tal as well as the finance charges and principal repayments on its debt of assets, liabilities, revenues and costs denominated in non-reporting instruments. In essence, it is the risk that the Group will encounter difficurrencies, into the Group reporting currency, which is the Euro. In culty in meeting its financial obligations as they fall due. 2013, 54% (2012: 54%) of the Group’s sales were denominated in curThe Group monitors this risk using a consolidated cash flow model rencies other than the presentation currency of the Group. The Board in order to identify peaks and needs in liquidity and identify benefits has decided not to hedge these exposures as they do not constitute a which can be attained by controlled placement and utilization of availdirect cash flow exposure. able funds. A significant mitigating factor of the Group’s liquidity risk is the unused proportion of the Revolving Credit facility agreement as disclosed in note 17, as well as other financing sources which may be implemented from time to time by the Group. The unused proportion of the Credit Facility as at December 31, 2013 was €7,5 million (December 31, 2012: €22,7 million). Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69 Note 24 Financial instrument risk manage2012 ment objectives and policies (cont.) <1 1–5 Carrying Fair € 000 year years amount value The table below summarizes the maturity profile of the Group’s finanFinancial assets: cial assets and liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments: Other receivables – 1,350 1,350 1,350 2013 Total non-current – 1,350 1,350 1,350 Carrying Fair Trade and other € 000 <1 year 1–5 years amount value receivables 89,827 – 89,827 89,827 Financial assets: Other receivables incl. accrued income 56,981 – 56,981 56,981 Other receivables – 1,143 1,143 1,143 Cash and cash Total non-current 1,143 1,143 1,143 ­equivalents 42,600 – 42,600 42,600 Trade and other Total current receivables 98,557 – 98,557 98,557 ­financial assets 189,408 0 189,408 189,408 Other receivables Total financial assets 189,408 1,350 190,758 190,758 incl. accrued income 38,659 – 38,659 38,659 Cash and cash ­equivalents 58,362 – 58,362 58,362 Financial ­liabilities: Total current Interest-bearing ­financial assets 195,578 – 195,578 195,578 ­liabilities – 70,572 70,572 70,572 Total financial Total non-current assets 195,578 1,143 196,721 196,721 liabilities – 70,572 70,572 70,572 Interest-bearing ­liabilities 10,167 – 10,167 10,167 Financial liabilities: Trade payables 23,123 – 23,123 23,123 Interest-bearing ­liabilities – 16 16 16 Other liabilities incl. accrued expenses 62,055 – 62,055 62,055 Total non-current liabilities – 16 16 16 Total current ­financial ­liabilities 95,345 – 95,345 95,345 Interest-bearing ­liabilities 94,425 – 94,425 94,425 Total financial ­liabilities 95,345 70,572 165,917 165,917 Trade payables 25,562 – 25,562 25,562 Other liabilities incl. accrued expenses 69,893 – 69,893 69,893 Capital management The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and Total current healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximize ­financial liabilities 189,880 – 189,880 189,880 shareholder value. Total financial The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to ­liabilities 189,880 16 189,896 189,896 it, in light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012. The Group monitors capital using a return on capital employed ratio, which is profit before interest, tax and amortization divided by total assets less current liabilities. The Group’s policy is to ensure that the ratio follows predicted patterns based on previous year’s results, and is in accordance with forecasted results. The table below summarizes the ratio as at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012. € 000 2013 2012 Profit/loss before interest, tax and amortization 18,498 6,901 Total assets 345,617 358,132 Current liabilities -222,229 -138,465 Capital employed 123,388 219,667 Return on capital employed 14,99% 3,14% 70 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Note 25 Significant disposals Note 26 Critical accounting estimates and ­restructuring and judgements € 000 Germany France Belgium Total Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future Consideration received 9,000 – 650 9,650 events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Goodwill –5,889 – – –5,889 The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by deﬁnition, seldom equal Intangible assets –9 – –9 the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have Property, plant and equipment –485 –163 –68 –716 a signiﬁcant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next ﬁnancial year are Investments –212 – –212 addressed below. Receivables –3,360 –2,011 –28 –5,399 (a) Deferred tax assets Cash and cash equivalents –1,405 –1,483 – –2,888 Deferred tax assets are recognized for all unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against Provisions 379 6,701 – 7,080 which the losses can be utilized. Significant management judgment is Other liabilities 2,874 6,191 – 9,065 required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognized, based upon the likely timing and level of future taxable Net carrying value of assets profits. The carrying value of recognized deferred tax assets as at and liabilities disposed –8,098 9,226 –96 1,032 December 31, 2013 was €4,784 thousand (2012: €3,540 thousand) (note 8). Write-off of intercompany ­balances – –3,267 – –3,267 (b) Provisions for bad and doubtful debts Transaction costs –1,981 – –306 –2,287 The Group continually monitors provisions for bad and doubtful debts; however a significant level of judgment is required by management to Net capital gain/loss –1,079 5,959 248 5,128 determine appropriate amounts to be provided. Management reviews and ascertains each debt individually based upon knowledge of the Consideration received 9,000 – 650 9,650 ­client, knowledge of the sector and other economic factors, and calculates an appropriate provision considering the time that a debt has Cash and cash equivalents remained overdue. At December 31, 2013, the provision for bad and ­disposed –1,405 –1,483 – –2,888 doubtful debts was €1,135 thousand (2012: €1,785 thousand) (note 12). Transaction costs –1,981 – –306 –2,287 (c) Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Net cash flow from disposal The Company annually evaluates the carrying value of goodwill for of subsidiary 5,614 –1,483 344 4,475 potential impairment by comparing projected discounted cash flows (using a suitable discount rate) associated with such assets to the related carrying value. An impairment test is also carried out should events On December 30 of 2013, Transcom announced the closing of the or circumstances change which may indicate that there may be need divestment of its German CMS company Transcom CMS Forderungsfor impairment. An impairment loss would be recognized when the management GmbH. The company had a turnover of €9.0 million in estimated future discounted cash flow generated by the asset is less 2012. The disposal resulted in a loss amounting to €1.1 million. than the carrying amount of the asset. An impairment loss would be In 2010, Transcom’s Board of Directors approved the disposal of measured as the amount by which the carrying value of the asset two French sites located in Roanne and Tulle. In April and June 2011, exceeds the recoverable amount. Transcom entered into a definitive agreement to divest these sites and The Group performed its annual impairment test of goodwill as at transfered ownership of the site and its business. In August 2013, December 31, 2013. Please refer to note 10 for further details. In the Transcom signed a €5.3 million settlement agreement, releasing the year ended December 31, 2013, an impairment loss was recorded in company from any further liabilities with respect to the liquidation of connection with goodwill for an amount of €21,125 thousand (2012: its former loss-making French subsidiary. €14,729 thousand), other intangible assets € nil (2012: €5,912 thouIn the third quarter, Transcom divested its operations in Belgium. sand). Changes in the assumptions and estimates used may have a The contribution of Transcom’s former Belgian entity to Group results significant effect on the income statement and statement of financial is not material. In the fiscal year 2012, this entity reported revenues position. Please see note 10 for a sensitivity analysis of some of the amounting to €4.2 million. assumptions made. Restructuring programs – 2013 and 2012 (d) Pension assumptions During the first quarter of 2013, the Group recorded €6.0 million in The liabilities of the defined benefit pension schemes operated by the restructuring costs. These costs are mainly related to the settlement Group are determined using methods relying on actuarial assumptions agreement connected with the closure of Transcom’s former subsidiary and estimates. Details of the key assumptions are set out in note 18. in France, Transcom Worldwide (France) S.A.S. as well as the moveThe Group takes advice from independent actuaries relating to the ment of Transcoms Head office from Luxembourg to Sweden. appropriateness of the assumptions. Changes in the assumptions and During the fourth quarter of 2013, restructuring costs amounting estimates used may have a significant effect on the income statement, to €1.0 million was recorded for the closure of the Norrköping site in statement of financial position and other comprehensive income. Sweden and the Valdivia site in Chile. During the second quarter of 2012, four sites in North America were closed and capacity was transferred to the Philippines. The cost to close these sites amounted to €5,270 thousand, out of which restructuring costs amounted to €3,699 thousand, other non-recurring costs amounted to €959 thousand and €612 thousand corresponded to write offs of tangible assets. During the fourth quarter of 2012, the Group launched a restructuring program aiming at reorganizing central support teams. This program consisted of restructuring and non-recurring costs amounting to €1,870 thousand, of which restructuring costs amounted to €1,255 thousand and non-recurring costs amounted to €615 thousand. Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71 Note 26 Critical accounting estimates Note 28 Events after the reporting period and judgements (cont.) Transcom has renegotiated its existing Revolving Credit Facility, which was due to expire in October 2014. An agreement, coming into effect (e) Provisions on January 29, 2014, has been reached with all existing lenders, to The Group recognizes a provision where there is a present obligation implement a new €103.8 million three-year facility to replace the existfrom a past event, a transfer of economic benefits is probable and the ing one. The new facility is composed of a €40.0 million term loan with amount of costs of the transfer can be estimated reliably. The Group partial amortization starting in 2015, as well as a €55.0 million multireviews outstanding legal cases following developments in the legal currency revolving credit facility, and an €8.8 million short-term facility. proceedings and at each reporting date, in order to assess the need The implementation of the new loan agreement does not lead to the for provisions and disclosures in its financial statements. Among the extinguishment of the previous loan, under IAS 39. factors considered in making decisions on provisions are the nature Transcom’s CMS operation in the United Kingdom will form part of litigation, claim or assessment, the legal process and potential level of the company’s Central & South Europe region, effective January 1, of damages in the jurisdiction in which the litigation, claim or assess2014. ment has been brought, the progress of the case (including the progress after the date of the financial statements but before those statements are issued), the opinions or views of legal advisers, experience on similar cases and any decision of the Group’s management as to how it will respond to the litigation, claim or assessment. (f) Share-based payments The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date at which they are granted. Estimating fair value for sharebased payment transactions requires determination of the most appropriate valuation model, which is dependent on the terms and conditions of the grant. This estimate also requires determination of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including the expected life of the share option, volatility and dividend yield and making assumptions about them. The assumptions and models used for estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions are disclosed in note 16. Note 27 Related party transactions Investment AB Kinnevik and subsidiaries are significant shareholders of the Group as well as Tele2 group, MTG group. Accordingly, these companies have been regarded as related parties to Transcom. Business relations between Transcom and all closely related parties are subject to commercial terms and conditions. € 000 2013 2012 Revenues Tele2 companies 104,917 104,372 MTG Group companies 15,721 3,065 Others 209 – Operating expenses Tele2 companies -1,566 -574 MTG Group companies – -12 Others -303 – Trade receivables Tele2 companies 17,959 18,548 MTG Group companies 865 481 Others 223 – Trade payables Tele2 companies -123 -241 MTG Group companies – – Others -241 – 72 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Independent auditor’s report To the Shareholders of Transcom WorldWide S.A. 45, rue des Scillas L-2529 Howald Luxembourg Report on the consolidated financial statements cial statements. The procedures selected depend on the judgement of Following our appointment by the General Meeting of the Shareholders the “réviseur d’entreprises agréé”, including the assessment of the risks dated 29 May 2013, we have audited the accompanying consolidated of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, financial statements of Transcom WorldWide S.A., which comprise the whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2013, “réviseur d’entreprises agréé” considers internal control relevant to the the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in equity, the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended, the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanathe effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes tory information. evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors, Board of Directors’ responsibility for the as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financonsolidated financial s­ tatements cial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and fair pressufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. entation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EuroOpinion pean Union and for such internal control as the Board of Directors In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair determines is necessary to enable the preparation and presentation of view of the financial position of Transcom WorldWide S.A. as of 31 consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstateDecember 2013, and of its financial performance and its cash flows for ment, whether due to fraud or error. the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. Responsibility of the “réviseur d’entreprises agréé” Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated finanReport on other legal and regulatory requirements cial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordThe consolidated directors’ report (pages 39–41), which is the responance with International Standards on Auditing as adopted for Luxemsibility of the Board of Directors, is consistent with the consolidated bourg by the “Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier”. financial statements. The accompanying corporate governance stateThose standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and ment, which is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, is consistent plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about with the consolidated financial statements and includes the information whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material required by the law with respect to the corporate governance statement misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit (pages 27–33). evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated finanErnst & Young Société anonyme Cabinet de révision agréé Olivier LEMAIRE Luxembourg, 10 April 2014 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73 Financial calendar April 25, 2014 First quarter earnings announcement May 28, 2014 Annual General Meeting of shareholders in Luxembourg July 17, 2014 Second quarter earnings announcement October 23, 2014 Third quarter earnings announcement February 2015 Fourth quarter earnings announcement Contact Corporate and registered office Transcom WorldWide S.A. 45, rue des Scillas L-2529 Howald Luxembourg Company registration number: RCS B59528 www.transcom.com Investor relations Rålambsvägen 17 11th Floor SE-112 59 Stockholm Sweden Tel: +46 8 120 800 88 E-mail: ir@transcom.com 74 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Transcom WorldWide S.A. 45, rue des Scillas L-2529 Howald Luxembourg Company registration number: RCS B59528 www.transcom.com Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2013 75
