About this Report Time Covered Jan 01, 2013 Dec 31, 2013. Where appropriate, the report includes additional content and information that pre-dates the Declaration on Sustainable Development stated reporting period. Persist in serving national interests and development strategies, so as to set an Reporting Cycle example in promoting economic and social development in all respects. Our sustainability report is published annually, this being the eighth report since 2006. Persist in scientific development and technological innovation, so as to set an Main Contents This report outlines our performance in 2013 on safety, enexample in building a resource-conserving and environmentally-friendly society. vironmental, economic and social issues. It includes information and typical cases from documents, statements and Persist in pursuing operational performance in a rational way, so as to set an information platforms of the Company and its grassroots-level enterprises. example in promoting harmony between enterprises and society. Compilation Conformance Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Persist in relying on employees and working with the public to develop the enChinese Enterprises (CASS-CSR 3.0) terprise so as to set an example in putting people first and sharing benefits. The Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4) from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Persist in contributing to society and benefiting the people, so as to set an exISO 26000: Guidance on Social Responsibility Guidelines on Social Responsibilities of Chinese Industrial ample in practicing social ethics. Enterprises and Industrial Associations References to China Huaneng Group In this report, “Huaneng Group”, “Huaneng”, “the Company” and “we” refer to the “China Huaneng Group”. Online Access to the Report The report is prepared and released in Chinese and English. For more information, please go to our website: http//www. chng.com.cn. Tel: +86-10-63228800/8811 Email: hncsroffice@chng.com.cn Address: NO.6 Fuxingmennei Street, Xicheng District, Beijing China Huaneng Group’s Sustainability Reports in 2006-2013 Postcode: 100031 Huaneng’s Sustainable Development Mode Contents Message from Company Leaders 02 Beautiful Huaneng In Action 08 01 Strategy and Management 10 02 Safe Development 18 03 Optimal Development 26 04 Green Development 34 05 Healthy Development 42 06 Innovative Development 50 07 Harmonious Development 58 Prospect in 2014 66 Indicator Index 68 Rating Report 70 02 / 03 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Message from Company Leaders At a new historical moment when China is fully engaged in building a well-off society in an all-round way and rejuvenating the Chinese nation, it is an inevitable choice to accelerate the revolution in energy production and consumption for the sustainable development of the energy industry, and also the most fundamental and important social responsibility of China Huaneng Group as an integrated energy group with electricity as its core business. Cao Peixi President of China Huaneng Group and Vice Huang Yongda Secretary of the CPC Huaneng Committee and Secretary of the CPC Huaneng Committee Vice President of China Huaneng Group As a key state-owned enterprise, we will unswervingly implement the production safety through sticking to the corporate development strategy, guidelines and policies outlined by the CPC and the central government firmly upholding the principle of making progress while maintaining stability, and firmly follow the low-carbon, clean and sustainable road of developand thoroughly implementing the CPC’s mass line education and practice Energy constitutes an important material base for the survival and development of human society. A sustainable energy industry concerns the economic ment. We will make efforts to protect the ecological environment and requirement. We will go all out to increase efficiency through intensifying lifeline and people’s wellbeing of a nation. At a new historical moment when China is fully engaged in building a well-off society in an all-round way and rejuconstantly increase the proportion of low-carbon and clean energy in our business management, improve the management system and mechanism venating the Chinese nation, it is an inevitable choice to accelerate the revolution in energy production and consumption for the sustainable development of installed power generation capacity through paying more attention to the through deepening internal reform, maintain the leadership of key indicathe energy industry, and also the most fundamental and important social responsibility of China Huaneng Group as an integrated energy group with electricpattern transformation of energy production, vigorously pressing ahead tors through strengthening energy conservation and emission reduction, ity as its core business. with energy restructuring, and developing clean and renewable energy. improve the fine management level through enhancing corporate manWe will strive to ensure a safe and stable power supply through attaching agement, and raise independent innovation capacity through facilitating In 2013, facing the complex and severe business environment, Huaneng made a joint effort to tackle the difficulties and persisted in improving developmore importance to utilizing resources in an intensive manner, optimizing technological innovation. We will also reinforce the Party’s construction and ment quality, accelerating structural adjustment, optimizing resource allocation, positively developing clean energy and driving the transition of development and developing clean coal fired power generation, and tapping the poteam construction to provide a powerful ideological and political guarantee mode through in-depth study and implementation of the spirit of the Eighteenth CPC National Congress and with a solid implementation of the CPC’s mass tential of energy conservation. On top of that, we will put more emphasis for building a world-class company with international competitiveness. line education and practice requirement as the powerful driving force. With special attention to production and management and making efforts in market on environmental friendliness and ensure standard and clean emission expansion, we reduced loss and increased profits through multiple measures and realized the maintenance and appreciation of assets value. We continued Standing at a new starting point and adhering to the mission of “three through strict enforcement of environmental laws and regulations and to advance energy conservation and emission reduction, cut energy consumption to meet emission standard and deepen the construction of an energyColor Corporation”, we will be devoted to becoming a responsible corpotechnological and managerial approaches. Moreover, we will focus more efficient and environment-friendly company. We persisted in an innovation-driven path by increasing research input and pilot exercising advanced technolrate citizen and the practitioner and promoter of sustainable development on technological innovation through enhancing fundamental research, fology to strengthen the capacity of independent innovation. We improved our management level through benchmarking the world-leading mode, innovating through bearing in mind our economic, political and social responsibilities, lowing the frontline scientific trend, making technological breakthroughs management system and mechanism and improving management methods. We gained a solid ideological and political guarantee to advance scientific depracticing the declaration on sustainable development, and forging ahead and demonstrating the application of advanced technologies. Last but not velopment from strengthening the ideological and work style construction. Consequently, we made great progress in many aspects of our work in 2013, the hand in hand with all stakeholders. We will make long-lasting contribution least, we will pay more attention to institutional improvement, optimize the economical benefits reaching a new high and, profitability, competitiveness and sustainability increasing greatly. Due to the above progress, we’ve made a to the building of a well-off society and the great rejuvenation of the Chiallocation of resources and unleash business dynamics to build a worldsolid forwardness towards building a world-class company with international competitiveness. nese nation through creating comprehensively economical, environmental class company. and social value. Nowadays, energy, resource and environment remain the core issues bottlenecking sustainability. The conflict between resource and environmental bear2014 marks the first year for China to comprehensively deepen reforms ing capacities and the demand of energy for socioeconomic growth looms large. Severe haze and other environmental problems become the focus of social and also an important year for us to boost sustainability. We will adhere concern. It has become a consensus of the whole society to conserve resources and protect the environment for bluer sky, greener water and better life. In to the objective of building a world-class company with international comthe face of the new situation and challenges, the 18th National Congress of CPC proposed the grand vision of advancing ecological progress for a beautiful petitiveness, focus on improving development quality and efficiency, and China. The 3rd Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee made an important decision to further comprehensively deepen reforms. This is a longaccelerate the transformation and upgrading. To this end, we will further term strategy concerning people’s wellbeing and the future of the Chinese nation. enhance safety management and improve the long-term mechanism for May 2014 04 / 05 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Members of the Management Team Stakeholders Stakeholders Major Concerns Communication and Exchange Safe supply of power Implement earnestly national energy policy Maintenance and appreciation of state-owned assets Participate in studies and discussions conducted by value relevant state ministries and committees Abiding by relevant laws and regulations, paying taxes Accept supervision and assessment Government and according to law Coordinate with local government for common Investors Return to investors development Employment Give full play to the role of the labor union Career development Ensure transparency of company affairs Rights and interests protection Improve Workers’ Congress system Staff Health and safety Establish multiple communication channels Corporate culture Maintain close relationship with clients Supply adequate, reliable, environmentally-friendly, Execute on-grid contracts and Power Purchase reasonably-priced electric power Agreements Clients Supply safe and good-quality coal resources Maintain the safety and stability of power grid Strategic cooperation and fulfillment of commitment Negotiations for strategic corporation Implement National License System High-level meetings Shoulder responsibilities in purchasing and influence Partners Routine business communication Achieve win-win in the industrial chain Community environment Participation in community construction Community harmony and stability Support public welfare causes Cao Peixi, President of CHNG and Vice Secretary of the CPC Kou Wei, Vice President of CHNG and Member of the CPC Huaneng Community and Huaneng Committee (third from left in the front row) Community public welfare Organize poverty-alleviation activities Committee (third from left in the back row) the Public Huang Yongda, Secretary of the CPC Huaneng Committee and Liu Guoyue, Vice President of CHNG and Member of the CPC Vice President of CHNG (third from right in the front row) Huaneng Committee (third from right in the back row) Experience sharing Attend industrial meetings Zhang Tingke, Vice President of CHNG and Member of the CPC Sun Zhiyong, Vice President of CHNG and Member of the CPC Technical exchange Technical competition and exchange Huaneng Committee (second from left in the front row) Huaneng Committee (second from left in the back row) Industry Counterparts Competition and cooperation Routine communication Guo Junming, Chief Accountant of CHNG and Member of the CPC Hu Shihai, Chief Engineer of CHNG (second from right in the back Huaneng Committee (second from right in the front row) row) Support and participate in social groups and organizations Take an active part in relevant meetings Ma Jing, Member of the CPC Huaneng Committee and Discipline Liu Wencheng, Chief Economist of CHNG (first from left in the back Abide by the articles of associations Inspection Group Leader (first from left in the front row) row) Take the initiative in making suggestions Social Groups and Hu Jianmin, Vice President of CHNG and Member of the CPC Ye Xiangdong, Chief Engineer of CHNG (first from right in the back Organizations Huaneng Committee ( first from right in the front row ) row) 06 / 07 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Key Performance Safe Healthy 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Development Development Major equipment accident(times) 0 0 0 0 0 Power output (100GWh) 4201 5376 6046 6092 6493 Ordinary equipment accident(times) 3 0 6 1 3 Total assets (100 million Yuan) 5783 6624 7532 7950 8552 Casualty-causing accident(times) 2 1 1 1 2 (including coal industry) Total revenue (100 million Yuan) 1777 2280 2682 2798 2932 First class equipment failure(times) 53 54 62 52 55 Tax paid (100 million Yuan) 166 173 196 261 328 Unplanned outages(times) 84 83 91 89 86 Total profit (100 million Yuan) 69 78 61 140 236 Equipment utilization ratios (%) 92.27 94.87 94.17 94.46 94.58 Performance evaluation by SASAC (Grade) A A A A A Optimal Innovative 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Development 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Development Total number of technicians (People) 1170 2052 2874 Installed capacity (10MW) 10438 11343 12538 13508 14224 Number of experts from Recruitment Including: Hydropower (10MW) Program of Global Experts (People) 3 6 7 8 860 1082 1133 1417 1835 National patents (items) 14 47 45 96 83 Coal-fired power (10MW) 9309 9776 10672 11235 11356 Including: Patent for invention (items) 3 15 22 28 29 Wind power (10MW) 269 484 726 848 973 Scientific achievement award at or Solar PV (10MW) 0.2 1 6 8 60 above provincial level 8 19 9 9 20 Coal production capacity (10 thousand tons / year) 4772 6412 6817 7817 8464 Coal output (10 thousand tons / year) 4408 4886 6406 6858 7156 Harmonious 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Development Number of staff (People) 129992 131816 133270 136510 137779 Green Number of female staff (People) 26633 27088 31384 32636 32696 Development 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Signing rate of labor contracts (%) 100 100 100 100 100 Low-carbon clean energy Installed capacity (10MW) 1566 2003 2397 2830 3504 Signing rate of collective contracts (%) 100 100 100 100 100 Proportion of low-carbon clean energy (%) 15.01 17.70 19.12 20.95 24.64 Rate of participation in the Labor Union (%) 100 100 100 100 100 Specific Coal consumption (g / KWh) 327.70 322.72 318.68 316.52 312.89 Rate of physical examinations (%) 100 100 100 100 100 Station service power consumption rate (%) 5.61 5.22 5.08 4.83 4.59 Donations (10,000 Yuan) 11107 10770 4603 7439 11425 Slag and ash utilization rate (%) 70.24 74.15 76.34 77.08 78.14 Number of volunteers 17000 25600 43500 51000 63800 Water consumption per unit power among employees (person-times) generated (kg / KWh) 1.34 1.30 1.28 1.25 1.22 (Note: “-” means no statistics of that year) Special Beautiful Huaneng in Action We proudly contribute to the vision of building a beautiful China and focus on the development of an ecological civilization. In 2013 we unswervingly plan to accelerate the transformation of our development model, promote green, low-carbon and clean development, and advance our efficient utilization of resources while protecting the natural environment and building a beautiful Huaneng. This is our corporate responsibility and we believe that it will contribute to the building of a beautiful China. Adjusting Our Power Sources Structure Unprecedented Transformation in Energy Conservation and Based on the fact that in China, coal is taken as the key primary energy, Huneng has made efforts in improving the utilization efficiency of the traditional coal-fired power Environmental Protection and developing high-capacity machine unit with high parameter to generate more power with less coal. We have accelerated the development of clean and renewable We always implement state policies related to energy-saving and environmental protection, and will continue to increase our resource support and investment. We energy such as pneumoelectric, hydropower, wind power, PV, and nuclear power and continued to increase our proportion of installed clean energy to generate more are currently upgrading the equipment and technology in our units, and tapping into the vast potential associated with the use of innovative energy-saving equipgreen power for economic and social development. ment. We will continue to work tirelessly to ensure that all clean emissions standards are reached, and will save resources and protect the environment in a manner that accelerates the building of a resource-saving and environmentally-friendly enterprise. Installed Clean Energy Capacity Incresed Rapidly 6,740 Our Key Performance Indicators Lead the Industry Investment in energy-savings and ● In 2013, 6,740MW of clean energy units went into production, setting a new record. Our total instalMW of clean energy went environmental protection transformalation of clean energy is 35,040MW, maintaining a leading level in the industry; ● In 2013, our super coal consumption was 312.89g/kWh, 3.63g/kWh less than 2012. According into production in 2013 tions in 2013 has reached to our annual power production, 2.36 million tons of standard coal could be saved, equivalent to ● 4,165MW of hydropower units went into production, total hydropower installed capacity exceeded 18,350MW; 1,262MW of wind power went into operation and total wind power capacity exceeded 9,740MW; Total installed capacity of clean energy was a reduction of three coal mines with an annual capacity of about one million tons; ● Our station service power consumption rate was 4.59%, 0.24 percentage lower than last year, 10.55 billion Yuan saving 1,600 GWh of power, equivalent to the annual power output of a 300MW generating unit. Representing a year-on-year in● In 2013, low-carbon clean energy projects accounted for 47.7% and 48.2% respectively of newly approved and newly developed projects, laying a solid foundation for the continuous optimization of 35,040MW crease of billion Yuan 3.56 our power source structure. Clean Production Continued to Improve Our Proportion of Clean and High-efficiency Coal-fired Units Increased Greatly ● In 2013, we have completed the denitration transformation of 28,837MW, denitration and caThe installed rate of desulfurizapacity incease of 9,210MW; and dedusting and efficiency improvement of 5,178MW. tion facilities and equipment in coal ● More than 2/3 of our units are CHP (combined heat and power) units power units approached 100% or supercritical and ultra-supercritical coal-fired generating units with ● The capacity of our generating units with desulfurization equipment accounted for more than 65% of total coal power units and the installation rate of desulfurization facilities was approachsingle capacity of 300MW or above; ing 100%; and in 2013, the performance of emission of SO2, nitrogen oxides, smoke and dust 71.1% Our 600 MW and over units accounted for led the industry. The proportion of denitration units ● 47.37% of our units are 600MW and over, of which 13 are 1000MW is more than or above, accounting for 1/3 of China’s total; of the installed coal-fired generating units are the ones using co-generation of power and heat technology of 300 47.37% of the installed proportion of coal● Over 90% of the 300MW generating units (or above) have met standards for an excellent energy-conservation and environmentally-friendly enterprise. 65% ● The average single-unit coal-fired power installed capacity is more MW and over supercritical and ultrafired generating units supercritical coal-fired generating units than 330MW, which leads the industry. In an effort to contribute to the building of a beautiful China with ecological civilization, we took actions to save resources and protect the environment, to help construct beautiful power plants and demonstrate the beautiful China. In 2013, 28 of our power plants were evaluated and recognized as Beautiful Power Plants in China. Beautiful China with Beautiful Power Plants Zhejiang Yuhuan Power Plant Jiangsu Taicang Power Plant Jiangsu Jinling Power Plant Sichuan Fujiang Hydropower Station Tongchuan Zhaojin Miaowei Gongguo Bridge Hainan Dongfang Power Plant Shaanxi Liaoning Dalian Power Plant Yunnan Hydropower Staton Power Plant Guangdong Haimen Power Plant Shandong Weihai Power Plant Gansu Pingliang Power Plant Gansu Jiuquan Wind Power Station Shanghai Shanghai Shidongkou Inner Mongolia Yimin Power Plant Beijing Beijing Thermal Power Plant Xinjiang Santanghu Wind Power Company No.2 Power Plant Tianjin IGCC Power Station Henan Qinbei Power Plant Yunnan Nuozadu Hydropower Plant Xinjiang Turpan Wind Power Company Shandong Rizhao Power Plant Ningxia Daba Power Plant Yunnan Xiaowan Hydropower Station Yunnan Ma’anshan Wind Power Farm Inner Mongolia Shangdu Power Plant Jilin Jiutai Power Plant Yunnan Jinghong Hydropower Station Qinghai Golmud PV Power Station 2013 Sustainability Report 12 / 13 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Company Profile Organization Structure China Huaneng Group is a key state-owned enterprise approved by the State Council. The Company is engaged in the following businesses: developDepartments of the Headquarters ment, investment, construction, operation and management of power sources; production and sale of power (heat); development, investment, construction, production, and sale of businesses and products related to finance, coal, transportation, renewable energy, and environmental protection; indusGeneral Administration Department Finance Department Human Resources Department trial investment, operation and management. News Center Department of Capital Operations and Equity Management Office of Retiree Affairs During its 30-year development courses, China Huaneng Group has provided rich experience in the reform, development, and technological innovation Department of Planning and Development Department of Safety Supervision and Production Supervision Department for the power industry and has played an exemplary role in improving enterprise management and increasing economic benefit for power enterprises. Department of Budget and General Planning Department of Science and Technology and Environmental Protection Auditing Department Also, the Company made a great contribution in meeting power demand for economic and social growth, as well as in maintaining and adding value to state-owned assets. China Huaneng Group is committed to building itself into a world-class enterprise with international competitiveness. By the end Department of Corporate Governance and Legal Affairs Engineering Department Department of Ideological and Political Work of 2013, the Company had total installed capacity of 142GW, with assets distributed all over China and overseas. The Company is also engaged in Department of Operations International Cooperation Department Labor Union Working Committee sectors of coal, finance, technology R&D, and transportation etc. that support the core business of power. The Company was the first Chinese power producer to be enlisted in the rank of Fortune Global 500 in 2009, ranking 231st in 2013. Units Directly under China Huaneng Group CPC China Huaneng Group Party School China Huaneng Group Technical Economics Research Institute China Huaneng Group IT Center Power Industry Power is the core business of the Coal industry company. In 2013, we have wholly Industrial Companies Our annual production capacity was owned and holding plants with Transportation Industry Huaneng International Power Development Corporation (HIPDC) GreenGen Co., Ltd. Huaneng Properties Co., Ltd. 84.64 million tons in 2013, and our 142GW installed capacity in total, Ports that we wholly own or control Huaneng Power International Inc. (HPI) Huaneng Energy and Transportation (Holding) Co., Ltd. China Huaneng Group Clean Energy Technology Research Institute coal output was 71.56 million tons. which stands first in Asia and sechave a handling capacity of 26.44 ond around the world. Huaneng Renewables Corporation Huaneng Capital Services Co., Ltd. China Huaneng Group Fuel Co., Ltd. million tons per year and a shipping capacity of 1.75 million tons. Huaneng Nuclear Power Development Co., Ltd. China Huaneng Group Technology Innovation Center China Huaneng Group Coal Industry Co., Ltd. Regional Branch Companies China Huaneng Group North China Branch China Huaneng Group Shanxi Branch China Huaneng Group Henan Branch China Huaneng Group Northeast China Branch China Huaneng Group Jiangsu Branch China Huaneng Group Hunan Branch Financial Industry Technology Industry China Huaneng Group East China Branch China Huaneng Group Zhejiang Branch China Huaneng Group Chongqing Branch The financial enterprises subordinate Our principal scientific research and developChina Huaneng Group Central China Branch China Huaneng Group Anhui Branch China Huaneng Group Qinghai Branch to the Huaneng Group cover capital ment system consists of six national key laboservices, securities, insurance and China Huaneng Group South China Branch China Huaneng Group Fujian Branch China Huaneng Group Guangxi Branch (Preparatory office) ratories (research and development centers), trust, etc. The assets under managetwo scientific research bases, and several China Huaneng Group Hebei Branch China Huaneng Group Jiangxi Branch China Huaneng Group Guizhou Branch (Preparatory office) ment is over RMB 500 billion . company-level laboratories. Regional Subsidiaries North United Power Co., Ltd. Huaneng Jilin Power Generation Co., Ltd. Huaneng Gansu Energy Development Co., Ltd. Huaneng Lancang River Hydropower Co., Ltd. Huaneng Heilongjiang Power Generation Co., Ltd. Huaneng Tibet Power Generation Co., Ltd. Huaneng Hulunbuir Energy Development Co., Ltd. Huaneng Hainan Power Generation Co., Ltd. Huaneng Xinjiang Energy Development Co., Ltd. Huaneng Shandong Power Generation Co., Ltd. Huaneng Shaanxi Power Generation Co., Ltd. China Huaneng Group Hong Kong Co., Ltd. Huaneng Sichuan Hydropower Co., Ltd. Huaneng Ningxia Energy Co., Ltd. Xi’an Thermal Power Research Institute Units Directly Managed by China Huaneng Group Huaneng Shandong Shidaowan Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. Huaneng Hainan Industrial Co., Ltd. China Huaneng Group Talent Base Construction Management Center 2013 Sustainability Report 14 / 15 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Management System Responsibility Management Following the “three-color” corporate mission and focusing on building a world-class enterprise with international competitiveness, Huaneng continues to improve the “three-level management system” comprising of the “headquarters regional companies / industrial companies grassroots companies” Responsibility Strategy and the performance evaluation system focusing on security, operation, development and party building to making solid progress in management and In 2013, we thoroughly applied the spirit of the Work Conference on sponsibility, fully integrating the implementation of social responsibility constantly improve the scientific management level of the enterprise. the Social Responsibilities of Central State-owned Enterprises held by into the operation and development of our company. In order to further State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the improve the performance and level of fully performing CSR, we also Management Principles State Council (SASAC). Focusing on building a world-class company made efforts in strengthening responsible strategy planning, improving Adhering to the maximization of the Group’s with international competitiveness, we implemented our harmonious responsibility management level, improving responsibility communicaoverall interests development strategy by solidly improving our management of social retion mechanism and enhancing responsibility capacity construction. Adhering to the separation of ownership and Production safety Led by budget the management authority Operation safety Benchmarking as the Safety PerAdhering to the unification of responsibilities, Performance management mainline Responsibility system as rights and interests formance Political safety Image safety Responsibility Planning the carrier Performance assessment Linking performance with Headquarters We formulated the Planning for Advancing Social Responsibility Management (2013-2015) in 2013, further identifying the general requirements, objecremuneration Operating Financial level Strategic Planning Center Performance Business level tives and key missions of our work in social responsibility management, hoping that with three years’ efforts, our social responsibility management level Decision-making Center for Investment and Financing Benefit level Benchmarking Debugging and error correction is further improved, maintaining advanced domestically, the role of “Five Examples” in our company is more obvious, and the reputation and social Resource Allocation Center management Continuous improvement Performance Management Center influence of our company are further enhanced. Continuous breakthrough Decision-making Center for Major & Important Issues Preparatory work Development Performance Engineering work 2013 2014 2015 Deepening the reform of professional management sysImprove the social responsibility manSelect excellent cases performing social Establish a research base for social responRegional Companies / Industrial Companies Professional tems in such fields as new agement system; responsibility practice; sibility; management energy, fuel, coal, goods and Responsible for Development, Construction, Party Building materials, nuclear power, Production and Operation Activities Performance Ideology/ Organization /System Explore the establishment of a social Explore to establish a public welfare Formulate the plan to advance social recoal chemical industry, sciProfit-earning Center Anti-corruption responsibility evaluation indicator sysbrand with social responsibility; sponsibility (2016-2020); ence and technology, etc. Democratic management tem and informatization platform for Compile sustainable development reDevelop research achievements with domaterial collection; ports in specific fields; mestic influence; Grassroots Companies Conduct activities for establishing “pilot Build a batch of pilot companies as harMaintain our leading position in social reResponsible for Safe Production Cost Control Center companies as harmonious enterprise”. monious enterprise. sponsibility evaluations by authorities. Core Issues Corporate Strategy (High) Attentions from Stakeholders (Low) Focus on optimizing and adjusting the power structure, industrial structure and regional distribution. Concentrate on Transforming and Environmental protection Guarantee power supply High-quality products and services the development of new energy, highly-efficient and clean use of traditional energy and energy service. Eliminate Upgrading Strategy backward production capacity and build a synergistic and efficient industrial system. Honest operations Corporate governance and control Developing new energy Persist in supporting the core business while being geared to the needs of production, the leading edge and industrialiTechnology Innovazation; improve technological innovation system and mechanism; enhance the capacity of independent innovation and Corporate citizenship Supply chain management Promoting scientific innovation tion Strategy research on international cutting-edge technology to lead technological progress of the power industry. Talent attraction and reserve Human resource development Intensify our effort in the development of low-carbon and clean energy and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases Green Development and pollutants; rely on technological progress and scientific management and develop the circular economy to conStrategy stantly improve the level of energy conservation and environment protection. Environment Economy Society Power Industry Creation of comprehensive value (High) Based on global perspective, speed up the pace of “going global” and deepen international exchange and coopInternational Operaeration; allocate the resources of capital, talent and markets effectively; gradually expand the business abroad and tion Strategy strengthen the operational supervision and risk prevention to improve the level of international operations. Source of Issues Division of Priority Approval and Confirmation Give full play to the supporting role of scientific management through constantly improving the whole process manOperation Excellent agement of production and operation, marketing, financial costs and project construction, effectively integrating ecoStandards: ISO26000, GRI G4, CASS3.0, Global Issues exerting significant influence on the sustainThe Social Responsibility Report PrepStrategy nomic factors and system resources, and continuously improving the profitability and management of the company. Compact, etc; able development of the enterprise; aration Group preliminarily confirms Communication: suggestions from foreign and doIssues attracting high attention from stakeholders; core issues; Stick to the “Scientific Outlook on Development” as the overall guidance in the recruiting and management of talents mestic experts and suggestions from stakeholders; Issues to be developed and addressed by the comThe Social Responsibility Work CommitTalent-Intensive through constantly improving the incentive mechanism for fostering, attracting, employing and managing talents, while Strategy Management: corporate strategy planning and pany’s strategy; tee Office deliberate over the issues; positively developing high-end, complex, innovative and international talent team to support the company’s development. CSR management planning; Issues attracting attention from the general public; The Social Responsibility Management Operate the business according to laws and regulations. Strengthen the construction of corporate culture through Issues emphasized in social responsibility standPractice: restraint of policies and regulations, Committee of Huaneng confirms the Harmonious Develwholeheartedly relying on employees in conducting the business and actively performing corporate social responsiconcerns from the leaders, social trends, focuses ards; issues which will be disclosed in CSR opment Strategy bilities, while enhancing the economic, social and environmental value creation capabilities and shaping Huaneng’s within the industry, and innovation points within Special Issues for the key power generation enterreport. good image to build a harmonious enterprise. the enterprise. prises within the communication of Huaneng. 2013 Sustainability Report 16 / 17 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Responsibility Governance Huaneng established a Social Responsibility ManageSocial Responsibility Management Committee of the Company ment Committee, to formulate and promote our social responsibility strategy and to deliberate over and decide Social Responsibility Management Office major social responsibility issues. We have also constructed a top-down organization system with a clear division of labor, institutional norms and work mechanism in social responsibility management. Regional Manager of Department Social ResponManager of Department Social Responsibility of the Headquarters (Part-time) sibility of the Headquarters (Part-time) subsidiaries and industrial companies have established social responsibility leading groups and designated Social Responsibility Leading Groups and Social Responsibility Management social responsibility to specific departments. Grassroot Departments of Regional Companies / Industrial Companies enterprises have also identified departments and staff who will be responsible for social responsibility activities Person responsible for social responsibility and social in each unit and ensuring that the related performance be reported to the Huaneng Group. A staff of Shidongkou No.1 Plant is reconditioning the equipment carefully Huaneng Awarded the “Best Social Responsibility Practice of Central SOEs in 2013” for Developing Green Coal-fired Power. On December 13, SASAC released “the Best Social Responsibility Practice of Central SOEs Responsibility Capacity in 2013” at a video conference on social responsibility work of central state-owned enterprises. Huaneng was awarded “the Best Social Responsibility Practice of Central SOEs in 2013” We implemented SASAC’s “Twelfth Five-year” Harmonious Development Strategy of Central State-owned Enterprises and carfor its practice in “Develop Green Coal-fired Power and Build Beautiful China”. ried out a series of activities to improve our management of social responsibility, to further deepen our philosophy, perfect our system and enrich our business practices. Our social responsibility management experience has been documented and listed in SASAC’s collection of Central SOEs’ experiences on CSR management. Responsibility Communication We continued to carry out internal social responsibility training programs through inviting experts and scholars to train our emWe have expanded our communication with stakeholders through implementing press spokesman system, establishing media open day, and regularly ployees in charge of social responsibility affairs on management system, indicator system, core topics, related policies, and interacting with stakeholders. We continue to release sustainable development reports at fixed intervals. We have established a special column for development trends of social responsibility to improve the awareness and performance of our staff in social responsibility. social responsibility on our website, providing an efficient channel for the public to learn more about our company. We have made contribution to the sustainable and healthy development of the power industry by actively engaging in industrial exchanges and cooperating closely with partners in the Referring to the specific practices of the power generation industry, we played an active role in researching and studying social upstream and downstream of the industrial chain. responsibility issues and regularly engaged in the discussion and formulation of domestic and overseas social responsibility standards. We proactively supported the activities conducted by social responsibility promotion agencies such as the United Nations Global Compact and the Chinese Academy of Social Science, providing a solid foundation for us to deepen our social Experts and Media Group Visit the IGCC Power Station responsibility practice. On May 9 and 10, 2013, SASAC held the activity of “Visiting Central SOEs Innovation Drives Tianjin” at Huaneng Tianjin IGCC Power Station. Fifty experts and scholars, along with media reporters, visited the first IGCC power station in China and investigated our Domestic Media Group Reported Huaneng’s Tembusu Project in Singapore recent developments in scientific innovation, as well as our “three-color culture”. During the visit they were introduced to our implementation of green development strategy and From December 4 to 6, the SASAC press center led a media the solid construction of green coal-fired plant, experiencing our commitment to environgroup comprising of People’s Daily, CCTV, and Qiushi Magzine to ment protection. visit the Tembusu project of Huaneng Singapore Tuas Power Ltd. The group visited the production site of the Tembusu project in As the first step in Huaneng GreenGen Program, the completion of the full process of Tianjin IGCC Power Station Jurong Island and held in-depth discussions with our senior manlays a solid foundation to solve the world-class issue of achieving zero emission in coal-fired power station. agers on a broad range of issues related to the project. The ex——People’s Daily change allowed the company to outline its development strategy, Huaneng insists on pursuing scientific innovation and green development. The company’s approach has reachievements and social responsibility activities, providing them a sulted in many benefits to combating climate change and the improving energy conversion efficiency. Its dedeepened understanding, trust and support for Huaneng. velopment philosophy and innovative spirit are admirable. ——Hu Angang, Director of Institute for Contemporary China Studies, Tsinghua University 2013 Sustainability Report 20 / 21 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Improving Safety Management System Reaching Standardization Institutional Construction First-grade companie We paid attention to the institutional construction of production safety. In 2013, we revised and improved our Regulations of Safe Operation in Power Industry, and issued a range of publications and standards such as the 33 Management Methods for Training Staffs of Power Generation Enterprises on Production Safety, the Guidelines Second-grade companies to Implementing Standard Management for Electric Power Overhaul, the Management Methods for Troubleshooting Potential Accidents in Production Safety in the Coal Chemical Companies, and the Comprehensive Management Methods of Gas in Coal Mines. All the publications and standards significantly improved our insti38 tutional construction. Third-grade companies Progressing towards Standardization The company in-depth promoted production safety standardization. We have constantly strengthened organi4 zational leadership, ensured the implementation of work and carried training programs. We also strive to better manage our policy guidance, technical guidance and evaluation orientation in our work towards standardization. All grassroots enterprises must implement the Company’s Work Plan for Reaching the Standard of Production Inspection of barrel-type turbine in Hanfeng power plant Safety Standardization of Power Generation Companies and conduct self-examinations, self-corrections and self-perfections activities. They should combine the work towards standardization with the construction of production safety management system and safety evaluation to make overall planning, make solid progress and construct a long-term mechanism with consistent improvement of safety performance. In 2013, 33 power plants Emergency Management in Dalian, Manwan and Kangding were recognized as first-grade Standard facilities, and 40 grassroots compaWe have paid high attention to the emergency management of producIn 2013, we have carried out safety inspections on hazardous cheminies completed on-site evaluations. tion safety. We have made efforts in improving organizational system, cals and training sessions on how to use liquid ammonia. A special institutional system and emergency plan system of emergency manageemergency exercise for liquid ammonia leakages in our Haimen Power System Construction ment. We have proactively promoted the construction of our emergency Plant has been organized and company departments and subsidiaries management platform, strengthened our emergency response exercises have organized and carried out emergency exercises to deal with power We have made solid progress in the construction of production safety system of power generation enterprises. We strictly controlled the quality of our and the management of emergency materials, and regularly promoted failures, geological disasters, and fire hazards in order to better their system documents, making the system accord with the situation of our employee, equipment and management. We paid special attention to the imthe construction of our urgent danger prevention system for coal mines. internal capacity to deal with production accidents and natural disasters. plementation and execution of all documents, conducted daily production safety management in accordance with the system documents and made full use of the system to support and guarantee the basic management of our production safety. On April 20, a 7.0 magnitude earthquake hit Lushan All the coal-fired power plants have completed the compilation of their production safety system documents in 2013; County, Ya’an of Sichuan Province. The power supThe Sichuan Company immediately initiated its contingenConstruction of production safety systems in 35 power plants was confirmed by superordinate industrial and regional companies; ply and communication system in the earthquake-hit cy plan, established an on-site command center for eartharea were cut off, roads connecting it to the outside Production safety systems in 20 power plants were confirmed at the scene by the Head Office. quake relief work, engaged in the earthquake relief work, world were blocked, and 383,000 people were imand began repairing equipment and recovering power propacted by the disaster. Seven hydropower stations National Gold-medal Machine Units of Thermal Power First Prize of National Thermal Power Units Competition Earthquake (five in service and two under construction) were duction. Generation in Reliability Relief Work damaged to varying degrees. Capacity Prize-winning Units Capacity Prize-winning Units The Nanshan Power Plant dealt with the typhoon in adOn November 10, the strongest ever Typhoon “Haivance, initiated its contingency plan, and managed to con1000MW Unit 2 of Yuhuan Power Plant Unit 4 of Shidongkou Ⅱ Power Plant yan” hit Hainan island, inflicted significant damage duct work such as unchoking, troubleshooting and stopping to the entire province. Power grids were frequently leakages in production facilities. When the typhoon hit, Gen600MW Unit 3 of Shidongkou Ⅱ Power Plant affected, voltage was decreased sharply, and circuits erator No.2 and No.4 were shut down safely and Generator 600MW Unit 6 of Dezhou Power Plant Defending Against at many facilities across the province were tripped. No. 1 was started urgently, ensuring the safe operation of Unit 2 of Hanfeng Power Plant a Typhoon equipment as well as the power supply in local areas. Unit 5 of Huaiyin Power Plant Unit 6 of Xindian Power Plant Hulunbuir Company dealt with the challenge in an orderly On July 15, rainstorms hit Hulunbuir for several days, manner and in accordance with its contingency plan by Unit 1 of Dongfang Power Plant Unit 3 of Dezhou Power Plant with precipitation exceeding historical record. Entertroubleshooting, implementing prevention measures, proprises in Yimin, Genhe, Manzhouli, Hailaer, and oth300MW viding disaster-relief personnel and materials, forecasting 300MW Unit 1 of Changchun Thermal Power Plant er places, were severely damaged by the disaster, the viability of precautionary measures, and practicing Unit 3 of Fuzhou Power Plant which brought a serious threat to the safety of power emergency exercises to ensure the safety of the plant and Unit 4 of Shang’an Power Plant Flood Prevention generation. its workers during the flood season. Unit 2 of Dalian Power Plant Unit 3 of Dalian Power Plant 2013 Sustainability Report 22 / 23 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Consolidating Our Foundation for Safety Team Safety Equipment Management The continuous development and improvement of team safety is the most basic and important element of our work. We adhered to the philosophy of “zero violation of regulations to achieve zero death and zero equipment imperfection to achieve zero accident” and promoted the development of standardized Focusing on the principle of first-class equipment management and excellent maintenance quality, we have formulated safety management in all of our teams. The implementation of our responsibility system and the execution of rules and regulations allow us to effectively The number of potential haztroubleshoot violations and perform risk analysis and pre-controls at our operational sites. We encourage teams to innovate their safety management and issued the Guidelines to Implement the Standard Management of Electric Power Overhaul to ensure overhaul quality ards having been checked procedures and solidify their safety foundation system. through comprehensively promoting standard management of overhaul and strengthening on-site supervision of units overhaul and whole-process control of the overhaul. We have made efforts to maintain our equipment in good working condition by reducing equipment imperfections and controlling the occurrence of unplanned outage, strengthening daily supervision and management of equipment, doing the statistical analysis of the indicators, enhancing equipment condition monitoring 33,496 Laiwu Power Plant Enhanced Team Safety with “Six Smalls” and fault diagnosis, and taking measures to ensure small indicators reaching standard. The number of potential hazIn 2013, 25 of 34 A/B level overhaul coal-fired power units achieved continuous operation, and our equipThe Laiwu Power Plant paid attention to its employees’ ideological education, skills training and rules execution in the team safety manageards having been rectified ment equivalent availability factor and unplanned outage factor of coal-fired power units led the industry; ment. The plant also made efforts in improving the self-consciousness of the employees in abiding by the rules and safety engineering level to Power plants in Tongchuan, Taicang, Yushe, Linhe, and Haikou have achieved zero unplanned outage throughout the year, and the Dalat No.1 and No.2 units, the Jiutai No.2 unit, the Dezhou No.3 unit, and the 31,654 guarantee the team’s production safety. Apply rules and regulations to standardPromote the well deeds of the individuals Shidongkou No.2 Plant No.1 unit have achieved uninterrupted operations throughout 2013; ize the ideology and behavior of staff in in the plant and magnify their model role in Small Rule Small Model 28 units won prizes in the National Thermal Power Units Competition in 2013, with the No.4 unit of Shidongkou No.2 Plant, the Dezhou No.3 and the team. teams. No.6 units, the Huaiyin No.5 unit, the Fuzhou No.3 unit and the Dalian No.3 unit being awarded the first prizes. Learn employees’ ideological condition and Special Examinations Improve professional skills in the team by help them resolve practical problems to running skills competitions and theory exSmall Competition Small Discussion strengthen their sense of belonging through In 2013, putting the requirements of the Production Safety Committee of the State Council and other related ministries and departments into practice, ams. dialogues and symposiums. we have formulated the implementation plan of safety examinations and conducted large-scale examination for special production safety in accordance with the principle of “full coverage, zero tolerance, strict law-enforcement and emphasizing effectiveness”. Establish a team “think tank” and encourAppropriately punish employees who bring age staff to implement small reforms, small challenges to safety and quality, and raise Mobilization and Deployment We have issued a tailored work panies conducted trawling inspection over local grassroots companies Small Idea inventions, small creations, and award them Small Punishment employees’ responsibility awarenesssense program with clear requirements, objectives and key tasks. All the and a dedicated column was established on Huaneng’s internal network appropriately. to ensure the team’s overall safety. subordinate departments must establish an institutional framework for to track relevant information and report typical methods and approaches safety examinations to convene mobilization meetings at each level to enable the subordinate departments and companies to exchange of the company and conduct in-depth deployment and arrangements. ideas with and learn from each other. Work Progress All the subordinate departments and branch compaRectification of Potential Hazards All the subordinate departments nies should report their weekly work progress to the Head Office and the and branch companies have totally checked 33,496 potential hazards. Group Company would issue weekly notification of all the progresses, The Group Company has allocated 560 million Yuan for the rectification existing problems and typical practices. Leaders at all levels were enof the potential hazards. In total, 31,654, potential hazards were corcouraged to have close ties with grassroots enterprises in order to effecrected, a correction rate of 94.5% having been achieved. As a result, we tively eliminate potential safety hazards and urge the implementation of were awarded the title of excellent organization in “Production Safety necessary work. We have organized unannounced spot-checks over 25 Month” by the State Administration of Work Safety. power plants in Jinling and Haikou. Industrial and regional branch comProduction Safety in 2009—2013 Items 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Major equipment accident 0 0 0 0 0 Common equipment accident 3 0 6 1 3 First Class equipment failure 53 54 62 52 55 Unplanned outages 84 83 91 89 86 Employee of Manwan Power Plant at Lantsang Company are debugging the unit on site Equipment equivalent availability factor(%) 92.27 94.87 94.17 94.46 94.58 2013 Sustainability Report 24 / 25 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Outsourcing Project Safety Education and Training The safety management of outsourced projects remains a difficult and challenging aspect of our production safety management system. We paid great attention to safety management of production and infrastructure outsourcing projects and we have strictly executed the Management Method for the Safety of Outsourcing Projects to deliver better results. More specifically, we have implemented strict control over our outsourcing teams’ qualification, enhanced safety engineerWe have implemented our Management Method of Production Safety Training for Employees in Power Generation Company, increased our input into safety education and training, and conducted daily training and special 764 training based on the conditions of different professions and posts to improve the capacity of full-time (and partCertified safety engineers in 2013 ing training, and dynamically evaluated their capacity to assure safety. As for the large-scale safety inspection, we strengthened the safety supervision and time) safety employees and people engaged in special typte of work in production safety. inspection at the construction sites under the coordination of all parties engaged in supervision, construction and debugging, especially the inspection over the 700 execution of safety measures and the implementation of related regulations. In addition, we have also recorded safety performance of outsourcing teams, and In 2013, Huaneng held 25 training classes on safety supervision, technical supervision, relay protection, and adopted a “one-vote veto” right over all safety issues to ensure the construction safety of outsourcing projects. abrasion proof and explosion proof of boilers, with more than 1,300 person participating in the trainings; Certified safety engineers in No Accidents occurred at the Expansion Project of Linyi Power Plant All the subordinate departments and branch companies have carried out safety knowledge competitions and 2012 skills competitions. Activities like making safety vows, collecting theme articles and speech contests were efThe Linyi Power Plant has constructed two 350MW CHP (combined heat and power) projects. Throughout the whole projects, the plant has persisted fective ways to to help raise semployees’ awareness of production safety. in the work philosophy of strengthening safety through basic management, enhancing safety through emergency management and guaranteeing safety through team construction. As a result, a solid safety basis has been established to achieve the target of being a “zero-accident project”. Basic management We have incorporated Emergency management We have made Team management We have maintained a the “one examination, one report and one precautionary measures, predictions and prestrict standard for all qualification examinaAlarm Bells and Reflection assessment per day” approach to strengthen arranged plans in advance and organized tions, and prohibited borrowed or affiliated supervision of onsite safety, including organemergency exercises concerning fire prevenqualifications. The Power Plant has offered We have maintained a stable and safe production environment in 2013, but casualty accidents haven’t been comizing and carrying out the “Construction Site tion, flood prevention and high-altitude falling safety training programs to improve construcpletely eliminated. We must recognize that we still face with severe production safety conditions. Specifically speakwith Safe and Civilized Construction and Zero prevention to ensure effective settlements tors’ awareness on safety and skills developing, we have an unbalanced production safety level among our branch companies and subsidiaries. In particular, Violation” activity to ensure that our safety when hazards occurred. ment to prevent unsafe incidents. our production safety base in coal industry is weak. In addition, some subsidiaries have weak management order in management procedures were fully impleproduction safety and lag behind in the improvement of a long-term mechanism in production safety. mented by all parties. We will continue to put the safety of our people at the first place and pursue the concept of “scientific development and safe development”. Focusing on strengthening the base construction of production safety, we will Strengthening Safety Management in Coal Mines make efforts in the construction of the production safety management system, promoting standardization, governing rule-breaking conducts and checking hidden troubles, employee training and the management of outWe continued to strengthen the standardized management of our production safety of coal enterprise by constantly deepening our understanding of sourcing projects. We will improve our production safe management through improving management, performsafety management in coal production, intensifying our management of and control over the coal production process, and improving production safety ing responsibility, improving the system and guaranteeing investment. in our coal mines. In 2013, to perform the responsibility of professional management of the Group’s coal industry, the China Huaneng Coal Industry Company established a “9.1” Accident in Mine 1 of Bailong Mountain Coal Mine Safety Office Meeting System, improved the rules and regulations for production safety and management of coal mines, revised and prepared a contingency plan for production safety accidents in coal mines, and developed the overall foundation of production safety in coal mines; Accident Management of the Accident Cause of the Accident We advanced a specific campaign of fighting against illegal conducts and the construction of “six systems”, learned from the lessons of major accidents in coal mines At 3:57 on September 1, 2013, a coal After the accident, the East Yunnan Energy ComBailong Mountain Coal Mine is a highly gassy to facilitate better troubleshooting and rectifying on-site potential hazards, and carried out specific renovations to improve ventilation in the coal mines and solve such and gas outburst occurred at the gas pany initiated a contingency plan and established mine. The driving face of floor gas extraction problems as gas leakage, coal dust, fire, water leakage; extraction roadway on 17+805 floor a rescue and command leading group responroadway at Mine 1 17+805 floor met with a of Mine No. 1 in the Bailong Mountain sible for the search and rescue in the mine. We reverse fault 924 meters away from the startWe formulated and developed a comprehensive safety examination for the Coal Mine of East Yunnan Energy organized the Coal Industry Company, under the ing point. The fault caused the driving face to coal industry, established a examination mechanism at regular intervals, carCompany. 868 tons of coal was exsupport of local government, to investigate the approach the overlying coal strata. When the ried out monthly safety examinations over companies directly managed by pelled along with 84,130 cubic meter cause of the accident. Nine people were killed in roadheader was experimentally clipping after China Huaneng Group, and conducted quaterly random examinations and of gas, causing casualties and propthe accident, which caused direct economic loss overhaul, it caused the outburst of coal and gas, two overall large-scale safety examinations annually over companies under erty damage. of RMB 14.469 million. which led to the accident. our trusteeship; All production mines have completed the construction of the “six systems”. The Follow-up Measures Jalainur Coal Company had zero casualties during a consecutive production Following an investigation into the cause of accident, we implemented administrative and Party disciplinary sanctions as well as economic of 33.4 million tons of coal, reaching the advanced level in the domestic coal punishments. We drew lessons from the accident to improve our future work and better grasp the laws of production safety in highly gassy industry. The Lingdong, Lingquan, Lingbei, Tiebei and Xizhou coal mines mines. We implemented the Regulations on the Prevention of Coal and Gas Outbursts and “ten bans” to prevent gas outburst, formulated were awarded the title of Mine with Safety Quality Standard at National Level scientific and reasonable gas management plans, and enhanced our troubleshooting procedures and the management of on-site safety to prein 2012, and another seven coal mines, including one in Chenjiagou,reached Passageway in the mine of Huating Coal Industry Co.,Ltd. vent similar accidents. the national primary standard. 2013 Sustainability Report 28 / 29 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Optimizing Power Supply Structure Review on Milestones of the Company’s Hydropower Development Coal-fired Power The No.3 Unit of Nuozhadu Hydropower Station We implemented the national energy development strategy and seized the opportunity of strategic adjustment of energy structure to accelerate the December went into production and became the largest hyThe fact that China’s primary energy consumption structure is based transformation of our development model, promote the diversification of our power supply structure, and enhance the whole-process management. We 2013 dropower station along the Lantsang River and on coal determines that the structure of power source will be based on the largest one operated by the Company. also issued instructions on combined heat and power generation, coal-fired electricity bases, and solar photovoltaics to promote low-carbon and clean coal-fired power in the long run. We continued to develop high-efficient development, increase our installed capacity proportion of low-carbon and clean energy, and raise the efficient and clean utilization ratio of traditional and clean coal-fired power and optimize the capacity structure, technical energy. In 2013, our installed capacity of low-carbon and clean energy was 35.04 GW, accounting for 24.5% of total installed capacity, a year-on-year structure and regional structure of coal-fired power. We took precedence The construction of the Zangmu Hydropower Staincrease of 3.5%. September tion, the first large hydropower station developed to construct large-capacity, high-parameter and high-efficiency coal-fired 2010 and constructed by Huaneng, officially started along power units in our coal electricity bases and load center and developed the Yarlung Zangbo River. power generating project with low-heating-value coal in regions with Hydropower 12 facilities 4,165 MW Thermal Power 8 facilities 2,990 MW suitable conditions. We currently develop low-calorific value coal-fired The No.6 Unit of Xiaowan Hydropower Station power generation projects in areas with suitable conditions and develop September went into production, marking China’s hydropower co-generation of heat and power projects with priorities in order to imWind Power 736 facilities 1,262 MW Photovoltaic Power 18 projects 520 MW 2010 installed capacity exceeded 200GW. prove the quality and benefits of coal-fired power development. In 2013, eight coal-fired power units with a total capacity of 2,990MW Production of Power Projects in 2013 Hydropower May 2009 The No.5 Unit of Jinghong Hydropower Station went into production, which became the fastest were put into production. By then, Huaneng had 13 1000MW-class units, ranking first in China. constructed 1000MW-class power station in China We continued to put great effort into preliminary work of our hydropower projects and promoted hydropower development and construction in Yunnan, Co-generation of heat and power and 300MW supercritical and ultra-suand abroad. Sichuan, Tibet, and Xinjiang. We have completed the compilation of the Three-year Rolling Plan of Hydropower Development during the Twelfth Fivepercritical pure condensing coal electricity units occupied 71.1% of our year Plan, and accelerated our hydropower projects in the upstream of Lantsang River in Tibet. coal electricity installed capacity, and coal-fired power units of 600MW The Qiaoqi Longtou Reservoir Hydropower Staand above accounted for 47.37% of our total installed capacity. Development Plan: We were in charge of the related demonstraProjects under Construction: Construction of the Zangmu Hydropower Station December tion along the Baoxing River went into production, tion and planning work for power stations in the downstream of marking the successful achievement of Huaneng’s progressed according to the plan. 2006 cascade rolling development mode. The proportion of Coal-fired powthe Ya River. Earlier Stage of Project: The Miaowei, Lidi, Lalashan, Jueba, and Projects Put into Operation: In 2013, 12 hydropower facilities with a total installed capacity of 4.165GW were put into production; the Nuozhadu and er units of 600MW and above in the total thermal power installed 47.37% Yarang projects had a total capacity of 2410MW and were apcapacity Longkaikou projects both realized putting four new units into production every The first unit of the Manwan Hydropower Station proved in 2013. The Gushui 1.8GW project received permit. year, and their total installed hydropower capacity reached18.350GM. June 1993 went into production, which became the first large The number of 1000MWThe proportion of 1000MWhydropower station along the Lantsang River. class ultra-supercritical units class ultra-supercritical units Nuozhadu Hydropower Station Became the Largest Station of the Company The construction of Taipingyi Hydropower StaHuaneng 13 in China 1/3 On October 10, 2013, the water level in the reservoir of Nuozhadu Hydropower Station reached a normal pool level of 812 meters, marking that as tion began, marking the beginning of hydropower July 1991 China’s No.1 and the world’s No.3 core rock-filled dam, it met all necessary conditions for regular operation. On December 22, the No.3 unit, which development in the drainage basin of five rivers in Wind Power had an installed capacity of 4.55GW, was put into production and became the largest power station operated by the Group Company at that time. Sichuan. We tracked national planning formulation adjustments of large wind power The Nuozhadu Hydropower Station is the fifth power station under the project of the “two reservoirs and eight hydropower stations” at the midbases, and adhered to the combination of concentrated and decentralized and downstream of the Lantsang River. It has a total installed capacity of 5.85 GW and the dam is 261.5 meters high, the highest dam in Asia development, the combination of offshore and onshore power, as well as and the third highest dam in the world. The reservoir’s total capacity is 23.703 billion m3, which makes it the largest hydropower station along the the combination of wind power and photovoltaic power. We made efforts to Lantsang River, equivalent to the Three Gorges Hydropower Station in size. develop efficient wind power projects through enhancing the development of low-wind-speed, distributed and offshore wind power projects in areas with no limitation on electricity in Eastern and Central China, and the construction of wind farms in the high-wind-speed area in the three Norths (for northwest China, north China, and northeast China). In 2013, 763 fans went into production, with installed capacity of 1.262 GW, occupying 14.1% of the production capacity for the year, a year-onyear increase of 14.8%; 2.74GW wind power project was approved, and the 2.57GW wind power project was included in the third batch of national approved programs; Wind power projects in Dafeng of Jiangsu province, Wulanyiligeng and Tongjiang Wind Power Plant in Heilongjiang Chifeng of Inner Mongolia were approved. The project in Dafeng was our first offshore wind power project. Nuozhadu Hydropower Station 2013 Sustainability Report 30 / 31 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Nuclear Power Strengthening Industrial Collaboration We have constantly strengthened strategy management of the nuclear power industry. According to China’s Medium-and Long-term Development Plan on Nuclear Power and national laws and regulations on nuclear security, we must formulate a development strategy for our nuclear power business, Stably Advancing the Development of Coal Resources strengthen the construction of our management and control capacity, and advance our project development, construction, and management in an orWe continued to follow a benefits-centered strategy and make use of synergies in the coal industry. We firmly derly way. Coal production capacity advanced our professional management of the coal industry through further optimizing our development layout, Our Nuclear Power Business department has fulfilled its professional management We remained committed to advancing the construction of demonstration project for high temperature We carried out preliminary work on nuclear power projects in 2013 and grasping development pace by adopting scientific methods and integrating internal resources. Centering on 84.64 constructing an outward transporting passage for electricity and coal, we developed high-quality coal resources, million tons/year obligations and has established a managegas-cooled reactor nuclear power. We have intensipromoted the preliminary preparaprioritized the construction of large coal bases and coordinated the local utilization and outward transportation ment framework that covers 14 first-level fied our approach to the management and control of tion of the expansion project of Shiof coal. We have improved our resource utilization rate and guarantee self-supply power and coal. Coal output management fields, 44 second-level management fields, and over 90 third-level management fields in accordance with all relnuclear power, the cultivation of talent and the cultural construction of nuclear safety and implemented stringent controls on security, quality, progress, and daowan pressurized water reactor, as well as the preliminary work on nuclear power projects in Liaoning In 2013, the Yuwang Well No.2, the Liuxiang Coal Mine, and the Dongping Coal Mine received permit, and the Linglu Coal Mine went into trial production. Coal preparation plants at the Liuxiang and Qinggangping coal 71.56 million tons evant standards of the International Atomic investments. In 2013, the demonstration project for and Fujian. We also protected remines went into trial operation. Our coal production capacity reached 84.64 million tons/year and our annual Energy Agency and national requirements high temperature gas-cooled reactor nuclear power sources at our factory sites. output was 71.56 million tons. on quality and environment. went well. Developing Shale Gas, Coalbed The Schedule of High Temperature Gas-cooled Reactor (HTGR) Demonstration Project of Shidaowan Nuclear Power Plant in 2013 Coal production capacity (million tons/year) Methane, and Coal Gasification Coal output( million tons) March 17 August 12 December 31 We have advanced the development and construction of shale gas, coalThe first layer of Module B of shield Module C of shield 84.64 bed methane, and coal gas projects, and continued to acquire high-quality concrete pouring cooling water system 78.17 in the cabin of vapor cooling water system in 68.17 71.56 coalbed resources. We have made positive progress in the development of was completed 64.12 68.59 generator of Reactor the cabin of vapor gen64.06 shale gas. 1 and 2 have been 47.72 erator of Reactor 1 and 48.86 installed 44.08 We obtained a controlling stake of the Shale Gas Project in the Dongkuai 2 have been installed District of Chongqing Youyang and completed geological surveys and part of the reconnaissance; We promoted preliminary work of shale gas in Qujing of Yunan province and April 15-16 August 21 explored the feasibility of the extraction of coalbed Methane and power genMarch 6 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 eration in southwestern Chongqing and eastern Yunnan; National Nuclear Safety The installation and First batch of Administration checked accurate adjustment of The Zhundong Coal Gasification Project obtained “permit” for its prelimiequipment arthe nuclear security of the the manhole of vapor naries from NDRC. rived at the site construction management generator of Reactor 1 of the demonstraand the implementation of and 2 were completed tion project quality assurance outline. Solar Power Rich solar energy is an inexhaustible and green source of energy. The central government is providing great support to the development of the 100MW Photovoltaic Power Project Connected to the Grid photovoltaic industry. We took this opportunity to accelerate our develOn December 31, 2013, the first 100MW EPC photovoltaic power opment project in Xinjiang, Yunnan, Qinghai, and Ningxia where there project in China – the Huaneng Gonghe 100MW photovoltaic power is rich exploitable solar power. We have achieved a good development project was connected to the grid and put into commercial operamomentum with a complete project development process of examination tion. The project was located at the Photovoltaic Power Park of and approval, construction and putting into operation. Gonghe County in the eastern part of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau at In 2013, our photovoltaic projects capacity was 400MW. Eighteen photoan elevation of 3050 m. The project was under construction since voltaic projects went into operation with an installed capacity of 520MW. September 15 and was expected that the annual on-grid power volCoal outward transport corridor of Huating Coal Industry New large centralized photovoltaic power stations with a total installed ume would hit 157,000MWh. capacity of 600MW were also built in Gonghe, Zhongwei, and Xichang, 2013 Sustainability Report 32 / 33 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Developing the Transportation Industry Giving Play to the Supporting Role of the Science and The expansion project went Shipping Capacity of HoldTechnology Industry into production with an installed We accelerated the construction of logistic system integrating coal, highways, harbors, and transportation secing Shipping Companies tors. Taking the utilization of professional management as the principle line, we intensified unified and coordiWe made the production and management of main business and industrialization as the direct, independent capacity of 5.78 million kW nated management, integrated resources in the industry, promoted the development of our logistics system, optimized real-time allocations and transportation and expanded our interregional supply of coal by direct land 1.75 million deadweight ton innovation as source, and key projects as the support, and seized the opportunity of industry structural asjustment to accelerate the shift of development mode and strengthen scientific and technological industry. 5.78 GW transportation. The above methods have helped us promote internal industrial collaboration. We focused on the seven major fields of electric power and environmental protection, energy saving, water In 2013, 18 seaborn coal electricity plants in The Taicang and Haimen ports went into operation; We purchased 51% equity in saving, smart power generation, new materials, new technology of gas turbine, and new energy, and conThe internal volume of coal coastal areas achieved unified allocation and the Caofeidian coal wharf was under construction; and the Cambodian Sang River accounted for tinued to increase our investment in science and technology in order to strengthen technical support for our transportation; Phase II project of the Qingdao Dongjiakou wharf was Grade II Hydropower Station 52% main businesses and make significant achievements in scientific research; 51% approved; Ruitong Shipping carried out consecutive The Thermal Power Research Institute and the Xi’an Clean Energy Research Institute accelerated achievevoyages of imported coal, completing a quanThe shipping capacity of our holding shipping compaof the total volume of the ment transformation and industrial development and boosted the promotion of advanced technology and the tity of shipment of 11.34 million tons, a yearnies reached 1.75 million deadweight ton, and internal seaborn coal application of results, leading to sales revenue increase of 50.5% year on year. on-year increase of 26.5%; coal transport volume accounted for 52% of total volume of the seaborn coal. Promoting International Development We planned the markets and resources both at home and abroad holistically and issued Instructions on ImprovThe Wharf at Taicang Port Officially Opened ing the Management System of International Operations. In 2013 our international operations progressed in the following ways: On December 28, the Huaneng Taicang Port The expansion project of the No.5 Unit of Tuas Hydropower Station along River San in Camwharf officially opened and put into trial operaEnergy of Phase I project in Tembusu of Singabodia, which was approved by both the Camtion. We have planned to construct a double-F pore went into production, making the overseas bodian and Chinese governments; interior basin loading and unloading berth and a controlled installed capacity reach 5.78GW; supporting storage yard with a handling capacThe construction of Mexico gas power station ity of 45 million ton. The first stage of the Phase We purchased 51% equity of the Grade II I project went into production and consisted of progressed in an orderly manner. two 150,000-ton coal unloading berths with hydraulic structures, four 5,000-ton loading berths inside the wharf, and three rear coal yards. The total stockpiling capacity was 0.8 million ton. The Taicang Port wharf is located at the estuary of Yangtze River, enjoying obvious regional advantages, and possesses characteristics of good channel conditions, high-grade berths, complete functional facilities, and flexible systematic scheduling. Once put into full operation, it will provide coal from sea to river for our power plants and will become one of the important bases for the transfer, storage, selection and mixing of coal from sea to river. Staffs of Singapore Tuas Energy Co., Ltd is checking the operation of equipment Optimizing Capital Structural Layout Ministry of Electric Power of Myanmar Sent Letter of Thanks to Shweli Hydropower Station for Safe and Stable Power Supply. In the summer of 2013, Myanmar was confronted with droughts and power shortages. The Shweli Hydropower Station took an active role in adWe gave full play to the functional service and performance supporting of financial industry. We sticked to prudent operation and emphasized the injusting its operational model and coordinating with the Chinese power grid to supply more than 70% of its power to Myanmar. This helped the tegration of industry and finance to establish a standard and effective financial holding operation system and risk prevention system. We continued to country overcome significant difficulties, and the Ministry of Electric Power sent a thank-you letter to the Lantsang River Company expressing strengthen the functionality of our financial platform, enhanced our operational performance and expanded our business scope to provide support to its thanks for its good management and long-term safe and stable power supply. ensure capital supply and cost reductions. The Shweli Hydropower Station is the largest Chinese hydropower BOT project in Myanmar, and the second largest hydropower station under In 2013, our assets under management in the The capital company promoted the integration of reThe New Energy Company comoperation in the country. It is regarded as “the Three Gorges Project of Myanmar”. It is an elite project and has a good reputation within state financial industry exceeded 500 billion Yuan, sources and the integration of industry and finance, pleted the first allotment of Hleadship and the Ministry of Electric Power of Myanmar. It was considered as a “model project” of Sino-Myanmar cooperation. This project won a new record for our company, and our marand expanded its business platform to provide finanshares, financing HKD 1.577 billion; the 2012 silver prize for National High-quality Project (Overseas Project). ket share in the trust market increased sharpcial services such as credit and trust to subsidiary the transfer of Bto A-shares for ly with management assets ranking 12th in companies; the finance company also established 3.5 Southeast Electric Power liquidized After connecting to the grid, the Shweli Hydropower project provided efficient power and strengthened the stability of the power supply. Power the industry, and the scale of our business billion Yuan of low-interest credit funds for regional all remaining assets and resulted shortages were reduced and the grid interruption rate decreased by 50%. This positive contribution to economic development in Myanmar has exceeding 90 billion Yuan; companies; in a stock appreciation of RMB 557 fostered harmonious development among local enterprises. million. 2013 Sustainability Report 36 / 37 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Perfecting Management System Number of excellent resource-conserving and environmental-friendly enterprises Tapping into Energy Conserving Potential Adhering to the concept of green development, we continued to strengthen the management of energy conservation and emission reduction, deeply promoted the construction of an energy29 Fine Management Number of units above 300MW that meet We have made great progress in creating excellence in energy consumption indexes through further promoting fine saving and environment-friendly enterprise and carried out activities that helped create excellent Year-on-year decrease of the standards of resource conversation management of energy conservation and consumption reduction, continuing to carry out standardization governance performance in energy-consumption indexes. Through clean development, efficient development specific coal consumption and environmental protection of small indexes, promoting the application of advanced energy conserving and cost reducing technologies, and im3.63 and low-carbon development, we struggled to improve our clean production, gradually decrease 189 plement comprehensive upgrading and transformation of coal-fired power plant and contract energy management. the pollutants and greenhouse gas emission per unit generating capacity to realize the resource g/kWh conservation and environment protection in the utilization of traditional energy. The specific coal consumption of our 81 power plants decreased year on year, with 28 plants decreasing by more than 5g/ Year-on-year decrease of station kWh year on year. service power consumption rate Strengthening Management of Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction 0.24 The power consumption rate of 69 power plants decreased year on year and 23 plants decreased by more than 0.3 percentage year on year. We implemented national policies on energy conservation and carried reduction and carried out target responsibility management of energy conservapercentage tion and emissions reduction. Energy conservation and environment protection became an important part in our performance appraisal management, In 2013, we were honored as “the Top 10 Contributors to Energy Conservation China” at the 4th Releasing Ceremony for the and the “one-vote veto” system was adopted for major energy conservation and environmental protection goals. The performance in energy conservaPromotion of Energy-Conservation China and received an “Excellent Enterprise in Emission Reduction in the Third Term of Oftion and environment protection was one of the factors considered in the assessment of the company’s gross payroll. fice” from the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council. In 2013, we compiled a technological upgrading project plan on energy conserWe organized personnel to compile the Collections of ExperiManaging Energy Conservation Energy-saving Diagnosis Upgrading and Transformation vation and implementary plan on comprehensive upgrading and transforming ence, Measures, and Cases on Energy Conservation and project during the last three years of the 12th Five-Year Plan. We also formulated Consumption Reduction of Coal-fired Power Generalting We have carried out the benchmarking of our energy conRelying on Xi’an Thermal Power Research Institute, we The comprehensive upgrade and transformation and issued the Implementation Plan on Comprehensively Upgrading and TransUnits to provide positive lessons and guidance on systematic sumption indexes and small indexes. We have formulated conducted an energy-saving diagnosis for units that were of 54 projects and 80 units passed the review an energy conservation and consumption reduction plan newly put into operation, whose energy consumption rate organized by the National Energy Administration. forming Coal-fired Power Plant and Energy Conservation and Replacement to energy conservation and emission reduction throughout the for our coal-fired units and assigned appraisal indexes for exceeded standard, and whose energy consumption rate The assessed amount of energy saving would be provide the basis for deepening energy conservation and consumption reduction; company. annual energy consumption. We focused on improving the rebound to substandard level. In total, we have completed around 1.75 million tons of standard coal. Plans energy consumption indexes of our 1000MW-class units and on-site diagnosis of 21 units totaling 10,970 MW throughfor 16 projects and 19 units were transmitted to Building the Company into a Resource-saving and Environmental-Friendly Enterprise units below 135 MW and provided special guide of energy conservation and consumption reduction for our 45 grassout the year. The energy-saving measures are expected to decrease coal consumption by 0.6g/kWh and reduce the lower levels and an estimated 513,000 tons of standard coal would be saved. To further build the company into a resource-saving and environmentally friendly enterprise, we implemented the “Plan on Building up an Excellent Resourceroots power plants. station service power consumption rate by 0.03 percent. Saving and Environmentally Friendly Enterprise during the 12th Five-year Plan and further solidified our achievements by promoting experiences, enhancing different guidance to different categories of enterprises, and intensifying our examination process so as to guarantee the quality of building up an excellent Specific Coal consumption (g/kWh) Station Service power Consumption rate (%) resource-saving and environmentally friendly enterprise . We strengthened supervision and examination on key indexes and The energy consumption indexes of 189 units above 300 MW capac327.70 5.61 launched dynamic examination and process check for power plants ity reached the standards set for an excellent resource-saving and 322.72 5.22 318.68 316.52 5.08 with poor performance in some indexes so as to supervise and urge environmental-friendly enterprise, with rate of reaching the standard 4.83 312.89 4.59 them to implement relevant work; In 2013, 12 coal-fired power plants exceeding 90%, and the coal consumption rate of 113 of the 189 passed the quality acceptance of an excellent resource-saving and units exceeded the standard set for an excellent resource-saving and environmental-friendly enterprise; environmental-friendly enterprise by 2g/ kWh . 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Environmental Assessment System impact assessment and “simultaneous design, simultaneous construction and simultaneous operation of environmental protection We attached importance to the improvement of our internal audit system of facilities” with the project construction to discuss solutions to environassessment reports on environmental protection and water conservation, Shantou Power Plant Made Great Achievements in Energy-saving and Transformation mental problems. Approval documents for the environmental assessand strengthened our training on matters needing attention concerning ment of the Projects in Huiliuhe, Yantai, and Luoyuan were obtained; In 2013, the Shantou Power Plant completed the effect-raising transformation of the opening cylinders of turbines in unit No. 3. related policies, laws and regulations, as well as project examining and The economic performance of the unit increased by 1.2 percent, saving approximately 10,000 tons of coal throughout the year. approving. As for the environmental protection in the construction projects, A number of projects, including the Chaohu Project Phase II and the By expanding the cooling area of the condenser, the Transforming the high-frequency electricity source we made efforts in troubleshooting, checking, rectifying and reforming the Zhengning Project, were under review in the environmental impact company would save 3,300 tons of standard coal anfor the cottrell, the company saves 1,320 tons of problems and promoting environmental protection measures. assessment, and construction projects; The Gongguoqiao Construcnually; standard coal annually; tion Project entered the check and acceptance phase in the environIn 2013, we held a coordination meeting to synchronize environmental The combination of induced fans and booster fans and By transforming the integral sealing and denitration mental impact assessment. the transformation of the circular flue at the outlet of system for the air pre-heater, smoke-exhaust loss The reservoir area of the Kanjie River of Nuozhadu Hydropower Station the new fan would help decrease the flue resistance by could be reduced, and approximately 1,650 tons of around 1,200 Pa and decrease electricity consumption standard coal could be saved annually. of the fun by about 0.15 percent; 2013 Sustainability Report 38 / 39 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Waste Treatment Water Conservation Management We advocated a development model of “resourceWater is an essential resource in industrial and agricultural production and people’s lives. Water consumption at our thermal power plants accounts for a sigSlag and ash utilization rate (%) product-waste-renewable resources” and comprenificant portion of our overall industrial water consumption. Thus, reducing the water consumption in power generation will be helpful for the reduction of fresh hensively utilized such wastes as fly ash, slag and 78.14 water consumption. We deepened our water conservation management and took multiple efficient measures to conserve water to the maximum. 77.08 FGD Gypsum by adopting methods including fly ash 76.34 separation, grinding and processing new-type building 74.15 In areas short of fresh water resources and in coastal re(kg/kWh) materials with gypsum to reduce waste emission, real70.24 gions, we construct air cooling power plants and facilities Water Consumption per Unit Power Generation ize closed circulation of the substances in coal-fired for sea water desalination to reduce the consumption of power plants and boost highly efficient utilization of fresh water; 1.34 1.30 resources. In 2013, our comprehensive utilization rate 1.28 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 In terms of production, we adopted a series of comprehenof slag and ash reached 78.14 percent. 1.25 sive water-saving technologies, including sewage treat1.22 ment, reuse of reclaimed water, dry slag removal, pneumatic ash conveying and closed circulation, to help reduce our consumption of fresh water and achieve zero sewage discharge. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Recycling Waste Materials through Comprehensive Utilization In 2013, the Changchun Thermal Power Plant generated 180,000 tons of fly ash and 20,000 tons of gypsum, all of which were sold to local enterprises, achieving a 100 percent comprehensive utilization rate of wastes. During the feasibility study of desulfurization transformation, Saving Water and Increasing the Sources to Reduce Consumption of Fresh Water the Fuzhou Power Plant signed agreements with enterprises to use FGD gypsum to produce new-type building materials, so as to improve the utilization rate of desulfurized byproducts. Reutilization of Wastewater The Yuhuan Power Plant came up with Utilization of Urban Reclaimed Water Unit 9 and Unit 10 at the a new technology roadmap to reutilize wastewater throughout its Huangtai Power Plant are demonstration projects for Jinan’s production management, marking the completion of the new indusClear Water and Blue Sky Program. The project adopts adtrial research in reutilizing acid-alkali wastewater in thermal power vanced treatment of the reclaimed water and makes use of 6 plant. The corresponding technical transformation project, the commillion tons of urban reclaimed water annually. It is the largest prehensive utilization of regenerating wastewater of ion-exchange project to utilize reclaimed water in Shandong province. In in the power plant, would create a new method to reuse acid-alkali 2013, the project was awarded National Award for High-quality wasterwatert in thermal power plant. Projects 20122013. Standardized Emission Fume Treatment We enforced national fume emission standards in thermal power plants, continued to strengthen the operation Year-on-year decrease of management of our environmentally protective facilities for desulfurization, denitration, and dedusting, and consulfur dioxide in 2013 stantly renovated our environmentally protective facilities to improve the reliability and operational efficiency of equipment and boost standardized emission. Strengthening Management We have Unprecedented Intensive TransStrict Supervision We 18.75% formulated new technological routes for formation We have conducted a constructed a real-time Year-on-year decrease of de-dusting improvement and established feasibility study and preliminary monitoring platform for nitrogen oxides management standards for denitration inspection of more than 50 transour desulfurization and facilities. We further regulated transformation standards for environmentally protecformation projects, on-site supervision and handling of the transfordenitration units during the second phase 24.72% tive facilities, conducted strict verification, mation projects at 11 of our power of the project, and the and carried out trainings on denitration plants, and quality spot check of flue gas bypass of desYear-on-year decrease of technologies and seminars on managing the denitration transformation at ulfurization in forty-two dust emission denitration catalyst within the Group Com32 power plants and 43 units to 20.248GW units were pany to further solidify our management approach. guarantee that the projects met our goals and requirements. dismantled. 18.75% Unit 3 of Dongfang Power Plant 2013 Sustainability Report 40 / 41 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Carbon Assets Management Zangmu Hydropower Station Implements Measures to Strengthening Awareness of Energy We attached great importance to the management of carbon assets, and established a carbon asset company to uniProtect Ecological Environment on the Plateau Conservation and Environmental Protection formly develop, manage, and exchange carbon assets. We also released the Administrative (Trial) Measures on Reducing Emission of Greenhouse Gases, which outlined how we could reduce greenhouse gases emission and manage The Zangmu Hydropower Station, located in Jiacha County carbon asset in an orderly way in the future. of Shannan, Tibet, has an installed capacity of 510 MW. It is The Company has continued to publicize the concept of environmental the first hydropower station built on the main stream of the protection through cultivating the consciousness of energy conservation In 2013, we collectively developed the first 26 trial projects of voluntary emission reduction of carbon exchange and Yarlung Zangbo River. Since its construction began in 2007, and emission reduction among the staff, advocating building green office examined total carbon of 10 power plants in five pilot municipalities of Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai, Chongqing, and Shengreat importance has been attached to ecological protection, environment and low-carbon lifestyle, and actively arranging our staff to zhen and two pilot provinces of Guangdong and Hubei. The Yangliuqing Thermal Power Plant sold 10,000 tons of the with 320 million Yuan invested to protect local ecological enparticipate in public environmental welfare activities to create a healthy carbon emission allowance in Tianjin and the Shidongkou First Power Plant bought 4,000 tons of carbon emission alvironment. atmosphere of protecting the environment collaboratively. lowance in Shanghai in 2014. The Company strengthened the management of power Protecting Biological Diversity We investigated the fish districonservation of electric equipments, strictly controlled the bution, hydrology, and the climate along the Yarlung Zangbo temperature of air conditioners, and promoted energy-saving River at the Lhasa-Nyingchi Section. We invested 150 milWhat is carbon asset? lamps. lion Yuan in the Phase I of the project along with the fishway Carbon assets refer to all tangible or intangible assets that are reflected or hiden in an object with the property of value and can be stored, project. We also constructed fish artificial propagation and The Company strengthened water resource management, circulated, and transformed into wealth in the field of the low-carbon economy. They cover current and future assets, including CDM assets releasing to release 100,000 fish annually. used water-saving devices, and recycled reclaimed water and any added value generated from the implementation of low-carbon strategies on an annual or monthly basis. as supporting resources of production and for greening, and Controlling water and soil loss We implemented protective landscapes. engineering at our slag dumps, collected and deposited What is carbon trade? spoiled surface soil from our construction areas, and cultivate The Company strictly regulated the use of official vehicles, temporary plants to prevent surface soil loss. We made use Carbon trade is a market mechanism that is adopted approved the purchase of official vehicles of each units acof the slag dump in accordance with the principle of blockingto promote reduction in global greenhouse gas emiscording to automobile emission, and controlled the fuel coning first and then deserting. We took measures to block the sion and global CO 2 emission. It is based on the sumption of each vehicle. soil and intercept the water and made sure the waste slag principle that under a contract, one party purchases transported to the designated slag dumps. the greenhouse gas emission allowance from the The Company saved office consumables, purchased other party to fulfill its obligations to reduce emissions, office supplies according to demands, advocated printGreening construction areas We implemented ecological which are calculated by the volume of CO2 per ton. ing on both sides of paper and fully utilized electronic recovery and greening measures, including planting cedar and alp poplars in our construction areas. In total, the viresnetwork system to transfer documents. cence area reached 10,929 m2, with 3,204 arbors and 11,317 bushes planted. The Company sharply streamlined meetings and gave priority to the mode of video session. Protecting the Ecological Environment The artificial propagation and releasing of fish at Nuozhadu Hydropower Station We proactively implemented ecological environmental protection through an organic combination of the construction of projects with the protection of the ecological environment. We made great efforts to protect the biological diversity in the our development of hydropower. We strengthened our protection of rare animals and plants, transplanted the rare plants in the reservoir, set up rescue stations and refuges to protect animals, and carried out fishartificial propagation and releasing in the Lantsang River. In 2013, 2.15 million fishes native in Lantsang River were released into the reservoir above Nuozhadu Hydropower Station; We planted trees and grass to protect improperly excavated lands and occupied areas in open pit coal mines to reclaim the mining areas. In 2013, the Weijiamao Coal-fired Power Company used 40.6216 million m3 of spoil as basement of reclamation to complete vegetation restoration across 3.72 hectares of the mining areas; We also strengthened the control of soil and water loss and vegetation recovery. We adjusted measures to local conditions to protect the local environment through protecting forest and supporting sanitary sewage treatment systems. 2013 Sustainability Report 44 / 45 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Enhancing Management Improvements The Company has carried out management enhancement activities, in which we have pinpointed 20 key areas that can be improved, and established specific plans for them. We have also pressed ahead with management diagCombined profits nosis among grassroots units, and completed our tasks at the stages of management enhancement activities. In 2013, our company was named an “Outstanding Work Unit” in the SASAC Management Enhancement Activities. 23.619 billion Yuan Reducing Losses and Increasing Profits We address challenges that arise from market changes and weak power consumption growth, strive to reduce EVA losses and increase profits, and take it as the key step to enhance our profitability. We have made work plans which focus on increasing the parent company’s net profits and providing solutions for big deficit runners, and intensified our efforts in this work. Our Group has set up eight steering groups to strengthen its supervision and 10.475 guidance of this work and promote the implementation of various working measures. billion Yuan Dalian Power Plant In 2013, we achieved a substantial rise in our profitability, and made great improvements in our profit structure. Our combined profit and economic value added (EVA) reached 23.619 billion and 10.475 billion respectively, hitting an all-time high. The net profit of parent company came to the highest point in recent years. Our assetBudget Management liability ratio was 82.51% in 2013, down 1.25% over the previous year, and our coal-fired and wind-power comWe have further improved the comprehensive budget management system with the financial budgets as the panies decreased their year-on-year losses by 6.58% and 9.81% respectively. In particular, 19 of our grassroots core, and given full play to its driving role in optimizing the allocation of resources, supporting business and companies were successfully turned profitable. management decisions, and improving the quality of development and benefits. More Innovative Budgeting Method To define the guideline values for major budget indicators, take reducing losses and increasing profits as a key part and incorporate it into budget management, and give a full considFurther strengthening the organization and leadership, and enriching leading bodies and Strong oreration to the anticipated benefits of new projects in the business budgets to make budgeting more scientific ganizational supervisory work force to ensure the smooth development in reducing losses and increasing 3 Strongs and prospective. guarantee profits. More Rigorous Management, Control and Implementation To prepare the analysis report on budget performance and economic operation briefings, make regular summaries of budget performance, and strengthen Strong Elaborating the working measures, clearing its objectives and tasks, making them decomonline business management; to make time predictions by analysis, implement the system of making ten-day working posed and carried out layer by layer, and strengthening its tracking and monitoring to ensure measures report on business budget; to strengthen the management and control of funding budget, and regularly track to make steady progress in reducing losses and increasing profits. and monitor the projects to ensure the well implementation of budget. Re d u c i ng L o ss e s Strong internal coStrengthening the coordination between power, coal, finance, transportation and other industries, optimizing the allocation of funds, resources and other business elements to help those Risk Management ordination troubled enterprises turn profitable and maximize the overall benefits of the Group. We continue to strengthen our risk management, strictly enforce the internal control system and standard, and promote the standardized construction of internal control system. We also work hard to transand increasing profit form our risk management methods and enhance our capability of coping with all risks while performSetting up eight steering groups, making tens of investigations and supervision in grassroots ing risk management procedures in all links of management and in the full process of business. Effective Number of audits in 2013 supervision to help them solve actual problems, and establishing a special business group in Hong Kong In 2013, we held a conference to promote risk management and internal control, analyzed its situation, and and support company to make greater efforts in turning the losses of overseas assets into profits. made arrangements in five key areas to deeply drive risk management work forward. We printed and issued The Group Guidelines for Internal Control Assessment, urged all business units to 1,114 Power companies work hard to get power quotas and tradable power permits; coal companies prepare and submit internal control manuals, created classified standard for internal control assessment, and take the initiative to go out and expand the markets; finance and trade companies make greater Effective im3 Effectives carried out on-site internal control assessment and training. Post-evaluation of investplementation efforts in marketing; coal-fired power plants strengthen the centralized management in the proment projects 6 curement of coal, optimize the coal supplying structure, lower cost, and enhance profitability. We strengthened asset management, intensified its auditing and supervision, and formulated the Management Measures on the System of Accountability for Asset Losses and the Management Measures on PostAll work units of Huaneng have worked to carry out each industrial synergy policy, given an evaluation of Fixed Assets Investment Project (Trial). In 2013, we completed 1,114 audits and conducted six Effective impetus to mutual cooperation and synergy among industries, maximized the use of internal post-evaluation of investment projects, which has provided the evidence to improve our investment decisions resource coal and shipping capacity, achieved optimal resource allocation, and enhanced the overall and project management. allocation profitability.. 2013 Sustainability Report 46 / 47 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Performance Assessment Huaneng has improved its three-tier marketing and manOur utilization hours of coal-fired power were on agement system. All of industrial, regional, and grassroots the top in 20 areas, including Jiangsu and the We continue to improve our performance management system which takes budgeting as its core, the benchmarking as its mainline, and companies have strengthened their dynamic tracking of eastern part of Inner Mongolia. Our power structhe responsibility system as the vehicle, and links performance with compensation, and give full play to its guarantee role in completing our power output, utilization hours, and the status of generature has been further optimized so much that the tion units, and made every effort to implement measures utilization hours of 600 MW or higher generation all tasks and enhancing our value creativity. Coal-fired Power and improve the utilization hours of generation units. units are 95 hours higher than that of those bePerfecting Indicators Incorporating the return on equity (ROE) into perforEvaluating through the Linkage Replacing the achievement rate of low 60 MW. mance evaluation in the process of designing key indicators, and paying general profit target with the growth rate of general profit to highlight more attention to enhancing parent company’s ability to gain profit and the linkage relations between the increase of benefits and the perforThe companies in the Lantsang River regions and Sichuan 69.885 billion kWh of power was generated in preserve and increase the value of state-owned assets. mance payment. province have played a leading role in optimizing the grad2013, a 15.098 billion kWh increase from the ed deployment of waters. In full consideration of the market previous year. demands, water feeds and other factors, these companies Adjusting the Difficulty Incorporating EVA and ROE into operation Liquidating the Performance Successfully completing the tasks for Hydropower have been able to measure power generation capacity in difficulty coefficient to make overall planning, and leading all business These companies achieved a total power output 2012 and the third-term assessment and liquidation work assigned by real time, strengthened their multilateral communication of 69.885 billion KWh, a year-on-year increase of units to focus on their capability of creating value and preserving and the SASAC, and receiving a double-A enterprise award for outstandand coordination and increased the capacity of generation 15.098 billion KWh. increasing the value of state-owned assets. ing business performance and the outstanding enterprise award for units in these waters. excellent performance in energy conservation. We have strengthened wind power marketing and manageActively Expanding Markets ment. We have also avoided much wind curtailment, and effectively increased the utilization rate of wind turbines by We achieved a total power output of 16.895 billion KWh in 2013, up 27.67% over the previous improving benchmarking, and participating in various proyear, reduced wind curtailment rate by 4.48%, Electricity Market jects like sending surplus wind power from northeast grid to and increased power output by 870 million kWh. Wind Power the grid in the northern part of China, exchanging coal-fired power with windpower or new energy at Yimin, and providIn response to the negative effects caused by the slow growth rate of installed capacity and the readjustment ing a direct power supply to key accounts and others. of regional distribution and structure, we have worked hard to expand power market, strived for the maximum Power output in China power supply plan, and participated in the trades in alternative energy markets in connection with the supplydemand situation in the power markets and the fluctuations in the fuel markets. We have also exerted ourselves 639.7 billion kWh Coal Market to generate more electricity, earnestly implemented the national electricity price policy, and made close coordination with power grid companies for better control over the tariff recovery. As of 2013, we generated a total of The company has strengthened the research and trend analysis of coal markets, made proactive and timely Sales income 639.7 billion KWh in China, an increase of 7.02% over the previous year, and maintained 100% in the recovery adjustment in coal procurement policy, and maintained good relationships with large coal enterprises to consoliAnnual quantity by contract of electricity bills. Power output (in billion kWh) Sales income (in billion Yuan) 293.3 date the fuel supply in main channels. We persist in multi-channel procurement, give full play to the edges of centralized procurement platform for imported and seaborne coal, and expand the scope of unified coal supply to total thermal coal consumption billion Yuan and distribution to control the cost of coal procurement. 649.3 268.2 279.8 293.3 In 2013, the large coal enterprises played a bigger role in the fuel supply of main channels, with their annual contract amount accounting for 52% in the total consumption of thermal coal. We imported 46.18 million tons 52% 604.6 608.7 of coal throughout the year, hitting another historical high. 537.6 228 177.7 The calorific value differ420.1 36.65 million tons of coal was supplied by our own internal suppliers, achieving the power coal self-supply ence lowered by rate of 13.7% and the synergy rate of 51.2%. The foreign sales and the volume of coal trades were increased 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 by 16.4% and 11.9% over the previous year. We conduct strict management in the quantity and quality inspection of coal as received and coal as fired, 16 kcal/kg and make great effort to carry out the activity of “Creating Model Power Plant in Fuel Management”. In 2013, we decreased the caloric value difference by 16 calories/kg, saving the fuel cost of nearly 400 million Yuan. Fuel Companies’ Adjustment and Optimization of the Coal Supply Structure Fuel companies have proactively adapted themselves to the reform situation of power coal marketization, and reached an annual market-based ordering plan with their mining partners to effectively avoid risks associated with market fluctuations. According to the changes in the coal markets, our company adjusts the coal supply structure timely, and purchases coal by competitive price, so as to shorten the price gap between the imported and the domestic coal, and between the internally procured and market-based coal. In 2013, we saw a drastic year-on-year increase of 28% in the total amount of imported coal, whose price per ton was decreased by 22 Yuan on average over the price in domestic coal markets, saving the cost of 825 million Yuan. We also adopted and promoted “One Ticket Through” operating mode in the self-supply of power coal, by which we supplied a total amount of 8.04 million tons of coal, and efUnit Control Room in Pingliang Power Plant fectively stabilized the price in the coal market. 2013 Sustainability Report 48 / 49 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Fund Management Informatization System Construction We press ahead with the innovation in the financial management and control methods, strengthen the cenWe have prepared Planning on Information System and Planning on the Application of Information System to steadily improve the construction of our Total amount of financing tralized financial and fund management, and steadily promote the experiments of centralized financial maninformation systems, including the systems for the integrated asset and finance, human resources, financial management, e-commerce, and online funds in 2013 agement in regions. In connection with the working goals of “assuring quality, controlling price, and reducing legal work. cost” and the working ideas of “three increases and two controls”, we persist in taking the credit as the core, the bonds as the supplement, and the diversified financial products as the complement, make innovation in 290.3 Covering more than 85% of coal-fired and hydropower units with over 30,000 users by unified ERP Completed the basic environmental survey on temporary disaster recovery and backup center financing methods, and replace the previous high-interest loan to ensure fund supply and reduce its cost. billion Yuan Promoted the preparation of permanent disaster system recovery and backup center in an orderly way Percentage of non-credit Controlling Financing Cost Our company financed 290.3 billion Yuan in 2013, of which the non-credit fifinancing Construction of Construction Construction of Disnancing accounts for 34% and bond financing 34%, resulting in a significant decrease in financing cost; Making Innovation in Financing Modes We made innovation in the distribution of discount financing bonds 45% Construction of ERP System Centralized Data Center Construction of Mobile Office of Application System aster Recovery and Backup Center for the first time, in which we issued RMB bonds in Hong Kong through the shareholding companies, the unsecured dollar bonds outside China through the Hong Kong company, and the private placement bonds Defined the technical framework and conFormulated the management rules for mobile Improved data platform for the realthrough Lantsang River Company; struction plan for related platform of data application to standardize the process of its time monitoring of pollutant emission center construction, development and application Prepared and transformed office auMeeting Fund Demands We raise and gather funds by various means to meet the fund demands of key Sorted out 2,983 indicators of business Designed over 60 material management settomation system (OAS) projects. We successfully kept running the fiancial equity fiancing of 1.8 billion Yuan for Hetaoyu Project. demand tings and developed 20 of them Deployed the basic environment for Besides, the International Power Company also refinanced USD 1.822 billion, which has not only imSet up management tools for indicators, Completed the development and training of the Cloud platform proved our debt structure, but also reduced our financial costs. models, and data teleconferencing system Determined the main data framework Developed six functional modules and Promoted the development of mobile electric and analyzed business demands Materials Management nearly 800 basic indicators appliance work ticket system for power plant and functional modules We have deepened the reform in our materials management system, promoted the application of material coding, intensified our efforts in the allocation of materials and expanded the scope of centralized procurement to further reduce the cost of procurement. Making Greater Efforts to Combat Corruption and Uphold Integrity Basic Management We prepared more than ten rules and regulaPlatform Building We built a platform for unified material coding manPromoting Ethical Party and Governmental Responsibility tions including Rules for Material Coding, Data Management Proceagement, and completed the standard coding of materials for coalImplementation of Carrying out the prevention and Carrying out the construction dures for Material Coding, and set up a material bidding committee fired and hydro power plants, wind farms and coal mines. By now, 91 concrete measures control of corruption risks of anti-corruption culture and work groups. grassroots companies have adopted the coding system. All industrial/regional companies and grassroots Spread the prevention and control of Printed and issued The Guidelines for the ConBid Invitation We completed the tenders of two sets of 1 million kWh Resource Allocation By allocating four idle pipelines, which are 242 enterprises have anti-corruption leading groups; corruption risks to all major business struction of Anti-corruption Culture Battlefield; main units for Tongchuang Power Plant, and the auxiliary units for meters in total length, for the projects in Yinchun and Laiwu, we effecareas, business matters and key links; the power plants in Xining, Luntai, and Laiwu, and the mainframe tively activated the idle assets. We also started to count all idle cables The members of the Company’s system signed Conducted Anti-Corruption Educational Activiand auxiliary wind power generating units for wind farms in Dingbian, to lay foundation for the allocation of idle materials in the future. 3,686 copies of the Letter of Responsibility for Establish and earnestly implement a ties for leaders of grassroots enterprises; Jingbian, and Yemaoshan. improving the Party’s style and building a clean regular evaluation mechanism for the Conducted the education activities of vocational enterprise. The leaders at all levels made a comInfrastructure Construction Management mitment to be incorruptible and self-discipline; prevention and control of corruption risks in connection with the actual ethics by means of “One Book One Film”; condition of enterprises. Organized 1,970 anti-corruption educational Adhering to the management philosophy of “infrastructure serves proCost Management Tightening up the bidding and tenders, intensifyMade a thorough inspection on the implementation events with a total of 105,000 participants. duction and the production serves business”, we have strengthened our ing our efforts in cost management and control, doing a good job in of responsibility system among all business units. full-process management throughout the project design, construction, the approval, and assessment of budgets to lower construction costs testing, and acceptance to build the first-class project. in a reasonable way and make the construction cost of our generatEfficiency Inspection Potential losses avoided ing units come to advanced level, lower than that of the other units in by EI Design Management Taking strict measures at the stage of design, terms of time, model, and locality. In 2013, we conducted efficiency inspection (EI) in the management of bid invitation, fuel, and collective decisionbenchmarking with typical design, carrying out technological innovation and optimizing the design to bring our generating units in line with the first-class energy-saving targets and the national highest Quality Management Establishing a sound quality management system adopting high-efficient quality management mechanism, and promaking system, overhaul and technical reform, and the management of waste and used materials. During the inspection, we inspected 284 projects, developed 932 rules and systems, avoided the potential losses of 73.6 million, 73.6 million Yuan recovered the economic losses of 7.7 million Yuan, saved 198 million Yuan, and achieved an additional economic Saved the capital emissions standards. moting the refined management in the construction to ensure the high benefit of 70.37 million Yuan. We also made 2,070 inspections on offshore assets, engineering projects, business 198 quality of the engineering, and put new units into the safe, steady, cars, appointment and recruitment and others, found and corrected 304 problems, which has effectively ensured and high-efficient operation. the healthy development of our enterprises. million Yuan 2013 Sustainability Report 52 / 53 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Three-level Technological Innovation System Industrial/Regional The Group Grassroots Enterprises Companies Set up a leading group as the highest decision-making body Clear the responsibility of the Set up a grassroots enfor scientific and technological work; corresponding managers and terprise production tech the responsible technical departassurance system led by Set up the Environmental Technology Department (the Ofments; the Director for Production/ fice of Leading Group) to coordinate and manage technoChief Engineer; logical innovation; Optimize the technical management organizations of industrial/ Improve the mechanism for Set up an expert committee and techical expert panel as a regional companies, and their employee’s innovation in consultative body for implementation of technological innoinstitutions and functions. their jobs. vation strategy and projects. Xi’an Thermal Power Research Institute is making a breakthrough Implementing Technological Innovation Strategy Cultivating Technology Talented Personnel We attach great importance to scientific and technological personnel high-level talents introduction programs such as the “Thousand Talents We firmly implement our technological innovation strategy and exert great eftraining, and identify, cultivate, create and gather all kinds of talents in the Program”. Taking Huaneng Talent Innovation and Entrepreneurial Base forts to promote the construction of new businesses. Adhering to the principles practice. We have cooperated with the well-known universities at home as the basis, and its major technological projects as the carrier, we will of “Three Serves, Three Towards, and Three Missions”, we have streamlined and abroad to build training platforms and cultivate sci-tech personnel for cultivate a large number of young and middle-aged high-level talents for and improved the three-level technological innovation system to provide emerging industries. We will continue to implement the Medium and Long technological innovation, management and industrialization, and create technical support for our faster transformation and upgrading and our better Term Talent Cultivation Plan (2012 – 2020) and promote the national a number of world-class management teams specialized in scientific and quality and benefits. In 2013, we achieved positive progress. We continued technological development and industrialization. to implement the Medium and Long Term Development Plan for Science and Technology, the Plan for Major Scientific and Technological Projects during the Twelfth Five-Year Plan, and the Plan for Implementing Technological InOur Technical Teams novation Strategy to Build a World-Class Enterprise, revised the Regulations on Technological Work and other rules and regulations, and pushed forward 8 high-level overseas technical the construction of technological innovation platform and the research of major 1 academician talents in the Thousand Talents Program scientific and technological projects. Our company was listed as one of model central enterprises in building technological innovation system by the SASAC. 35 experts who have outstanding contributions and 2,874 people who are active enjoy the special allowance in scientific and technological awarded by the governactivities ment “Thousand Talents Program” Going Well at Huaneng We firmly implement the national “Thousand Talent Program”, and exert ourselves to bring in high-level overseas talents. We also improve the environment and platforms for the talents to make innovation, give full play to the leading role of high-level talents, and strive to create a virtuous cycle featured with a sound mechanism, rational hierarchical structure and effective innovation. In 2013, we selected one specialist from the Thousand Talents Program, bringing the total to eight. Two of our R&D projects were accepted. Besides, we have launched eight new projects on solar energy, green coal power system simulation, shale gas CO2 fracturing, ultra-supercritical high temperature materials, methanation catalysts, dinitrification technology, whose total contract value comes to 47 million Yuan. 2013 Sustainability Report 54 / 55 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Strengthening the Construction of R&D Platforms Renewable Energy Green Coal Power Achieving progress in the research of wave Based on Tianjin IGCC Demonstration Power Station, We steadily promote the construction of our research bases, R&D centres, national-level R&D platforms, and a number of laboratories, and increaspower generation technology; three key projects in the National 863 Program passed ingly improve our technological innovation and R&D system. All of these have laid a solid foundation for the transformation and industrialization of our acceptance; scientific and technological achievements. The Fresnel Solar Thermal Power Generation Project passed acceptance; The research and demonstration project of IGCC-based Building Research Bases Building Labs Building Research Platforms CO2 collection, utilization, and sequestration passed Propelling the construction of Shidaowan national mid-term inspection; high-temperature gas-cooled reactor demonThe construction of Huaneng Talent InnovaHaving completed the construction of the National Consolidating the function of Xi’an stration project. The detailed design of CO 2 capturing device is tion and Entrepreneurial Base is coming to Key Laboratory for Coal-based Clean Energy; Thermal Power Research Institute and completed and its demonstration device is under an end, and some of R&D teams will enter Huaneng Clean Energy Research InAchievements in construction. Finalizing the design of the Green Coal Power Labothe Base; stitute in building R&D platforms; the key scientific ratory, which is about to start construction; research fields Xi’an Yanliang Testing and Industrial Base Establishing wind power and hydraulic Having made construction plans for 22 company-level power R&D Center. Clean and Efficient Use of Coal Pollution Control & Emissions Reduction started construction. laboratories. Completing the design and preliminary work of testing Developed China’s first flus gas CO2 capturing device platform for key components of 700℃ ultra-supercritical coalwith capacity of 1,000 tons/year, which has successfully fired power generation; passed the test of 3,000-hour non-stop operation; Lantsang River Company: Pushing forward the construction of R&D platform in an orderly way The key technology and the application project of 300MW-class CFB boiler optimized combustion and SNCR high-efficient combined denMade breakthroughs in the development of CO2 absorLantsang River Company has made positive progress in scientific In addition, we pushed ahead with its construction of three of the itrification technology passed technical appraisal and the technology bents, which are used in the CO2 capturing devices in and technological innovation by implementing the Group’s technoGroup’s key laboratories for project safety monitoring technology, is now being widely used; Beijing and Shanghai, saving more energy; logical innovation strategy, fulfilling the main responsibility of hydrohighly efficient use of hydro-energy technology, and the basins’ The research results of oxidized synergetic mercury removal technolSCR dinitrification catalyst performance testing laborapower technology innovation, and strengthening the construction of environmental protection technology, and was approved to set up ogy for coal-fired power plants are applied to the engineering project tory passed acceptance; technological research and development platform. a post-doctoral research workstation. in China for the first time; Key R&D in the wet ESP industry was successful and The Supercritical Circulating Fluidized Bed Project passed its acceptIn 2013, we took efforts to push forward the construction of the demonstrated on 0.3 million kW units of three power ance test; National Sub-center for High-Efficient Use of Hydro-Energy and plants (Shidongkou 1st Plant and plats in Western Inner Research of Dam Safety, and defined the organizational structures Starting the Research and application of 60℃ ultra-supercritical Mongolia and Huangtai). and personnel arrangements for its three labs (Basin geological double reheat unit; disaster monitoring and forecasting lab, project safety assessment The study of modification and dewatering of lignite for urban water and monitoring lab, and optimization and dispatching lab) and three source deodorization and purification passed acceptance. bases (ecological protection and demonstration base, integrated basin management and research demonstration base, project quality monitoring demonstration base). China’s First Gas-fired CO2 Capturing Device Going into Operation Promoting Key Technology Projects In 2013, our 1,000 tons/year gas-fired CO2 capturing device, the first of its kind in China, was commissioned for 3,000 hours of non-stop operation at Centring on the core power industry, our company takes the initiative to impleProprietary patents Authorized patents (copy) the Beijing Miyun Testing Base. The project passed the technical appraisal ment the major R&D projects at the national/provincial/ministry level, attaches 96 of the Chinese Society of Electrical Engineering (CSEE). All of major technigreat importance to the R&D of core technology and steadily promotes the con83 cal indicators met the advanced international standard, and its environmenstruction of demonstration projects. In 2013, we set up 26 major technological tal indicator came up to the highest air emissions standards in North Europe, projects at the Group level and 120 research projects in industrial companies, 45 which indicates that China has mastered key gas CO2 capturing technology and made a number of important scientific and technological achievements in 29 28 for gas-fired power plants. many fields such as renewable energy, green coal-fired power, dust cleaning and 22 greenhouse gas emission reduction, and the clean and efficient use of coal. Gas-fired CO2 capturing device 2011 2012 2013 2013 Sustainability Report 56 / 57 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Spreading and Applying Scientific Achievements Our company has developed the Implementation Measures on Accelerating the Development of Technology Industry, and introduced the policy and measures on supporting the promotion and application of scientific achievements to promote their transformation into real productivity. Xi’an Thermal Power Research Institute and Huaneng Clean Energy Research Institute give full play to their technical edges, strengthen the promotion and application of advanced technological achievements, and provide a full range of technical support and services in the industry as well as in the Group network. In 2013, we won 20 provincial or ministerial-level prizes for technological achievement and obtained 83 patents with 29 invention patents. The sales of Xi’an Thermal Power Research Institute and Huaneng Clean Energy Research Institute grew by 50.5% over the previous year. A Showcase of Technological Awards SN Project Award Level Research on the Properties of Key Materials in 600℃ Ultra 1 First Prize -Supercritical Boiler and its Engineering Application A thorough Solution to SSR Problem in Shangdu Power Plant Integrated Research and Application on Improving the PerforOn 26 September, the test of SSR SEDC and GTSDC Integrated 500 KV System, which was jointly developed by Shangdu Power Plant 2 Second Prize mance of Coal-fired Power Plant Steam Turbines and the other technology providers, was successful at Shangdu Power Plant of Huaneng’s Northern Company, The generator terminal subsynchronous damping controller (GTSDC)was a major scientific Development of 250MW IGCC System Control Technology and 3 Second Prize project of Huaneng Northern Company, Shangdu Power Plant and other related units. They its Engineering Application took three years’ efforts to tackle this technology, which has provided a thorough solution Study on Safe Operation of 300m Arch Dam Impoundment and National Energy Award for Techto the restricted output caused by SSR in Shangdu Power Plant, and an effective solution 4 Second Prize Its Engineering Application nological Progress to SSR in China’s AC series compensated transmission system and DC transmission systems. When this project is implemented, it will produce an annual increase of 2 billion kWh. Development of The Intelligent Cooling Water Purifier for Gen5 Third Prize erators and its Application Development of the Bituminous Coal Combustion System for Technology Exchanges and Cooperation 6 Lean Coal Boiler Burning Expansion and Its Engineering ApThird Prize plication By cooperating and exchanging with universiFormulation and Application of the Technical Specifications 7 and Testing Methodologies of Powdered Ion Exchange Resins Third Prize ties and research institutes, and participating for Water Treatment in the construction of various associations Leading the establishment of CCUS Industrial Technology and standard committees, we have formed 8 China’s First Independent Invention of the FCS165 Fieldbus Second Prize an open technological cooperation mechaInnovation and Strategy Alliance Control System and Its Engineering Demonstration nism that combines production, learning and In recent years, our company has actively organized research teams to make breakthroughs research. in carbon capturing technology, and built a number of demonstration projects in Beijing, The Group-level Remote Controlled Centralized Simulator for 9 Second Prize Shanghai and Tianjin, which has led us to enjoy the leading position in the research and apThermal Power Plants In 2013, we prepared and established CCUS plication of CCUS technology among domestic enterprises. (Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage) Study on Treatment of Erosion-damaged Overcurrent Parts in China Electric Power Science 10 Third Prize Industrial Technology Innovation and Strategy On 6 November, the Conference on the Establishment of CCUS Industrial Technology InnoWet FGD Systems and its Engineering Application and Technology Award Alliance; vation and Strategy Alliance was held in Beijing, and Huaneng was elected as one of its four Development of Oxidized Mercury Removal Technology for In strengthening cooperation with key universidirectors. 11 Third Prize Coal Power Plants and its Engineering Application ties, we signed a Framework Agreement on InAs the Alliance is established, it will strongly promote CCUS technology innovation and its tegrating Innovation and Cooperation with ProDevelopment and Application of Key Technology of Desalinatdemonstration projects in China, and exert its efforts to create technology innovation and co12 Third Prize duction, Learning and Research with Zhejiang ing Solvents for Coal-fired Power Plants operation organization featured with “joint development, complementary advantages, benefit University, and financed some R&D projects sharing and risk sharing”. It will also enhance the overall technical level in CCUS, and give Research in Preventing Large Amounts of Oxidized Coatings in the universities like Tsinghua University and Shaanxi Science and Technolfull play to its important role in ensuring energy conservation and coping with climate change 13 from Peeling Off and Piling from Sides of Boiler Steam Pipes: Third Prize ogy Award North China Electric Power University. Operational Controls in our country. 2013 Sustainability Report 60 / 61 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Promoting Employee Development Career Development We have established a career development platform and clear diverse Employees' Rights and Interests career development channels to help our staff realize their value. Multi-channel Development Mechanism for Talents In 2013, we formulated and issued the Management Methods to SeAbiding by the Labor Contract Law and the relevant regulations, we signed labor contract with our employees, paid them social insurance, strengthlect Senior Professional and Technical Talents and the Management ened the management of labor using and salaries and welfares, respected human rights, and protected their privacy. As a result, no labor dispute Management Job promotions Methods to Select Senior Skilled Talents to help build a three-tier arose in 2013. By the end of 2013, we had employed 137,779 employees. talent selection mechanism based on the characteristics of the techPersonnel Job promotions niques and skills of the talents; We started to put the educational training scheme into practice, nurture international talents, adjust the overhaul management system of Chief experts Tech specialists of the group power enterprises, and improve the research project on the controlTechnical of industrial/reling mechanism of the labor employment. We also built up our enterTech leaders of grassgional companies Personnel roots enterprises prise leadership through temporary post, exchanges, and training; We strove to improve the comprehensive examination and evaluation methods of our leadership and carried out “Lianghua” evaluation of our leadership. Employees of industrial/regional companies were seChief mechanics Skilled specialists of the group Skilled Talents lected based on the guideline of “One Report Two Evaluations” and a of industrial/regional companies pilot program to train executives was implemented; Skill leaders of grassroots enterprises We added a new post training class for newly appointed plant leadEmployee Training ers and a new leadership promotion class for young leaders to the Huaneng Party School, which is used to train executive leadership. We implemented the strategy of developing the enterprise by talent management. We struggled to improve the comprehensive quality of In 2013, 482 leaders and executives received training and 42 execuour staff through special training, workshops for technology, exchanges and discussions, study of key subjects, coalition of school and entives practiced in temporary and second posts. terprise, and skill competitions, all of which helped provide talents for our company to promote sound and fast development. In 2013 we carried out training sessions for 109 skill competitions were organized by industrial/ 210,200 people, among which 2,181 were from regional companies, and more than 6,200 employees In Search for “The Most Beautiful Frontline Workers” National technical experts the Huaneng Group Company; took part in the competitions; Our workers, as the constructers of beautiful China, held fast to their duties and performed their responsibilities in mountains, on gobis, and plaAll the departments and subsidiaries of the Group conducted over 220 exchange activities of tech276 grassroots units held labor contests and 86,309 employees participated in the contests. They also 21 experts teaus. In 2013, we launched a campaign to search for “the Most Beautiful Frontline Workers”. We aimed to publicize the excellent workers working at grassroots, to disseminate their occupational morals of cherishing posts and devoting wholeheartedly to work, practicing skills diligently, struggling to innovate, and the spirit of utter devotion, and to carry forward their bold struggling spirit of dreaming, chasing dream, and realizing nical innovation and received more than 13,900 held 1,236 skill competitions and over 49,000 employdream. 36 workers and 10 teams were selected as our Most Beautiful Frontline Workers. suggestions from employee, yielding direct and ees participated in the competitions. indirect economic value of 448 million Yuan; Technical experts These workers served as exemplary models for all staff in Huaneng. They were expert not only in professional skills in our company and in their from central SOEs own duties but also in learning skills to pursuit self development. They were dedicated to going beyond the tasks associated with their jobs. They Employee Care had dreams and aspirations that propelled them to work harder and achieve more for both them and their grassroots level organization. Huaneng actively constructed a harmonious relationship with its employees, worked hard to protect their basic 47 experts rights and interests, respected their personality development, paid attention to their work and life balance, improved assistance system for needy staff, and raised their work and life happiness index. Technical experts in In 2013, financial and material support worthy of 17.75 ues for leisure activities and 269 reading rooms the power industry million Yuan was distributed to help 7,802 needy emfor our staff. In 2013, more than 1,800 cultural ployees. We paid visits to 310 enterprises and 9,683 needy employees and gave out funds and goods worthy of 9.36 million Yuan during the New Year’s Day and sports activities were held; We issued incentive policies for talented staff 50 experts working in remote regions such as Tibet, Xinand the Spring Festival; jiang, and Qinhai and set up a mechanism to We paid attention to the construction of cultural, support the development of enterprises in such sports, and recreational facilities and we had 495 venareas. 2013 Sustainability Report 62 / 63 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Join Hands with Partners to Achieve a Win-win Outcome Membership in Major Social Groups and Organizations Name of organizations Position Name of organizations Position Stakeholder Comments China Center for International Economic ExStanding Director China Association of Chief Financial Officers Standing Director changes Providing Quality Services National Association of Financial Market InstiStanding Director “Winters used to be the toughest season for us living in this United Nations Global Compact Member tutional Investors Ensuring Safe Power Supply We worked hard to provide our commucommunity before 2009, when each household in the community Association of the Electricity Supply Industry of East Member China Federation of Industrial Economics Standing Director Asia and the Western Pacific nity safe, clean, efficient, and reasonably priced electricity by proactively had poor heating supply. Temperature inside the houses was no Central Enterprises Party Building & Ideological Vice Chairman China Corporate Culture Institue Standing Director establishing good relationships with grid companies, following grid dehigher than 15℃ and sometimes as low as 7 or 8℃. The elder had and Political Work Seminar Vice DirectorChina Electric Power Equipment Management Vice Directorployment, and maintaining electricity market order. To ensure the secure to put on cotton-padded shoes and jackets and the children often China Electricity Council Association General General and stable operation of the grids, we positively coped with major natural caught a cold and had runny noses. But since Huaneng’s Dandong China Electric Power Employees Ideological & Vice Chairman Chinese Nuclear Society Standing Director disasters and extreme weather and spared no effort to guarantee proPolitical Work Seminar Power Plant started to provide central heating for our community, Vice DirectorChina Enterprise Confederation & China EnterChina Nuclear Energy Association duction safety. Director General winters become much easier for us. Room temperature reaches prise Directors Association China International Institute of Multinational over 18℃ and even over 20℃ during the New Year’s Day and the China Group Companies Association Vice Chairman Vice Chairman Ensuring Safe Thermal Supply Enterprises responsible for thermal Corporations supplies should guarantee stable and safe heat supply. They were reSpring Festival. It is said that commercial residential buildings with Vice DirectorVice DirectorChinese Society for Electrical Engineering Chinese Society for Hydroelectric Engineering General General quired to establish a 24-hour service hotline and emergence crew for heating supply by Huaneng in Donggang City are very popular.” China Power Supervision Standardization TechMember heat supply keeping on duty 24 hours in order to solve problems timely. ——Yu Zhong’en, citizen from Donggang City, Liaoning Province. nical Committee China Institute of Internal Audit Standing Director China Association of Work Safety Vice Chairman China Electric Power Construction AssociaVice Chairman tion China Association for the Promotion of Industrial Director Vice DirectorDevelopment China Information Industry Association General China Supervision Association Power Branch Vice Chairman World Association of Nuclear Operators First-class Mem(WANO) ber China Association of Resource Comprehensive Vice Chairman China Promotion Consortium for Special EquipUtilization Vice Chairman ment and Energy-Saving China Electric Power Equipment Management Vice Chairman Association Promoting Social Harmony Building Harmonious Enterprises We stuck to the principle of multi-cooperation and mutual benefit and win-win result. We held ourselves accountable to our clients, partners, and communities and were eager to give back to the society, share with stakeholders the achievements of our development, Hegang Power Plant and build harmonious partnerships with the goals of building a creditable Huaneng, a humanistic Huaneng, a responsible Huaneng, and a brand Huaneng. In 2013, as a key enterprise associated with SASAC’s efforts to carry out the implemenCreating a Responsible Industrial Building Strategic Cooperation tation outline of harmonious development in the Twelfth Five-Year Plan, we took steps Chain Platforms to implement our harmonious development strategy and made arrangements to build Yuhuan Power Plant holds popular science educational activdemonstration unit for harmonious enterprises. Eight grassroots enterprises have been ity for primary and middle school students We have always adhered to managing enterprise according to law We continued to improve our industrial/regional layout and expand our selected as demonstration unit of harmonious development, accumulating experience and honest operation. We improved our rules and regulations on cooperation channels. We improved our communication with local govand laying foundation for harmonious development of enterprises. purchasing management and promoted sunshine purchase to build a ernments and enterprises in the construction of our projects and busiresponsible industrial chain. We also explored centralized purchasness management. In 2013, we signed cooperation agreements with the Building the Huaneng Motuo Yarang Hydropower Station ing pattern and strengthened dynamic management of our suppliers provinces of Qinghai, Hainan, Inner Mongolia, Hunan, Fujian, Shaanxi, On December 25, the construction of Huaneng Yarang Hydropower StaSurrounded by high mountains, the electric power condepending on e-commerce platform. In our audition of suppliers, we Ningxia, Jiangxi, and Henan, and the enterprises of China National tion began in Motuo County, Tibet. The station would be the principle struction in Motuo County had been hindered by steep hill took in consideration not only the quality of their service and products Nuclear Corporation, China Southern Power Grid Company Limited, power supply in Motuo County, where people had no access to elecrock and inconvenient traffic. The county has been “isolated and their capacity to commit contracts, but also their efforts in envithe State Development & Investment Corporation, and TBEA Co.,Ltd to tricity. Its static investment was about 208 million Yuan, and would be in the dark”, where a fourth of population lived with no ronmental protection and labor protection. We proactively pushed our promote reciprocal collaboration and common development. installed with four 1.25MW units. The station was expected to be put into electricity. Once put into operation, the station would supsuppliers to perform social responsibility and achieved contract fulfilloperation at the end of 2015. ply power to 34,300 people. ment rate of 100 percent. 2013 Sustainability Report 64 / 65 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Supporting Public Welfare We persisted in the philosophy of “constructing a power station, stimulating the local economy, protecting the local The Longkaikou Hydropower Project found a way back to nurture New Village Donations environment, benefiting local people, and promoting complete harmony.” Our subsidiary companies took proper measSince its construction 6 years ago, the Longkaikou Hydropower Project has always held firmly to performing its social responsibility in its ures to assist Xinjiang, Tibet, and Qinhai and advance poverty alleviation and development, and, at the same time, carried out disaster relief and donation in support of public causes. 114.25 million Yuan diligent search for ways back to “nurture” China’s New Village Project. A total of 4.97 million yuan has been administered to support the construction of 3 Huaneng Hope Primary Schools, 5 rural infirmaries, 5 rural cultural rooms, 9 water drinking projects to meet the needs of In 2013, Huaneng invested 9.2 million Yuan to help 57.17 million Yuan was allocated to construct power people and animals, and 10 villiage renovation projects in such regions as Heqing, Lijiang Ancient Town, Yongsheng, and Yulong. In addibuild Biedieli Huanneng New Village and Jialangqi supply projects in areas of Xinjiang, Tibet, and Qingtion, the project supported 60 rural teachers to receive training outside town, 767 primary and middle school students to finish their studies, New City Primary School in Aheqi County of Xinjiang, hai, where people had no access to electricity; over 100 junior and senior high school students to continue their vocational education, 3200 workers to complete transitional job training, and Support in no-power areas one of the national frontier poverty alleviation pilot 17,000 villagers to participate in the New Rural Cooperative Medical System. All these figures signified how the Longkaikou Hydropower Pro4.3 million Yuan was allocated to support rural induscounties; We continued our assistance to Tibet. 9.6 million Yuan trial development and carry out public projects, including drinking water project, talent cultivation project, and 57.17 ject – a landmark project of Lantsang River Company’s cross-basin development strategy – performed its corporate social responsibility and secured its role in bridging social gaps with honor and compassion. The success of Longkaikou Hydropower Project in CSR development million Yuan embodied the spirit of harmonious development for enterprises. was invested to procure new gas turbine and overhaul new village building project, in Hengshan County and the units at the transitional power source station in Ali; Jingbian County, Shaanxi Province; The enterprise to its locality is fish to water, a Phoenix to Chinese parasol –both are always complementary to each other and depend on each other. The relationship between Hydropower Project Development and New Village Con4.4 million Yuan was allocated for the counterpart aid Huaneng took an active role in the “Central Enterprisstruction is like that. Only by parallel development of both sides can we give full paly to each other’s advantages of Jianzha County, Huangnan Prefecture, Qinghai es’ Goodness Program” and donated 1 million Yuan to and produce win-win outcomes. We should always keep in mind that our responsibility is not simply about giving but Province, to carry out six supporting projects, including the China Foundation for Disabled Persons in support about trying our best to improve their capacity to seek development. culture, education, healthcare, and talent training; of disability causes in China. ——A Longkaikou Hydropower Station Quote Sichuan Branch Company actively participated in earthquake relief in Lushan, Ya’an Volunteering Work When an 7.0-magnitude earthquake hit Lushan County of Ya’an City, Sichuan Province, in April 20, 2013, Sichuan Branch Company instantWe actively organized young volunteers’ service work. Our efforts have led Awards # ly started an emergency plan and sent people and materials to help with disaster relief, while carrying out self aid by production in the power to an increasing number of volunteers who helped build communities, protect station. the environment, and support students and the needy. In 2013, we carried out National May 1st Labor Award (paper) 3 more than a thousand volunteer activities involving over 60,000 volunteers. Sichuan Branch Company sent more than National May 1st Labor Merit (medal) 3 We established lecturer mission composed of lecturers with PhD to teach pri200 people to help with disaster relief and mary school students and hold fellowship activities in poverty-stricken areas; assist over 180 victims to move out of the National Workers Pioneer Cup 8 stricken area; The company also built over We organized a campaign of “Donating Old Calendars and Care for the 80 tents, flattened about 10,000 square Central Enterprise Outstanding Team 6 Blind Children”. In total, we collected about 30,000 old calendars and dometer of ground near Lushan Vocational nated them to more than 2,000 blind children; Central Enterprise Model Worker 9 School, and resettled nearly 2000 victims; We cooperated with Huailai County, Hebei province, and donated office Top Ten Institutional Contributors in the 4th EnergyThe company established disaster relief supplies, recreational and sports equipments, and items for daily use such Conservation China 1 teams to blow up fallen boulders on the as beds and bedcovers for three local primary schools; We also equipped Outstanding Energy-saving and Emission-reducing roads and restore the traffic capacity of the Enterprise in the SASAC 3rd Term of Office 1 two primary schools with computer-aided and multimedia-based classState Highway 318; rooms, and built the Huaneng Youth Forest; We were honored the Award Model Institution for Building Tech Innovation Systems in Central Enterprises 1 of Contributions to the Hope Project in Hebei Province. The company opened corporate communiGrade A in SASAC Informatization Assessment in cation facilities for more than 2,000 local 2012 1 We organized young volunteers to donate blood and serve for the commupeople to connect with their relatives and nities, charity houses, and nursing homes. SASAC Outstanding Organizer of Project Researches 1 friends outside Lushan; Outstanding Achievement in Researches of Ideologies Under the delegation of the Group Comand Politics in Central Enterprises 15 pany, the Sichuan Branch Company also Top 30 Competitors for Corporate Culture over the Past 35 Years of Opening-up and Reform 1 donated 8 million Yuan to assist self-aid and reconstruction in the earthquake-hit National Advanced Institution for Public Sports. 1 area. Yueyang Power Plant Staff as volunteers Jiaxiang Power Plant staff donating blood 66 / 67 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Prospect in 2014 Goals Measures Goals Measures ● Put production safety responsibility system into practice and establish and optimize a production safety responsibility system of one post with dual responsibilities, equal em● Make steady progress in raising quality and increasing profits, and further improve Safe phasis and co-administration of production and safety; Healthy ◆ To achieve 683 billion kWh of power generation; the assets and profitability structure; Development ◆ To prevent serious accidents; ● Make steady progress to establish the production safety management system and Development ◆ To achieve coal production of 71.5 million tons; ● Actively expand the market and try hard to increase power generation and profitable ◆ To prevent incidents that may exert negative meet production safety standardization; power traded in the market; impacts on the image of our Company. ● Carry out the Year of special programs to address safety problems, conduct rigorous ◆ To achieve operation revenue of 305 billion Yuan. ● Rigorously conduct fuel management and enhance the capacity of supply assurance team management, and strengthen responsibility enforcement and on-site control; and price control; ● Strengthen technology and equipment management and make the equipment more reliable; ● Exercise rigorous financial and debt control, prevent funding risks, and lower funding ● Reinforce safety management for coal, process controls, and monitoring and inspeccosts. tion, and raise the safety level of the coal mines. Goals Measures Goals Measures ◆ To further improve the management sys● Optimize layouts, build platforms, and improve the technology innovation management tem of technology innovation; ◆ To examine and approve power source system; Optimal project of 10GW; ● Expedite the adjustment of our power source structure, and exert greater efforts to develop low-carbon clean energy; Innovative ◆ To further strengthen the capability of sci● Advance the R&D and application of high and new tech and master core technologies; Development ◆ To examine and approve coal mining pro● Develop clean and efficient coal-fired power in an orderly manner; promote integrated Development entific research; ● Make steady progress in the construction of demonstration projects of nuclear and ject of 2.4 million tons/year; project the development of big pithead, port, road junction, and coal power; ◆ To steadily carry forward the construction clean coal power; ◆ To increase coal capacity of 4 million ● Actively adjust the industrial structure and give full play to industrial synergy. of demonstration project construction; ● Promote the development of tech industries that focus on energy conservation, emistons/year; sion reduction, on-site diagnosis, and smart technology. ◆ To further promote scientific and techno◆ To raise the portion of installed clean energy facilities to 27.5%. logical industrialization. Goals Measures Goals Measures ● Push forward the plan of building an energy-saving and environmental friendly ◆ To lower coal consumption for power supply ◆ To achieve common growth of both the Green to 311g/kWh, and ensure a leading position enterprises; Harmonious ● Strengthen team building, promote horizontal and vertical talent exchanges, and in terms of major energy consumption indica● Strengthen energy-saving management and technology transformation and inDevelopment enterprise and our employees; improve the lifelong training system of staff; Development tor in the industry; crease the proportion of power generated by clean and efficient units; ◆ To achieve mutual benefits and win-win ● Intensify regional cooperation and partnerships, and actively expand the scope ◆ To achieve the annual objectives defined ● Strengthen carbon asset management and promote the transition from single outcomes between the enterprise and of cooperation; in the Special Plan for Energy Conservation project to integrated operation development; partners; and Environmental Protection (2011-2015) ● Improve management and tighten supervision to ensure qualified emission of ● Conduct targeted poverty-alleviation, actively participate in programs for public and the Total Emission Control Plan of Sul◆ To achieve harmonious progress together fur Dioxide and Nitrogen Oxides in the 12th major pollutants. good, and reward the society. with the society. Five-year Plan. 68 / 69 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Indicator Index Implementation of the United Nations Global Compact Contents CASSCSR3.0 GRI(G4) Page Number The United Nations Global Compact requires companies to comply with, support and carry out a set of ten universally accepted principles in the aspects of human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption within. These principles are from Universal About this Report P1.1P1.5 3.13.12 Title page 1 Declaration of Human Rights, Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work by International Labor Organization, and Rio Declaration on Sustainable G1.1 4.84.9 Title page 2 Development Declaration on Environment and Development. Huaneng’s Sustainable Development Mode G1.1 4.8 Title page 3 Huaneng joined the United Nations Global Compact in November, 2007, becoming the first power generation company in China to Message from Company Leaders P3.1P3.2 1.11.2,4.4 p23 join the United Nation Global Compact. It actively performs the ten basic principles of the UN Gloal Compact through promoting safe Members of the Managedevelopment, optimal development, green development, healthy development, innovative development and harmonious development. ment Team P4 Stakeholders G5.1 4.164.17 P5 P5.2,S3.6S3.7,ELS3.8ELS3.11,ELE2.7ELE2.8, Key Performance ELE2.11,S1.5,M1.4M1.6, M2.9-M2.10, S1.8, P4.5, S2.12.1,EC9 p67 Ten Principles Page Number Implementation S2.2, S2.4, S2.22, S4.12, S4.14 Special Subject: Beautiful Respect and support the protection of Abide by laws and regulations at home and P5.1, S1.6, ELE2.11, ELE3.2, ELE3.3 EN16EN18, P1011 Huaneng in Action P6263 internationally proclaimed human rights abroad, support international conventions on Company Profile P4.1P4.2, P4.4 2.12.9,4.1 p14 Human Right human rights approval by the central government, Organization Structure P4.3 4.1 p15 p16 safeguard and respect human rights, and Strategy and Management Management System P4.7 4.4,4.6 Not complicit in human rights abuses P6263 Development Strategy 1.2 p16 guarantee employees’ legal rights and interest. P2.2P2.3, G1.1, G1.3G1.4, G2.1G2.5, G3.1, G4.1, Responsibility Management G5.1, G5.3G5.6, G6.1G6.4, M1.3 4.94.10,4.11,4.144.17 p1719 Uphold the freedom of association and P62 Improving SafetyManagement System S3.1S3.2 p2223 recognize Abide by the national laws and regulations on Consolidating Foundation for Safety ELS3.7 p2426 Eliminate all for ms of forced and labor issue, forbide the use of child labor, and Safe Development Strengthening Safety Management in Coal Mines p26 P62 compulsory labor Safety Education and Training S3.3S3.4 p27 oppose any forms of forced labor; adhere to Labor Alarm Bells and Reflection p27 equal and just labor policies and democratic Effective abolition of child labor Optimizing Power Supply Structure E2.5E2.6,ELE2.10, ELE2.11 p3032 P62 management, make public the affairs of Optimal Development Strengthening Industrial Collaboration p3335 enterprises, and respect the rights of labor. Promoting International Development p35 Eliminate discrimination in employment Perfecting Management System S4.1S4.2, E1.1, E1.4 EN30,EN1 p38 P62 and industry Tapping into Energy Conserving Potentia E2.1E2.2,E2.9E2.10 EN3EN7,EN8EN10 p3940 E2.7E2.8,E2.11E2.15, E2.18, ELE2.14ELE2.15, EN1,EN16Green Development Standardized Emissions ELE3.2ELE3.3, ELE3.5ELE3.6 EN18,EN20,EN22EN23 p4042 Take a precautionar y approach to P89/P3843 Continue to optimize industrial structure, environmental challenges Protecting the Ecological Environment E4.1E4.3, E4.5,ELE1.11 EC2 p4243 accelerate the elimination of outdated capacity Strengthening Awareness of Energy Conservation EN13EN15,EN26,EN11E1.6E1.8,E1.10E1.12 p43 and Environmental Protection EN12,EN25 Actively increase responsibilities on and develop various clean energies to cope Enhancing Management Improvements M1.4M1.6 p4648 Environment P3843 environmental protection with global climate change; Develop clean coal Actively Expanding Markets p4850 Healthy Development E n co u r a g e t h e d e ve l o p m e n t a n d power generation technology, establish energyInformatization Construction p51 promotion of environmental-friendly P8/P3843/P57 conserving and environmental-friendly coal-fired. Making greater efforts to combat corruption and S1.1S1.4 SO2,S03SO4 p51 uphold integrity technologies Implementing Technological Innovation Strategy M2.7 p5455 Continue to optimize industrial structure, Cultivating Technology Talented Personnel M2.9 p55 accelerate the elimination of outdated capacity Strengthening the Construction of R&D Platforms p56 Counter any forms of corruption, including Innovative Development and develop various clean energies to cope Promoting Key Technology Projects M2.10 p5657 Anti-corruption fraud, blackmail and offerring or accepting P1011/P16/P51 with global climate change; Develop clean coal Spreading and Applying Scientific Achievements M2.12 p5859 bribery Technology Exchanges and Cooperation 4.13 p59 power generation technology, establish energyHR3,HR7,LA1LA2,LA3conserving and environmental-friendly coal-fired. LA5,LA7Promoting Staff Development S2.1S2.4, S2.6, S2.9, S2.11,S2.22,S2.24S2.27,S2.29 LA8,LA14,4.5,4.7,EC5,EC7,LA9p6263 LA13,LA15 Harmonious Development Joining Hands with Partners to Achieve a Win-win Outcome P4.6, G3.2,M2.1, M3.1,M3.2M3.4, M3.7M3.9 4.13,EC6,PR5 p6465 Promoting Social Harmony S4.4, S4.9, S4.12S4.14 EC6,EC8,SO1,SO10 p6567 Prospect in 2014 A1 p6869 Indicator Index A3 p7071 Rating Report A2 p72 Feedback Questionnaire A4 p7374 70 / 71 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Rating Report on Sustainable Development Report of China Feedback Questionnaire Huaneng Group 2013 Upon the delegation of China Huaneng Group, Research Center for Corporate So“harmonious development”, among other aspects. An excellent degree of completecial Responsibility of Chinese Academy of Social Science selected experts from the ness has thus been observed. Chinese Expert Committee on CSR Report Rating to form China Huaneng Group Balance: （★★★★★） Your Personal Information Sustainability Report 2013 Rating Team. The rating team rated the China Huaneng Dear Readers, The Report contains negative information and data including “the number of general Sustainability Report 2013 (“Report”). equipment accidents”, “the number of human casualties”, “the number of first class This report is a Sustainability Report (2013) issued to the public by China Huaneng Group. We Name: I. Rating Basis faults”. It discloses in detail the cause of the accident in Mt. Bailong coal mine 1 in are looking forward to your advice and suggestions so that we can improve our reporting in Guidelines for China Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting (CASS-CSR 3.0), and September 1 and the measures taken to rectify the coal mine, and the process and Organization: the Standard for China Corporate Social Responsibility Reports Rating (2014). results of the “Safety Risk Identification and Rectification.” An outstanding balance the future. We would be grateful if you would answer the following questions and send this has thus been observed. questionnaire back to us in one of the following ways. Position: II. Rating Procedures Comparability: （★★★★★） 1. The Process Evaluation Group interviewed members of China Huaneng Group’s Fax: +86-10-63228866 Tel: social responsibility department. The Report contains historical data of 38 key performance indicators in 5 consecutive years and compares the installed capacity with that of its foreign counterparts Mail to: No. 6, Fuxingmennei Street, Xicheng District, Beijing (100031) Fax: 2. The Process Evaluation Group reviewed on site the documents involved in the compiling process of the Sustainable Development Report of China Huaneng Group and other facts. An excellent comparability has thus been observed. E-mail E-mail: and its subsidiary companies. Readability（★★★★★） 3. The Rating Group evaluated the management procedure of China Huaneng The Report is well written in a balanced structure, coherent in paragraphing, fluent in Group’s sustainable development report and the information disclosed in the Report. explication, and properly arranged with technical terms explained to make it easier management procedures and the information disclosed in the Report. for readers to understand, as well as a large variety of expressive forms, including images, tables, and flowcharts, to create an air of freshness and smoothness. An Readers Feedback Questionnaire on this Sustainability Report 4. This rating evaluation is based on the integrity and reliability of China Huaneng outstanding readability has thus been observed. Group. Innovativeness: （★★★★☆） Single Choice (Please mark your choice with “√”) III. Rating Results Yes Average No With special subject of “the Declaration of Sustainable Development” “Beautiful Process : （★★★★☆） Huaneng in Action”, and report outlook as the introductory part, the Report fully pre1) The Political Work Department of China Huaneng Group led the report compilasents the priorities, key practices, responsibility targets, and the next year’s improve1. Do you think this report reflects Huaneng’s significant impacts on safety, environment, economy and society? tion team, and the senior leaders were engaged in facilitating the compilation and ment measures of sustainable development in a well-arranged, focused, and goalexamining the report; 2) the team identified the stakeholders, listed them in order, oriented manner, helpful for the involved parties to comprehensively estimate the and conducted a survey on the suggestions from some stakeholders; 3) the team 2. Do you think this report makes an accurate and complete analysis of the relations between Huaneng and its stakeholders? realities and trends of China Huaneng Group’s sustainable development. An excellent identified the essential subjects based on major events, pertinent national policies, capability to advance has thus been observed. and industrial benchmark analysis; and 4) the team mapped out a report launching Overall rating: （★★★★★） 3. Do you think the information disclosed in this report is clear, accurate and complete? scheme and presented the Report in printed, electronic, and multilingual versions. An excellent manifestation of process has been observed. Upon evaluation by the Rating Group, China Huaneng Group’s Sustainable Development Report 2013 is awarded five stars and acknowledged as an outstanding CSR Substantiveness: （★★★★★） 4. Do you think this report is convenient for reading with respect to contents and design? report. The Report discloses in details the key issues in the power industry, including “power IV. Suggestions supply assurance”, “safe working environment”, “green power development”, “the environmental evaluation system for construction projects”, “resource and energy 1. 1. Strengthen the management of full life circles of reporting and boost stakesaving”, “development of circular economy”, “environmental control in and around holder engagement. the plants”. An outstanding substantiality has thus been observed. It showes a high The Rating Group Open Question degree of substantiveness. Head: Zhixuan Wang, Secretary General of China Electricity Council Completeness: （★★★★☆） Members: Peiyuan Guo, General Manager of SynTao Co.,Ltd 1. In your opinion, which part of this report is most satisfactory? The Report covers 84% of the core indicators in the power generation industry from Xiuli Wei, Associate Professor of the School of Economics and Management, the perspective of “strategy and management”, “safe development”, “optimized develNorth China University opment”, “green development”, “healthy development”, “innovative development”, and 2. What information that you need to know is not included in this report? Central Process Evaluators: Xiaojing Fang, Mengjuan Wang Peng Huagang Zhong Hongwu Wang Zhixuan 3. What’s your advice on our future sustainability reports? Chairman of Rating Panel Head of Rating Panel Director of the Rating Group Executive Vice Chairman of the ReMember of the Research Center for Member of Rating Panel search Center for Corporate Social Corporate Social Responsibility of Responsibility of Chinese Academy of Chinese Academy of Social Science Thank you for your support and cooperation. Social Science CHINA HUANENG GROUP
