CARES Social and Environmental Responsibility S’ENGAGE Responsabilité Sociale et Environnementale COMMITMENTS Corporate Social Responsibility FIELD OF LAVENDER, Valensole plateau GOVERNANCE 6/ & Business ethics 14 / & Sustainable ingredients THE ENVIRONMENT 20 / & Formulas 26 / & Packaging 30 / & Production 36 / & Transportation 40 / & Stores SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 44 / & Employees 50 / & Disability 54 / & Communities L’OCCITANE in figures +32% +20,7% Russia +5,9% United Kingdom +19,2% France +1,8% United States +33% Japan China +20,4% Hong Kong +11,2% Taiwan +3,3% Brazil GROWTH IN SALES BY REGION (REAL EXCHANGE RATES)*: * Growth posted on March 31, 2013 based on the 2012 fiscal year (April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012). • A presence in 90 countries •C onsolidated turnover : A FEW WORDS € 1,043.4 Million from the President • Growth of 14,2% •2 ,364 stores throughout the world The L’OCCITANE Group continues to grow, while remaining true to the original values of the L’OCCITANE brand – in particular authenticity and respect. Every year, •7 ,047 employees in our Group is enriched by its experiences, but also by its employees, who continue the L’OCCITANE Group to join us in increasing numbers. Passionate about their work, they are keen to contribute to the sustainable development of our company. •1 45 new company-owned With humility and determination, we continually strive to increase our sustainable stores (including the Melvita contribution to the community and to minimize the environmental impact of brand) our activities. Without making any compromises, and using relevant indicators, we regularly measure our social, societal and environmental impacts. 5 BRANDS This report presents our social and environmental responsibility activities for the fiscal year running from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013, under the L’OCCITANE brand name. I am delighted to share it with you. The ambition of our Group is to develop brands that are increasingly respectful of man and nature, and to carry the colours of these brands throughout the world. This report includes very clear illustrations of our commitments with regard to the L’OCCITANE brand and our French entities. We also wanted to present some of the initiatives undertaken by our distribution subsidiaries abroad, and by the Melvita brand. Reinold Geiger, Chairman and CEO of the L’OCCITANE Group. GOVERNANCE & Business ethics 42 L’OCCITANE AU BRÉSIL employees were given training in responsible purchasing practices in 2012 SPOTLIGHT ON AN INITIATIVE IN BRAZIL 94% On March 31, 2013, 94% of The aim of the L’OCCITANE AU BRÉSIL brand is to help preserve Brazilian cultural industrial purchases were from traditions by choosing suppliers who reflect its cultural values and by giving priority suppliers who had signed our to sustainable development and social integration. This philosophy applies to all Corporate Social Responsibility fields and can be seen in the design of environmentally friendly packaging and Charter – a social and accessories. Whenever possible, we use natural materials, limit the use of plastic, environmental responsibility and we are constantly on the lookout for new eco-friendly solutions. agreement for suppliers Guided by this philosophy and inspired by the Group's recommendations, the 3rd In early 2013, L’OCCITANE was L’OCCITANE AU BRÉSIL brand developed sustainable purchasing guidelines for ranked third in the French the teams in charge of the local development of accessories and packaging. These QualiWeb awards for excellence guidelines give advice on recommended materials, preferred production methods in online customer relations and techniques, and choosing suppliers. (out of 315 brands from the beauty sector). Laura Barros, L’OCCITANE AU BRÉSIL Brand Manager 6 MEMBERS OF THE CSR STEERING COMMITTEE (from left to right): Jean-François Gonidec (Manufacturing and Operational Excellence General Manager), Bénédicte Le Bris (Research and Development Managing Director), Emmanuel Osti (Managing Director of the L’OCCITANE Group), Katia Michieletto (CSR and Sustainable Development Manager), Domenico Trizio (Chief Operating Officer), Frédérique Chemaly (Group Human Resources Director), Nicolas Siriez (L’OCCITANE Brand Managing Director), Philippe De Brugière (Prospective Packaging and International Production Director), Mary Bonneaud (Head of Corporate Patronage for the Group). 2 Questions FOR KATIA MICHIELETTO What achievement in 2012 are you most proud of? The Group Purchasing Management team played an important role in putting together and implementing the Responsible Purchasing training. Their involvement shows all departments concerned just how much this matters for Senior Management, and the determination of the Group to place Social and Environmental responsibility at the heart of our Purchasing policy. What is your main objective for the year to come? Our ambition is to keep meeting our CSR performance indicators and to do this in ways that are increasingly relevant and clear. This measurement of our performance is a guarantee of the sincerity of our commitment – and the very foundation of our continuous improvement plan. Katia Michieletto, CSR and Sustainable Development Manager 7 GOVERNANCE & Business ethics members at the highest level of the Group's since 2012, we have published – on the United ACTIONS organization and oversees all parties that Nations website – the progress of actions have a role to play in implementing the Group's taken relating to the ten principles of the CSR objectives. Global Compact. This is also a way for us to Emmanuel Osti, Managing Director of the During the 2012-13 fiscal year, four CSR Steeexchange good practices with all the signatoL’OCCITANE Group, clearly expressed the ring Committee meetings were held, with one ries of the Global Compact. direction of the Group to all employees: To every three months. develop beauty brands that are increasingly respectful of Man and Nature. FORMALIZING L'OCCITANE is a founding The L’OCCITANE Group's CSR governance has OUR CSR COMMITMENTS member of a club called been shaped in such a way that the CSR policy, objectives and action plans are established at The Group's commitments to sustainable Génération Responsable the highest level of the organization, so that development have always been illustrathey can then be adapted at all levels. With a ted, first and foremost, by concrete actions focus on continuous improvement, they can throughout the entire organization, and have L’OCCITANE is keen to keep progressing be revised with the Group's General Mananaturally reflected the values that guide and in terms of its responsible practices and gement and communicated to our external drive us. More recently, we wanted to formato share ideas with other companies that stakeholders through the publication of a CSR lize these commitments by voluntarily signing are driven by the same cause. It is a founreport on our website. up to the United Nations Global Compact. ding member of a club called Génération The CSR Steering Committee is made up of We signed the Compact in October 2011 and, Responsable , whose members are mainly 8 Responsible Purchasing training, Manosque retail companies. L’OCCITANE is a signaparticularly beneficial to the French and Group asks each one to sign the Corporate tory of the CSR charter of this Club. This European economic fabric. Social Responsibility Charter before any means that it must report to a supervisory Many parties are involved in the Purchasing new commercial partnership. This charter committee, made up of members of the process, from defining needs to collaborahas been developed around the themes of association, to keep them informed of its ting with the approved supplier: Marketing, the UN Global Compact: compliance with ongoing progress in terms of meeting the Merchandising, Concept, Packaging Develabour, health & safety and environmencommitments of the charter. lopment, R&D, Purchasing, Planning, etc. In tal standards, and respect for business 2012, the Purchasing Management team, ethics. At the end of the 2012-13 fiscal year, RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING in collaboration with the CSR department, the results compiled showed that 94% of began a cycle of Responsible Purchasing expenses in the areas of sub-contracting, As a responsible player in the economy, in-house training sessions aimed at all parties packaging, raw materials and merchandithe L’OCCITANE Group has identified Purinvolved in this process. The aim of this traising were covered by the CSR Charter for chasing as a significant challenge and a ning was to ensure that all teams concerned suppliers. means to contributing to sustainable social were familiar with the relevant knowledge, For the past three years, L’OCCITANE has and economic development. L’OCCITANE tools, and the Group vision of Responsible been a partner of the Sustainable Sourcing is strongly anchored in the geographical Purchasing. By the end of the 2012 fiscal in the Network Environment chair, piloted roots –the territory – of the brand. year, 42 people had been given this training. by Kedge Business School (ex-Euromed This, combined with its strong growth, Management), alongside two other partners, makes it a true jewel in the crown of French With the aim of sharing its values and comSNCF and Sodexo, and three NGOs: Max industry, and its economic dynamism is mitments with its suppliers, the L’OCCITANE Havelaar, WWF and Extramuros. 9 GOVERNANCE & Business ethics Why this chair? And how? about the impact of our activities on the The aim of a research chair is to develop environment and on society in general. research and teaching in pre-defined We have identified the stakeholders who fields of management. The partners can have a significant impact on our activity involved wish to communicate and share but can also be affected by it, and whose their knowledge and experience with interests are at the heart of our concerns: a wider public: researchers, students, our employees, our customers and our companies. suppliers. By being actively involved in the work of the Sustainable Sourcing in the Network Involving our suppliers: With the aim of Environment research chair, L’OCCITANE making more responsible purchases and contributes to the collective debate on getting our suppliers on board to help us Official signing of 5-year contracts with our partner lavender Sustainable Purchasing and is also able meet our commitments, we ask them to growers to develop the skills of its own teams in sign the Corporate Social Responsibility this field. Charter. This ensures, in particular, that These social audits consist of ensuthey meet labour, health & safety and ring that working conditions are comDIALOGUE WITH OUR environmental standards. We also audit pliant with the SA8000 standard – our suppliers periodically, with a particua social responsibility standard for STAKEHOLDERS lar focus on social audits for suppliers in decent working conditions. Weareparticularlyattentivetoandconcerned more sensitive regions, such as China. They allow for discussions with suppliers 10 Signing of the Sustainable Sourcing in the Network Environment research chair about good practices to adopt, any L’OCCITANE works closely with women's Involving our customers: We encourage constraints they may have faced, stumcooperatives in Burkina Faso, providing our customers to adopt good practices bling blocks and areas for improvement. technical support in social, environmental and hope to get them involved in our The audits also provide a means to tracand economic areas, with the aim of devesustainable initiatives. The presence of king the progress of our suppliers. loping the equitable and fair partnership waste-sorting bins in stores reminds 88% of our active suppliers in Asia that began with the Fair Trade certification them of the green steps they should underwent a social audit by the end of of this production network by ECOCERT. be taking every day. Our customers are 2012. also able to get involved in fund-raising projects by purchasing our fund-raising Among our suppliers, we naturally It is extremely important products. This includes products where include our local producers who supply to us to build up all profits go to the women's cooperatives us with plants. We work with them win-win partnership in Burkina Faso. directly, particularly on the continuous improvement of the plant supply Our customers are at the heart of our chains. It is extremely important to us to Annual meetings with the people involved business and our main objective is to build up win-win partnerships by having in this industry offer an opportunity to satisfy their needs. We are regularly our producers join us in our sustainable bring together producers and coordinainformed of feedback via the Customer approach (quality, traceability, local purtors at L’OCCITANE, to take stock and Relations department, and this feedback chasing, fairness). report on progress, and to identify areas is used to help us constantly improve our For example, for the shea butter industry, for improvement. products and services. 11 GOVERNANCE & Business ethics Over 40,000 customers contacted us in to increase operational excellence, and to the CWE area in 2012 to ask questions or improve the quality of our responses. make complaints about the online store, the brand or our products. That's over 160 Our customers expect us to answer them phone calls and e-mails per day. With so within 24 hours, with a personalized, many people now using mobile phones friendly response that expresses the values and social networks, consumers can find of our brand. information, compare choices and give © Fotolia.com their opinion 24/7. This is what we do – and our efforts have been rewarded. L’OCCITANE has done They are increasingly demanding and want extremely well in the 2013 French QualiWeb an immediate, informed response to any awards, which give points for excellence in enquiry. We have adapted to this change online customer relations. This year, we in consumer behaviour and now we also were ranked 6th out of 315 brands from all respond and communicate via new channels, sectors. In the beauty sector, we were no. such as Live Chat, Facebook, blogs and 3, just behind two major luxury brands. forums. To ensure that we stay in touch with our customers' needs, since March we have Involving our employees: It is very been using some new software that allows important for us to best meet the needs us to have a 360° vision of the customer, and interests of our employees. 12 New employees discuss the Group's CSR policy We put an emphasis on internal executives. In order to support and guide get involved in sustainable and/or fundcommunication, ensuring that there are our teams as we implement our social raising activities (employee commitment regular meetings with employees to and environmental responsibility policy, programme, carpooling, etc.). keep them informed and let them have we give them time for discussion during their say. This allows them to share their training sessions on specific topics, such as Among our employee stakeholders are opinions and suggestions, and also gives responsible purchasing and eco-design. our social partners (representatives of them the opportunity to ask questions management and labour). The creation and voice any concerns. of the new Laboratoires M&L structure provided an opportunity to develop a For example, employee surveys were We put high standard of social dialogue between conducted (in particular via the Great an emphasis social partners. A collective agreement Place to Work® Institute) to evaluate on internal relating to social dialogue was signed in employee satisfaction and identify areas communication 2012 by all the representatives concerned for improvement. In 2012, about a dozen and confirms our determination to breakfasts were also organized, during maintain the relationship of trust that which members of senior management In addition, when new employees join any already exists. were joined by volunteer employees. of the Group's French sites, they attend Moments like this offer our employees information sessions about the missions a chance to express themselves and have and values of L’OCCITANE and the tools a more informal discussion with managing available if they want to do their bit and 13 GOVERNANCE & Sustainable ingredients 2 Questions FOR MAUD REBOUL What achievement in 2012 are you most proud of? The significant impacts of our partnership with the women's cooperatives in Burkina Faso were highlighted by a study conducted by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), which recognized L’OCCITANE as an exemplary company for its work with and for the women of Burkina Faso. This business model can enable other private or public sector companies to learn more about the good practices and challenges related to setting up sustainable and ethical North-South projects. What is your main objective for the year to come? While the economic and social impacts may have been demonstrated within the framework of this partnership, our current objective is to reduce the environmental impact of the shea butter industry between now and 2016 by setting up an Environmental Fund. Among the most important points worth mentioning, this will enable us to convert to 100% organic production, to considerably reduce wood and water consumption with new production technologies, and to make good use of the coproducts derived from the process. And we intend to do all of this while continuing to use the traditional, artisanal extraction method that is reserved only for women! Maud Reboul, Sustainable Ingredients Manager 14 Field of fine lavender in Haute-Provence 4 PRINCIPLES ACTIONS THAT GUIDE OUR RESOur role is to supervise and secure the PONSIBLE supply of plants for the L’OCCITANE PURCHASING Group. We work directly with producers, focusing on the continuous improvement POLICY WITH LOCAL SUSTAINABILITY of the plant supply chains, and forge REGARD TO PDO fine lavender Immortelle long-term partnerships built on trust and from Haute-Provence INGREDIENTS respect. Our policy: when a plant is used responsibly, its ecosystem retains its diversity and its fragile balance. When all the players in the industry work together fairly and transparently, our partnerships contribute to the mutual development of all involved. TRACEABILITY EQUITY Verbena Shea butter 15 GOUVERNANCE & Sustainable ingredients Sustainable Ingredients account PDO FINE LAVENDER are covered by unique five-year contracts for 27 traceable supply chains, with our partners, grouping together over FROM HAUTE-PROVENCE twenty producers. These contracts guarepresenting: Because lavender is part of Provence's rantee producers a minimum purchase heritage, L’OCCITANE is working with volume and contribute to maintaining the 467 lavender growers, with a focus on research. cultivation of fine lavender on the plateaux Lavender is facing the problems of global of Haute-Provence. hectares of cultivation warming and decline caused by a disease carried by a devastating insect. It can now ALMOST 4 count on an endowment fund that has been 4 tons of fine lavender 211 set up to save it. Created in May 2012 by essential oil purchased CRIEPPAM*, this fund is used to finance 300 farmers research programmes and find ecological solutions to halt lavender decline. hectares of cultivation L’OCCITANE has already contributed partner lavender 20 €55,000 to the fund, which is presided over 15,851 by Olivier Baussan. growers have unique pickers In parallel, as the main purchaser of lavenfive-year contracts * Centre Régionalisé Interprofessionnel d’Expérimentation en der in the region, our supplies of PDO fine Plantes à Parfum, Aromatiques et Médicinales (a research centre lavender essential oil from Haute-Provence for testing fragrant, aromatic and medicinal plants). 16 Field of organic immortelle in Corsica IMMORTELLE: THE The quality and traceability of immortelle are guaranteed from the harvesting YELLOWSUN OF THE to the distillation of the plant. The supply CORSICAN MAQUIS chain is therefore complete, integrated and environmentally friendly. Immortelle The Balagne region is the garden of is a hardy, robust plant; it does not need Corsica . Eleven years ago, at the heart chemical fertilizers or treatments. of the Corsican maquis – the island's fragrant scrubland – L’OCCITANE disThis project unites six Corsican growers covered the immortelle plant. When and distillers, who use organic farming OVER wild immortelle flowers are picked in accordance with sustainable guidelines, methods and have contractual agreements for several years. An ambitious 50 hectares planted 3 this cleans up the maquis and indiprogramme to cultivate 60 new hectares billion flowers rectly helps to prevent fires. However, has been launched, so that the initial gathered the volumes harvested do not allow for a areas of land can be renewed. sustainable supply. This is why, in 2004, L’OCCITANE launched the very first large-scale, organic immortelle planta100 tons of plant material distilled tion programme in Corsica. 17 GOUVERNANCE & Sustainable ingredients VERBENA FROM TULETTE ORGANIC FARMING: SHEA BUTTER: WOMEN'S A WAY OF LIFE GOLD REACHES AS FAR Welcome to Tulette, in the Drôme Provençale region. Over five years ago, Rémy Margiela FOR RÉMY MARGIELA AS THE UNITED NATIONS settled here, at the heart of an estate with The partnership between L’OCCITANE and over 10 hectares of organically farmed land. Moving over to organic farming was a the women's cooperatives in Burkina Faso is Already a producer of vines and lavandin, this priority for me. It's a philosophy, a different built up year after year, with a very significant young farmer was immediately enthusiastic approach to my work, a different way of impact on the shea butter industry. In fact, the when we presented him with our verbena thinking about my environment and my impact has been so great that our partners plantation project. crops. For me, organic farming brings me brought it to the attention of the United In 2012, L’OCCITANE financed his first closer to my plants and obliges me to Nations, within the framework of the United seedlings and Rémy launched into this new have a better understanding of their Nations Development Programme (UNDP). adventure, setting up a hectare of organic growth and development. Finally, it’s The case study conducted by the UNDP cites verbena. a comprehensive way of looking L’OCCITANE as an exemplary company for at what I love to do, taking into its work with and for the women of Burkina account all the interactions Faso. This business model can enable other between the soil, the land, private or public sector companies to the plant, the climate and learn more about the good practices and the fauna. challenges related to setting up sustainable and ethical North-South projects. 18 SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS IMPACTS 5 Reducing the environpartner cooperatives, i.e. mental impact of the shea ECONOMIC 212 groups from 10 different butter industry by 2016: provinces, representing IMPACTS 100 % 15,143 women who benefit organic production directly OVER 500 Reducing the environmental impact of tons of shea butter OVER 200,000 purchased per year the traditional process people indirectly impacted used to make the butter: ÷3 By supporting the tradiWater consumption: reduced 1M tional processing method to a third of current levels €1 million in revenue for shea butter, which is for Burkina Faso performed by women, we ÷2 guarantee over 60% in Wood consumption: halved added value compared with 75% the purchase cost of unproGood use made of 75% cessed shea nuts. of residual waste Shea nuts 19 THE ENVIRONMENT & Formulas 2 Questions FOR BÉNÉDICTE LE BRIS What achievement in 2012 are you most proud of? Apart from the creation of an innovation centre with a 2,500m² surface area on the Manosque industrial site, one of our greatest sources of satisfaction has been the development and launch of products that are increasingly natural, such as the Immortelle Precious Serum or the Iris Angelica range. The performance of these products has been widely proven among consumers and experts alike. What is your main objective for the year to come? Our main objective is to keep coming up with cosmetic innovations that are increasingly respectful of man and nature – and that consumers will love even more. We intend to do this through unique blends of exclusive and natural ingredients, and also by focusing on the sensorial qualities of the products. Improving the performance of our products must continue to be consistent with our formulation guidelines regarding naturalness and eco-responsibility, with respect for our partner producers. Bénédicte Le Bris, Managing Director, Research & Development (R&D) 20 Local essential oils 83% ACTIONS At the end of 2012, Our research is guided by our observaover 83% of our tion of nature. The behaviour of plants can often say a lot about their properties. emulsions were made Ever since the earliest days of We develop clean and innovative using eco-friendly L’OCCITANE,our convictions with regard processes that enable us to obtain extracts processes, which to research and development have remaithat contain the highest concentration of optimize water and ned the same: to create high-quality, senactive molecules. We use over 300 plantenergy consumption sorial beauty products and fragrances, derived ingredients (over a quarter of developed in accordance with the prinwhich are certified organic), which are rigociples of phytotherapy and aromatherapy. rously selected for their effectiveness. We adhere to strict formulation guideThese ingredients are incorporated into lines so as to guarantee the very best our formulas at an optimal level of concen300 L’OCCITANE uses over quality, optimal effectiveness and pure tration. Thus we systematically give 300 naturally derived pleasure of use, while respecting others priority to natural ingredients. However, and the environment. to ensure that a product provides the ingredients – 25% highest level of safety and effectiveness, of which are certified ACTIVE INGREDIENTS THAT we may use synthetic molecules organic. ARE EXCLUSIVELY NATURALLY when no reliable and effective natural DERIVED, WITH A GUARANTEE alternative exists, while always erring on OF TRACEABILITY the side of caution. 21 THE ENVIRONMENT & Formulas OVER 100 We give priority to plant oils or butters rather than using petrochemical products (mineral oils). They TONS are produced from seeds or fruits and are the of natural extracts* result of a biological process. Mineral oils are composed of hydrocarbon chains, OVER 100 and particularly paraffin, and cannot be absorbed TONS by the epidermis, so they form an occlusive film on the skin. Plant oils, on the other hand, have a perfect of floral waters* affinity with the skin and are active substances, due particularly to their rich fatty acid content. OVER 800 TONS Developing our formulas, Manosque of plant oils and butters every year* * volumes purchased in 2012 22 The process of incorporating active ingredients into a cream RESPECTFUL independent laboratories, under medical Respecting animals: supervision, to prove all their benefits L’OCCITANE has never tested its products BEAUTY CARE for the skin. on animals and guarantees that its Respecting consumers: products – as well as the active ingredients All our products are dermatologically Respecting the planet: and raw materials they contain – tested to ensure that they are perfectly We develop our products with respect for are never tested on animals during their safe for the skin. Our textures and scents nature, limiting the environmental impact development and manufacture. We have are inspired by the Mediterranean art de throughout the different stages of the absolutely no intention of changing our vivre and traditions: using a L’OCCITANE formulation process: growing and harvesting position on this point, which we consider product is always a moment of wellthe plant, the methods used to extract and to be extremely important. being. But a L’OCCITANE product is obtain the raw materials, the design of We have long been working with wellalso a guarantee of optimum safety the final formula, taking into account the known animal-protection groups such as and effectiveness. Each ingredient is environmental impact (biodegradability, One Voice and PETA, to abolish animal carefully studied to ensure that it is ecotoxicity), and production using ecotesting for cosmetics. We were one of gentle on the skin (and/or eyes) both efficient processes that minimize the use of the first beauty brands to be included immediately after application and water and energy. in the British Union for the Abolition of over the long term. There must be no At the end of 2012, 83% of our emulsions Vivisection (BUAV) cruelty-free list in risk of sensitivity for the consumer, no were produced using eco-friendly processes, 1997. In December 2011, BUAV decided to mutagenic effect and no chronic toxicity. i.e. processes that have been optimized with remove all companies operating in China Our products are tested by volunteers in regard to water and energy consumption. from its list of cruelty-free companies. 23 THE ENVIRONMENT & Formulas PETA did the same in 2012. China continues stopped and our alternative method on environmental, structural approach, which to insist that any beauty products sold volunteers has been accepted. This is an includes the definition of objective criteria there must be tested on certain animals important first step forward. L’OCCITANE to measure the environmental impact of by external laboratories in China that are continues to actively push for these alterour formulas: plant cultivation and harvesrecognized by the local authorities. native tests to be implemented as soon as ting methods, the geographical origin of In 2010, we decided to open a positive diapossible for all its products. raw materials, the level of naturalness and logue with representatives of the Chinese processes used to obtain ingredients, the authorities, with the aim of implementing Continuous improvement: manufacturing process and the end of the alternative tests that could replace animal We revise our formulas should any questions product's life cycle (biodegradability, ecotests. We are one of the main brands in the arise regarding the ingredients we use in toxicity, etc.). task force set up by BUAV to address cosrelation to health (parabens, phthalates, metic testing on animals in China (China BHT) or the environment (silicones, SLES), Cosmetics Cooperative Group), which and in doing so, anticipate changes to works with European and Chinese groups legislation. in order to promote alternative testing methods. Meetings are organized reguWithin the framework of our continuous larly in London, Paris or Brussels. The date improvement approach, our charter will set for the 2013 meeting was May 20, in continue to change in the years to come, London. As for products that have a sun with an increasing emphasis on eco-deprotection factor, animal tests have been sign. This is why we have worked on an 24 Ingredients used in our formulas NO PHTHALATES IN FRAGRANCES SINCE 2005 The beauty industry only uses one phthalate: tives are needed in cosmetic formulas so that the antioxidant that is a suspected endocrine disrupDEP (diethyl phthalate). Its function is to make products can be used in normal conditions (stored tor. To avoid using it in our formulas, all our cosalcohol unfit for drinking, in accordance with in a bathroom, daily contact with the hands of metic products that are exposed to oxidation are the rules and regulations of health authorithe user, etc.). A study questioned the safety developed with a rosemary extract. ties. It has been considered to present a low of parabens – a study that was refuted by the risk of toxicity, and strict guidelines have been European Union Scientific Committee. However, SILICONES issued regarding the maximum amount that these preservatives have been approved for use can be used in fragrances (eaux de toilette, by regulators, are considered to be safe, and are We limit the concentration of silicones to 5% eaux de parfum, etc.). Since 2005, L’OCCITANE permitted – at certain levels of concentration – maximum in our skincare formulas. The only has stopped using it in its fragrances and now by the different cosmetic regulatory authorities exception to this rule is our suncare products. uses alcohol without a denaturant. across the world. At L’OCCITANE, we have always These synthetic substances, derived from used parabens in low doses – below those authosilicon, are not readily biodegradable. We do not THE WITHDRAWAL rized by international legislation. However, we use silicones suspected of being toxic (D4). We OF PARABENS prefer to err on the side of caution. And so, since are working on ways to replace them completely 2005, all our new products have been formulated or partially with plant-derived alternatives, with Parabens are preservatives. This means that they without parabens, and parabens have also been the aim of obtaining textures that offer excelare molecules that prevent the microbiological removed from existing formulas. Today, 99% of lent sensorial qualities and are a true pleasure to contamination of cosmetic formulas. Preservaour products are paraben-free. BHT is a chemical apply. 25 THE ENVIRONMENT & Packaging 2 Questions FOR PHILIPPE DE BRUGIÈRE What achievement in 2012 are you most proud of? Although it may not have been the most spectacular, the greatest achievement in 2012 has been the development of the two Bonne Mère bottles, made with sugar cane-based PE. Moulded using a minimum of 95% renewable resources, and 100% recyclable, they illustrate our greatest progress in moving from a linear to a circular economy. This first step will be followed by other actions and projects, which will take this approach even further. What is your main objective for the year to come? This year, we want the evaluation of the environmental impact of our products to be made more accessible, more meaningful. This concerns both our packaging and our formulas. We want this information to be easier to grasp, more simple to understand. In 2011/12, we were actively involved in trialling the environmental labelling scheme. Further to this experience, we want to give meaning to the action of measuring and reducing the impact of our products – and this applies to developers and consumers alike. Philippe De Brugière, Prospective Packaging and International Production Director 26 2012 Oscar de l’Emballage packaging awards 13 ACTIONS improvement. It is supported by eco-design refillable products tools and monitoring indicators. available in 2012 L’OCCITANE received a Prix spécial du Jury L’OCCITANE is committed to developing the (Special Jury Award) for its comprehensive eco-design of its products – and particularly eco-design approach at the 2012 R-AWARDS 95% The BONNE its packaging. ceremony, organized by the Club Génération Responsable®. MERE range: ECO-DESIGN PACKAGING bottles made with Eco-design tools 95% sugar caneIn order to reduce the environmental impact To ensure that environmental factors are based plastic and of its packaging, L’OCCITANE adopted an better taken into account for each launch, eco-design approach that revolves around all new packaging is evaluated using a 100% recyclable three themes: Reduce, Re-use and Recycle. scoring tool developed by L’OCCITANE. The Marketing, Development and Purchasing The Eco-Pack score is used to evaluate or teams have been given training in the Group's compare different design scenarios before eco-design policy, and environmental design committing to the final product design, recommendations are communicated in taking into account criteria such as weight, a leaflet that is given to all developers. materials, carbon footprint, recyclability, etc. The L’OCCITANE approach to eco-design To take this further, L’OCCITANE continues is based on the principle of continuous to conduct a Life Cycle Assessment 27 THE ENVIRONMENT & Packaging (LCA) of its products. The LCA method materials, makes it possible to identify the potential The number of eco-refills available, environmental impact of a product The percentage of recyclable packaging, throughout its life cycle. This evaluation The CO2 savings made thanks to our ecotool is used in specific eco-design projects design efforts. to compare two solutions or to verify whether an improvement has been made MORE ENVIRONwith regard to the existing one. Life Cycle Assessment can also be used to give more MENTALLY FRIENDLY substance to our environmental information. MATERIALS Monitoring indicators Packaging made from recycled materials L’OCCITANE has implemented monitoring Without compromising on the aesthetics indicators to track the eco-design of its and quality of its packaging, L’OCCITANE has packaging. Calculated yearly, they provide succeeded in integrating recycled materials a factual tool to monitor the results of our into some of its bottles and tubes. efforts and enable us to set objectives for the For example, within the personal care catefuture. These indicators are: gory, the shower gels in the Verdon range The tonnage of materials used, and hair care products in the Aromachologie The percentage of recycled or renewable range are made from 100% recycled and 28 Visit to a waste-sorting centre by employees, Manosque recyclable PET plastic. Skincare bottles in friendly packaging materials and solutions. L’OCCITANE encourages its customers to sort the Immortelle range are also made from The company works closely with partner and recycle packaging. Even though the packarecycled plastic. suppliers to implement these solutions. ging of beauty and personal care products is For its glass bottles, L’OCCITANE uses recyclable, not enough people actually recycle partially – or even 100% – recycled glass it. L’OCCITANE provides packaging recycling whenever possible, as it has done for the ECO-REFILLS information on its website, on bags, and directVerdon eau de toilette. ly on its products. This year, once again, L’OCCITANE has Packaging made from renewable materials extended its range of refillable products by To make its employees more aware of In order to limit its use of petroleumintroducing an eco-refill for one of its star good sorting and recycling practices, based materials, last year L’OCCITANE products: the Almond Shower Oil. Up to 83% L’OCCITANE regularly organizes visits to launched 100% recyclable bottles, made less plastic is used to make the eco-refill, packaging sorting centres. The product development teams who go on these visits with 95% sugar cane-based plastic, in its compared with the standard bottle. Today, are able to see how these centres operate BONNE MERE range. Emballages Magazine eco-refills are available for 13 of our bestand talk to the professionals who work presented L’OCCITANE with the Oscar selling products. there. This experience makes them more de l'Emballage packaging award for its aware of what is involved in the recycling BONNE MERE project, within the new ecoHELPING WITH AND process. They can then draw on their improdesigned materials category. L’OCCITANE ved knowledge to design products while continues to conduct research aimed at RAISING AWARENESS better taking into account what happens extending its range of more environmentally OF RECYCLING to the packaging at the end of its life. 29 THE ENVIRONMENT & Production 2 Questions FOR JEAN-FRANÇOIS GONIDEC What achievement in 2012 are you most proud of? We obtained ISO 14001 certification for one of our production sites – the first to obtain it. The site in question was the MELVITA factory in Lagorce – a factory closely associated with the brand and found in the heart of the Ardèche – the birthplace of MELVITA. It was audited in late February by the LRQA certification body. This certification is confirmation of the efforts made by our workforce and at an organizational and technical level, with the aim of having a sustainable, environmental management system at the heart of our industrial activity. What is your main objective for the year to come? We intend for all our industrial and logistics sites to seek certification, and particularly the Grandes Terres logistics platform and our historic factory in Manosque. Our site in Manosque, which is undergoing changes and renovations, is the one most associated with the L’OCCITANE en Provence brand. Jean-François Gonidec, Manufacturing and Operational Excellence General Manager 30 The Lagorce factory BREAKDOWN OF WASTE DISPOSAL CHANGES IN WATER AND ENERGY CONSUMPTION AT THE MANOSQUE SITE BY TYPE OF DISPOSAL AT THE MANOSQUE SITE FROM 2011 TO 2012 +13% -7% -19,4% 62% 67% 63% 11% 9% 7% 27% 25% 30% WATER ELECTRICITY GAS 2010 2011 2012 consumption Consumption consumption (in litres/kg produced) (in kWh/unit) (in kWh/m²) Incinerated Landfill Recycled 31 THE ENVIRONMENT & Production ACTIONS At the Lagorce site, the first step was to form a steering committee to build the management system. The involvement of all operational management teams Combining industrial activity with resensured that the project and any pect for the environment: the structuring environmental issues were immediately of our environmental practices through taken on board. Thorough analysis of ISO 14001 certification the environmental impact of the site's In 2011, L’OCCITANE began taking steps activities and any non-compliant areas to achieve ISO 14001 environmental pinpointed the priority actions that certification for its two production sites. needed to be implemented: optimizing Given the environmental commitments of from the very first paragraph: to ensure waste management, anti-pollution kits L’OCCITANE since its creation, as well as the that the increase in our environmental for use in the case ofproduct spillage, increase in production and workforce, one impact is lower than the growth of the the provision of water reserves for fire objective became a priority: to structure Group. To make this policy a reality for fighting, etc. practices in a way that allows for better all of our activities, an environmental Optimizing the evaluation of our actions control of the environmental impact of the management system has been set up at the also plays a key role in improving the enviGroup's activities. Lagorce site (the pilot site for the Group's ronmental management system. Bearing The Group's environmental policy, which is industrial sites), brand-owned stores in in mind that a project of this scale candriven by senior management, sets the tone France and administrative sites. not work without the involvement of all 32 The waste-sorting platform at the Lagorce factory players in the company, a strong One example: a new waste-sorting Warehouse workers who are responsible communication strategy was developed platform in Lagorce for waste management on the site, to ensure that each person knew the role One of the commitments of the Lagorce manage the flow of all waste, ensuring they had to play with regard to the enviproduction site is to improve waste that it is taken to the new waste-sorting ronment. sorting. platform. There is a cardboard and plastic This included training sessions, compactor, a covered retention area to environmental awareness days and store dangerous waste and a dedicated regular information from managers. In 2012, almost 300 tons area for recycled waste. The installation Thanks to the organizational structure of waste were recycled, of this platform makes it possible that was set up and the results obtained, reused or recovered to comply with the different wastethe Lagorce production site received management regulations and to optimize certification in February 2013 for its sorting of recoverable waste. manufacturing practices with regard to To meet this objective, the entire wastecosmetic products. management chain has been optimized. Finally, particular efforts were made to The production site in Manosque Each zone on the site has its own specific find the most suitable service providers should be certified once its major sorting guidelines and is equipped with to collect and reprocess the factory's transformation is complete. At present, containers to hold different types of waste. In 2012, almost 300 tons of waste the site is compliant with the ISO 22716 waste. For example, cardboard, plastic were recycled, reused or recovered. Good Manufacturing Practice standard film and wrapping, clean and soiled glass for cosmetics. and plant oils are sorted in the workshops. 33 THE ENVIRONMENT & Production A CONTINUOUS IMPROVEelectrical power of car parks has been been optimized by overhauling the prereduced by 6.5kw, which represents treatment facility. This facility neutralizes MENT APPROACH AT THE savings of 83%. industrial effluents and reduces the MANOSQUE PRODUCTION amount of pollutants they contain – which SITE Optimizing waste water processing result from the cleaning of our production The production sites, which are and packing equipment. This pre-treated particularly impacted by the growth of water is then discharged into the town Car parks lit by energy-saving light bulbs our business, are subject to increasing sewage system, leading to the public In 2012, we focused on optimizing environmental regulations associated sewage treatment plant. electricity consumption for lighting. with their Installation Classée pour la Work spaces built after 2009 and all Protection de l’Environnement status toilets have been equipped with lights (this refers to a facility that must be The involvement of senior management triggered by motion sensors. In 2012, the declared to the authorities as it may pose The Group's commitment to the emphasis turned to outside areas – and in risks to the environment). Ensuring that environment is shared by everyone – particular the car parks. All of the 150W our sites are compliant with regulations starting with senior management. As an light bulbs in the lights were replaced involves significant investments, which example of this, the entire Management by 30W light bulbs, and short post lights enable us to limit our environmental Committee visited the waste-sorting were equipped with 6-watt LED light impact. To limit the amount of pollutants centre in Manosque, where the waste from bulbs. getting into the water and soil, the our production site is sorted. By replacing these light bulbs, the waste water processing system has 34 Hereabove: Visit to a waste-sorting centre by senior management, Manosque 35 THE ENVIRONMENT & Transportation 2 Questions FOR LORENZO GIACOMONI What achievement in 2012 are you most proud of? In 2012, logistics flows were simplified and optimized at a European level. By centralizing flows at a logistics hub in northern France, from where goods are transported to our subsidiaries and European distributors, we have been able to reduce the environmental impact of our freight transportation. What is your main objective for the year to come? We hope to continue our research and efforts to optimize logistics flows. First of all, this means that we need to focus on analysing needs in order to optimize the management of demand – and therefore orders. But we also need to look at how to optimize the loading of trucks. Not only would this be of economic benefit, it will also enable us to significantly reduce the CO2 emissions generated by transportation. Lorenzo Giacomoni, Group Logistics Director 36 The Grandes Terres logistics platform, Manosque 4,2% of the total weight of ACTIONS Optimizing logistics flows products transporSince 2010, there has been an overall evaluation of ways to simplify our ted shipped by air in LIMITING THE CARBON logistics flows. Our new, 12,000 m² export 2012 platform (18,000 m² in 2013) has been FOOTPRINT OF FREIGHT constructed opposite the production 127 tCO2e savings in site in Manosque. All products from our L’OCCITANE calculated its carbon factories pass through here before being 6 months by using footprint in 2011, based on data from sent all over the world. This has enabled combined road-rail the 2010 fiscal year (from 01/04/2009 to 31/03/2010) for all of its activities us to significantly reduce surplus stock transport worldwide. The results showed that and, with it, the associated freight. freight accounted for a large portion of Centralizing flows at a logistics hub the brand's CO2 emissions: 27%. Several in northern France, from where goods action plans were defined in 2011 with are transported to our subsidiaries and 17% of employees at the aim of reducing freight-related CO 2 European distributors, has also enabled Manosque and 19% emissions. Many of these action plans us to minimize the carbon impact of of employees at were successfully completed in 2012. freight. Finally, in 2012, a great deal of thought was given to managing demand Lagorce carpooled in order to optimize orders and, in doing every day in 2012 so, reduce the number of deliveries. 37 THE ENVIRONMENT & Transportation Controlling the use of air transportation feedback has been very positive: greater stores in the Paris region have their products While the use of air transportation to security, less congested transportation transported by electric delivery trucks by the deliver our goods to subsidiaries across the routes, less pollution, but also fast, reliable service provider GREENWAY – a specialist in world is kept to a minimum, it nevertheless and punctual. This has encouraged us to environmentally friendly urban delivery vehirepresents 75% of CO2 emissions from maintain this solution for the transportation cles. Since July 2012, the Greenway delivery downstream logistics. To curb the use of of goods. van, dressed in the colours of L’OCCITANE, has air transportation, since early 2012, each If the combined road-rail option had not travelled some 12,750 km. That means total delivery has had to be validated by senior been developed, the carbon footprint for savings of almost 4.5 tCO2e. management. The results are significant: the freight between our logistics platform in level fell from 5.4% in 2011 to 4.2% in 2012, Manosque and our hub in northern France i.e. a reduction of over 20% in one year. would have amounted to 252 tCO2e. By using the road-rail option, emissions have been Developing combined road-rail transport reduced to 125 tCO2e. This means savings of Since October 2012, 72% of our goods almost 127 tCO2e (a reduction of over 50%), destined for continental Europe, transferred and the equivalent of 293 barrels of oil! between our logistics platform in Manosque and logistics hub in northern France, have Using electric transport to deliver goods been transported by combined road-rail to stores transport. For a total journey of 1,021 km, Again, with the aim of reducing CO2 emissions 840 km are covered by train. The initial related to the distribution of our products, 21 GREENWAY electric delivery truck 38 The Grandes Terres logistics platform, Manosque GREEN TRANSPORT PLAN: near staff entrances are reserved for carpoolers, and prize draws are regularly COLLECTIVE TRANSPORT held for carpoolers, with the chance to win AND CARPOOLING STILL a tankful of fuel. In all, 17% of employees GOING STRONG at Manosque and 19% at Lagorce regularly carpooled in 2012. The carbon footprint analysis conducted in 2011 also showed that trips made by employees – A shuttle bus for employees be they between work and home or business Since 2009, in Manosque, and since 2011, trips – were the third highest emitter of CO2 in Lagorce, a bus service for employees and represented 12% of total emissions. working on the three eight-hour shifts has been financed by the Group. This service Carpooling winners Carpooling allows these employees to come to work Since 2008, a strong policy to encourage without having to use their own cars and carpooling has been established at the without having to pay. In 2012, 53 people production sites and the administrative in Manosque (5.8% of the workforce) site in Geneva, and it continues to bear and 68 people in Lagorce (19% of the fruit. There are carpool registration workforce) used this safe and relaxing forms, new employees are informed of the means of transport. carpooling programme, parking spaces 39 THE ENVIRONMENT & Stores 2 Questions FOR ISABELLE ALLOUCH What achievement in 2012 are you most proud of? The contribution of the French Retail teams in reaching the standard required for ISO 14001 certification is something to be proud of. The teams were involved in preparations to obtain this certification, so they were made keenly aware of the importance of an environmental approach for the future of the company. This type of project has been extremely well received by all teams and is seen as something that is completely legitimate for our brand. It helps to give meaning to our actions and to make people even prouder of belonging to L’OCCITANE – a committed, responsible brand. What is your main objective for the year to come? To actively pursue the work undertaken on CSR strategies in the retail sector. This includes subjects such as waste management, control of electricity consumption, giving priority to providers of green energy, reducing CO2 emissions by making greater use of electric vehicles to deliver products over the final kilometres, and the eco-design of stores, working in collaboration with the International Concept team. Isabelle Allouch, Retail Director CWE-LOF 40 Factory store, Manosque ACTIONS the outside store sign, a list of materials that should be given priority and those 40 stores have a contract with a that should not be used, etc. a checklist can then be used to keep track provider of electriENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES of the recommendations put in place, in FOR ARCHITECTS order to have a vision of the environmental city from renewable performance of the design of each store. sources With over 2,200 stores throughout the world, it is extremely important for L’OCCITANE OBTENTION OF ISO 14001 827 323 that stores be eco-designed. Several tools have therefore been developed to raise CERTIFICATION kWh were awareness and guide all those involved in produced by the design of our stores: In October 2012, our company-owned renewable energy for stores in France obtained ISO 14001 certiour stores in 2012 – recommendations have been included fication. Bearing in mind the Group's comin our concept book – a booklet that desmitments to the environment in all areas, the equivalent of the cribes the different steps in the process it made perfect sense to include the entire annual electricity of developing a store: the choice of light chain of activities in the certification proconsumption of a bulbs, the installation of separate switcedure. The L’OCCITANE stores therefore town of 107 inhabiches to control lighting in different areas have their own ISO 14001 certificate for of the store, the use of light sensors for their activity – selling cosmetic products. tants 41 THE ENVIRONMENT & Stores USING ELECTRIC VEHICLES A 100% RENEWABLE TO DELIVER PRODUCTS TO ELECTRICITY SUPPLY STORES Since June 2012, 40 L’OCCITANE stores have had a contract for electricity that is Since July 2012, 21 of our Parisian stores 100% from renewable sources. (inner Paris and suburbs) have had their products delivered to them by electric Our new electricity provider guarantees delivery trucks provided by GREENWAY – a that it will integrate into the French specialist in environmentally friendly urban power grid the equivalent of our electridelivery vehicles. So far, all aspects of this city consumption, with electricity that have been positive: punctuality, sense of has been 100% produced from renewable ISO 14001 certification for stores service (pallets unloaded, wrapping matesources (hydropower, wind turbines, biorials and pallets recovered), reduction in mass, PV panels). This action will help support the growth of these industries. fuel consumption and CO2 emissions, etc. – In 2012, 827,323 kWh were produced by and all this without extending delivery renewable energy for our stores – the times. equivalent of the annual electricity consumption of a town of 107 inhabitants. 42 STRATFORD-UPON-AVON STORE, UK 43 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & Employees GREAT PLACE TO WORK A CLOSER LOOK AT A BRITISH INITIATIVE In 2011, we chose to take part in the Best Companies survey, which rates the 100 best places to work, with the results published in the Sunday Times. This would allow us to evaluate employee satisfaction and improve our practices. The first results, for the UK subsidiary, were very satisfactory: we achieved a Best Companies star rating. They also identified an area that required improvement: our employees needed to be given more recognition for their work and efforts. We asked our teams to help us to get a better idea of their needs, and this led to new projects – such as the creation of a twice-yearly magazine, My L'Occi-Times . In early 2013, we were ranked number 69 in the 100 Best Companies to Work For in the United Kingdom! Chris McManus, Maddie Smith, General Manager UK Deputy General Manager, UK & Ireland & Ireland, receiving the Great Place to Work award for the UK subsidiary 44 Packaging line operators 2 Questions FOR FRÉDÉRIQUE CHEMALY What achievement in 2012 are you most proud of? 2012 was a year marked by the richness and quality of the social dialogue in our company. With some ten agreements and amendments signed – for the most part with the unanimous approval of the unions – the company and its social partners have demonstrated their ability to engage in a responsible dialogue that respects different points of view, in the permanent search for a balance between economic and social challenges. What is your main objective for the year to come? We hope to further increase internal mobility in the company, particularly by better anticipating the skills we will need in the future. Internal mobility plays a strategic role in our growth, as it allows us to keep individual employees motivated and give recognition for their work, while enabling the entire organization to progress. Frédérique Chemaly, Group Human Resources Director 45 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & Employees 3,4 ACTIONS agreement regarding the organization and In 2012, the overall x budget allocated working hours within Laboratoires M&L, a special effort was made to give employees to training was 3.4 SOCIAL DIALOGUE the information they needed, with the aim times higher than of ensuring transparency and guiding them Following the creation of the new Labothrough this change. the legally required ratoires M&L structure, we wanted to amount (the legal accompany the technical and organizatioMoreover, while the year has been very obligation is 0.9% nal changes and continue to develop a very rich and full in terms of social dialogue, of payroll) constructive social dialogue. The signing – our desire to improve the working environby all representatives concerned – of a colment and the well-being of our employees 50 In 2012, over 50 lective agreement on social dialogue was has remained a priority. With this in mind, confirmation of this determination to mainit was important for us to include staff > meetings were tain the relationship of trust that has been representatives in discussions relating to held with staff established with our social partners. gender parity and working conditions. In representatives Within the framework of the harmoniza2012, two action plans – relating to each (for all Laboration of agreements in 2012 – and, more of these themes – were set up, further to broadly, of our practices – 15 negotiation three work meetings that brought together toires M&L) meetings were held, leading to the signing senior management, social partners and of eight collective agreements. As for the employees. 46 Employees share a moment of conviviality, Manosque L’OCCITANE, CREATOR a personal account. This tool has been development interviews. These annual rolled out to European subsidiaries and interviews give employees the opportuOF JOBS has also enabled us to integrate a careers nity to discuss – with their managers – L’OCCITANE is a major employer in section on the company's intranet, their skills, training needs and profesManosque, with over 100 new jobs which allows employees to access job sional development/mobility goals. created in 2012-2013. opportunities and thus promotes staff mobility. Since it was implemented in In 2012, over two thirds of our employees September 2012, over 400 job offers attended at least one training course. L’OCCITANE have been published via this new recruitIn the same year, 3.06% of payroll was is a major employer ment tool. spent on training for the L’OCCITANE in Manosque Group (as a reminder, the legal obliDEVELOPING HUMAN gation is 0.9% of payroll). Individual literacy lessons and basic sign language Among our new employees are several RESOURCES courses have been added to the list of young people, for whom (in most cases) Developing the skills of our employees training available, to help our employees L’OCCITANE is the first company to is essential for the growth and compework together even better on a daily provide a long-term contract. We have titiveness of the L’OCCITANE Group. basis. implemented a new e-recruitment platTo allow all individuals to be actively form, which guarantees the traceability involved in building their career proof applications through the creation of gression plan, we have set up personal 47 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & Employees company. For this reason, all new employees are lunchtime fitness, yoga or Pilates are provided with specific information on lessons at the workplace, in Manosque, this theme. As a symbolic gesture, and to Paris and Geneva, and financing for places give them a way to do a little bit for the planet at day care centres for children in Lagorce every day, a cup made from recycled plastic and Manosque. is given to them on their arrival, to reduce the use of plastic bottles and cups from automatic Gender Equality dispensing machines. 2012 marked a new impetus from the Group in this field, with the implementation of a Gender Equality action plan. This initiative follows a QUALITY OF LIFE report on the comparative situations of men and A CSR POLICY WELCOME AT WORK women, which identified areas for improvement in this field. For example, a process of preand PACK FOR ALL NEW post-maternity leave interviews has been EMPLOYEES Balancing professional and private life formalized, to provide women with the best Since 2008, many actions have been taken support possible through this key period in their within the Group to help our employees find professional and personal lives. Adhering to our social and environmental a better balance between professional and policy is key to successfully integrating the private life. Among the initiatives taken Improving working conditions 48 Giving a recycled plastic cup to welcome a new arrival The well-being of our employees at work is about their experiences and share their primarily linked to the Group's continual efforts thoughts with our employees, in order to improve working conditions. A working to inspire them and encourage them to conditions action plan was introduced in late change their consumption habits. 2012, with a particular focus on risk prevention On a different note, the second major and the ergonomic design of workstations in event of the year was dedicated to road general. safety. After signing a Road Safety Charter in 2010, L’OCCITANE wanted to Raising employee awareness go further in preventing road accidents. Throughout the year, there are various This operation had a significant impact: events in the life of the company and its over 120 employees took part in road Pierre Rabhi during the Sustainable sites (Sustainable Development Week, safety awareness workshops, including Development Week in Lagorce Disability Employment Week, etc.). those owning a company car. Thanks to One of the key moments during the Sustaithe involvement of employees, and above nable Development Week at L’OCCITANE all that of the Prévention Routière road in 2012 was when Pierre Rabhi came to safety association, the operation was a our Lagorce site, and Tristan Lecomte to real success. Manosque. These two leading figures in sustainable development came to talk 49 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & Disability 2 Questions FOR AURÉLIE URICHER What achievement in 2012 are you most proud of? When people from a sheltered environment come together with people from an ordinary environment, they share very rich, very special moments. An ESAT team (ESAT is a French non-profit organization that helps disabled people find work) was integrated into the company by the operational logistics teams. This reflects the Group's commitment to disability employment and a determination to keep doing more to integrate people with disabilities into society. What is your main objective for the year to come? The Group must continue to look at the person – and not the disability. We work on a case-by-case basis for each request to get back into – and stay in – the workplace. This is one of the factors behind the strong success of the Group's disability policy. Aurélie Uricher, Disability Project Manager 50 Workers from the La Source ESAT in Gap receive a quality certificate during the Disability Employment Week PARTNERSHIP WITH 7,46% The direct and indirect employACTIONS ARPEJEH ment of people Since September 2010, we have been with disabilities working with ARPEJEH (Accompagner A PARTNERSHIP la Réalisation des Projets d’Etudes de represents CONVENTION WITH Jeunes Elèves et Etudiants Handicapés – 7.46% of the an organization that promotes the emAGEFIPH workforce of the ployment of disabled young people). The industrial sites. In September 2010, the L’OCCITANE aim of this partnership is to give young Group signed a partnership convention, people the confidence to continue their for a two-year period, with AGEFIPH studies, and also to raise awareness of % 600,000 (a French agency that promotes the employment of disabled workers). Many disability among our employees. That is why, throughout the year, we invite these efforts were made further to this – young people to get involved in various The revenues efforts that have borne fruit, as the initiatives: Exploration des Métiers earned through percentage of disabled workers in our Insolites (EMI) (exploring unusual proESAT vocational production sites has once again gone fessions) in Lagorce, the Ateliers Découcentres in 2012 above the minimum required by law verte des Métiers (ADM) (career works(6%), with 7.46% in 2012. hop forums) in Paris, welcoming interns 51 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & Disability with disabilities, and finally, supporting four Un Jour, Un Métier (One Day, One Profession) young people, under the tutelage of a group operation: for the third year, the L’OCCITANE employee, through their university and proGroup got involved in this national operation fessional courses for over one year. by welcoming some fifteen job seekers with disabilities, from all backgrounds, to come and RAISING DISABILITY learn about different work skills and occupaAWARENESS tions over one day. It was a successful operation and will be repeated at the Manosque site We have been partners with the La Source outside the Disability Employment Week. ESAT (in Gap, in the south of France) for many years and wanted to show our recognition for DIRECT AND INDIRECT the work of its employees. We also wanted to RECRUITMENT promote employment for disabled people in an indirect manner. So the Group organized a day As with every year, L’OCCITANE has taken ESAT Hors Les Murs team dedicated entirely to these workers. Almost 90 part in employment forums specifically for workers from the ESAT spent a day at the facpeople with disabilities. In 2012, these were tory in Manosque and were given a Quality Cerheld in Aix-en-Provence and Paris. tificate. A day rich in emotion, it also reminded In France, there are vocational centres for managers of the quality of the work provided by people with severe disabilities that enable the ESATs. them to exercise a professional activity 52 Creation of a digital French sign language dictionary by employees, for employees 900 In all, over 900 within a sheltered environment. These This team project, which has been chrisemployees have centres are called ESATs (Etablissement ou tened ESAT HORS LES MURS (an ESAT Service d’Aide par le Travail). For the people beyond the walls) has been made possible, been made more these centres welcome, working means in particular, due to the high involvement of aware of disabihaving a place in society – a place that is often the Operational Logistics team, but also the lity, and over 1,200 denied them because of their disability. commitment of Industrial Management. people with disabiCompanies such as the L’OCCITANE Group, lities have acwhich subcontract some of their producINTEGRATING DISABLED tion to sheltered workshops, therefore help WORKERS cessed the labour enable these people to work. market through us October 15, 2012 is a date that some twelve Some employees who work in the same disabled workers from the ESAT du Fournas teams as hearing-impaired workers chose in Manosque will not forget for a long time… to take a training course in French sign Ever since then, they have taken the path to language. This year, the training has gone the L’OCCITANE factory, taken up position in even further, as employees were able to the heart of one of our warehouses, next to help create a digital French sign language the Logistics team, and, watched over by their dictionary, available online, which contains supervisors (seconded from the ESAT), made common and professional terms, with 120 gift boxes, dealt with faulty products and perwords. 17 employees were trained in sign formed various packaging tasks. language in 2012. 53 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & Communities A PROGRAMME TO SUPPORT THE WOMEN OF BURKINA FASO A CLOSER LOOK AT AN INITIATIVE FROM THE US As part of the Group's philanthropic activities, we wanted to launch a programme to support the women of Burkina Faso, working with the Projets de Femmes and Faa I Tuora associations. This programme was first presented during a meeting of sales representatives from the New York subsidiary in 2008. Since then, almost 30,000 dollars have been raised, with employees making voluntary contributions from their salaries to support income-generating activities in 40 villages in Dissin, in Burkina Faso. 100 women have begun raising pigs and three grain mills have been purchased, which help the women save time on a daily basis. The donations are used to support a microcredit programme and enable the women to manage projects autonomously, since the sale of the pigs provides them with food and gives them greater financial independence. Rachel WALLINS, Vice-President Organizational Development, USA 54 Eye screening with Orbis in Burkina Faso 2 Questions FOR MARY BONNEAUD What achievement in 2012 are you most proud of? I am proud to belong to a company that continues to take action and show its commitment to Burkina Faso, despite the many difficulties facing the countries of West Africa. In addition to the company's sale of fair trade shea butter, the Foundation now dedicates over 80% of its projects budget to promoting women's entrepreneurship or supporting the visually impaired in Burkina Faso. What is your main objective for the year to come? In 2013, we will continue to focus on Provence, with the aim of preserving and protecting nature. Our subsidiaries will multiply our actions by supporting the visually impaired in their own countries. We will have the first results of the joint efforts of five partner NGOs, which are fighting blindness in Burkina Faso. And finally, our women's entrepreneurship projects will be enriched by new partnerships, such as a partnership with UN Women. Mary Bonneaud, Head of Corporate Patronage for the Group 55 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & Communities € 804,637 ACTIONS To give its employees the desire to do their bit and enable them to get involved in a project, the L’OCCITANE Group offers them The budget allocated three ways to take action: to Foundation THE DONS SOLIDAIRES projects ASSOCIATION 1 Financially, by making a donation to the employee association Projets de Femmes , which supports women's entrepreneurship 22 At present, the FounFor the past three years, we have donated in Burkina Faso. downgraded products to charitable organi2 By going on a mission to Burkina Faso dation is supporting 22 zations via the Dons Solidaires association. with the Nord & Sud employee association, projects, 11 of which are With 57 pallets of products given to chariwhose aim is to send volunteers to Burkina supported by ties in 2012, L’OCCITANE accounts for 10% Faso to teach women basic soap-making L’OCCITANE subsidiaries of the market value redistributed to these skills. charities by Dons Solidaires, which receives 3 By giving some time to a local project. donated products from 46 companies. This third option in the programme aims 5 protected hectares in to motivate employees and get them Provence for the conserTHE EMPLOYEE involved by giving them the opportunity to draw attention to and/or take part in vation of plants and COMMITMENT meaningful projects that are consistent forgotten cultivations PROGRAMME 56 Planting a dry garden, Valsaintes Jury of L'OCCITANE employees at the awarding of grants for the education and employment of the visually impaired in France In 2012, almost 30 employees from our programmes. It provides financial and technithree sites in France got involved in cal assistance by supporting microcredit proseven projects. grammes and training in income-generating Accompanying people with reduced activities. Finally, it fosters entrepreneurial inimobility on walks, restoring dry stone tiatives and enables women to progress further, by supporting the creation and development walls, taking part in brainstorming of small businesses. Since 2006, over 9,700 sessions to organize an event for the Red women have been able to benefit. In 2012: Cross… The first volunteer partnerships 351 women gained literacy skills, thanks to have begun! Aide et Action, and 2,200 women benefited from microcredit loans, thanks to the French dable blindness. Since 2006, over 500,000 projects that are consistent with the NGO Entrepreneurs du Monde. people have been given ophthalmological treatcommitments of the Group. Two L’OCCITANE Foundation Pépite awards ment. In 2012: were given to two exemplary Burkinabé women, 6 new projects were launched in Burkina in recognition of their work and to help them Faso to improve the quality of eye care serTHE L’OCCITANE FOUNDATION: develop their business. vices and train medical staff. TWO FIELDS OF ACTION The Foundation is committed to helping people Over 40 visually impaired people in France with visual impairments. In France, this includes were given access to training, an internship or The Foundation is supporting women's entrehelping the visually impaired to find employemployment. preneurship in Burkina Faso by acting on three mentby supporting training and giving grants. INFOS fondation.loccitane.com main fronts. It helps women to learn basic In Burkina Faso, it means helping to fight avoiknowledge and skills by supporting literacy 57 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & Communities SUBSIDIARIES DO disadvantaged areas of New York. Provence, that determinedly defend the botanical biodiversity of Provence and THEIR BIT FOR SIGHT the traditional skills linked to nature in ACTIONS ROOTED IN Provence. 13 Foundation contacts in our subsidiaries have also got involved and supported local PROVENCE TO PRESERVE In 2012, we supported 4 projects: projects for the visually impaired. KNOWLEDGE OF NATURE Brazil : €21,500 collected for the Dorina The creation of a dry garden at the Abbaye Nowill Foundation, to pay for the production Based in the Alps of Haute Provence de Valsaintes, famous for its collection of of 15 audio books and the renovation of a and firmly anchored in its territory , over 400 varieties of roses. L’OCCITANE is a brand that is very recording studio for books for the visually INFOS valsaintes.org involved in activities and projects within impaired. the region. Since its creation in 1976, the The renovation of the gardens of the Hong Kong : €10,000 donated to the land and the nature of Provence have Musée International de la Parfumerie – the NGO ORBIS China to finance a complete inspired Olivier Baussan, its founder. only public museum devoted to perfumery programme of treatments (€170,000 over Within the framework of patronage, we in the world. 4 years) and training. 600,000 people have support initiatives that aim to perpetuate INFOS museesdegrasse.com benefited from eye treatments since the knowledge of plants (and their usage) in The creation of a field of outdoor aromatic project began. the PACA (Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur) plants and flowers at the Musée de Salagon. USA : €6,913 collected for the Helen region – the historic birthplace of our This space is a true conservatory of species Keller International charity, allowing for eye company. Our patronage activities focus and their uses. disease screening sessions to be held in on projects that are deeply anchored in INFOS musee-de-salagon.com 58 Harvesting fine lavender in Férassieres, in the Vaucluse region An endowment fund to preserve the die. In the past few years, Provence has seen its A CLOSER LOOK AT THE lavender heritage of Provence. production volumes halved.** L’OCCITANE has INFOS sauvegarde-lavandes-provence.org already contributed 55,000 euros to this fund FOUNDATION in order to help preserve this small blue flower, PRESERVING AND symbol of the Provençal flora and daughter of The Melvita brand has been part of the wild lavender. L’OCCITANE Group since 2008. Created PROTECTING LAVENDER Join us in our efforts to save lavender: in 2010, the Melvita Foundation has two Lavender cultivation is facing two major INFOS sauvegarde-lavandes-provence.org objectives: problems: global warming and decline caused Working to safeguard the future of bees by a phytoplasma bacterium – a disease by protecting their habitat and developing carried by a devastating insect. In May 2012, beekeeping throughout the world. the CRIEPPAM* research centre set up an Working to protect and preserve nature by endowment fund, which is presided over by promoting organic farming as a means towards Olivier Baussan, founder of L’OCCITANE. This social integration, fairness and solidarity. fund is used to finance research programmes In 2012, 59 beehives were set up, in particular aimed at finding ecological solutions to with the Vallée Éternelle conservation halt lavender decline. When the plant is organization, and 37 beekeepers were trained, contaminated with the disease, the channels *Centre Régionalisé Interprofessionnel d’Expérimentation en Plantes à Parfum, Aromatiques et Médicinales (a research centre for testing in particular through a partnership with the through which its sap flows become blocked, fragrant, aromatic and medicinal plants). **Sources: CIHEF – Comité Pure Planet Alliance association. Interprofessionnel des Huiles Essentielles Françaises (interprofessional rapidly causing the plant to become weaker and committee for French essential oils). FOR MORE INFORMATION Melvita Foundation 59 loccitane.com L'OCCITANE Group
