COP-­‐report 2013 by Learnways AB Period covered: 1 jan 2013 – 31 dec 2013 CEO statement of continued support To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Learnways reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-­‐Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Karin Beckérus, Managing Director of Learnways AB Description of Actions in each issue Areas: – Human Rights Actions: We have rewieved our internal policies as to human rights to ensure that we demand that our subcontractors respect human rights in accordance to the GC 10 principles. Measurement of outcome: We have now established basic values. Measurements of progress will be done for next year. – Labour Actions: We have added more specific issues to ask our employees about how they percieve their work environment. We now do employee surveys twice a year and follow up with with all individuals and i the entire group. We have set a new goal on how to improve the result yearly. Measurement of outcome: We have now established basic values and a minimum level for the employee survey result. Measurements of progress will be done for next year. – Environment Actions: We have reviewed our policy for flying and taxi travel. Flying have to be CO2-­‐ compensated and taxi travel should should only be by ”green” taxi. We now get figures of aggregated CO2 from taxi travel to facilitate measuring our impact. Measurement of outcome: We have now established basic values. Measurements of progress will be done for next year. – Anti-­‐Corruption Actions: The principles set out in our policies remain. We do a new client survey where we also ask about our employee behaviour regarding corruption. We also changed our project organisation to include steering group that will overview risk of corruption. Measurement of outcome: We have now established basic values. Measurements of progress will be done for next year. Karin Beckérus Managing Director of Learnways
