G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Securing your world Investing in sustainable, profitable growth. Who we are As the world’s leading global integrated security company, with operations across six continents and over 618,000 employees, G4S is one of the world’s largest private employers. G4S plays an important role in society. We make a difference by helping people to operate in a safe and secure environment where they can thrive and prosper. Our size and scale means we touch the lives of millions of people across the world and we have a duty and desire to ensure the influence we have makes a positive impact on the people and communities in which we work. In this report we feature the important work carried out by our employees across 120 countries that makes us proud to have them securing your world. CSR Performance in 2013 SAFEGUARDING OUR INTEGRITY SECURING OUR PEOPLE – Launched our human rights framework for all G4S businesses and – Completion of three further critical country reviews (CCRs) employees, based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business & – Road safety campaign developed and piloted in seven countries Human Rights – Enhanced incident reporting and investigation processes – External review of risk management process and action plan to increase group resources and improve systems and processes – Roll out of succession planning for all key management roles – Established a board Risk Committee and a separate risk management – Pilot of on-line performance reviews in a number of businesses function for the group – Talent review processes completed assessing over 1,300 managers – Updated risk assessment of the group’s anti-bribery policies – Continued extension of cultural awareness training tool and controls – Partnership working to increase employment opportunities for – Completed 111 on-site internal audits, including measurement disabled people and veterans of compliance with G4S business ethics controls and HR minimum standards – Completion of third global employee engagement survey, in which 62% of employees (over 380,000 people) shared their views and – Enhanced communication of the group’s Safe2Say whistle-blowing overall levels of engagement increased from 80% to 82% hotline through increased use of employee communications channels – Senior management survey conducted with 81% of senior managers – Improved categorisation and reporting of issues raised through the participating and an average favourable response rate of 83% whistle-blowing process – G4S Global Risk Services became a founding member of the ICOC Association, the compliance and oversight body for the International Code of Conduct for Private Security Providers Overview Financial highlights Our priority areas In this report See p.14 for more information OVERVIEW UNDERLYING REVENUE G4S at a glance 2 £7.4bn (2012: £7.0bn) Business model Chief Executive Officer’s review Our approach Stakeholder engagement and materiality Our priority areas 4 6 8 12 14 UNDERLYING PBITA1 SAFEGUARDING OUR INTEGRITY 20 £442m (2012: £430m2) Business Ethics and Anti-corruption See p.16 for more information Key achievements in 2013 Priorities for 2014 Material issues and actions SECURING OUR PEOPLE 26 CASH GENERATED BY Key achievements in 2013 CONTINUING OPERATIONS Priorities for 2014 460m Material issues and actions SECURING OUR ENVIRONMENT 32 Key achievements in 2013 (2012: 337m) Health and Safety Priorities for 2014 Material issues and actions DIVIDEND PER SHARE See p.18 for more information 8.96p (2012: 8.96p) SECURING OUR COMMUNITIES Key achievements in 2013 Priorities for 2014 Material issues and actions 36 1 To clearly present underlying performance, SUPPORTING DATA specific items have been excluded and separately disclosed – see page 86 of the Annual Report and Supporting data 40 Accounts 2013. About this report 44 2 2012 underlying results are presented at constant Human Rights UN Global Compact 44 exchange rates and have been restated for the adoption of IAS 19 (2011). 2012 PBITA has been re-presented to exclude PBITA from businesses subsequently classified as discontinued, one off credits, profits on disposal and the prior year effect of the review of assets and liabilities in 2013 – see page 86 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2013. SECURING OUR ENVIRONMENT SECURING OUR COMMUNITIES – The G4S total carbon footprint in 2013 was 559,000 t/CO2e – Conducted an academic study of the social and economic impacts of G4S within the UK, demonstrating direct and indirect support – Achieved an overall reduction in carbon intensity of 4.9% in 2013, of 68,000 jobs across the country and a total Gross Added Value resulting in a 23.5% reduction in carbon intensity between 2009 and of £1.95 billion contribution to the UK economy 2013, against a target of 20% – Invested approximately £2 million in charitable community – Continued focus on increasing the efficiency of our vehicle fleet programmes and welfare programmes for employees • G4S North America reduced vehicle emissions by 11% overall – Matched £28,000 of employee fundraising for local community • G4S UK achieved a reduction in emissions from its cash in transit good causes fleet of some 7% – Established G4S 4teen legacy community programmes in Botswana, Colombia, Estonia, India, Nigeria, Philippines and Thailand Front cover: A G4S prisoner custody officer at HMP Birmingham (UK). The use of body cameras can de-escalate incidents, deter assaults and gather evidence for use in complaint investigations. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 1 G4S at a glance Our diverse services and customers CONTRACTS AND RELATIONSHIPS G4S has a very diverse contract portfolio. The duration of contracts varies from annual sporting events to 25-year private prison contracts. In cash solutions most contracts are annual with those contracts requiring a higher capital intensity being usually five years duration or longer. In practice many relationships become long-term and result in contracts being renewed year after year. SECURE SOLUTIONS The secure solutions business covers a wide range of services, including: Risk services and consultancy Risk management consultancy services including personal protection, training, mine detection and clearance services Security systems Access control, CCTV, intruder alarms, fire detection, video analytics and security and building systems technology integration Monitoring and response Key holding, mobile security patrol and response services and alarm receiving and monitoring facilities Secure facilities services Integrated facilities services for entire sites or estates for commercial customers and governments Welfare to work programme Assisting long-term unemployed people into work Manned security services Trained and vetted security officers CARE & JUSTICE SERVICES Care & justice services is part of secure solutions and offers highly specialised services to central and local governments and government agencies and authorities: Juvenile and adult custody Management of all aspects of a facility and those held within the facility – similar centres are also used for the detention of asylum applicants Prisoner escorting Transportation of prisoners and asylum applicants between courts, police stations and custody and asylum centres Asylum services Management of housing provision and other services for asylum applicants Electronic monitoring Electronic tagging and monitoring of offenders at home or in the community Police services Back office support functions for police forces, support for front line policing including the provision of custody suite services and forensic medical services CASH SOLUTIONS The cash solutions business covers a wide range of services including: Outsourcing cash management Managing cash on behalf of financial institutions including cash transportation, high security cash centres, counting and reconciling cash, fitness sorting of notes for use in automated teller machines (ATMs), counterfeit detection and removal, redistribution of cash to bank branches, ATMs and retail customers Cash consulting Provision of consultancy services to central banks and commercial banks on overall cash management strategy, bank note production and security and all aspects of cash cycle efficiency ATM management Managing ATMs on behalf of banks, retailers and independent ATM providers – including cash forecasting, cash transportation and reconciliation services, first line maintenance and ATM engineering services Retail cash management Provision of systems and hardware which provide an automated cash office for retail sites to improve security of cash, electronic audit trails of takings and a real time view of retail cash balances International transportation Bespoke international transportation and insurance of currency, gems and other valuables Cash transportation Secure transportation of cash using high security vehicles, fully screened and trained personnel and purpose-built technology to transport, protect, count and reconcile the cash to customer records 2 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Overview SHAPE OF THE ORGANISATION G4S employs 618,000 people making it one of the world’s largest private employers. EMPLOYEES BY GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENT G4S EMPLOYEES BY ROLE 100 100 89.3% 80 80 60 60 214,400 40 40 118,000 35% 20 19% 51,400 73,700 67,100 54,400 39,000 20 8% 12% 11% 9% 6% 5.7% 3.7% 1.2% 0 0 Africa Asia Middle Latin Europe North UK & Front line Supervisor / Administrative Managers East America America Ireland employees first line managers Professional and Technical OUR CUSTOMERS, SERVICES AND MARKETS Our strategy is customer focused across a wide range of industries and commercial and government customers. We have a diverse range of services to meet our customer requirements and have a broad MARKET AND STRATEGY geographic footprint to meet demand for security around the world. G4S is a global provider with a top three position in 80 of the % of 2013 revenue by: 100 manned security markets in which we operate. As one of the few global security companies, our main REGION international competitors in developed markets tend to be 6 regional and international companies operating in one market segment such as security, systems or facilities. There are also 22 many local security companies operating in developed and Africa 21 Asia Middle East emerging markets. Latin America Europe North America 19 UK & Ireland 10 22 MARKET AND STRATEGY Care & justice services delivers more than 10% of secure BUSINESS SERVICE solutions worldwide. While the care & justice services market is concentrated primarily in the UK, US, Australia and New 9 Zealand, we see a number of countries exploring the possibility 16 of outsourcing these services to the private sector. The market structure is typically consolidated on the supply side with a small number of providers. Larger companies are usually Cash solutions better equipped to deliver such highly specialised services. Secure solutions Care & Justice services 75 MARKET AND STRATEGY CUSTOMERS G4S is the market leader or number two in 57 of our 61 secure 6 cash transportation markets. Our main international competitors are Loomis and Brink’s in most developed markets and local Government 28 companies in emerging markets. Our cash solutions business is Financial integrated into our wider organisation and processes through the Utilities use of shared customers, management structures and systems in Transport many countries. The market is highly regulated, often by central 33 Ports & Airports banks and the business requires complex infrastructure and Leisure significant expertise. 10 Retail Major Corporates 6 9 Consumers 2 4 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 3 Business model Robust business Our business model is market led: everything begins with the customer. We seek to understand our customers’ strategic and commercial objectives so that we can design and model deliver security solutions which support them. Our aim is to create sustainable shareholder value through the consistent achievement of excellence in three areas: customer service, operational performance and financial management. We foster a high performance culture which focuses on service PERFORMANCE excellence, operational management and financial performance. DELIVERY High performance leads to strong customer relationships, motivated employees and achievement of strategic goals – critical elements of delivering sustainable, profitable growth. By analysing customer needs and bringing together our expertise in SOLUTIONS DESIGN market sectors, technology, project management and service delivery we design solutions which help our customers to manage risks, improve service, protect people and assets and achieve their own organisational objectives. CUSTOMER Understanding customer needs is central to our success. This enables us to align our organisational objectives to those of the UNDERSTANDING customer and means we can help our customers to be successful. Delivering high service levels across our core services helps us to deepen customer partnerships over the long-term and creates opportunities to work with customers to meet their existing and increasingly complex security needs. MARKET DEMAND There is strong demand for our core services of secure solutions, cash solutions and care & justice services across the world. SCALE & CAPABILITIES With over 618,000 dedicated employees and operations in 120 countries, our ability to deploy skilled staff on a global basis to support local and international customers is central to our business model. This coverage means we can share learning and experiences across our markets to the benefit of our customers and our business. We work in line with relevant international standards and strive to achieve consistent high quality employee engagement, health and safety, training and business ethical practices across our operations. 4 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Overview Closely aligned to our values PERFORMANCE We seek to improve performance year on year to create long-term sustainability EXPERTISE We develop and demonstrate our expertise through our innovative approach to creating and delivering the right solutions TEAMWORK & We collaborate for the benefit of our customers and G4S COLLABORATION CUSTOMER FOCUS We have close, open relationships with our customers which generate trust and we work in partnership for the benefit of our organisations SAFETY FIRST We prioritise safety management to protect the health and well-being of our colleagues and those around us INTEGRITY We can always be trusted to do the right thing BEST PEOPLE We employ the best people, develop their competence, provide opportunity and inspire them to live our values Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 5 Chief Executive Officer’s review Delivering sustainable growth Ashley Almanza Group Chief Executive Officer With business activities in more than 120 countries OUR VALUES: and employees who work in a wide range of Customer focus – We have close, open relationships with our environments across the world, we take our customers which generate trust and we work in partnership for responsibilities to our colleagues, our customers the mutual benefit of our organisations and societies very seriously. Best people – We employ the best people, develop their competence, provide opportunity and inspire them to live our values Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is at the heart of what we do – when “securing your world” we are taking care of many of life’s Integrity – We can always be trusted to do the right thing essential requirements, whether that is providing employment supported by a fair wage, delivering physical security services to companies and their assets, teaching life skills to young offenders to Expertise – We develop and demonstrate our expertise through our improve their chances of leading a life without crime, or reducing innovative approach to creating and delivering the right solution our impact on the environment to contribute to a better future for generations to come. We believe that our role in society is an Performance – We seek to improve performance year on year to important one and it is something of which we are very proud. create long-term sustainability We believe that having an embedded CSR strategy is good for our business. It means we can recruit and retain talented people, win new Teamwork and collaboration – We collaborate for the benefit of our business and build long-term relationships with our customers, attract customers and G4S investment to support our sustainable growth strategy and make positive contributions to communities across the globe. Safety first – We prioritise safety management to protect the health and well-being of our colleagues and those around us With these responsibilities and opportunities comes challenge – to continuously look for ways to improve on our CSR practices, to protect Our employees sometimes work in difficult environments dealing our people who often work in challenging environments and to ensure with sensitive issues. We work hard to make sure they operate within that every one of our colleagues understands the group values, what the law and parameters set by our customers and that they respect they stand for and what is expected of them when they represent the the group’s standards on human rights, ethics and general conduct. company as its ambassadors every day and in everything they do. From time to time, questions of conduct are raised by our customers The culture of the organisation – which is underpinned by our values or colleagues and we take all matters of conduct or behaviour – is something which is very important to us. We expect high standards very seriously. of ethics, an absolute focus on customer service and a spirit of Last year, issues of conduct were raised in relation to our employees teamwork and high performance which means we always look for working on electronic monitoring in the United Kingdom, within a ways to do things better. prison environment in South Africa and an immigration processing 6 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Overview centre in Papua New Guinea. In all cases, detailed investigations were standards we set for ourselves. In addition, we need to make sure that undertaken in conjunction with our customers to understand the our whistle-blowing processes and practices are fit for purpose and situation and to assess whether the conduct of G4S employees was in clearly understood by our employees. Both of these areas form part of question. Where we do find instances of inappropriate conduct, we a “people and values” programme on which we are focusing in 2014. take immediate action to resolve issues, which may include disciplinary In addition, we have implemented organisational and process changes action in addition to a review of processes and practices. to strengthen customer focus, governance and contract management and control. These programmes are now well underway and form an In May 2013, the Ministry of Justice (MoJ) in the UK informed us that essential part of the group’s operating procedures – not just in UK it would be commencing a review into Electronic Monitoring (EM) contracts going back over nine years as a result of allegations of Government contracts, but across the business. over-billing which had come to light at the start of the year. The MoJ Our human rights policy and guidance for managers, based on the and Cabinet Office later decided to conduct a review of all G4S UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, was launched contracts and we have worked closely with them in support of in 2013 and is becoming increasingly embedded in our business their reviews since they began. activities. This is particularly the case when assessing new business Three contracts were referred to the UK Serious Fraud Office and opportunities, certain types of contracts and high risk countries or we have provided full co-operation and support for their investigation, business environments. Human rights is an issue which is discussed which remains ongoing. We have also taken steps to strengthen risk at the highest levels of management within the organisation and is management and controls in this part of the business. a matter which is considered regularly by the CSR Committee. Following the announcement by the MoJ, the board promptly engaged G4S became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2011 and we a global law firm to perform an independent review of the EM submitted our second Communication on Progress last year. The ten contracts. The review concluded that G4S Care & Justice Services had principles of the Global Compact continue to be reflected in our over-billed for electronic monitoring services. This practice was clearly business ethics policy and I am pleased to reaffirm our commitment to not consistent with the group’s values or our approach to dealing the principles as they help to shape our CSR strategies for the future. with customers. We apologised to the MoJ and have since refunded We consult internally and externally to make sure we prioritise the amounts over-billed plus costs associated with the investigations into right things and our Group Executive Committee and CSR Committee the contracts. keep a very close eye on CSR best practice and how our performance As part of a wider programme of corporate transformation, we have compares to informal and formal CSR standards. When our employees established a corporate renewal plan for our UK business which is don’t live up to our expectations or those of our customers, we do designed to strengthen the business and customer confidence in G4S. everything we can to resolve matters, to learn lessons and amend our processes and practices to ensure that issues do not re-occur. We work in an inherently hazardous industry and have introduced a number of important processes and improvements to specific Our CSR activities and group values are vital elements of the group practices in order to better protect our employees in the workplace. strategy and vital to delivering sustainable shareholder value. We remain dissatisfied with our health and safety performance and Ashley Almanza I regret to report that in 2013 55 colleagues lost their lives in the Group Chief Executive Officer line of duty, mostly in third party attacks and road traffic accidents. Strengthening our health and safety practices remains a priority for me and my executive team. Ensuring our security procedures are robust and applied consistently helps deter those looking for opportunities to gain access to the goods and property we protect and in doing so cause harm to our people. We have piloted a successful campaign on road safety in a number of countries where there are high risks faced by our staff carrying out driving duties. FIND OUT MORE ONLINE In 2014 at every level, every senior manager will be required to learn For updates on our CSR activity throughout the year, more about health and safety and become a health and safety role visit www.g4s.com/csr model for the group and for their colleagues. To ensure an absolute focus on health and safety, we have created a new group value called Safety First – this will help to ensure that we are considering safety issues in everything we do in our businesses around the world. Safety first – We prioritise safety management to protect the health and well-being of our colleagues and those around us We will be launching the new health and safety value early in 2014 and implementing a programme of reinforcing our group values throughout our operations. We reviewed and updated the group’s values. It is important that we continually reinforce the values to our workforce at every opportunity to ensure that everyone understands their role in living up to the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 7 Our approach Q&A with our CSR Chair Clare Spottiswoode WHY IS CSR IMPORTANT AND WHAT VALUE DOES IT Our global employee survey in 2013 demonstrated just how important working for a company with strong ethics codes and standards is to BRING TO THE BUSINESS? our colleagues around the world. It helps to attract and keep talented CSR is an important differentiator for the group. We find that it has people who are proud to make a difference and of the company they become increasingly important to customers as part of their process work for. for evaluating and selecting a partner. This is particularly so, given the A strong CSR strategy also helps to reassure investors that they are sensitive nature of some of the services our customers require and investing in a company which, in addition to achieving the appropriate the fact that many of our customers are large multinational companies level of financial return, conducts its business in a way which is ethically with high CSR standards themselves and high expectations of those appropriate and in a manner which is expected of one of the world’s with whom they do business. largest employers. For smaller customers too, our approach to CSR provides them with additional confidence that they are working with an organisation which respects laws and cultures, has high ethical standards, takes care of its employees and is a reliable and dependable partner. CSR COMMITTEE Membership of the CSR Committee includes Clare Spottiswoode, Paul Spence and Winnie Fok. CSR Committee meetings are attended by the group communications director and the group human resources director and, from February 2014 onwards also by Grahame Gibson, one of the executive directors of the board. 8 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Overview HOW DO YOU PRIORITISE YOUR KEY CSR ACTIVITIES? HOW DO YOU ENSURE THAT YOUR CSR STRATEGIES In general terms, it is common sense to identify which areas of CSR ARE ALIGNED TO INDUSTRY BEST PRACTICE? are important to our company and will make the most positive In addition to our CSR materiality exercise and direct engagement with contribution to our success. However, we don’t make assumptions the SRI community, we focus on monitoring best practice in CSR. about priorities without input from our key stakeholder groups. We take part in forums and discussion groups such as the UN Global Every two years, we conduct a CSR materiality exercise which helps Compact, we meet with other companies with experience in key to assess the current market environment, business challenges and CSR areas to learn from others who have implemented similar most relevant CSR strategies. In 2014 we broadened the scope of this programmes and we seek advice from relevant experts on specific exercise to include more external commentators and stakeholders matters when required. – seeking views and opinions from investors, NGOs and customers in addition to our internal senior management and board members. For example, when we developed our human rights policy and This ensures that our strategies are aligned to stakeholder needs and guidance, we enlisted the help of Hugo Slim, a senior research fellow the objectives of our business. at the Oxford Institute for Ethics, Law and Armed Conflict to provide advice and guidance on its development and implementation. We The process highlighted three core priority areas for 2014 – business sought further input from leading lights in human rights who had been ethics and anti-corruption, health and safety and human rights. Of involved directly in the development of the UN Guidelines for Business course, whilst these are our three highest priority and most material and Human Rights and other experts who could assess our plans and issues, we continue to focus on all aspects of CSR. provide useful feedback. In addition, our global employee survey, which in 2013 generated HOW DO YOU MANAGE YOUR CSR ACTIVITIES? responses from over 380,000 employees representing 62% of the On a day-to-day level, we believe it is important for CSR to be workforce, focused partly on CSR matters. This helps us to understand embedded within our business practices and operational programmes. what CSR means to our employees and to develop future CSR So, whilst we employ a CSR manager to coordinate our CSR activities strategies and programmes which are meaningful to them. and to take direct responsibility for a number of the key projects, we do not have a separate team of people dedicated to CSR. CSR WHAT WERE THE HIGHLIGHTS OF THE CSR matters form part of our business strategies in areas across the STRATEGY IN 2013? group such as human resources, risk management, internal audit and business development. There were many highlights in 2013. At a strategic level we were pleased to conclude the CSR materiality exercise, which gave us WHAT LEVEL OF OVERSIGHT DOES THE BOARD valuable insights to feed into our future CSR strategies and priorities. HAVE ON CSR STRATEGIES AND ACTIONS? We launched our human rights policy and guidance early in 2013 and worked hard to create and implement tools to assess our human rights CSR matters are discussed at a number of different levels within the performance and manage human rights risks throughout the remainder organisation depending on the particular issues and the expertise and of the year. level of decision-making required. For example, we create multi-function working groups to work on specific projects, the Group Investment We achieved a record response rate in our global employee survey, Committee assesses major investment proposals which may have CSR which provided us with a rich amount of data on how our colleagues or reputational matters to address and the Audit and CSR Committees feel about working for the company and in particular its values and receive reports on strategic issues and have the opportunity to input to how they are implemented across the group. and challenge CSR activities. Whilst any employee fatality is unacceptable, we made progress in Where matters of conduct are identified – such as in the case of the implementing our health and safety campaigns and strategies to reduce Electronic Monitoring contracts in the UK in 2013 – the board has very the number of injuries and fatalities across our global workforce. There clear oversight of the key issues, investigations conducted on behalf of is more work to do in 2014 to further spread best practice across the company and involvement in discussions relating to actions taken as the group. a result of any conduct issues. We have regular CSR Committee meetings which are attended by three or four board members and senior representatives from key FOCUSED ON WHAT MATTERS: functions across the group. We receive regular reports on important For an overview of our three CSR priority area matters such as health and safety and whistle-blowing and ad hoc see pages 12 to 17 reports and discussions on priorities, issues or initiatives which arise throughout the year. Overview We have regular direct contact with the socially responsible investment Our priority areas continued HEALTH AND SAFETY HIGHLIGHTS Protecting (SRI) community, which includes at least one group meeting each year our people STRATEGIC IMPORTANCE As one of the world’s largest private employers, working in sectors which is chaired directly by me, the Chair of the CSR Committee. where security and safety present a strategic risk, our responsibility to protect the health, safety and well-being of our 618,000 employees continues to be one of our highest priorities. We believe that setting the highest standards for health and safety across our industry helps to keep our colleagues safe and builds loyalty and commitment to G4S from our employees. Expertise in health and safety matters enables our employees to act as role-models for health and safety best practice, helping to secure the world of our customers and society as a whole. Our CSR materiality exercise incorporates feedback from a broad We made progress in 2013, but we remain dissatisfied with the overall results, especially work related fatalities arising mainly from third party attacks and road traffic accidents. Taking action to strengthen our health and safety practices is a priority for everyone at G4S. range of stakeholders, including socially responsible investment analysts, customers, and NGOs. This ensures that at board level we are receiving direct feedback on the company’s CSR performance which is fed into HI-RES IMAGE TO BE SUPPLIED 2013 ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2013 2014 PRIORITIES FOR 2014 Equipped with breathing apparatus and gas detection equipment, G4S safety specialists in Belgium prepare to enter a training simulation. our CSR strategies and programmes. Completion of three further critical country reviews of health and safety Introduction of Driving Force Rules, a campaign to promote safe and efficient driving, piloted in seven countries Improved incident reporting and investigation process, including ‘lost time incident’ data Establish a new group value called Safety First – to ensure absolute focus on health and safety in everything we do. Introduction of performance related objectives, linked to health and safety for our global leadership group Roll out the Driving Force Rules campaign to all businesses Completion of further critical country reviews of health and safety Induction training for new health and safety practitioners Enhanced monitoring of health and safety KPI data 16 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 9 Our approach continued 2014 MATERIALITY MATRIX Every two years we conduct a CSR materiality exercise which helps to assess the current market environment, business challenges and most relevant CSR strategies. 10 Business ethics & anti-corruption Data protection Health & safety and information security Crisis management 8 Responsible procurement & supply chain management Labour relations & freedom of association Stakeholder engagement Government Human rights Diversity & inclusion relations Protecting communities Technology Employee welfare Protecting & support Culture & values R&D Resource efficiency customer Employee standards Employee assets engagement & professionalism Customer Community 6 engagement projects Recruitment, retention Importance to stakeholders & initiatives & screening Reward & recognition Training development & succession Environmental compliance Socially responsible investor relations 4 Carbon footprint Industry collaboration Disciplinary, grievances, redundancies Economic impacts 2 JV partner management 0 0 2 4 6 8 10 Importance to G4S Securing our communities Safeguarding our integrity Securing our people Business issues with a CSR dimension Securing our environment 10 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Overview We conducted a review of our group internal audit function and We will implement specific action plans resulting from feedback from approach to risk management which has resulted in some important the global employee survey. These actions will be tailored to the changes this year, including establishing a board level risk committee feedback received at a group, regional and local level to ensure that we and separate risk management function designed to deeply embed a are meeting employee needs, engaging them well, providing them with more effective risk management culture within G4S. exciting opportunities and the means to develop their capability and that they are able to live the group values in everything they do. We enhanced the communication of the group’s Safe2Say whistleblowing hotline with a campaign to increase employee awareness. We have commenced a review of the group’s whistle-blowing policy, practices and systems to ensure that they remain best in class for an We continued the good work on our climate action campaign, organisation of our size and complexity. resulting in a reduction in our carbon intensity of 23.5% since 2009. Recommendations from the review process will be implemented We continued our extensive support of local communities with in 2014. donations of £1.34 million and 26,000 volunteer hours, and supported employees facing hardship from natural disasters through a number of Having developed and launched a number of human rights tools and grants from the employee trust fund. practices, we will make sure that they are embedded across the group, that human rights risk assessments and due diligence are carried out WHAT ARE THE GROUP’S KEY CSR PRIORITIES where necessary and that employees are aware of human rights issues and responsibilities at all levels across the group. FOR 2014? In terms of risk management, we will be implementing our newly People and values will be the driving force behind our CSR strategies defined approach to assessing risks across the business, supported by and campaigns for 2014. Having established the group’s values some an updated risk management information system. We aim to more ten years ago, we recently carried out an assessment to ensure that deeply embed a culture of risk management which will support our they are still fit for purpose and match the needs of the company for strategy and provide enhanced governance over critical business the future. We were pleased to conclude that the values are as relevant decisions. In addition, we will be implementing other recommendations today as they were in 2004, but noted that in some cases they had from the 2013 review of internal audit, including increasing staffing not been applied as consistently as they should have been and that levels and expanding its remit. the conduct of our staff in relation to certain contracts was not what we expect of representatives of the company. Over the last three years, whilst I have been a member of the CSR Committee, I have seen our CSR activities develop and mature into a To address this for the future and to ensure our values are fully key part of the business strategy. It has made a significant difference to embedded across the group and clearly understood by everyone, our business, particularly in how we are perceived by many of our key we will be implementing a campaign of reinvigorating the values and stakeholder groups. I am proud to have been a part of that journey. reinforcing their relevance across every aspect of the business. Clare Spottiswoode We are also introducing a new value – Safety First – which focuses on Chair health and safety matters and reinforces the importance of health and CSR Committee safety to the company. We are also implementing performance-related objectives for senior managers which focus on health and safety awareness and role modelling. In addition, we will continue to implement our Driving Force Rules campaign to increase awareness of the risk of road traffic incidents across the group and encourage safe driving practices by employees who drive as part of their role within the company. We will extend the use of critical country reviews in follow up to health and safety incidents and ensure that lessons are learned and preventative measures are adopted to reduce the number of accidents and driving-related fatalities. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 11 Stakeholder engagement and materiality Focused on what matters Integrity is a core G4S value. It means that our customers, employees and other stakeholders can trust us to do the right thing. COMMUNITY INTEGRITY – Social & economic – Business ethics and impact anti-corruption* – Community – Human rights* investment – Risk assessment INTEGRITY – Internal audit – Whistle-blowing and reporting COMMUNITY PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE – Energy & fuel efficiency – Health and safety* – Reducing carbon intensity – Diversify & inclusion – Employee engagement – Training & development *OUR PRIORITY AREAS BUSINESS ETHICS AND HEALTH AND SAFETY HUMAN RIGHTS ANTI-CORRUPTION See p.14 for more information See p.16 for more information See p.18 for more information 12 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Overview AT THE HEART OF OUR STRATEGY A FOCUSED APPROACH As the world’s leading integrated security company, we help people To ensure that our CSR strategy is focused on the most important and to work and live in a safe and secure environment and we form an material ethical and sustainability issues, G4S monitors and evaluates important part of many societies, impacting daily on the lives of millions emerging CSR trends and issues on an ongoing basis. of people across the world. It is therefore critical that we conduct Earlier this year, we concluded our most recent stakeholder survey, ourselves in a socially responsible and ethical way to ensure our success which aimed to identify which CSR issues are most significant to G4S and continued development of our sustainable business model. and its stakeholders. Through this identification of the material ethical In 2013, we began a programme to review and reinvigorate the group’s and sustainability issues, we have been able to prioritise the core areas values which had been developed some ten years ago, to assess their on which we must focus our CSR strategy and reporting. relevance against the current strategy. We updated these values and In line with best practice materiality processes, we surveyed executive our priority going forward will be to ensure that they are embedded in and non-executive members of G4S senior management and board, every aspect of our business and applied systematically and consistently together with a representative sample of G4S stakeholders – including across the entire organisation. customers, SRI and mainstream investors and NGOs. We asked them Our 618,000 employees and their representatives make up one of our which CSR issues and trends they believed presented the greatest most important stakeholder groups – they are the face of G4S and the risks and/or opportunities to the organisation’s performance, strategy key to the long-term success of the company. and reputation. In order to attract and retain the best people, we use a variety of The top-line results of this review are presented in the materiality employee engagement methods which are delivered in a way which is matrix on page 10, which compares the importance of each issue to appropriate for the local culture and environment. One of the most G4S relative to its importance to the stakeholder. The closer each issue important of those methods is our employee survey, which targets the is towards the top right hand corner of the matrix, the more important entire workforce and takes place every two years. The most recent of it is to stakeholders and the more material it is to G4S’s business. these took place in 2013, with over 380,000 of our employees (62% of the total workforce) taking the time to give their feedback on a number AREAS OF FOCUS of aspects of working at G4S. We are particularly proud that 82% of employees who responded indicated that they would recommend G4S The materiality review identified three clear CSR issues which are the as an employer to a friend. most material to G4S – business ethics and anti-corruption, human rights and health and safety. See page 31 for more information on the 2013 employee survey. Two of these most material issues, business ethics and human rights, Elsewhere we engage with customers through account management, form part of our core value of “integrity”. surveys and operational reviews. We have strong relationships with the investor community, which includes CSR meetings targeted specifically Health and safety remains a vital aspect of safeguarding our employees. at socially responsible investment advisers and fund managers, which We are launching a new specific health and safety value called Safety provide essential feedback and help to shape our CSR strategy. We also First in 2014 to reflect the importance of keeping colleagues and those encourage engagement and participation with government regulators, around us safe. The review also defines a strong group of further industry bodies and relevant experts where we feel their expertise employee related issues on the fringe of the materiality threshold, can help to improve our CSR plans and business strategies. All of this demonstrating the importance placed on these issues, and recognising supports our aim of achieving long-term, sustainable shareholder value. the progress we have made to implement and maintain high standards in these areas. For more information on G4S stakeholder engagement and industry participation, please visit www.g4s.com/stakeholders Additional CSR areas, such as environmental impact and community investment, are recognised as key ‘business as usual’ elements of our CSR strategy and reporting. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 13 Our priority areas BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION HIGHLIGHTS Living our values STRATEGIC IMPORTANCE G4S plays an important role in society. We make a difference by helping people to operate in a safe and secure environment where they can thrive and prosper. Our size and scale means we touch the lives of millions of people across the world and we have a duty and desire to ensure the influence we have makes a positive impact on the people with whom and the communities in which we work. G4S has seven group values. They are very important to us as they help shape the way in which we conduct our business. To ensure that they remain embedded in everything we do, we have undertaken a programme to reinvigorate the values across the group. Our employee ethics code sets out how employees should behave in order to demonstrate our “Integrity” value. This is supplemented with a business ethics policy. Updated annually, this policy sets out the standards and responsibilities we expect our managers to demonstrate personally and which should be reflected in all aspects of the business. The sectors in which G4S operates mean that risk is an important element of our businesses. We are committed to operating an effective risk management culture to support strategy execution, and to provide enhanced governance over critical business decisions. 2013 ACHIEVEMENTS Completed 111 on-site audits to measure compliance with G4S standards, including business ethics controls External review of risk management process and action plan to increase resources, improve systems and processes Appointment of a group director of risk and programme assurance Updated risk assessment of anti-bribery policies and controls Over 500 new employees took part in our online anticorruption and anti-bribery training programme 14 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Overview G4S security officers taking part in 2014 induction training in Thailand. PRIORITIES Reinvigorate our updated group values across all businesses Embed improved risk management and assurance processes across the group Strengthen internal audit’s remit and resources Complete review of whistle-blowing arrangements, including the policy, process and systems Our business ethics policy is available online at: www.g4s.com/ethics Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 15 Our priority areas continued HEALTH AND SAFETY HIGHLIGHTS Protecting our people STRATEGIC IMPORTANCE As one of the world’s largest private employers, working in sectors where security and safety present a strategic risk, our responsibility to protect the health, safety and well-being of our 618,000 employees continues to be one of our highest priorities. We believe that setting the highest standards for health and safety across our industry helps to keep our colleagues safe and builds loyalty and commitment to G4S from our employees. Expertise in health and safety matters enables our employees to act as role-models for health and safety best practice, helping to secure the world of our customers and society as a whole. We made progress in 2013, but we remain dissatisfied with the overall results, especially work related fatalities arising mainly from third party attacks and road traffic accidents. Taking action to strengthen our health and safety practices is a priority for everyone at G4S. HI-RES IMAGE TO BE SUPPLIED 2013 ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2013 Completion of three further critical country reviews of health and safety Introduction of Driving Force Rules, a campaign to promote safe and efficient driving, piloted in seven countries Improved incident reporting and investigation process, including ‘lost time incident’ data 16 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Overview Equipped with breathing apparatus and gas detection equipment, G4S 2014 safety specialists in Belgium prepare to enter a training simulation. PRIORITIES FOR 2014 Establish a new group value called Safety First – to ensure absolute focus on health and safety in everything we do Introduction of performance related objectives, linked to health and safety for our global leadership group Roll out the Driving Force Rules campaign to all businesses Completion of further critical country reviews of health and safety Induction training for new health and safety practitioners Enhanced monitoring of health and safety KPI data Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 17 Our priority areas continued HUMAN RIGHTS HIGHLIGHTS Playing a positive role STRATEGIC IMPORTANCE Our businesses can contribute positively to the realisation of human rights by the range of services we offer to protect people and enable them to enjoy their rights. We also recognise that we have a duty to ensure that we are not at risk of violating human rights through the services we provide, the customers we work with, the suppliers we use and through the fair and appropriate treatment of our own employees and others who are in our care. Increasingly, customers and other key stakeholders are looking to companies such as G4S to demonstrate specific actions and practices which are aligned to internationally recognised human rights standards, such as the UN Guiding Principles on Business & Human Rights (2011), Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (2000), and the International Code of Conduct for Private Security Providers (2010). Our human rights framework aims to bring our existing practices into line with these standards and introduce new guidelines in areas which are not covered by existing policies and practices. 2013 ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2013 Launched our landmark human rights framework, based on the UN Guiding Principles Introduced a systematic approach to human rights duediligence and risk assessment Aligned our internal audit process and human resources minimum standards with key human rights issues Reviewed existing standards and training programmes to ensure they reflect the relevant human rights elements Developed a human rights audit process for high risk countries Introduced an awareness programme of human rights issues and responsibilities G4S Global Risk Services became a founder member of the ICOC Association, the compliance and oversight body of the International Code of Conduct for Private Security Providers 18 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Overview G4S mine action operations support humanitarian and 2014 reconstruction programmes. PRIORITIES FOR 2014 Continue to build awareness of human rights issues and responsibilities through all levels of the group Further embed human rights risk assessment and due-diligence into our wider business processes Embed human rights risk assessments as a key tool for evaluating business opportunities and risks Implement a process of human rights self-assessment for G4S businesses which operate within higher risk countries Continue to seek advice from external human rights experts to ensure that the group’s policies and processes reflect best practice Our human rights policy and guidance for managers is available online at: www.g4s.com/humanrights Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 19 Safeguarding our integrity Integrity is one of the group’s Safeguarding IINTEGRITY Y core values – it is an integral part of our strategy and forms an essential foundation on which our integrity we carry out our business. Ethical business is not just a solution to the challenges of legal compliance, but a means of doing business which provides customers, employees, partners and communities with the confidence that they are working with an ethical organisation which is not prepared to compromise on its integrity just to achieve its objectives or make money. IMAGE TBC 20 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Safeguarding our integrity Ethical conduct is a positive differentiator when BUSINESS ETHICS dealing with issues relating to security. G4S plays a key role in societies all over the world and has developed a culture of high ethical standards and operational practices. G4S policies and procedures take great care to safeguard our integrity, particularly In G4S we have strong anti-corruption policies. with regard to key areas of business ethics, anti-corruption and Our senior management team are totally committed human rights. to these policies and we have a zero tolerance We have a strong employee ethics code which sets out how employees culture supported by a robust compliance regime. should behave in order to demonstrate our “integrity” value, and it is based on four key areas: BEING SAFE AND SECURE BEING HONEST AND TRUSTWORTHY BEING FAIR AND CONSIDERATE BEING PROFESSIONAL AND PROUD This is supplemented with a business ethics policy which provides more detailed guidance for managers on the standards we expect them to demonstrate personally and which should be reflected in all aspects of the business. Each year, managers are required to sign up to playing their part in ensuring compliance with the policy within their area of responsibility. 2013 2014 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS PRIORITIES HUMAN RIGHTS BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION • Launched our landmark human rights framework based upon • Reinvigorate group values across all business practices the UN Guiding Principles, introducing a systematic approach and programmes to human rights due-diligence and risk assessment • Update and re-launch business ethics policy and RISK MANAGEMENT compliance programme • Conducted external review of risk management processes and HUMAN RIGHTS developed an action plan to increase group resources, improve • Continue to embed human rights risk assessment and systems and processes due-diligence into our wider business processes • Established a board Risk Committee and a separate risk RISK MANAGEMENT management function for the group • Embed improved risk management processes across the group • Updated risk assessment of the group’s anti-bribery policies including a governance risk and compliance (GRC) system and controls INTERNAL AUDIT INTERNAL AUDIT • Complete planned increase in internal audit staffing and • Completed 111 on-site audits to measure compliance with expanded remit G4S standards and controls • Undertake audits of the group’s new human rights policy in • External review of internal audit with an action plan to higher risk countries increase audit staffing and expand remit WHISTLE-BLOWING WHISTLE-BLOWING • Complete detailed review of the whistle-blowing • Enhanced communication of the group Safe2Say whistlearrangements covering the policy, process and systems blowing hotline through increased use of employee • Implement improvements generated by internal audit and communications channels group risk management reviews • Improved categorisation and reporting of issues raised through whistle-blowing processes Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 21 Safeguarding our integrity continued The importance of ethical behaviour is reinforced in recruitment Work on the human rights policy began in the summer of 2011 after processes, employee induction and on-boarding, employment contracts, official recognition of the new UN guiding principles. staff handbooks, general training and communications practices. During The first phase involved identifying key human rights relevant to the the initial roll out of our bribery prevention and anti-corruption vast array of services that G4S supplies. Phase two moved onto programme, over 25,000 employees received training in a variety of assessing how to integrate G4S’ human rights risks and challenges languages and formats. This focus continued throughout 2013, with with recognised international human rights standards and to identify over 500 new employees taking part in our online training programme. the group’s strengths and areas for improvement. Where non-compliance with ethical standards is identified, we take Throughout 2013 we have continued to embed our human rights great care to investigate issues, take immediate corrective action and framework into the organisation, through an ongoing process of learn from our experiences. This may be through our internal audit analysis, alignment and communication. Specifically, this has included: function, externally appointed auditors or, in some cases, independent external specialists. – The development of a due-diligence framework, providing an additional level of guidance to G4S managers and enabling them HUMAN RIGHTS to review their operations against the standards set in our human rights policy In April 2013, G4S launched its landmark human rights policy and guidance framework, alongside the annual update of our business ethics – Reviewing existing internal audit processes, standards and policy. This was followed by the development and implementation of a training programmes to ensure they reflect the relevant human due-diligence framework and self-assessment for businesses in higher rights elements risk countries. – Introducing a self-assessment checklist for G4S businesses operating Co-authored by Dr Hugo Slim, an internationally recognised human in higher risk country environments rights expert, and G4S management, the policy and its related – Introducing a specific human rights audit process for G4S businesses guidance aim to align the company’s human rights practices with the operating in higher risk country environments UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and to introduce In 2014, we are continuing to embed systematic human rights risk additional global guidelines for areas not currently covered by existing assessment and due-diligence into our wider business processes, G4S standards. as well as building further awareness of human rights issues and our The policy supports the continued development of an ethical and responsibility to respect them throughout all levels of the organisation. sustainable business model that encourages the improvement of standards, job creation, community support and broader beneficial RISK MANAGEMENT impacts on societies throughout the world. G4S has in place a general business risk assessment approach. A key feature is the requirement for our businesses to routinely assess and report on their risks, including the actions they are taking to mitigate these risks to an acceptable level. Risks are also assessed and reported on at a regional and group level. Country managers are required to update the group’s risk management questionnaire on an annual basis to confirm that the group’s antibribery and corruption policies and controls are fully implemented in their businesses. The risk assessment allows management to self-certify their compliance with the group’s policies and thereby provide assurance to all stakeholders. Group Internal Audit manages this process and is currently reviewing the results of the 2013 questionnaire. As in previous years, our external auditors KPMG review and report on our anti-bribery controls as part of the group’s year end audit process. During 2013 Deloitte was commissioned to undertake a review of the group risk management process. A number of areas for improvement were identified and as a result we have established a group risk management team led by a group director of risk and programme assurance, supported by a team of specialist risk managers. We have also established a board level Risk Committee, chaired by the chairman of the board. The committee will meet at least three times per year to assess the group’s risk appetite; to review the group’s principle residual risks; and to assess progress on the improvements being made to the risk management culture. 22 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Safeguarding our integrity Actions commenced in 2013 include: This meant that as the role of internal audit has expanded into further areas, whilst being inadequately resourced, its ability to focus on key – Central risk management team established issues such as the systemic assurance of the controls in key areas of the – Formulation of group board Risk Committee business was impaired. – Establishing regional Risk and Audit Committees As a result of the review, a number of actions are being taken during – Project to replace existing in-house risk management system with a 2014, including increasing the size of the audit team and increasing the best practice governance, risk and compliance system risk assurance coverage. Risk assessments have continued to show a high level of compliance Deloitte also assessed the G4S financial review process and concluded with the group’s ethics policy overall. Where gaps in compliance were that, as designed, the process compares favourably to others, but identified, management agreed corrective actions which will be followed that it needs to be undertaken more effectively in practice. As a result, up to ensure completion. a number of actions are being taken including the group finance function taking on responsibility for monitoring and reporting results Specific matters identified during 2013 in relation to some contracts to the group CFO and Audit Committee, rather than the head of held with the Ministry of Justice have undergone detailed external internal audit. independent review and key findings were made available directly to the board. During 2014, we will continue to focus on embedding improved risk management processes across the group and implementing our governance risk and compliance (GRC) system. INTERNAL AUDIT Internal audit is one of the cornerstones of ensuring high standards of financial and corporate responsibility by monitoring business compliance, including business ethics controls, throughout the group. At a group level we have an internal audit function consisting of 10 staff with four based in strategic locations around the world. The head of internal audit reports directly to the group Audit Committee. The group internal audit team’s resourcing, plans and work are reviewed by the group Audit Committee. Key elements of the role and scope of the group internal audit function The Institute of Internal Auditors’ standard is that at least every five are described briefly below: years there should be an effectiveness review of the internal audit – The audit plan ensures that all of our businesses, in all of the function conducted by independent external consultants. countries in which we operate – including those in small and remote In line with best practice, during 2013 Deloitte was commissioned by locations – receive at least one visit during a three-year period the Audit Committee to undertake a review of the internal audit – The managers of each business are given assurance on their function. The key conclusions of the review were that the team was compliance with group standards and any remedial action to be considered to be well organised and diligent, but operating with a taken is identified. The group sets and continually enhances standards restricted compliance remit and limited resources that did not enable which all business units must achieve. Current standards cover a it to function as it should. wide range of essential business activities including human resources, health and safety business ethics, finance, procurement, IT, legal and insurance, customer contracts and operations. During 2013 the scope was increased to include balance sheet reviews to give further assurance on the integrity of financial reporting – Strict reporting lines ensure that all issues encountered, whether classified as control related, financial or ethical, are brought to the attention of local and regional management. Serious issues are escalated to the group executive team and the group Audit Committee – All businesses are required to meet group standards and hence smaller businesses operating in more challenging environments and with more limited resources can find this difficult to achieve. The audits help to identify this situation and make sure that the PEOPLE AT WORK necessary support is provided to ensure these businesses can IMAGE TBC operate in line with the required standards – There is a thorough follow-up process to each audit where we ensure that items raised during the process are addressed and resolved in a timely manner. Businesses are required to provide written updates on the implementation of actions. In more serious cases, the business will be revisited to ensure all audit points have been addressed Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 23 Safeguarding our integrity continued In G4S we also have internal audit and assurance resources at regional During 2013, the internal audit function carried out six investigations and country level in our major businesses. These functions report into issues raised through whistle-blowing. Other investigations were directly into regional and country management. carried out by regional management with the results shared with the head of internal audit. Globally, approximately 150 employees carry out internal audits on general business controls, including key areas such as financial controls, Types of issues investigated and actions resulting include: operational and contract compliance, health and safety and quality – Staff grievances and concerns including pay and conditions and (ISO) assurance. management behaviour – investigations are undertaken in Financial reviews are completed by our group and regional finance conjunction with regional human resources management to teams. These reviews ensure that individual businesses undergo a ensure valid grievances are addressed and improvements made thorough examination of the balance sheet each year to ensure that – Unethical behaviour by management including alleged abuse of the group’s accounting policies and standards are adhered to. These give position and fraud – all issues are investigated and in proven cases management assurance that financial exposures and risks are properly action taken against individuals including disciplinary action and identified and recognised. dismissal. In the case of fraud the group has a zero tolerance The service excellence centres (SECs) formed in 2012 work with approach and reports such cases to the local police and wherever G4S country operations to focus on operational efficiencies, service possible seeks criminal prosecution standards and development of technology to support service delivery – Concerns regarding operational procedures – investigations are and share best practice. conducted with regional management to ensure that G4S standards As well as the internal audit and assurance functions and SECs we also are being properly followed. Examples reported during the year have external audits including: include alleged misuse of company IT equipment and the treatment of detainees in our care – External auditors (KPMG), who audit our annual financial accounts and provide reports on any control weaknesses The chart below shows an analysis of issues raised in relation to business practice standards, corporate governance and employee – Specific customer audits where there are outsourced contracts relations during internal control audits from 2012 to 2013. (eg UK Government reviews of contracts and service levels) In 2013, the internal audit team performed 111 on-site internal ANALYSIS OF ISSUES RAISED control audits. This is less than 2012 due to two factors: – A reduction in the group internal audit headcount was balanced 68 by increased resource from external auditors. External auditors Employee relations 75 provided extended assurance work on financial controls in the UK and IT controls within the main global businesses. Following the Corporate 14 Deloitte review of group internal audit, responsibility for carrying governance 11 out extended assurance work will return to the group internal audit team in 2014 Standards of 566 business practice – Anti-bribery audit work for 2013 was generally covered as part of 665 the standard country visit audit scope. In 2012, a programme of 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 standalone country anti-bribery audits was undertaken with over 30 such audits completed during the year 2013 2012 The chart below shows the internal audit activity during the last two years (2012-2013) in terms of assignments completed in different areas: In 2013, there was an average of 5.8 issues raised per audit (2012 – 5.0 issues). This was slightly higher than 2012 which was at a lower INTERNAL AUDIT ACTIVITY level than in prior years. The proportion of issues raised in the different categories (standards of business practice, corporate governance and employee relations) are broadly in line with 2012. In 2014 our priorities are to: No of investigations 6 and offsite reviews 6 – Complete planned increase in internal audit staffing and expanded remit No of financial reviews 2 – Identify and address any material gaps in our audit coverage of the 1 key business risks and activities 111 – Establish an improved control model to provide assurance on key No of internal control audits 146 risks identified from improved risk management process 0 30 60 90 120 150 – Improved reporting of the combined audit and assurance activities to management 2013 2012 – Undertake audits of the group’s new human rights policy for our higher risk countries 24 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Safeguarding our integrity WHISTLE-BLOWING The chart below shows an analysis of the types of whistle-blowing concerns raised at group level over the last two years. To ensure compliance with our business ethics code and policies we provide whistle-blowing facilities, so that any practices which do not ANALYSIS OF WHISTLE-BLOWING CONCERNS comply with these standards can be reported confidentially and investigated thoroughly. G4S requires all businesses to provide employees with a facility to report concerns locally to a senior manager. Such issues might include 10 Other ethical issues alleged fraud, misrepresentation, theft, harassment, discrimination or 10 non-compliance with regulations, legislation, policies or procedures. Financial, tax and 0 Employees who have concerns about behaviour which is contrary to regulatory compliance the group standards are advised to raise their concerns, anonymously 5 if they wish, with their local human resources or finance director in the 38 first instance. Alternatively they can raise concerns through the local Employee relations 24 business telephone hotline or email address which all businesses are 0 10 20 30 40 required to have in place. Whistle-blowing reports or allegations which are received from third parties such as former employees are taken very seriously and are investigated and appropriate action taken. 2013 2012 Employees can also report serious concerns at a corporate level through the group’s global employee hotline service (Safe2Say). The In 2013, there was a 23% increase in issues raised by employees Safe2Say service is a 24 hour confidential hotline with toll free calls, through whistle-blowing at a corporate level. The increase is believed dedicated multi-language capability and an internet-based case tool to be as a result of the improved communication of the hotline to for the effective investigation and response to employee concerns. employees. Over 79% of the issues reported relate to HR issues with the remainder relating to other ethical issues. Over 85% of the issues All concerns reported via Safe2Say or received through other means raised during 2013 have been fully investigated to date and action taken at a corporate level are reviewed directly by the head of internal audit where required. The remainder will be resolved during the first quarter who ensures appropriate follow-up and investigation. Serious issues are of 2014. investigated by the group internal audit team. Where investigations reveal evidence of unethical conduct, disciplinary action is taken which Within the wider organisation, approximately 5,000 calls are received may range from a formal reprimand to termination of employment. via our network of local whistle-blowing hotlines. The majority of these calls relate to routine employee concerns and are managed at a local The priority for 2013 was to ensure that the whistle-blowing reporting level. Businesses are instructed to categorise calls so that those of a continued to operate fully at both a local and a corporate level. serious nature can be escalated to the regional office or corporate The numbers and types of calls received have been monitored and level for investigation. the focus has been on ensuring that all employees are aware of the hotline facilities and information on their appropriate use. Steps have Actions taken in 2013 to improve the hotline process include: been taken to promote the corporate Safe2Say hotline as well as the – A campaign to enhance communication of the group hotline local hotlines. (and local hotlines) via employee payslips. The new policy resulted We have also improved the reporting and investigation of serious issues in an increase in businesses reporting the use of payslips as a raised by ensuring that these are routinely provided to the head of regular means of reminding employees of the numbers to call internal audit. – Completed a further survey of the local hotlines to monitor usage and nature of calls and report on these to the CSR and Audit Committees – Introduced categorisation of calls to ensure focus on high priority matters and to assist in reporting to the Audit Committee Throughout 2014, we aim to complete a detailed review of the whistle-blowing and reporting arrangements, covering the policy, process and systems, and implement its recommendations. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 25 Securing our people As one of the world’s largest Securing private employers, our approach to people management has a material impact on our our people PEOPLE business and is a key focus for our management. 26 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Securing our people Only with the expertise and commitment of our HEALTH AND SAFETY people will we be able to meet our customers’ The nature of our work and the environments in which we operate expectations and deliver on our organisational goals. expose some of our employees to a high risk of harm. Mitigating and managing these risks so that our people can return home safe every To secure this commitment we focus on the areas day remains our paramount concern. set out in the human resources standards below, The group health and safety strategy sets the framework and provides which we believe have the greatest impact; we a vision of how each business can progress from a level of compliance believe that by doing this we stand the best chance with health and safety regulation to a level of differentiation where we of attracting, recruiting, engaging and retaining the lead the industry in health and safety. best people. We recognise that attaining the differentiation level (below) across the group will only really be achieved where a culture of health and safety prevails and where thinking and acting safely is the norm for everyone. Our human resources standards have been in place for a number of years and are recognised as setting Compliance focus the framework for good employment practices across the whole group. Ethical focus These standards cover: – Acquisition of best people – Employee engagement Integration focus – Learning and development – Diversity and inclusion Differentiation focus – Performance and remuneration 2013 2014 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2013 PRIORITIES FOR 2014 HEALTH AND SAFETY HEALTH AND SAFETY • Completion of three further critical country reviews of health • Establish a new group value called Safety First – to ensure and safety absolute focus on health and safety in everything we do • Introduction of Driving Force Rules, a campaign to promote • Introduction of performance-related objectives linked to health safe driving, piloted in seven countries and safety for our global leadership management group • Enhanced incident reporting and investigation processes • Continue to embed group values in everything we do and reinforce them at every opportunity TALENT AND SUCCESSION • Rolled out succession planning to all key management roles • Induction training for new health and safety practitioners on G4S policies and practices • Piloted online performance reviews in a number of businesses • Completion of further critical country reviews • Completed two talent review processes assessing over 1,300 managers • Roll out of the Driving Force Rules campaign to all businesses DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION • Continued monitoring of health and safety KPI data • Continued extension of cultural awareness training tool TALENT AND SUCCESSION • Ongoing work to increase employment opportunities for • Launch of the revised senior leadership programme disabled people and veterans • Implementation of a new individual based development EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT programme for people operating at a strategic level • Completed third global employee engagement survey, in which • Development and implementation of the senior management 62% of employees (over 380,000 people) shared their views on-boarding tool and overall levels of engagement increased from 80% to 82% • Extension of the use and data captured on our talent • Conducted global senior management survey with 81% of management system senior managers participating and an average favourable response rate of 83% DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION • Review opportunities for embedding cultural awareness training • Increasing diversity in talent pools and management population EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT • Analysis of results from the 2013 employee engagement survey • Implement the actions arising from the 2013 global employee engagement survey • Continue to maintain good union and employee relations at all levels Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 27 Securing our people continued In 2013, we focused on putting the foundations in place to support a safety culture, establishing levels of health and safety resources, WORK-RELATED FATALITIES BY REGION gathering information on how health and safety is perceived across the group and piloting tools and training that will help us share health and safety knowledge and understanding as we seek to improve. In 2014, 60 59 we will build on these foundations and provide our senior management 55 population with specific training to enable them to set health and safety behaviours for their businesses to follow. We are also reviewing the skills and training required by health and safety practitioners 40 so that they can support senior managers in implementing the strategy effectively. 26 With a global fleet of around 35,000 vehicles, many of the health and 20 21 22 safety campaigns and tools which were piloted in 2013 related to road 15 safety. Incidents involving vehicles result in many of the workplace 10 9 injuries and fatalities across the group and are a major risk we believe 3 4 3 1 0 we can reduce. Using information from past experiences, a road safety steering group developed a set of standards, rules and training materials Africa Asia/ Latin Europe North UK & Total Middle East America America Ireland which were piloted in seven countries. Feedback on the pilots has been very positive and the focus on road safety appears to have had an 2012 2013 impact. There has been a reduction in road traffic-related fatalities in a number of the seven pilot countries from 17 in 2012 to five in 2013. An online health and safety community for sharing best practice was In 2014, the materials developed for the pilot countries will be made another tool developed in 2013. Making this tool available to all health widely available to all businesses and we will continue our focus in and safety practitioners will facilitate more knowledge sharing about this area. incidents and unsafe working conditions or practices so that continuous During 2013, 55 colleagues lost their lives in the line of duty, principally improvements can be made. as a result of attacks by third parties and road traffic incidents. Their loss Underpinning the strategy is a set of core health and safety standards is deeply felt by their families and their colleagues and is a matter of against which businesses self-assess every year. Compliance is great concern for everyone at G4S. This has caused us to redouble our monitored and periodically audited with reviews of performance at efforts to mitigate the risks faced each day by many of our colleagues. a regional, group and board level via the CSR Committee. The Group Executive team is leading a programme to strengthen safety Our critical country reviews provide further insight to ensure health leadership and safety practices across the group. We have improved and safety incidents have been thoroughly investigated and the our incident investigation and reporting process to gather more recommendations acted on. These CCRs are conducted by internal detailed information on root causes and to help businesses ensure health and safety experts who travel to different countries where there all recommendations are fully implemented. have been work-related fatalities. As well as independently assessing the health and safety processes in the countries visited, the reviews WORK-RELATED FATALITIES BY CATEGORY also help to raise awareness and share good practices. In 2013 CCRs were conducted in Malaysia, Iraq and the Philippines by health and safety experts from Africa and the UK and Ireland regions. The resulting 60 59 action plans are monitored at a regional and group level. 55 Health and safety information on lost time injuries and incidents is also gathered as part of the monthly Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and helps identify businesses where there are higher risks of harm to our 40 employees and we can ensure appropriate health and safety resources are allocated. 20 20 21 21 TALENT AND SUCCESSION 18 17 17 Building a strong pipeline of talented individuals is crucial to the company’s long-term success. It will help ensure we remain 0 competitive and develop the business to meet the emerging needs Attack Non-attack Road Total of our customers. 2012 2013 In 2013, the talent management and organisational design processes were more closely aligned. This creates a more seamless process where skills gaps identified during organisational design reviews can be quickly addressed, and colleagues affected by organisational changes can more easily transfer to other parts of the business where suitable opportunities exist. 28 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Securing our people Providing development opportunities early in employees’ careers helps Succession plans are constantly being updated and are reviewed the company retain high-potential individuals who are keen to progress. formally at a regional and board level every six months. The new online talent management system was further extended and Reflecting the importance of talent and succession planning, a number now captures succession data on over 1,300 senior employees. Early of the group’s core HR standards are focused in this area. The standards career interventions are now possible for managers whose information require businesses to ensure that succession plans and development was not previously visible. The additional information also helps identify reviews take place. In 2013, some businesses used the new talent those in the talent pools from which future leaders can be sourced. management system to facilitate online development reviews, making it Over 200 employees are considered to have the potential to progress easier to record and search the information captured. Other businesses to a larger and more complex role in time. This includes both new will be encouraged to make use of the tool in 2014. employees and existing employees identified through career reviews. Providing good development opportunities for this group is crucial for DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION their retention and we will continue our approach of filling as many senior management appointments as possible with internal candidates. With employees from most nationalities across five continents, the Succession plans are constantly revamped and a refreshed leadership organisation is very diverse. We believe that this diversity is a source of programme will also be launched in 2014, along with a series of competitive advantage. It helps us grow in new markets and increases individually tailored development activities for senior leaders. the potential for fresh ideas and the creation of innovative solutions to business problems. It also helps us to better understand the varying We expect our leaders to add value quickly so thorough on-boarding needs of our customers and the challenges they face. Harnessing this is vital for both the individuals and the organisation. It is also important diversity is only possible if employees feel included and able to perform to ensure that each new employee has a good understanding of the at their best. group’s values and standards and what is expected of them as an employee to live up to those standards. A new online induction tool for senior managers which will address these issues is currently being developed and will be available in 2014. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 29 Securing our people continued GENDER DIVERSITY (%) Board 9 2 Our partnership with Remploy over the last three years has resulted in more than 150 people with disabilities and health conditions securing employment with G4S in the UK. This important partnership underpins Senior management 281 30 G4S’s commitment to diversity and inclusion in the workplace and its determination to create a workforce that reflects the communities it serves. Total employees 535,930 82,070 Although metrics in this area help us to assess our progress, to explain 0 20 40 60 80 100 our diversity to stakeholders and to diagnose areas to focus on, we seek to measure more than just numbers. Feedback from managers about the diversity and inclusion training courses and scores on Male Female diversity-related questions in surveys are also important indicators In line with our employee engagement strategy we seek to create an of our performance as an inclusive organisation. In the 2013 global inclusive environment by ensuring that attraction, recruitment and employee engagement survey, over 82% of employees responded training are based on skills and competence and not unfairly biased in favourably to the question about whether the company respects and any way. If discriminatory practices are identified they are eliminated values people from different backgrounds. This represents an increase and employees have the opportunity to raise concerns without fear from 79% in 2011. of reprisal. Our online cultural awareness tool and various training materials developed for senior and first line managers all help to EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT raise awareness of the importance of valuing difference and increase Our employee engagement strategy is based on the internally understanding of the cultural norms that affect employees’ behaviours developed PRIDE model shown below. at work. Businesses continue to use the diversity and inclusion assessment P rotect their basic needs process to guide their diversity and inclusion plans. Where there are R espect them as individuals specific diversity challenges being faced by businesses additional support from external organisations has been sought, such as from I nvolve them in the business Opportunity Now, the campaigning organisation for better gender D evelop their skills and potential balance in UK businesses. E ngage them fully Throughout our group, we continue to partner with organisations that extend our reach to candidates with disabilities and military veterans to The principle is that where employees feel Protected, Respected, ensure we have access to the best people. Involved, Developed and Engaged they are more likely to perform at Our commitment to the US ‘Joining Forces Program’ was recognised by their best, provide customers with exceptional service and be great President Barack Obama at the White House in April 2013. Since the advocates for the organisation. With over 618,000 staff employed programme began in 2011, we have successfully recruited over 12,000 across the world, ensuring they are proud of the company and are military veterans into G4S USA. happy to recommend G4S as a place to work to others is a vital element of our employee engagement strategy. 30 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Securing our people The strategy has been in place for a number of years and is the basis Providing welfare and support for employees is vital, particularly when for our engagement policies and practices. To ensure that these policies they are injured in the line of duty. Counselling and practical help is are working and our employees are able to share their perceptions offered to individuals and their families in these circumstances. In of the business and the working environment, we conduct global addition, the company provides financial support via a trust fund to employee surveys every two years. The survey questions are aligned employees whose lives have been affected by natural disasters or to our PRIDE model and also invite employees to give more general who are suffering personal hardship. In 2013, grants totalling over feedback on what improvements could be made to increase their £100,000 were made from the Employee Trust Fund, with further satisfaction. In 2013, over 380,000 employees participated in the survey. funds made available by G4S regionally. These included grants for This represented a 62% response rate, up from 35% in 2011 when employees in Mozambique whose homes were destroyed by heavy survey was last conducted. Overall levels of engagement also improved floods and employees in the Philippines affected by a typhoon. from an average of 80% to 82%. Encouragingly, the number of See page 39 for further information about our employee favourable responses to questions relating to health and safety showed welfare programmes. the most positive increase since the last survey although there is still scope for further improvement. Results have been shared with each We are able to measure and monitor progress on employee business and work is now underway in individual countries to address engagement both from an employee and a business perspective. areas which our employees highlighted as a concern. Data such as employee turnover, stability and days lost due to industrial action is captured and reviewed on a monthly basis whilst The results for the second senior leadership survey conducted in the feedback from employee surveys and employee relations forums 2013 were also pleasing, with 81% of senior managers participating provides useful insights to the underlying causes of employee turnover in the survey and an overall favourable score of 83%. The survey or industrial unrest. aims to identify the key drivers for attraction and retention of senior leaders and how well the company delivers against these drivers. Feedback from the survey has already informed changes in our approaches to executive compensation and development. Our partnerships with trade unions provide us with further opportunities to obtain feedback from employees about their experiences in the business. With over 30% of our employees covered by collective agreements, feedback from union meetings at a local, regional and global level is valuable and enables us to act quickly when we learn about matters that could affect our business or customers. Both the Ethical Employment Partnership and European Works Council are important vehicles for maintaining social dialogue and joint problem solving and we will continue to maintain the good relations that we have with them. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 31 Securing our environment Alongside the risks faced by Securing our people and infrastructure from climate change are the challenges presented by the economic environment ENVIRONMENT EN ENT climate. Increased fuel costs and the introduction of ‘carbon taxes’ ensure that energy efficiency and environmental impact remain important to the effectiveness and sustainability of our business. 32 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Securing our environment We recognise the impact that our business activities CARBON FOOTPRINT can have on the environment and are committed The key principles of our climate action programme are set out in to managing this impact in a responsible manner. our environmental policy. This policy, together with our environmental strategy and supported by our green building policy and supplier code Through our climate action programme we of conduct, outlines our key commitments to help create a sustainable measure, report and reduce the intensity of our business to protect and preserve the environment and its resources for environmental impact. We have partnered with future generations. our customers, employees and suppliers to invest We have used WBCSD* and WRI GHG** protocols to track our in energy efficient technologies and reduce waste Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions – vehicle fleet, fuel, refrigerants, and electricity usage for G4S occupied businesses over which we have and water consumption. financial and operational control. In addition, we measured Scope 3 emissions generated by our employees’ business air travel. We are very proud of the progress we have The businesses measured in our 2013 carbon footprint represent made and the steps we have taken to develop 94.5% of the group’s operations, across an 11 month period. This level an environmentally sustainable company by of measurement, including each of our main service types, allows us to accurately calculate the GHG emissions for 12 months across 100% of increasing our energy efficiency and reducing our the group. environmental impact through new ways of working. * World Business Council for Sustainable Development. ** World Resources Institute Green House Gas. 2013 2014 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS PRIORITIES Achieved an overall reduction in carbon intensity of 4.9% during Continue to implement energy efficiency strategies to reduce 2013, representing a reduction of 1.9% in actual emissions carbon intensity by at least 4.5% per annum Achieved an overall reduction in carbon intensity of 23.5% Continue analysis of electricity and gas consumption and identify between 2009 and 2013, exceeding our stated target of 20% initiatives to improve energy efficiency within our facilities Continued focus on increasing the efficiency of our vehicle fleet • G4S North America reduced vehicle emissions by 11% overall • G4S UK achieved a reduction in emissions from its cash in transit fleet of some 7% Our environmental policy is available online at: www.g4s.com/cap Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 33 Securing our environment continued The G4S total carbon footprint, extrapolated to cover 100% of the t/CO2e PER £M REVENUE business, equates to some 559,000 t/CO2e. Through operational year-on-year growth, we anticipate our direct carbon emissions to grow proportionately in line with revenue and have therefore established a G4S average carbon intensity of 72.3 tonnes of CO2e per £1m of 72.3t/CO e 2 100 revenue at 2013 exchange rates. Applying the same rates, our carbon 94.4 88.7 intensity for 2012 was 76.0 t/CO2e per £1m. 83.6 80 76.0 A core aim of our climate action strategy has been to reduce the 72.3 group’s carbon intensity by 4.5% per annum since 2009. We are pleased 60 to report that this challenging target continues to be met, with our achievement of a 23.5% reduction in carbon intensity since 2009 – 40 exceeding our stated target. This reduction translates to a real reduction of 4.9% in carbon 20 emissions against a 24.4% growth in the business during the same period, much of which includes carbon emissions from services which 0 our customers have outsourced to G4S. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 This positive achievement is a realisation of the long-term efforts of G4S to increase the fuel efficiency of our business. ENERGY REDUCTION – FLEET KPI CHART In order to provide our customers and their communities with a safe and secure environment, we utilise a fleet of approximately 35,000 2009 2013 vehicles, including security patrol vehicles, prisoner escort vehicles and CO2e emissions per £1m revenue 94.4 t 72.3 t armoured cash transportation vehicles. It is this fleet that produces Average CO2e emissions per employee 1,169 kg 983 kg some 61% of our carbon emissions and where we focus our primary Average CO2e emissions per vehicle* 13.75 t 11.33 t efforts to reducing our energy consumption. Average CO2e emissions per building m2* 97.3 kg 107.8 kg Since 2009, we have been introducing a range of fuel efficiency measures into our fleet management, from real-time monitoring * Including refrigerant. of driver behaviour and eco-driver training to investing in new technologies such as solar cells to power ancillary systems, stop-start systems and vehicle replacement programmes to introduce lighter and more efficient alternatives. These measures have helped us to realise a reduction in the total emissions of our vehicle fleet of 10% since 2009, an average reduction per vehicle of 16.5 % in the same period. G4S UK’s fleet includes 1,730 cash in transit vehicles, which account for around 33% of the region’s carbon emissions. Since 2012, G4S has cut the emissions of this fleet by some 7% (1,950 t/CO2e), achieved through the implementation of a comprehensive fuel efficiency programme across the business. G4S has reduced the number of vehicles in the fleet by 126, removing the older models of vehicle which were considered less fuel efficient and, where required, replacing them with more efficient models. The G4S UK fleet utilises satellite tracking to enable real-time monitoring and feedback on driver behaviour, reducing traffic accidents and increasing fuel efficiency. In 2013, the operations teams have focused on driver behaviour; improvements can be seen with the reduction of engine idling by 40%, which equates to 60,000 hours per month (at 2 litres per hour – 120,000 litres reduction per month). New technology is being explored to map routes more efficiently and allow drivers to alter their routes whilst out on the road, thus helping to improve our fuel efficiency and cut carbon emissions even further. 34 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Securing our environment ENERGY REDUCTION – BUILDINGS During 2014 we will continue to analyse our electricity and gas consumption in order to assess trends and identify initiatives to G4S occupies a wide range of buildings across the globe, covering more improve efficiency within our facilities. than 1.6 million square metres. Our facilities include corporate offices, employee accommodation, detention centres, industrial cash processing As one of the world’s largest employers, we realise that our employees centres and vehicle depots. are critical to the success of our climate action strategy. Since 2009, ‘The Big Think’ campaign has helped our employees engage with G4S’ Around 34% of our carbon emissions are generated by the energy climate action programme, demonstrating steps they can take to and fuel consumption from these buildings and so we continually carry increase energy efficiency at work and home. out a series of replacement programmes to implement lower energy environmental solutions wherever possible. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 35 Securing our communities As one of the world’s largest Securing our private employers, G4S already makes an important contribution to the communities in which communities COMMUNITIES ES we live and work through our payment of tax and the employment of over 618,000 people across six continents. G4S believes the company and its employees have a duty to assist people who are less fortunate. This is embodied in our corporate responsibility philosophy of ‘giving back to the community’. 36 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Securing our communities COMMUNITY INVESTMENT In 2013, we: The social and economic impact of G4S reaches well beyond its – Invested around £2 million in charitable community programmes working environment and touches the lives of millions of people and the welfare of employees facing health difficulties or financial around the world. hardships in developing countries G4S community investment programmes are largely decentralised Comprised of: to allow our businesses to respond to the issues and needs of their • Provision of goods, services and financial investment to more local markets and communities. We do this through partnerships and than 400 community programmes across 76 countries, with a campaigns with organisations in those communities and supporting combined value of £1.34 million the health, education and welfare of children and young people, with the wider aim of helping to raise aspirations and reduce crime in • Increased investment of £647,500 into projects to support those communities. the long-term welfare and development of employees in development countries – Facilitated over 26,000 hours of employee volunteering with charitable concerns and local community good causes – Another £92,900 was generously donated by our employees and other third parties through G4S facilitated programmes 2013 2014 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2013 PRIORITIES FOR 2014 Participated in academic study of the direct and indirect social Continue to build on wider community investment to and economic impacts of G4S within the UK, demonstrating demonstrate the impact on the people we strive to support support of 68,000 jobs across the country and a total Gross Participate in further academic studies of the direct and indirect Added Value of £1.95 billon contribution to the UK economy social and economic impacts of G4S within its key markets Invested over £1.34 million in charitable community programmes Continue to support the welfare and long-term development of Following the conclusion of the five year flagship G4S 4teen employees facing hardship programme, we established G4S 4teen legacy community programmes in Botswana, Colombia, Estonia, India, Nigeria, Philippines, and Thailand Matched £28,000 of employee fundraising for local community good causes Increased investment of £647,500 into projects to support the long-term welfare and development of employees facing health or financial hardship Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 37 Securing our communities continued Bhubesi Pride: Africa Habitat for Humanity: USA In 2013, G4S Africa partnered with Bhubesi Pride, a development G4S USA has had a long relationship with Habitat for Humanity, a through sport initiative for a two-year period. G4S and Bhubesi Pride charitable organisation which provide affordable housing across the aim to unite children through rugby, address health education and life globe. Both G4S and Habitat for Humanity believe that providing skills, empower local teaching staff, providing equipment, resources, homes for people in need can help to provide a critical foundation training and knowledge, and inspire sustainable development by for breaking the cycle of poverty and support long-term welfare and developing young leaders and building relevant relationships. development. In 2013, G4S worked with Habitat for Humanity on a number of projects in California, Florida, and North Carolina. In addition In addition to the financial and logistical support provided by G4S to to financial support of over $65,000, G4S provided volunteers who the Bhubesi Pride initiative, over 270 G4S employees gave their time to contributed almost 770 hours of work to construct and fit-out support the activities that were offered alongside the official coaches. sustainable homes, of which 540 hours were paid volunteering. The initiative reached over 2,400 children in 2013, and we are looking forward to the start of the 2014 tour later this year. Match It At G4S we recognise the crucial impact that our employees can make Crimestoppers Fearless: UK by supporting good causes in their local community. To help support Building on its existing relationship with the charity Crimestoppers, their efforts, G4S runs a matched fundraising programme, through G4S UK has entered into a partnership to recruit and train volunteer which it matches the funds raised by employees for local charities or G4S employees to deliver Fearless, the charity’s youth focused community good causes, up to the value of £500 per application. crime-reduction programme. Once their training has been completed, our volunteers will work with teachers, youth workers, sports coaches In 2013, “Match It” made over 70 payments to good causes matching and others who come into regular contact with young people and over £28,000 of employee fundraising, supporting a children’s hospital together help educate and empower young people with the knowledge ward, veterans’ injury rehabilitation, and equipment for schools. and choices to enable them to make their community a safer place. Club Happiness: Austria Since 2010, G4S has supported the ‘Verein Happiness’ (Club Happiness) initiative in Austria, helping children and young people from socially disadvantaged backgrounds with psychological problems through therapeutic contact with horses. Through their contact with horses, young people can build their confidence and self-esteem and calm hyper-activity. Young people with physical disabilities show improved flexibility, balance and muscle strength as a result of this interaction. ‘Verein Happiness’ also works to organise sporting competitions and summer camps, offers free training courses, supplies specialist equipment and provides qualified coaching and expertise for young people with disabilities. To find out more, visit www.g4s.com/matchit 38 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Securing our communities SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC IMPACT We have continued to support a wide range of employee welfare programmes across the globe, from education and scholarships for Alongside our charitable concerns, G4S brings a range of significant front-line employees and their children in Bangladesh, Brazil, Chile, Egypt and far-reaching social and economic impacts to the communities and Guatemala, building new homes in Colombia, Peru and Romania, to in which we work. We directly benefit our many employees and life-changing medical care for employees’ children in Egypt, Guatemala suppliers through the salaries, benefits and payments we make for and Peru. goods and services, and indirectly support even more companies and local communities as locally procured suppliers and employees In total, G4S invested £647,500 from the Employee Trust and other make purchases and generate further economic activity through welfare funds during 2013 into programmes to support the welfare their spending. and development of our employees. In 2013, we commissioned an independent study of the direct and indirect social and economic impacts of G4S in the UK during 2012. The study, by Nottingham Business School and Warwick Economics & GROSS VALUE ADDED IMPACTS OF G4S UK OPERATIONS Development, demonstrated the economic contribution of G4S to BY UK REGION (GVA £m) UK national and local economies in terms of employment, output and Gross Value Added. Covering the period of 2012, G4S: – Made a £1.95 billion total contribution to the UK economy, around 0.14%. overall – Supported 68,000 jobs in the UK through direct and indirect employment – Purchased goods and services worth £576 million from UK businesses – Generated £550 million in total tax receipts for the UK Exchequer Of the 12 UK regions, G4S supported eight of them with economic Scotland contributions of over £100 million. The largest of these was £323 million Gross Value Added to the economy of London. Relative to their size, G4S made the largest contribution to the Northern Irish and Welsh economies, supporting 2.5% and 1.7% of their economies respectively. The study recognised the wider social and economic benefits brought by G4S to the communities in which we work, including the secure North transportation and provision of approximately a third of all the UK’s Northern East circulating cash to businesses and consumers, over 500,000 security Ireland North officer visits to business premises, the provision of rehabilitation West Yorkshire programmes to offenders, and the delivery of the Work Programme and the which helped bring employment opportunities to 35,000 long-term Humber unemployed people in the UK. EMPLOYEE WELFARE East Midlands As one of the world’s largest private employers, G4S understands the West importance of supporting the long-term welfare and development of Midlands East of the people who make up our organisation in regions of the world England where large parts of the community are at risk of poverty or Wales natural disaster. London As well as offering employment opportunities, training and development, we also provide practical and financial assistance at South East times of hardship and when the need is greatest. South West In the days that immediately followed the devastating typhoon Haiyan, a G4S team was mobilised and travelled from their HQ in Manila in the Philippines to the affected areas in order to search for and provide support to the many G4S employees, customers and their families who £69m – £90m needed aid following the typhoon. Since then, financial assistance has £90m – £101m been provided to over 120 G4S employees and their families, helping £101m – £213m them to rebuild their lives and recover from the impact of Haiyan. £213m – £293m Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 39 Supporting data SAFEGUARDING OUR INTEGRITY INTERNAL AUDITS The charts below show the group internal audit activity during the last five years in terms of assignments completed in different areas: INTERNAL CONTROL AUDITS FINANCIAL REVIEWS INVESTIGATIONS AND OFFSITE REVIEWS 150 150 146 40 50 50 141 36 125 116 111 30 40 100 30 75 20 20 50 10 25 10 10 6 6 2 2 4 0 0 1 1 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Issues raised The charts below show an analysis of the issues raised in relation to business practice standards, corporate governance and employee relations during group internal control audits from 2009 to 2013. STANDARDS OF BUSINESS PRACTICE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE EMPLOYEE RELATIONS 700 681 40 80 668 663 665 37 77 75 600 68 566 30 60 500 52 400 23 20 40 300 34 14 200 10 11 20 8 100 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 WHISTLE-BLOWING CONCERNS The charts below show an analysis of the whistle-blowing concerns raised at group level over the last five years. EMPLOYEE RELATIONS FINANCIAL, TAX AND REGULATORY OTHER ETHICAL ISSUES COMPLIANCE 50 6 6 6 35 43 31 5 5 30 40 38 35 4 25 30 20 24 3 3 20 19 15 14 2 10 9 10 10 10 1 5 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 40 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Supporting data SECURING OUR PEOPLE EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Global union membership % Union membership % Collective agreements FRONT LINE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (%) 2013 2012 2013 2012 Africa 26% 32% 56% 50% Asia 3% 3% 11% 14% Africa 93 7 Middle East 2% 0% 0% 0% Asia 91 9 Latin America 33% 10% 38% 27% Middle East 94 6 Europe 36% 32% 66% 65% Latin America 84 16 North America 14% 20% 18% 27% UK & Ireland 29% 25% 84% 69% Europe 83 17 Total 17% 16% 33% 35% North America 75 25 UK & Ireland 77 23 Employee turnover 0 20 40 60 80 100 2013 2012 Africa 14.4% 15.7% Male Female Asia 41.0% 37.6% Middle East 38.5% 27.0% Latin America 32.6% 33.9% Europe 25.3% 26.9% MANAGERS DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (%) North America 25.9% 23.7% UK & Ireland 12.7% 11.1% Total 29.6% 28.1% Africa 81 19 Asia 85 15 Employee service Middle East 93 7 2013 2012 < 12 months 170,959 180,573 Latin America 80 20 1 – 2 year 113,798 108,268 Europe 84 16 2 – 5 years 143,873 146,226 North America 71 29 5 – 10 years 117,200 104,713 UK & Ireland 67 33 0 20 40 60 80 100 10 + years 72,170 62,720 Total 618,000 602,500 Male Female HEALTH AND SAFETY WORK-RELATED FATALITIES BY REGION WORK-RELATED FATALITIES BY CATEGORY 60 59 60 59 55 55 40 40 26 20 21 22 20 20 21 21 18 17 17 15 10 9 3 4 3 1 0 0 Africa Asia/ Latin Europe North UK & Total Attack Non-attack Road Total Middle East America America Ireland 2012 2013 2012 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 41 Supporting data continued SECURING OUR ENVIRONMENT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS t/CO2e PER £M REVENUE Kg/CO2e PER AVERAGE EMPLOYEE 72.3 t/CO2e 983kg/CO e 2 100 1,200 1,169 94.4 1,089 88.7 1,040 83.6 1,000 959 983 80 76.0 72.3 800 60 600 40 400 20 200 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Kg/CO2e PER AVERAGE BUILDING t/CO2e PER AVERAGE VEHICLE* (m2)* 107.8 kg/CO2e 11.3t/CO e 2 120 14 13.7 107.8 12.6 12.5 100 97.3 99.5 12 11.3 94.0 95.0 10.8 10 80 8 60 6 40 4 20 2 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 * including refrigerant 42 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Supporting data DIRECT & INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION Source – Buildings 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Electricity – mWh 222,222 214,975 230,146 222,069 220,072 Gas – mWh 65,405 97,152 65,543 71,583 65,510 Oil – mWh 9,318 2,510 25,968 25,248 21,894 Other – mWh 697 2,041 3,882 4,130 – Other – Litres 8,227,218 6,198,176 1,577,668 1,811,163 1,063,681 Source – Vehicles 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Petrol – Litres 60,574,411 54,828,575 56,660,575 53,386,675 58,160,455 Diesel – Litres 69,478,253 77,089,975 81,765,101 85,437,279 86,398,964 Other – Litres 18,205,799 19,110,638 21,427,790 519,632 487,111 EMISSIONS SPLIT BY SCOPE (%) EMISSIONS SPLIT BY SOURCE (%) 11 5 Scope 1 Vehicles 23 Scope 2 34 Buildings Scope 3 Air travel 61 66 SECURING OUR COMMUNITIES 2013 2012 Corporate Corporate donations of money £931,900 £921,700 Corporate donations of goods and services £406,500 £459,500 Employee Employee and third-party donations facilitated by G4S £92,900 £72,000 Employee volunteering facilitated by G4S 26,000 hours 30,000 hours Employee welfare and development £647,500 £641,000 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 G4S plc 43 About this report ABOUT THIS REPORT This report was published in April 2014. It represents the CSR activity of G4S plc and its subsidiaries, associated undertakings, and joint ventures for the year ended 31 December 2013 and follows our 2012 CSR Report published in April 2013. The audited annual report and accounts of G4S plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 contains further information about the company and should be seen as the definitive source for investment decisions. No significant changes from previous reporting periods have been made including the boundaries and measurement methods, unless stated. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) We have self-declared our full report as meeting the requirements of a CSR report pages GRI 3.1 report Application Level C. Our GRI Index is available to view online at www.g4s.com/gri Statement of continued support by CEO 7 The UN Global Compact Principles UN GLOBAL COMPACT Human rights IFC, 6-7, 9-11, 12-13, 18-19, 21-22 G4S plc became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in February 2011. The world’s foremost CSR initiative, the Global Compact sets Labour IFC, 6-7, 9-11, 12-13, out ten universal principles to which businesses must adhere across 26-31, 41 the areas of anti-corruption, labour relations, human rights and Environment 1, 11, 12-13, 32-35, the environment. 42-43 G4S is proud to once again reaffirm its commitment to these principles, Anti-corruption IFC, 6-7, 9-11, 12-13, which continue to be reflected in our family of CSR policies and our 14-15, 21-25 core values. G4S remains active within the UK network of the UN Global Compact and continues to participate as a member of the governing Advisory Group. Within this CSR Report we have described the actions we have undertaken to build upon and further integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, values and daily operations during 2013. 44 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 www.g4s.com G4S plc The Manor Manor Royal Printed by Park Communications on FSC® certified paper. Crawley Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental West Sussex Management System is certified to ISO 14001. RH10 9UN 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press United Kingdom chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled. Telephone: +44 (0) 20 8770 7000 This document is printed on Cocoon 50 Silk; a paper containing Email: csr@g4s.com 50% recycled fibre from genuine waste paper and 50% virgin fibre sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC® certified forests. Registered in England No. 4992207 Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc.
