UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2014 Communication on Progress CEO Continued Statement of Support “ExCeL London is one of the UK’s leading international exhibition and convention centres and hosts events of all types with organisers and visitors from across the globe. We are committed to being thought leaders in our market and to provide world-class facilities and services that are in accordance with our own health and safety policies, this sustainability policy and ExCeL London’s mission statement and core values. ExCeL London is committed to tackling the challenges of sustainable development and operating as a responsible corporate business. We will implement practices that promote economic security, social and environmental responsibility and will continuously seek to improve performance in these areas. We are committed to working with our suppliers and customers to improve sustainability performance throughout all of our activities and are committed to maintain and operate our sustainability management systems in compliance with both ISO20121 and ISO14001 requirements. This United Nations Global Compact is supported by both our Executive Team and owners ADNEC and will ensure that our set objectives in the areas of sustainability are monitored and measured regularly against our maturity matrix to enable us to continue to improve against our set targets. All ExCeL London staff are responsible for implementing our sustainability policies to ensure that all requirements are being met and for the co-ordination and evaluation of ongoing performance against our sustainability principles, inclusivity, transparency, integrity and stewardship. David Pegler CEO, ExCeL London Supporting the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact In August 2007 ExCeL London chose to join the UN Global Compact. The ten principles serve as a foundation for the company’s CSR Plan and are intertwined with a number of company policies and principles as described further in this document. Principle 1: Our commitment to supporting internationally proclaimed human rights is a key aim of our CSR initiatives. We aim to increase our social responsibility by ensuring our business processes are sustainable and consider human rights implications. Principle 2: We ensure that all staff, clients and visitors are not deprived of their human rights in any way. ExCeL London upholds a code of conduct, core values and a dignity at work policy as part of its overall employee handbook which together outlines steps which all employees must follow to ensure this principle is upheld. Principle 3: Employees are able to enjoy freedom of association without the fear of detrimental implications on their employment. These values are upheld in our equal opportunities policy. Principle 4: ExCeL London does not support any forms of forced or compulsory labour. All employees have individual contracts of employment detailing their terms and conditions of employment. These are issued prior to commencement of employment. Employees are also issued with job descriptions outlining details of the work they are being employed to conduct. The company upholds a grievance procedure which can be initiated by any employee with their line manager or human resources. Employees are free to leave the organisation and our leavers’ policy outlines clearly steps required to resign from employment. Principle 5: ExCeL London does not condone any forms of child labor. The company is ISO 20121 compliant (International Standard for the event management sustainability) part of this process includes ensuring our suppliers are also sustainable, upholding ExCeL London’s values in relation to social commitment. Principle 6: ExCeL London is committed to eliminating direct and indirect forms of discrimination in relation to employment and occupation. The company upholds an equal opportunities policy which applies to all aspects of employment including; recruitment and selection, employment opportunity and promotion decisions. The policy highlights the expectation that all job applicants and employees are treated in the same way regardless of sex, sexual preference, race, ethnic origin, colour, religion, disability, marital status or union membership status. To facilitate this claim, all interviews and performance assessments are completed using an integrated competency based framework. This process ensures an objective perspective is taken in relation to all recruitment decisions and places emphasis on the individual’s level of skill, qualification, experience and knowledge. Further to this, ExCeL London upholds a dignity at work policy which aims to foster an atmosphere of mutual respect in which staff can feel accepted, able to work with dignity and to their full potential, thus embracing the benefits which diversity can bring. These policies are communicated in our employee handbook and distributed to all staff. The handbook clearly outlines employees’ ability to raise breaches of our policies either informally or formally with their line manager or HR. A formal process is followed if discrimination is suspected or identified; any breach of the policy will result in disciplinary action, and may include dismissal. Principle 7, 8 & 9 Environment Objectives ExCeL London is 100% committed to tackling the challenges of sustainable development and operating as a responsible corporate entity. It is our policy to continuously evolve and implement practices that deliver economic security, social and environmental benefits. Solutions Over the last year, ExCeL London has made significant steps in delivering a sustainable business strategy for its direct operations and working with its clients to pursue, promote and develop sustainable events. ExCeL’s Sustainable Committee made up of 10 staff members who have all been given roles to deliver projects over the next 1-3 years, including looking at the internal management office practices and procurement, has delivered a number of projects that have significantly reduced the environmental impact of the management office. This has included removing all personal bins and replacing them with various recycling bins and the marketing team reducing their print outputs by over 50%. ISO20121 & ISO14001 In December 2012 ExCeL London was granted third party certification for both ISO14001 and ISO20121. ExCeL continues to manage its impact register against set targets. The Environment Over the past 6 years, since ExCeL started looking at ways to reduce its environmental impact, it has seen some considerable reductions and achievements. In 2012 ExCeL London recycled 86% of its waste using both our onsite materials recycling facility and shanks. We have been carbon verified by CICS and achieved carbon saver gold for the last 3 years, as well as the Gold National Recycling Stars. ExCeL London continues to recycle its waste through its onsite materials recycling facility and the wormery. In 2014 we will get closer to achieving zero waste to landfill due to the new waste provider contract we have negotiated with BIFFA. Results In 2013 2,160 lamps were changed for an LED solution in the halls. This has resulted in an average energy saving of 55% per fitting as the system allows for each lamp to be individually controlled so it can be switched off or dimmed. Each fitting emits less than 75% of the heat therefore reducing the load on the chillers in the summer months. Energy ExCeL London was awarded a ‘D’ rating on its EPBD Display Energy Certificate underlining its energy efficiency credentials. Electricity Consumption 800000 600000 400000 Target Actual 200000 0 1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35 37 39 41 43 45 47 49 51 53 Gas Consumption 1500000 1000000 Target 500000 Actual 0 1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35 37 39 41 43 45 47 49 51 53 Energy Related carbon emissions 600 500 400 300 Target C 200 Actual C 100 0 1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35 37 39 41 43 45 47 49 51 53 Displayed Energy Certificate 2009 66 2010 62 2011 70 2012 89 2013 79 This increase in 2012 was due to utilisation and increased size of venue and hosting 12 Olympic sports over the summer. ExCeL London is rated as being 21% more energy efficient than other buildings with a similar usage. Flexitricity Flexitricity is a recent addition to ExCeL’s energy portfolio. Flexitricity’s smart grid infrastructure has the ability to turn on the generators at short notice. This helps National Grid to stabilise the national electricity network during demand peaks, or when large power stations fail. Every megawatt of capacity connected to Flexitricity’s smart grid is a megawatt that does not have to be held in reserve elsewhere. This reduces the need to keep coal and oil stations on hot standby or running inefficiently at part load – reducing emissions by between 300 to 750 tonnes of CO2 per megawatt per annum. District heating scheme In October 2013 Excel entered into a partnership with Cofely to run the Energy Centre as a District Heating Scheme. As part of their investment, new high efficiency CHP’s and Chillers will be installed. Cofely will supply the venue with heating, chilled water and electricity. It is planned to extend the network to other local business users. Waste Recycling Recycling and general waste bins are located throughout the venue. All cardboard, plastic and paper are segregated on-site, with any residual mixed recyclables segregated off-site. At Excel London, we provide disposal service for our suppliers and retailers onsite by providing the follow bins:  Mixed recyclables  General waste  Cardboard and plastic cagesthese go to recycling area where they are baled  Food binsfor the wormery  IBC containersthis for our vegetable oil and fats The annual waste figure for 2012 was 2050.62 tonnes.  Recycle 86%  Landfill 14% During 2013 ExCeL London recycled 24.35 tonnes of food and 260.75 of other materials. In addition 2,335.6 tonnes of waste was sent to an energy generation plant. ExCeL London continues to recycle its waste through its onsite materials recycling facility and the wormery. The wormery is the UK’s largest and only commercial wormery, holding over 300,000 worms. Earthworms are the ultimate recycling machine. The key benefits of our food waste policy include: • Reduction of carbon emitted by transporting waste from ExCeL • Reduction in the number of lorries travelling on already congested roads • Reduction in landfill – volumes have been reduced by approximately 90% • Production of valuable soil additive • Our systems have the ability to be expanded to cope with increased volumes • No smell or liquid runoff • No incineration • Minimal power usage – the power that it does can be offset • Worms eat almost anything – certain amounts of green waste and paper can also be incorporated • It is a green solution to food waste disposal In addition to the food recycling policy all used vegetable oil is collected from site and turned in to bio-fuel. In 2013 this amounted to over 900 litres. Principle 10: ExCeL London upholds its commitment to preventing corruption of any kind within its code of conduct. In addition, regular internal and external auditing of financial accounts ensures that the company’s expectations in relation to corporate governance are maintained. The company has established an audit committee which monitors compliance, full details of the audit committee responsibilities are found in the company’s audit committee charter. The remuneration committee makes decisions on executive pay and bonus. External benchmarking of employee salaries removes potential bias and favoritism in annual salary reviews. General Company Policies Demonstrating Key Principles Responsibility to Customers ExCeL London aims to win and retain customers by developing and providing products and exceptional service delivery. To enable us to do this we aim to:  Ensure that all products and services associated with our business are of a strict quality that is in accordance with and aims to enhance our market position and business  Develop and maximise the best customer services practices, which set a benchmark for the industry.  Strive to constantly innovate and enhance our product offering for the benefit of our guests  Ensure that our services meet the requirements stipulated by the appropriate regulatory bodies as well as legal requirements  Compete fairly and ethically and within the framework of applicable competition laws In 2013, ExCeL London redefined a set of core company values designed to support our promise to take every event to heart. These values are integrated in to the appraisal process and represent our underlying behaviors and way of doing business. They are core to what we fundamentally believe are crucial to our long-term sustainable business success. These are:  Collaborate: We will share our experience, knowledge and expertise to tailor and bespoke our solutions to give every event the best possible outcome.  Innovate: We will be open-minded and flexible to enable our teams to find the best possible solutions to achieve success.  Provide World Class Facilities: We will continue to invest in our venue and infrastructure to ensure it remains a world-class facility.  Provide the Best People: We will provide the best people with the experience and knowledge to add value and help our clients deliver successful events. Responsibility to our Shareholders To enable ExCeL London to achieve its objective of maximising shareholder value, we must guarantee the highest possible standards of financial management, assessment of risk and control. We must do this at every level within the business. Responsibility to Employees ExCeL London seeks to create an environment, which attracts and retains employees of high calibre and in which employees will feel valued for their contribution to the company’s performance. Each team must:  Implement and observe codes of conduct which are designed to protect employees from harassment or discrimination in any form, and to provide equality of opportunity  Ensure that all employees are fully aware of such codes and that they comply with them  Operate a remuneration policy that is competitive and that rewards good performance  Ensure that all employees know what is expected of them in their job, and are able to measure their performance  Provide a framework which will assist employees to develop their capabilities  Provide a safe work environment for its employees and ensure that employees fully understand their own responsibilities as regards health and safety matters  Aim to develop policies that will support employees in balancing their work and domestic responsibilities Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery Policies ExCeL London aims to conduct its business honestly and in good faith; free from fraud or deception. In order to achieve this, all ExCeL London’s employees must:  Comply with all applicable UK and EU laws and regulations, including any regulations, codes, guidelines which apply specifically to the business  Not give or receive bribes or other inducements to obtain or retain business, not conduct themselves in such a way as to give rise to any conflict of interest  Seek mutually beneficial commercial relationships with third parties with whom they do business  Ensure that they do not enter into contractual arrangements that they are unable to fulfill  Use company assets only for the purpose of ExCeL London’s business and not abuse their position in the company for personal gain  Ensure that adequate systems are in place to protect the business’s assets Environmental responsibility Resource Conservation We conserve our use of natural resources to the extent practical Waste Prevention and Management We reduce to the extent practicable the quantity and degree of hazard of the wastes we generate from our operations, and handle them in a safe, legal, and responsible way to minimise their environmental effects Environmental Risk Control and Restoration We minimise the risk of spills and other potentially harmful environmental incidents, restore the environment where damaged by us, and enhance it to better support diversity Reduction of Supply Chain Impacts We work with others in our supply chain to help assure the adverse environmental impacts and risks associated with our products and services are reduced and properly controlled, and environmental benefits optimised Social Responsibility ExCeL London believes that involvement in social issues should aim to achieve partnerships, which will benefit the community as well as enhancing ExCeL London’s own activities. This means building long-term relationships with local partners to deliver long-lasting benefits for our communities. Maintaining an open dialogue with the community is important in shaping the future of ExCeL London and the community in which we operate. To deliver this, ExCeL London community involvement focuses on:  Education and employment  Health and nutrition  Sports  Charitable and in-kind giving We work towards this goal by:  Forging relationships with charitable organisations/local organisations whose objectives accord with the general nature of ExCeL London’s activities  Providing its employees, where appropriate, with the opportunity to engage in activities that will benefit the community and the company  Seeking to become a ‘good neighbour’ in relation to environmental issues, by:  Pursuing initiatives for the reduction and recycling of waste, as well as the efficient use of energy  Where appropriate, promote “environmentally-friendly” policies in the workplace  ExCeL London supports: Community Food Enterprise & Juice for Life, Newham All Star Sports Academy (NASA)  Local residents are given special offers to attend events at ExCeL.  71.3% of our staff live in Greater London with 47% living in East London.
