Sharing Value Behaving Responsibly Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Section title In this Report About this Report 1 About VimpelCom 2 Services for Society Resource Efﬁciency We believe we can share value through We are focused on being more efficient Chairman and CEO’s Letter 5 providing products and services which in how we use resources to ensure that Market Context 6 bring specific benefits to society, and we live within the boundaries of what our wider range of stakeholders. is sustainable. Our Strategy 10 How we manage Corporate Responsibility 14 See more on p18 See more on p24 Services for Society 18 Resource Efﬁciency 24 Responsible Social Responsible Behavior 28 Behavior Investment Social Investment 34 We are committed to managing our We support community causes through business ethically and safely, and making the services we provide, through financial Reporting Principles 39 our contribution to building a more support and employee volunteering. Independent Review 41 sustainable world. See more on p28 See more on p34 For more information, visit our website www.vimpelcom.com Feedback and Contact We are keen to improve the value of our reporting to our stakeholders and therefore welcome constructive feedback. Comments on this document, and our CR information on the website, can be forwarded to cr@vimpelcom.com. Table 1: How our markets have contributed to this Report Business Units Markets in scope for data reporting Markets included in Report on an ad hoc basis Russia Russia — Italy Italy — Africa & Asia Algeria, Bangladesh, Pakistan Burundi, Central African Republic, Laos, Zimbabwe 1 CIS Armenia, Georgia, Kazakhstan , Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan — Ukraine Ukraine — % of Service revenue 99.5% 0.5% % of Customers 97.5% 2.5% 1 Data reporting covers the Kar-Tel Beeline and Beeline Business brand only. This represents over 80% of the employees in Kazakhstan. The other businesses, 2Day Telecom and TNS Plus, will be included in next year’s report. 1 VimpelCom 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report About this Report About this Report This is the second Group Scope On 28 May 2013 we signed up to the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and this Report Corporate Responsibility This Report covers markets where we had active represents our first annual Communication on Progress telecommunication operations at 31 December 2013. (‘CR’) Report (‘the It does not include businesses that were sold during (‘COP’). Table 16 on page 40 provides a cross-reference Report’) of VimpelCom between the COP and sections of this Report. the financial year (Cambodia) or businesses where we Ltd (‘VimpelCom’ or the control less than 50% of the equity. No businesses in Several of our BUs and OpCos prepare their own CR new geographical markets have been acquired during the reports, a number of which follow the GRI guidelines, ‘Company’) and covers year. However, not all markets provided data to support and these can be found on their websites. the year to 31 December publication of the Report as a new CR reporting system is 2013. Our first report was being introduced on a phased basis. Table 1 summarizes Data Quality and Assurance how our markets have contributed to this Report. Prior to 2013, VimpelCom had no formal CR data published in 2013 reporting process in place and during the year we and summarized our The HQ operation in Amsterdam is also not included started to implement a reporting system to facilitate in the scope of reporting for issues such as energy and general approach to CR, employee statistics, but will be included next year. the gathering of performance information from across our markets. The system selected is a reporting module rather than covering a Businesses report on a geographical market basis, developed by Oracle which mirrors the management specific period. rather than on a legal entity basis. A list of the information system currently used for financial reporting material subsidiaries that comprise VimpelCom is (Hyperion Financial Management). The CR reporting The Report is being provided in our Form 20-F filing (available on our system will become more integrated into the broader published alongside our website). Further information on the principles that financial reporting system during 2014. our Annual Report on underpin our reporting, such as treatment of outsourced As many of our businesses have not previously collected activities, basis for estimations, definitions, etc. Form 20-F filed with the is provided on page 39. and reported CR key performance indicators (‘KPIs’), we are introducing the new system on a phased basis. US Securities and Intended Audience This involved exempting certain smaller businesses from Exchange Commission. reporting on 2013 performance, and we introduced a We hope this Report will be read by a range of Further information is stakeholders but it has been prepared with particular sub-set of KPIs for those markets that are included in the Report scope. The KPIs have been selected to focus on our available on our corporate audiences in mind. VimpelCom is a holding company most material issues and, wherever appropriate, represent website including the with no brand presence in any of our markets and we data already used for management purposes. Nevertheless, rely mainly on our BUs and OpCos to communicate to reports and publications our customers on CR issues through their own reports, as Table 1 indicates, this covers 99.5% of our business by service revenue. Further markets and further KPIs will be of a number of our websites and other channels. Therefore, this Report included in scope in subsequent years. constituent Business Units is intended primarily for corporate stakeholders: our investors and the financial community, the governments We are building and improving our reporting processes (‘BUs’) and Operating who host our operations and the regulatory bodies that across the businesses. We have used our best endeavors Companies (‘OpCos’). oversee our activities, our global supply chain partners, to ensure reported information is accurate but, as this the media and other opinion formers and, importantly, is the first year we have reported quantitative data, our employees at the HQ and across our businesses. we anticipate that the quality of our data has scope to improve. As a result, we have not commissioned external Reporting Standards and Guidance independent assurance of the Report, although we In preparing this Report we have made reference to see this as an important future step (see page 41 for the Global Reporting Initiative (‘GRI’) guidelines, the independent observations on our reporting approach). principles set out in the AA1000 series of standards (namely AA1000 APS, AA1000 AS and AA1000 SES), Expert Comments and the emerging guidance on integrated reporting To help us identify our priority (material) issues, we from the International Integrated Reporting Committee. consulted with external experts (see page 14). A number We are aiming for our reporting to be in accordance with of quotes from this research are embedded throughout the core requirements of the GRI version 4 guidelines the Report. Under the terms of the research we are not (‘G4’) with the publication of our 2014 CR Report. able to identify the quotes with named individuals. We have commissioned an assessment of our progress towards this from an independent consultant and are in the process of adopting their recommendations for improvement (see their statement on page 41). www.vimpelcom.com 1 About VimpelCom 9 brands 753m population coverage No7 mobile provider 220m in the world mobile customers VimpelCom is one of the world’s largest integrated Ownership telecommunications services operators, providing We are headquartered in Amsterdam, and listed on the Nasdaq, where 10.8% voice and data services through a range of traditional of our shares are traded. Our ownership structure is indicated below: and broadband mobile and fixed technologies. At the Shareholder Structure end of 2013 we had 220 million mobile customers across 17 markets, and 30 million broadband 56.2% Altimo customers. These markets have a total population 33% Telenor of approximately 753 million. 10.8% Minority shareholders 2013 2 VimpelCom 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Company Structure and Brands About VimpelCom We operate a decentralized model based on our fundamental belief that all our business is local. VimpelCom’s reporting structure is divided into five BUs – Russia, Italy, Africa and Asia, Ukraine and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), all of which report to the Company’s headquarters in Amsterdam. During 2013 the Company sold its business in Cambodia. VimpelCom operates through a series of leading brands in our markets. The table below summarizes the key facts about the markets we operate in. Table 2: Company Structure and Brands Customers Operating Revenue EBITDA* Country Brands (‘000) (US $m) (US $m) Market position Employees Russia 56,512 9,109 3,815 3 26,843 Italy 22,292 6,618 2,583 3 6,903 Africa and Asia Algeria 17,574 1,796 1,054 1 4,040 Pakistan 37,638 1,066 442 1 2,932 Bangladesh 28,838 504 187 2 2,634 Other Africa & Asia (Laos, Zimbabwe, CAR, Burundi) 4,897 140 -12 – 2,019 Ukraine 25,756 1,611 781 1 4,510 CIS Armenia 694 145 58 2 2,494 Georgia 1,091 88 27 3 478 Kazakhstan 9,158 840 391 2 1,469 Kyrgyzstan 2,662 192 97 1 810 Tajikistan 1,284 148 74 4 374 Uzbekistan 10,518 672 347 1 1,402 Group and BU HQ staff totals 330 employees. Financial Performance At 31 December 2013, VimpelCom had total assets of US$ 50,419m. Total operating revenues Net cash from operating (US$ bln) EBITDA ($US bln) activities ($US bln) Mobile customers (mln) Actual Actual Actual Actual $22.5b $9.5b* $6.4b 220m 23.1 22.5 9.8 9.5 7.3 220 20.3 6.4 205 214 8.3 6.1 4.9 3.6 3.7 10.5 4.3 8.8 93 67 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Note: Figures are based on IFRS. * EBITDA excluding one-off charges related to the resolution in Algeria www.vimpelcom.com 3 About VimpelCom continued Our Value Chain Our value chain can be summarized under three main headings: Marketing: Operating: Sourcing • Distributing, including through retail • Building, maintaining and operating • Purchasing mobile devices and network operations, mobile and ﬁxed line mobile and ﬁxed line communications equipment, as well as other supporting telecommunication services to consumer and networks that carry our services services and equipment business customers (voice and sms, internet • Operating data centers, shops, call centers In 2013, 48% of procurement access and data services, mobile ﬁnancial that support the operation of our products services and other value-added services) and services was with five suppliers, and • Marketing handsets and other mobile and 71% was purchased through the ﬁxed line communication devices through The operations covered by top 20 suppliers in each market. online and retail channels this Report operate over • Providing a platform over which third 145,000 radio sites, of which parties, such as internet service providers 70% are Integrated 2G sites, (ISPs) and other application developers, can deliver services to their customers 29% are 3G (Node B) sites • Providing aftersales support through call and 1% are 4G (ENode B) sites. centers, websites and online forums, and The mobile network carried retail stores nearly 450 million Gigabytes We have nearly 6,400 of traffic (voice and data). fully-branded shops across the business, some of which are owned and run by our Our stakeholders play a variety of roles in facilitating the Company, and some of which operation of our business model / value chain, and more information is provided on page 15. are operated by franchisees. Table 3: Economic Value Generated & Distributed US$ (millions) Direct Economic Value Generated (operating revenue, interest and dividends received) 22,687 Economic Value Distributed: Payments to Suppliers (including over US$3bn in network capital expenditure) 16,155 Payments to Employees 1,806 Payments to Suppliers of Capital 4,746 Payments to Governments (taxes and license payments) 1,546 Community Investment (including sponsorships) 2 Total 24,255 Economic Value Retained (1,568) 4 VimpelCom 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Chairman and CEO’s Letter Chairman & CEO’s Letter Jo Lunder Chief Executive Ofﬁcer (left) Alexey M. Reznikovich Chairman of the Supervisory Board (right) Welcome to VimpelCom’s We have approximately 220 million customers and also our first annual Communication on Progress, and 57,000 employees. Our services are important to we describe our actions to integrate the Principles into second Group CR Report. economic productivity and social development and we our business strategy, culture and daily operations. A lot has happened in are often one of the largest tax payers in the markets We have identified our priority focus areas and are the last 12 months and where we operate. Our fortunes are inextricably linked working to understand how best to manage these, with those of the societies we serve. Therefore, we we have taken a good must understand and respond to short, medium and with the right balance between central and local input. step forward in managing In particular, we are looking at how we approach issues long term factors that impact in our markets. around privacy, our health and safety performance and our economic, social and These include the long term effects of climate change ethical procurement. Part of our responsibility is to environmental impacts. which will increasingly impact on our customers, report on our progress openly and transparently and the tensions that arise as the pace of technological we have been working to develop systems to enable change accelerates ahead of the regulatory and cultural us to report more fully on our performance to our framework of our society, and being able to manage the stakeholders. We recognize we are at the start of the business through the periods of civil unrest we have seen journey and will work hard to improve the quality and in Ukraine, the Central African Republic and Bangladesh. reliability of our reporting. In 2013 we developed our CR strategy and this will be Our vision is for our business to play a key role in the communicated widely through the organization in 2014. socio-economic success of the communities where Our strategic priorities include the expansion of services we operate by providing high quality services to our which bring a particularly high positive societal impact, customers, behaving as a responsible corporate citizen, in areas such as education, health, financial services and leveraging our technology to support development. and agricultural productivity, as well as helping to This Report tells the story of how we are trying to ignite the entrepreneurial spirit in young people across achieve this. our footprint, to help them shape a better future for themselves and their communities. We are also focused on ensuring we behave responsibly as a business and in 2013 we signed up to the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We are pleased to confirm our continuing support of the Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This CR Report is Alexey M. Reznikovich Jo Lunder Chairman of the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Supervisory Board www.vimpelcom.com 5 Market Context Our CR agenda is set by Introduction In some of our markets, the majority of the population are relatively prosperous, levels of health and education the interaction of the Our CR agenda is set by the interaction of the operating are high and the mobile device and related services are context for our businesses in their home markets, global operating context for our issues that impact on society as a whole, e.g. climate seen more as a ‘lifestyle’ tool. Here our stakeholders businesses in their home tend to focus more on issues around their privacy and change, and our business model and value chain. This freedom of expression, safety online, whether products markets, global issues creates a series of issues that represent risks, challenges and services are marketed in a clear and transparent and opportunities for our business, which must be that impact on society as assessed, prioritised and responded to. way, and service availability for those on the margins a whole, and our business of society. Stakeholders in these markets want We identify the key issues which we need to address reassurance that their use of the service is not model and value chain. through a variety of processes, and this is explained through the exploitation of people less fortunate than on page 14. themselves, or the environment. They set high ethical standards for businesses. Individual Market Context The chart on the following page shows the very However, in other markets, mobile is considered as significant discrepancies in levels of socio-economic a ‘lifeline’. GDP per head is low and access to basic development across the markets where we operate, as healthcare, education, financial services and other well as in the average environmental footprint per head benefits, that is often taken for granted in the of population. This drives very different sets of priorities developed world, is an everyday challenge. Key issues for our customers, and illustrates the importance of here are more likely to revolve around the extent enabling local management teams to focus on programs and reliability of coverage, and the affordability and relevant to their specific markets. availability of products and services. 6 VimpelCom 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Market Context Different Markets, Different Priorities Circle size indicates population (source: UNDP Development Report 2013) 7 6 Canada Ecological Footprint Index (gha) WWF Living Planet Report 2012 Italy Russia 5 Kazakhstan Ukraine Georgia 4 Armenia Algeria 3 Uzbekistan Tajikistan Kyrgyzstan 2 Pakistan Bangladesh Laos 1 Burundi Central African Republic 0 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 UNDP Human Development Index (2013 Report) The Ecological Footprint tracks humanity’s demands on the biosphere by comparing humanity’s consumption against the Earth’s regenerative capacity, or biocapacity. It does this by calculating the area required to produce the resources people consume, the area occupied by infrastructure, and the area of forest required for sequestering CO2 not absorbed by the ocean. No ecological data was available for Zimbabwe. The Human Development Index is a means of measuring development through combining indicators for life expectancy, educational attainment and income. “Since there is more growth now in emerging markets than in developed markets, understanding how you can help these economies grow is critical.” — Industry Association www.vimpelcom.com 7 Market Context continued “The telecom sector has Global Issues by companies for commercial reasons, is growing rapidly as technological change, and potential applications of a great responsibility Other issues transcend national boundaries and are ‘big data’ advance more quickly than the ability of our something that all businesses must respond to. Climate to innovate and change will impact on everyone, either indirectly laws and public awareness to make sense of them. ensure the speed of through the economic measures needed to address the Risks, Challenges and Opportunities economic development issue (e.g. carbon taxes), or more directly through the These local issues and global trends create a series of impact of changing weather patterns, flooding, drought overall. Perhaps their and sea level rises and the impact these will have on challenges and opportunities for our business at all contribution is larger stages of our value chain. These issues can be ‘structural’ economies and populations. long term trends or more ‘event-driven’. A number of than other sectors.” Equally, concern over the accessing of personal data by examples are set out below: — NGO governments around the world for national security, and Table 4: Structural Issues Examples of regional, demographic or technology trends and factors, and their relevance to VimpelCom Issue Risk/Challenge Opportunity Literacy • Low levels of literacy inhibit economic • Development of commercial services which 56% of adults in Pakistan are illiterate, with growth and social development in certain help raise levels of literacy 70% illiteracy in rural areas. (UNESCO) communities, limiting the potential for • Improve mobile data revenue, brand loyalty growth of mobile services, particularly and broaden the customer base See the Mobilink mLiteracy case study on page 21 data services for more information • Increase potential for partnership with government, NGOs and international opinion formers, and improved reputation Aging population • Technology can be intimidating for the • Develop products, services and tariffs that Globally 11% of the population are over 60, elderly and reduced capability of eyesight, help elderly people to access the digital world set to rise to 20% by 2050 (UN). 20% of hearing and motor skills makes some more easily and effectively, increasing the Italians are over 65, the highest ratio products difﬁcult to use. A growing segment customer base in Europe. (Eurostat – 2011) of the population could be excluded from an • Enhancing reputation with various stakeholders increasingly digital society and reduce the potential customer pool for operators Climate change • Impacts on network resilience of ﬂoods, • Development of products and services, such By 2020, between 75 and 250 million people extreme weather as M2M*, that enable customers to reduce will be exposed to increased water stress carbon emissions • Impacts on customers of extreme weather, and yields from rain-fed agriculture could be sea level rises, economic effects • Being the leading operator in our markets reduced by up to 50% in some regions. (IPCC) on climate change response and enhancing • Increases in hydrocarbon fuel prices impacts brand value See the Resource Efficiency section on page 24 network running costs – particularly base for more information stations powered by diesel generators Privacy • Public perceptions that personal data is not • Designing privacy considerations into 72% of internet users are worried about ‘safe’ with a mobile service provider could products and services, policies and procedures giving up too much personal data. lead to loss of trust in the business / sector, to demonstrate leadership in data security (Eurobarometer 359) leading to loss of revenue and ethical practices, and building positive brand reputation • Accusations that operators are complicit in See the Privacy section on page 30 human rights abuses through providing for more information governments with access to customer data destroys public trust and leads to protest campaigns and boycotts * M2M = Machine to Machine. 8 VimpelCom 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Market Context Table 5: Event-driven Issues Specific events that give rise to, or highlight, specific factors relevant to the business Signiﬁcant Events in 2013 Relevance to the Business Violence in the Ukraine Privacy / Reputation On 21 November 2013, Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovich announced There are examples of civil unrest where a government has allegedly made the suspension of plans for a political and trade agreement with the EU. use of the mobile network for tracking potential protesters, sent targeted Since that time, there has been widespread civil unrest in the country, text messages in support of the regime, or closed the mobile network. with fatalities and serious injuries amongst protesters and police. The These events bring a focus on the operator and can potentially lead to situation deteriorated significantly following the year end, as covered the loss of trust of customers. Shortly after the year end our Ukrainian extensively in the media. business, Kyivstar, was wrongly accused of complicity in sending SMS messages to protesters on behalf of the regime. We comply with all legal instructions received under our license requirements. Civil War in the Central African Republic Health & Safety In March 2013, Seleka rebels overthrew the government and the coup Throughout the conflict Telecel worked hard to maintain network leader was sworn in as president. In August, the UN stated there was a coverage, providing vital communications to enable families to stay in total breakdown of law and order in the country. A deployment of African touch and aid agencies to do their jobs. There has been great risk to Union and French peacekeeping forces failed to stop sectarian violence the health and safety of our employees who need to visit remote areas between Muslim and Christian militias. to replenish diesel generators and maintain equipment. The company suffered a series of arson attacks at its HQ and was reliant for security on detachments of the African Union peacekeeper troops. Sadly, an employee, Wananbo Lembe Vincent, died in his home village during a fire fight. Natural Disasters Network Resilience Pakistan – in August 2013 floods in the Punjab and Sindh provinces of Our networks provide an invaluable lifeline during and after natural Pakistan affected over a million people, 180 died and tens of thousands disasters. In Pakistan and Russia we took rapid action to protect base were left homeless. On 24 September 2013, a 7.7 strength earthquake hit stations and these suffered no significant physical damage as a result south-western Pakistan. Four days later a 6.8 strength earthquake hit. and service was maintained. Beeline opened its network temporarily to Over 850 people were killed. other operators to enable their customers to stay connected. Russia – more than 135,000 people were impacted by floods in the far Disaster Relief east of Russia, damaging 14,000 homes. Mobilink reacted quickly with humanitarian relief assistance during and after the natural disasters. The company responded to the earthquake situation in crisis-struck areas with emergency relief, including food and medicinal supplies. Relief goods were distributed in partnership with government departments (including National and Provincial Disaster Management Authorities) and the Pakistan Military. Beeline provided a number of free mobile phones and offered free calls to anywhere in Russia for the people affected. www.vimpelcom.com 9 Our Strategy The Value Agenda Proﬁtable Growth Customer Excellence Operational Excellence Increase net cash Capital Efﬁciency The Value Agenda Company Strategy Customer Excellence We are committed to creating a superior customer has four key pillars VimpelCom’s strategy, or ‘Value Agenda’, is focused experience, optimizing distribution and developing on increasing cash flows by combining the Company’s supported by clear strong and growing positions in mobile businesses with superior pricing capabilities. Supporting strategies operational strategies include integrated mobile bundles that combine a selective presence in fixed-line to further support its traditional voice with SMS and data, and identification executed within each growth as mobile services continue to expand across of the most efficient distribution channels in each the Company’s markets. of VimpelCom’s BUs. market. The Value Agenda has the following four key pillars Operational Excellence supported by clear operational strategies executed We aim to operate to maximum efficiency and manage within each of VimpelCom’s BUs. costs across our businesses. Proﬁtable Growth Capital Efﬁciency We aim to gain share in mobile data revenues and We aim to reduce the ratio of capital expenditure to capitalize on areas such as mobile financial services revenues over time by deploying capital more efficiently and partnerships with over-the-top ‘OTT’ players, while through increased network outsourcing and sharing, limiting cost of traffic. Supporting strategies include continued business portfolio optimization and capital driving smartphone and tablet penetration, value-based structure optimization. commissioning, promoting tiered pricing for speed and time of data, partnering with internet players, improving VimpelCom also has a centrally led procurement model network quality and effective deployment of integrated that provides advantages both at the Group and local pricing bundles. level. As part of the finance function, the Company has implemented a systematic approach to managing working capital and optimizing capital structure. 10 VimpelCom 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Strategy Our CR Strategy A common theme or program which all Flagship program Flagship OpCos and Group participate in Program Services for Society SH AR ‘mServices’ (education, health, agri, etc.) – New products & services IN local circumstances / local decisions AL Building reputation with Community Engagement, GV Continuation of successful key stakeholders Philanthropy & Volunteering UE local programs Saving costs through efficiency Focus on network energy efficiency Environmental Efﬁciency Engaging in the Global CR Agenda SK UNGC / GeSI / WEF Protecting RI reputation MA Supporting Group and local reporting Transparency & Reporting GE Setting appropriate NA operational standards ME Mandatory groupNT wide standards Ethical Conduct & Responsible Behavior Our CR Strategy The CR strategy is designed to address the most The CR strategy integrates important issues that we face – the ones which are most A CR strategy should add value to the business by relevant to our business success and considered most with the core business building and maintaining trust with key stakeholders (see pages 15-17). By doing so, the strategy can: important by our stakeholders. These are driven by a strategy and both variety of factors, both global and local (see pages 6-9). influence each other. • Reduce reputational, ﬁnancial and operational risk; How we prioritise these issues is set out on page 14. • Reduce cost, for example through energy efﬁciency; Our strategy framework is represented in the • Identify new product and service opportunities; diagram above. • Contribute to creating more sustainable societies within which the business can prosper. The CR strategy integrates with the core business strategy and both influence each other. www.vimpelcom.com 11 Our Strategy continued The table below shows how the elements of the CR framework link with the Value Agenda, how they aim to address the needs of our stakeholders and, at a high level, our progress in implementation. The rest of the Report describes in more detail how we manage CR across our business and how we are performing against our strategy. Table 6: Increase Net Cash Strategy Element Relevance to the Value Agenda Responsible Behavior • By identifying and responding to key issues (e.g. privacy, protecting children online) we can improve the customer experience and support Customer Excellence • Improving health and safety performance, and focusing on supply chain sustainability contribute to Operational Excellence • Focusing on individual ethical behavior, and the rewards and development opportunities available to employees, supports a Performance Culture Transparency • Being open and honest with stakeholders (e.g. customers) on key issues can contribute to Customer Excellence • Reporting openly on material issues helps set the Performance Culture Engage in the Global Agenda • Engaging in global initiatives and organizations focused on CR helps us to learn, access relevant tools and guidance, and improve our performance Environmental Efﬁciency • Improving energy efﬁciency, network sharing and use of renewable energy (where economically viable) all contribute to Operational Excellence Community Engagement • Encouraging employees to volunteer in their community and making corporate contributions to good causes is motivating, and helps set the Performance Culture Services for Society • Developing commercial services with high societal beneﬁt in areas such as mobile ﬁnancial services, mEducation, mHealth and mAgriculture help Proﬁtable Growth by creating new data services that go beyond the core proposition Flagship Program • VimpelCom operates on a decentralized model. Developing a ﬂagship CR project is a way of uniting the Group around a common theme and gaining critical mass of impact 12 VimpelCom 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Strategy Relevance to Stakeholders Status Summary Initial focus areas: Our BUs are active across these areas. We are reviewing our approach and consistency of performance to determine if further action is required. • Ethical behavior – addressing corruption in markets See page 28 for more information • Health & safety – consistent standards to protect employees, contractors and public • Procurement – improving human rights and environmental performance of supply chain • Privacy – managing customer privacy, whilst using anonymized data for commercial purposes • Online safety – protecting vulnerable users from inappropriate content and online fraud Provides opportunities for stakeholders to put forward their points of Our second Group CR Report is a significant step forward from our 2012 view, provide feedback on our performance and potentially become Report. We have a new reporting system and KPIs, and aim to report partners to address specific issues. in accordance with the core requirements of GRI v4 in the future. See page 41 for more information Provides opportunities for stakeholders to engage with us, and to benefit We have signed up to the United Nations Global Compact Principles from our improved CR performance. and become a member of the Global e-Sustainability Initiative. We are playing an active role in a number of GeSI initiatives, including those focused on key human rights issues. See page 16 for more information By improving our energy efficiency we are making a contribution to We continue to closely monitor our energy consumption, and to roll out tackling climate change, which benefits a wide range of stakeholders, efficiency initiatives. whilst improving the bottom line. See page 26 for more information Communities benefit directly from support of local good causes through Our BUs have a rich legacy of community engagement and are increasingly cash and in-kind donations, and the impact of our employee volunteering. using our technology to enable our customers to contribute as well. See page 34 for more information Developing ‘services for society’ can bring benefits to society at scale. Several of our markets have developed innovative services in these areas By increasing the efficiency and reach of education, health, financial and are building the scale of the impact. services and agricultural support, we help communities, support See page 18 for more information development and grow our data services and brand reputation. Our flagship program aims to bring real societal impact for individuals, HQ and our BUs have been working to define the flagship project and this communities and society as a whole. will be launched during 2014. Read more in next year’s report and on our website, www.vimpelcom.com www.vimpelcom.com 13 How We Manage Corporate Responsibility We aim to develop an Materiality 2. Checked the universe list with other current best practice – we conducted a gap analysis with the approach to managing Our CR approach focuses on the most important, or reported issues of other leading international material, issues for our business. This decision needs corporate responsibility to balance a number of different factors, including: operators, and the lists of possible issue areas set out that makes sense in the in reporting guidance such as the Global Reporting • The issues of most concern to stakeholders Initiative, and publications such as the EU’s document context of key issues, – stakeholders bring a wide range of perspectives, “ICT Sector Guide on Implementing the UN Guiding our commercial strategy and help to identify the Company’s most critical Principles on Business and Human Rights”. and a decentralized environmental, social and economic impacts. 3. Consulted within the business – we distributed Understanding these perspectives helps us to business model. ensure we take into account signiﬁcant issues the universe list, together with a tailored scoring tool, to key HQ departments (e.g. Compliance, for society that are linked to our activities. Risk Management, Communications) and our main • The issues most linked to the success of the BUs. A number of BUs involved a cross-section of business – this is to ensure that we understand the senior managers. In this way we obtained both a issues where there is the most direct connection central input from experts looking across our with the activities and success of our business. markets and local perspectives from teams within As an initial step to identify our most material issues, our local markets. we have taken the following approach: 4. Consulted outside the business – although the initial universe list is based on a multi-stakeholder 1. Identiﬁed the ‘universe’ of CR issues for a mobile exercise, we also consulted with a number of key operator – the sector has undertaken stakeholder subject-matter experts outside the business. These engagement for many years and the Global experts are either working for other ICT sector e-Sustainability Initiative (‘GeSI’) worked with businesses, advising those businesses, are CRa leading sustainability think-tank to conduct a focused members of industry sector organizations multi-stakeholder consultation process to identify (e.g. the GSMA) or are NGOs and academics with a the list of most material issues. We have adopted particular focus on the sector – all with many years this list as our starting point. 80 1 Accessibility Issues 2 Internet Issues 3 Core Customer Issues 4 Other Customer Issues 5 Energy Efﬁciency Operations 6 Other Environmental Importance to Stakeholders 12 Issues Operations 13 7 Application of ICT to 11 9 1 Environmental Issues 15 3 8 Electromagnetic Emissions 60 14 2 9 Employee Health 8 16 & Safety 10 Employment Issues 11 Bribery and Corruption 12 Economic Development 10 13 Social Application of 5 ICT Products and Services 14 Supply Chain Social 7 and Environmental 6 Standards (inc. H&S) 4 15 Corporate Governance 40 16 Disaster Response 40 60 80 20 100 Relevance to Business Strategy 14 VimpelCom 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report How We Manage CR Mobilink in Pakistan involved senior managers from Communications, Human Resources, Consumer Excellence, Legal Affairs, Government Relations and Customer Care in identifying and scoring CR issues to assess materiality. Table 7: Stakeholders What we need from What the stakeholder Stakeholder the stakeholder wants from us of experience. The consultation was managed by a leading research company and the experts were Shareholders • Continued investment and • Market-beating ﬁnancial return interviewed (21 individuals) to help capture issues ﬁnancial support on investment we had missed, and / or completed an online scoring • Responsible ownership • Reputation-enhancing performance of the issue universe list (28 individuals). Customers • Long term loyalty, • High quality, reliable, safe, exciting The outputs of these processes were then weighted translating into signiﬁcant products and services at a great and consolidated to give an overall picture of material purchasing of products value price issues. This is inevitably a compromise of views but, as and services a decentralized business, whilst this helps to set the • Privacy and freedom of expression agenda for the HQ teams, local businesses also focus Employees • Commitment, hard work, • Competitive remuneration, good on their local priorities. innovation, loyalty, working conditions (including responsible behavior safety), personal development, Certain issues have remained fundamental to the CR career opportunities agenda for mobile operators over the years (such as • Reasonable remuneration reliable network coverage and customer satisfaction), expectations some have declined as knowledge and awareness has Suppliers • High quality, reliable, • Consistent, predictable demand developed (e.g. health concerns over radio frequency innovative, excellent value at a sustainable price, with no emissions) and other issues have grown significantly products and services, unrealistic requirements in importance as technology and culture change faster consistent availability, than the regulatory framework (e.g. privacy). As many responsible behavior of our businesses operate in emerging or frontier economies, our materiality ‘matrix’ is dominated Partners • Innovative, and sometimes • Access to a broad range of customers more by social and economic development issues exclusive, content across a reliable network, through an than environment-focused ones. and other services for attractive commercial arrangement our customers Stakeholders • Responsible products A business can only achieve its commercial objectives and behavior with the cooperation of stakeholders. The Company Government • Politically stable and • Economic and social contribution has a wide range of stakeholders, all of whom have and developing society through employment and tax / some type of ‘transaction’ with the business. Table 7 regulator license payments illustrates the nature of these transactions. • Operating license • Provision of excellent service To be positive and successful, relationships must be • Radio spectrum for population underpinned by mutual trust, which is established • Fair and predictable and maintained by identifying and understanding • Cooperation with law enforcement ﬁscal framework any underlying concerns. This involves: and national security • Understanding who the key stakeholders are; Communities • Hosting our facilities and • Employment radio network (e.g. base • Understanding how business activities, products • Safe facilities and operations, stations and masts) and services impact on stakeholders (positively ensuring the protection of health or negatively) and vice-versa, and which of these • A skilled workforce • Responsible participation in ‘impacts’ are the most important to address (above); community issues • Responding to these issues in a way that, wherever Broader • ‘Virtual’ license to operate • Sustainable and responsible possible, provides positive outcomes for the society – societal approval operations business and stakeholder; (often • Ethical operations that show respect • Reporting on performance in a complete and represented by for human rights transparent manner. civil society / NGOs) • Application of products and services By engaging with stakeholders, directly or through to accelerate economic and social indirect channels such as the media, we are able to development, and environmental improve our understanding of the issues that we face. efﬁciency gains www.vimpelcom.com 15 How We Manage Corporate Responsibility continued We have been building our This Report aims to disclose our performance across Engaging Stakeholders across the BUs these factors and provide valuable information for stakeholder engagement our stakeholders. Our BUs operate in a range of markets with diverse challenges and with different starting points in terms of program, recognizing CR. There is no single process for engaging stakeholders Whilst we clearly have many challenges to overcome, the need for gathering we firmly believe that our business can be a power across the BUs. Many of our businesses are involved general views on our for good in the world and, whilst our technology is in in local associations and initiatives which facilitate itself ‘neutral’, its application can help to make societies engagement. This is summarized at right. strategy and performance, more sustainable while delivering a healthy return for as well as engagement on Wind Italy, controlled by VimpelCom, participates our shareholders. actively in dialogues with European bodies specific issues. (Commission, Parliament, Council, Associations, etc.) Engaging Stakeholders at HQ through consultative and policy activities, including We have been building our stakeholder engagement participation in meetings initiated by institutions and program, recognizing the need for gathering general through associations such as the European Competitive views on our strategy and performance, as well as Telecommunication Association (ECTA). During 2013, Wind engagement on specific issues. took part in several public consultations carried out by the In 2013 we joined GeSI, became a member of the European Commission, BEREC1 and European Parliament. Human Rights Working Group, and co-facilitated a In particular, they were fully engaged on topics such as strategy discussion at the December General Assembly. the strategic challenges facing Europe in addressing the Through GeSI we are able to access multi-stakeholder growing spectrum demand for wireless broadband and the projects such as the supply chain capacity-building creation of a single European electronic communications work program and the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative, market and a connected continent. targeting improvements in the conflict minerals issue in the ICT supply chain. Governance As a decentralized business, we have not mandated any We conducted an expert consultation exercise (noted particular governance approach for CR across the BUs. above), as well as participating, shortly after the year Clearly all businesses are expected to comply with local end, in a human rights workshop, run by the SHIFT laws and regulations. Our broader corporate governance organization and sponsored by the Social and Economic arrangements are set out in detail in our Annual Report Council, an economic advisory council of the Dutch and Accounts and Form 20-F disclosure. government, which involved other businesses, subjectmatter experts and NGOs. All BUs and OpCos have nominated contact points in their organizations for CR, and in several of our largest We engage with our private and institutional BUs there are teams dedicated to the topic. In Pakistan, shareholders on a regular basis. In 2013 this included Mobilink has formalised many of its CR programs through meetings with Telenor which were focused specifically the Mobilink Foundation. on our CR strategy and performance. At HQ, the CR team has a reporting line to the Group We are developing a Group-wide approach to ethical Chief Financial Officer, and has access to the Group procurement and as part of the development of a Executive Board (‘GEB’) for issue by issue decisions. Supplier Code of Conduct (see page 32) we sought input In 2014, CR performance will start to be reported on from four of our key equipment and device vendors. a bi-annual basis to the global Management Board of We are a strategic partner of the World Economic the Company, comprising members of the GEB (the top Forum and have undertaken a number of roles with operational committee) and the CEOs of the BUs. There that organization. For example, at the 2013 Davos will also be annual reports to the Corporate Governance meeting, our CEO co-chaired the Governors Meeting for Committee of the Supervisory Board of the Company. Information and Communication Technologies Industries Also in 2014, we will be launching a CR Policy, together with Neelie Kroes, Vice-President and Commissioner with a set of Business Principles which will be used to for the Digital Agenda, European Commission. Later in communicate our CR agenda to employees, and influence the year VimpelCom was the mentor organization for the development of related policies and approaches. This the Annual Meeting of the New Champions 2013 and will augment the existing Code of Conduct which covers Global Business Leaders Dialogue in Dalian, China, and a broad range of compliance issues relating to personal our Chairman Emeritus gave the keynote speech on behavior. We take compliance with the Code very ”Sustainable Start-Ups”. seriously and in 2013 80 people were disciplined for noncompliances. The Code can be viewed on our website. 1 Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications. 16 VimpelCom 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report How We Manage CR Table 8: Engaging Stakeholders across the BUs Engaging stakeholder groups • Our BUs engage a wide variety of stakeholder groups including national and local government departments, agencies and law enforcement organizations, local communities, local and international NGOs and charity partners, customers, employees, academia, suppliers and content providers • Stakeholder groups are selected for engagement through a wide variety of processes. In many cases we are in constant engagement (e.g. on regulatory issues, on shareholder issues, through employee engagement, through customer care etc.) • The issues raised through engagement are prioritized through the materiality process set out above Externally developed Examples: economic, environmental • Mobilink and Kyivstar are signatories to the United Nations Global Compact (Kyivstar is a member of the and social charters, principles, Ukrainian secretariat) or other initiatives • Kyivstar signed the “Code for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children in the Internet and online resources” • Beeline Russia subscribes to the Safe Internet League, the Mobile Etiquette Charter and the Russian Operators’ Charter on Combating Child Pornography • Mobilink is a member of the WWF Green Ofﬁce Initiative and the Pakistan Centre for Philanthropy Associations (such as Examples: industry associations) and • Nearly all businesses are active members of industry associations – either global organizations such as national or international the GSMA, or country-focused such as the Russian Association of Networks and Services or the Association advocacy organizations of Telecommunications Operators of Tajikistan where we are part of the • Most businesses are members of their national chamber of commerce or an international version governance or participate (e.g. American Chamber of Commerce) in committees / projects • Wind Italy is a member of CONSEL (or ELIS Consortium) – a group of enterprises focused on training and development activities aimed at continuing education for employees and at increasing employment opportunities for young people We actively share CR best practice and the CR contact CR Reporting We actively shared CR points from our major businesses all gathered together for the first time in Amsterdam in September 2013. A number of our businesses produce their own CR reports. best practice and the We have monthly calls that highlight emerging issues Our Africa and Asia BU (as Orascom Telecom Holdings) CR contact points from and new projects, and regularly highlight specific produced CR reports from between 2008 and 2011 to our major businesses all programs through our Intranet, which also provides GRI level ‘B’. Mobilink has produced CR reports since a collaboration workspace. 2008 and is currently compiling a report for 2013. Wind gathered together for the Italy has produced reports over many years, the latest first time in Amsterdam The Company operates an enterprise risk management being GRI-level B+ with independent assurance and in September 2013. approach and CR risk is integrated into the risk register in alignment with the AA1000AS assurance standard. and risk review process. Risks are assessed on the basis banglalink and Beeline Russia will publish their first of the potential severity of the impact on the business CR reports in 2014. using several risk assessment criteria and the likelihood that the risks will manifest. Risks can then be prioritized Kyivstar regularly publishes documents covering its and, based on the risk appetite of the business, can be charity, volunteering and environmental programs and mitigated to a greater or lesser extent. our CIS businesses have all published CR reports. Risk appetite and our risk management approach is Management Systems established by the Group Executive Board. A full review A number of our BUs have implemented CR-related of risk factors is set out in detail in the Form 20-F filed management systems, the most prominent example with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. being Wind in Italy which has developed an approach which comprises not only ISO14001 (Environmental Management), EHS18001 (Occupational Health & Safety Management) and SA8000 (Social Accountability), but also ISO9001 (Quality) and ISO27001 (Information Security). www.vimpelcom.com 17 Section title Services for Society “Access to health, finance, education, public services, and the role of telecoms in enabling this, is a huge deal for VimpelCom, especially in emerging markets.” — Expert/Consultant Introduction • Have a real impact at scale for the populations we serve. A more prosperous, better educated, more productive, healthier population We believe we can create incremental shareholder returns through providing will support the future growth of our business products and services which bring specific positive benefits to society, and our wider range of stakeholders. This is about using our core technology and • Generate additional revenue for the business through incremental expertize to address societal issues whilst generating commercial benefits sales of data services for the business. • Drive innovation to create ‘sticky’ services that reduce churn on Several of our businesses have developed innovative programs in the areas our networks and create brand loyalty of health, education and agriculture, and are generally focused on improving • Build deeper relationships with government, communities and local either the efficiency, or the reach, of these ‘societal services’. The launch NGOs which in turn can lead to a better regulatory environment for of mobile financial services across our markets is a key strategic priority our business within our Value Agenda. Other programs are focused on helping young entrepreneurs to build their commercial skills and turn their ideas into real However, it is not always straightforward to find a business approach that businesses. The benefits of these approaches are broad, and on different at least covers costs, but this is the key to sustaining programs over the levels. For example, successful programs can: long term. We are constantly exploring the opportunities in this area and are developing partnerships and initiatives to encourage third parties to bring their service ideas to run over our networks. 18 VimpelCom 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report SUPPORTING Wind Business Factor, Italy KZ START Project, Kazakhstan ENTREPRENEURS Wind Business Factor is a virtual enterprise incubator Business ventures encouraging mobile data usage launched to support the growth of a new generation were the focus at a Beeline Kazakhstan-sponsored of companies and entrepreneurs through a ‘social competition for entrepreneurs during an October Building a solid and growing business network’ (www.Windbusinessfactor.it). The weekend, and the five winning teams were taken for economy is important for society incubator website helps users build relations with a two-week ‘start-up crash course’ in Silicon Valley, and for our business. By applying potential partners and funders, develop skills with California. Over a hundred projects were submitted, our technology and resources we ‘personal trainers’ on a range of specialist issues and with 11 teams selected for the Startup Weekend. can help people turn their ideas enter competitions through three annual contests. Participants engaged with experts from the business, into real businesses, creating new Wind Business Factor is now a community of more who taught them how to present their projects to services, employment, tax revenues Services for Society than 19,000 users, over 4,200 start-ups and business potential investors, prepare business plans, and and new skills. We are particularly ideas, and over 15,000 social media followers. develop additional commercial skills. focused on the digital economy, and digitally-literate businesses The Luiss Enlabs partnership joins the ‘virtual In California, participants were coached and and individuals will be important incubator’ with a physical enterprise incubator, mentored by Silicon Valley entrepreneurs, and met for growth and prosperity. Our developed with LUISS Business School of Rome. with leading US companies including Google, AT&T, businesses are delivering some The dedicated office in Rome hosts 34 start-ups and VMWare and Yahoo. innovative projects to help address more than 200 start-uppers, and supports them for The winning projects included: this challenge. up to 18 months with space, training, services and contacts with potential funding partners. • ‘LeadLock’: a mobile advertising network The global youth targeting the ‘lock screen’ smartphones display In 2013, the program won a National Innovation Award unemployment rate for best project in the category ‘Social Marketing’. when not active continues to rise and “We participated in the program and we had • ‘Phonebooth’: enabling free calls to call centers is projected to reach of major service organizations (banks, utilities, a chance to start and become a real company.” taxi operators) 12.8% by 2018. Monica Archibugi, CEO LE CICOGNE (Mobile app to connect families with babysitters) “We want to give young entrepreneurs concrete • ‘Ticketon’: online ticketing for movies and events which is currently servicing 13 Kazakh cinemas and various large-scale events help in transforming an innovative business idea into a great business.” • ‘WOOPPAY’: a mobile ﬁnancial services Youth unemployment Maximo Ibarra, CEO Wind system facilitating money transfers and electronic payments is three times the To watch a video about the project visit adult rate. http://bit.ly/1huJoMg • ‘X-Rift’: mobile game using augmented reality technology The KZ START program was organized by the 1.3 billion young people will enter National Agency of Technological Development JSC, with the support of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the labor market in the in cooperation with the Fund of Information Technologies Development, with Beeline Kazakhstan next 15 years with only being one of its active members. 300 million jobs projected “The fact that we got immersed in the atmosphere to be available for them. of IT technologies and incredible business Source: International Labor Organization competition of the Silicon Valley made us more energetic, giving us the boost to get improved, to grow and develop.” Roman Korniyenko, Co-Founder of WOOPPAY Almost 73 million young people are “This trip challenged us to strive for the best.“ looking for work. The ILO has warned Aleksei Li, Head of Ticketon of a “scarred” generation of young workers facing a dangerous mix of high unemployment, increased inactivity and precarious work in developed countries, and persistent poverty in the developing world. www.vimpelcom.com 19 Services for Society continued SUPPORTING FIKRA – Supporting innovation and “What drove Djezzy to get involved in FIKRA is young entrepreneurs, Algeria our willingness to give, to transfer our ENTREPRENEURS continued knowledge to young Algerians by helping them In December 2012, Djezzy organized the first high beneﬁt from our experience. For us, everything level networking conference (FIKRA) in Algeria. “We are in a situation The event attracted a large number of participants, that is not shared is lost.” of emergency! We Vincenzo Nesci, Executive president, Djezzy including leading policy makers, scientists, opinion need to pass the torch leaders, entrepreneurs, investors, executives, students, artists and journalists. and encourage young entrepreneurs to In July 2013, Djezzy provided 10 start-ups with financial support for developing their projects and innovate, to take risks Djezzy executives also coached them for a period of in order to catch up six months. The start-ups that were selected included in terms of economic a digital books project (Youreka), a Voice over IP solution (Compusave), an e-payment solution (epay) development.” and other mobile applications (Smart PP). Mr. Réda Hamiani, Chairman of the National Businessmen Forum banglalink Grandmaster idea “Grandmaster can motivate students to think of contest, Bangladesh some unique ideas and hopefully this kind of thinking will create a mobile application that “Competitions such as In 2011, banglalink launched an idea generation will help society and change millions of lives, Grandmaster create contest called ‘banglalink Grandmaster idea contest’ as well as develop entrepreneurship among for students to come up with innovative Value Added a platform for the Services ideas for the telecommunications sector. them. banglalink is committed to starting something new, and we believe youth is our youth to utilize their After two successful years, the third season was key to bringing the difference in the future.” strengths and come out launched focused on ‘mobile applications that make a Ziad Shatara, CEO & MD banglalink difference in people’s lives’. More than 50 universities as winners; this isn’t a across the country were invited to participate and classroom competition, 250 teams submitted their ideas. After screening, it is real life and they 20 teams were selected and provided with training by banglalink experts on developing mobile applications. understand that.” Eventually five teams were selected for the final with Professor Dr. Mohammad Musa, judging done in two phases – by banglalink customers Dean, School of Business & through the banglalink Facebook page, and through Economics, United International a jury panel. University, a member of the Through a partnership with Huawei Technology, the jury board winners will attend an international youth camp to be held in China in 2014, involving visits to three cities, attending workshops and receiving training from technology experts. DigiCamp 2013, Armenia “At the end of summer camp, young people learned how to cooperate in a team, worked ArmenTel (Beeline) partnered with the Union of with leading professionals, gathered practical Information Technology Companies (UITE) and the knowledge beyond that any educational Youth Fund of Armenia to arrange a summer camp institution could provide. Apart from that, of technology entrepreneurship – ‘DigiCamp’. The participants had the opportunity to present main purpose was to create an empowering and their ideas to over 24,000 visitors to the educative environment, to motivate people to DigiTec High Tech Forum.” establish their own business. Participants met Executive Director of UITE with ArmenTel leadership and were familiarized with telecoms technology applications used in “ArmenTel tries to create favorable opportunities the real business environment. for young people, and we hope they will succeed by combining their hard work with the skills they 26 teams presented their ideas. Five of the best are gaining today.” were selected and, over 10 days, help was provided ArmenTel CEO Andrey Pyatakhin to evolve them into business propositions. 20 VimpelCom 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report LITERACY, EDUCATION Mobilink (Pakistan) – AND KNOWLEDGE Mobile Based Literacy Mobilink’s award winning ‘SMS Based Literacy’ Improving literacy and education program works in collaboration with UNESCO to are important factors in driving educate rural women, a group almost entirely economic success for individuals and excluded from the conventional educational societies, and a key element of the system in Pakistan. Millennium Development Goals. An mLiteracy platform developed by Mobilink helps Connectivity can play a key role in teachers to disseminate a basic literacy curriculum The program was the recipient of the Global Mobile Services for Society supporting government and civil via SMS. Designated project facilitators organize Award 2013, in the category of ‘Connected Life society initiatives on education. We classes in villages, and access the platform to update Awards’ as the ‘Best Mobile Education or Learning also recognize that better educated, the syllabus. Learners respond to questions sent by Product or Service’. more literate customers will create SMS and the responses are logged to monitor learners’ “The gradual improvement of the mLiteracy greater commercial opportunities for progress and usage. software by Mobilink shows their commitment our business as data services become Mobilink provides free cellular connectivity to towards up-scaling of this program not only more and more important. teachers and learners and organizes periodic horizontally but also vertically. Presently, monitoring sessions to keep track of progress. some five governments (including federal and Primary school enrolment provincial) have implemented this project and UNESCO, the implementation partner, provides rates have increased from the curriculum and engages local support partners are ready to replicate this for the neo-literates, 83%-90% from 2000 to 2011, to organize village learning sessions. The project was piloted in 2009 with 250 female learners of rural Punjab. At the end of its 3rd Phase, so that a conducive learning environment could be established which will ultimately help to eradicate the illiteracy from Pakistan in a shorter span of time.” and the literacy gender it reached 4,000 learners. At the Government’s UNESCO Islamabad request, the 4th Phase will add 2,000 new gap is closing. enrolments to the project and include capacity “The project resonates with Mobilink’s mission of building for teachers. The geographical outreach making a difference in the communities that we However, illiteracy is still has been expanded to Khyber Pakhtunkhuwa, operate in by utilizing our network and services. highest amongst poor, Sindh, Islamabad Capital Territory and Federally Putting the mobile phone into the hands of as many as 6,000 rural women as a means to literacy rural females and overall Administered Tribal Area. has had a far reaching impact on the sphere of progress has currently The project has enabled rural women to better education and even beyond. We are confident stalled due to the manage domestic finance and has raised interest in that the project can be successfully replicated in vocational training amongst the women learners and other parts of the developing world.” reduction in global aid their husbands. The program has noticeably reduced President and CEO of Mobilink, Rashid Khan for basic education. gender bias to mobile use and participants have To watch a video about the project visit Source: UN reported heightened sense of security as a result http://bit.ly/1cppYUF of having an access to means of communication. Google Translate + Kazakh from the American Chamber of Commerce in “The Beeline project The project to include the Kazakh language Kazakhstan and Eurobak. Beeline Kazakhstan will also support the second phase to create a full to include the Kazakh in the Google world translation service implementation when the Kazakh language will language in Google Google Translate is one of the most popular free appear fully in Google Translate. online translation services, providing cross translation Translate is very for 80 languages. However, this does not include the “Only thanks to the support of Beeline have we important. Today, the Kazakh language. Beeline Kazakhstan in cooperation managed to engage the public and experts into implementation and with public foundation ‘WikiBilim’ started ‘Google ‘Google Translate + Kazakh’.” Translate + Kazakh’, to open up the translation service Rauan Kenzhekhanuly, Head of the Public application of the state to Kazakh-speaking people. Foundation ‘WikiBilim’ language in the internet, The project started in late 2012 and finished in “It’s very important that all innovative global and the development of December 2013 when Google launched a test page services are present in Kazakhstan and available content in the Kazakh with the ability to translate from the Kazakh for our customers. And we are glad, that by language into English and vice versa. This successful supporting the project ‘Google Translate + language is significantly launch depended on volunteers to make a database Kazakh’, our company supports the inclusion in demand.” of 10,000 Wikipedia articles translated from English of the Kazakh language into the worldwide Julie Kussidi, Executive Director to Kazakh. Beeline provided permanent free access service and gives a unique opportunity to all of Eurobak in Kazakhstan to a special page in Google Translate and explained Kazakh speaking people and all other people, how to use the database system effectively. who want to learn the Kazakh language.” Taras Parkhomenko, CEO Beeline Kazakhstan The project has already received very positive feedback from Kazakh people and received awards www.vimpelcom.com 21 Services for Society continued AGRICULTURE A growing number of studies are demonstrating the role that mobile can play in improving the efficiency of agriculture. For many of the countries where we operate, agriculture is a vital component of the economy and a key driver of prosperity. Supporting farmers makes business sense for them and for our business, as more prosperous, successful customers are likely to reinvest in our services. In the period 2010-2012, 17% of the population in Bangladesh and 20% of the population in banglalink mAgriculture services “The mobile industry in Bangladesh is working hand in hand with the government to achieve the Pakistan were classed Agriculture is the largest sector in Bangladesh, 2021 goal of making a digital Bangladesh, and involving almost 80% of the population and as undernourished contributing nearly 23% of GDP. However, many to do that banglalink always stays ahead in the (24% in Georgia, 31% agriculture sector. banglalink Krishi Bazar and people still struggle to make a decent living, often Krishi Jiggasha is a kind of unique service which in Tajikistan, 33% in caused by lack of expertise, access to knowledge is acting as a bridge of communication between and markets. Zimbabwe, 73.4% in farmers and the entire country.” Burundi and 30% in CAR) To help address these issues, banglalink launched Markus Ehmann, General Manager of Katalyst (an ‘Mobile based agriculture information service’ agricultural NGO) Source: United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization in conjunction with the Agriculture Information “From inception banglalink believes in making Service (AIS) and Access to Information Program a difference in the life of people of Bangladesh (A2I) of the Prime Minister’s Office. This SMS based and to do so, we tried our best to support the service technology is delivered to farmers, farmer agriculture industry. Innovative services like Krishi associations, Government officials and related NGOs, Bazar and Krishi Jiggasha have proven their worth and provides information on current agricultural in the life of farmers in Bangladesh, where the issues, e.g. how to preserve potatoes in storage. combination of the SMS service, the call-center banglalink also launched Krishi Jiggasha 7676, a and the actual marketplace made them unique. 24 hour call center-based agricultural information With the current growth rate these services can service. This center receives 40,000 calls per month change the agricultural sector and make a big from about 120,000 agri-professionals. impact on the financial situation of farmers in our country. A strong agriculture sector is Next to these information services, banglalink set up obviously good for our business as well and is Krishibazaar, a mobile-based agricultural marketplace, in line with our motto to ‘Start something new’.” where people can actually buy and sell their products Ziad Shatara, CEO & MD, banglalink using voice services. This helps to ensure farmers can get a better price for their products and the service To watch a video about the project visit receives over 12,000 calls per month. http://bit.ly/m-agri-banglalink Mobilink and Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research In 2014, Mobilink will start an m-Agriculture project with the Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research (ACIAR) ) to establish communication channels that will provide farmers and their communities access to agriculture and community information in the areas of dairy, mango and citrus farming. We will report on progress in next year’s Report. 22 VimpelCom 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Kyivstar M-Health service that allows a phone or tablet to train HEALTH APPLICATIONS good eyesight and also to check for symptoms In February 2013 Kyivstar introduced a Mobile Health of the most common eye diseases.” program, aimed at helping people to improve their Igor Lytovchenko, Head of Ukraine Business Unit There has been a focus for some health, by providing useful mobile applications. of VimpelCom Ltd., President of Kyivstar time on the potential for applying All applications are designed in partnership with mobile technology to improve leading healthcare facilities. Three apps are already Pregnancy App: My Little Star healthcare in both the developed available for subscribers of all mobile operators. The first app developed and delivered through the and developing world. Several of the These applications are ‘My Little Star’ for families Mobile Health initiative. With the help of this app, Millennium Development Goals focus who expect a child, ‘My Little Star. The First Year’ future parents can be better prepared for the birth of on improving healthcare provision, for families with children from 0 to 12 months, and their children. It is free of charge from Kyivstar and Services for Society including a particular focus on ‘Good Eyesight’ for children and adults to take care enables a future mother to monitor her own health maternal health and child mortality. of their eyesight. and her baby’s development, maintain a pregnancy journal, plan doctor visits, and access other related Mobile technology can improve the Good Eyesight Application information, with local-specific content. access of the population to advice ‘Good Eyesight’ was developed in partnership with and other services, improving the the Institute of Eye Diseases and Tissue Therapy and There have been more than 4,000 downloads efficiency and effectiveness of provides a number of simple tests that can be taken and the application has been downloaded in delivery and enabling government using a smartphone. It also provides directions for multiple countries. health budgets to achieve more. exercises that relieve eye tension, and advice on how Baby’s ﬁrst year to avoid eye strain and strengthen eye muscles. Building on the initial success The proportion of women There have been more than 40,000 downloads and of ‘My Little Star,’ a follow-up receiving antenatal care the number is growing. app, ‘My Little Star, The First at least once during Year,’ focuses on the first year “Modern life has changed: computers, mobile of the child’s life. pregnancy was devices have created new approaches to This new application has 81% for the period 2005–2012, communicate information. Using new technologies is especially important in work with the young generation, because smartphones been developed with the help of the pediatricians of Dobrobut, Ukraine’s leading and tablets are an essential part of life. That’s but for the recommended why we really appreciate the partnership with private medical network. It provides parents with “Kyivstar” in creating a mobile application that information about psychophysical development minimum of four visits or is useful for both kids and grown-ups.” of their baby, and the skills and abilities the baby more, the corresponding Natalia Pasechnikova, Head of the Filatov Institute should gain during his or her first year of life. figure drops to around of Eye Diseases and Tissue Therapy Parents can also find recommendations on breast feeding and food schedules; information about 55% Source: United Nations “‘Good Eyesight’ is part of Kyivstar’s long-term social project on Mobile Health which aims to provide useful mobile applications for healthy bathing, physical exercises, walking in the open air; and a vaccination schedule. living. Through cooperation with medical There have been more than 3,500 downloads. specialists we created the ﬁrst Ukrainian mobile MOBILE FINANCIAL SERVICES Partnership with MasterCard In February 2013, VimpelCom announced a strategic partnership with In countries with limited banking In countries with more established MasterCard to offer mobile money solutions globally. The partnership infrastructure such as Pakistan, banking infrastructure, we are provides innovative and reliable financial services to a new generation Bangladesh and Zimbabwe, working closely with the banking of customers, both banked and underserved. This collaboration we are focused on providing industry to enable a digital endstrengthens VimpelCom customers’ experience by offering value added improved access to basic financial to-end experience for the mass services including, but not limited to, person-to-person payments, services such as bill payment and market. For example, our ticketing bill payments and mobile commerce. money transfer for the unbanked services in Italy are already population. The positive sociostarting to replace paper based economic impact of these services alternatives. We are working hard is evident. We are also working to enable cashless transactions closely with government and charity and simplify the consumption of organizations to help them to deliver products via customers’ mobiles welfare, donations, subsidies and in all of our markets. social security payments directly to people who need them. www.vimpelcom.com 23 Resource “I think climate change is probably going to be the single biggest technical challenge of the Efficiency 21st century.” — Equipment Supplier Introduction It is about being more efficient with the planet’s resources and it makes good business sense for several reasons: As indicated on page 14 (materiality), environmental issues did not rate as being as important as several other categories of issue. Many • Reducing cost – resource efﬁciency generally means cost efﬁciency of our businesses, and the experts we consulted in the process, see • Risk management – by helping to address global environmental socio-economic and human rights as more immediate concerns in our issues such as climate change, companies can reduce the risk of markets. However, in the longer term it is clear that the impact of impacts on their customers and infrastructure climate change, water shortage and other resource use will become more significant, particularly for emerging economies, and especially • Innovation – an awareness of environmental challenges can lead those vulnerable to drought, flooding and other weather extremes. to product and service ideas – using mobile technology to help customers reduce their impacts In addition, environmental issues are prominent in the UNGC Principles, and as part of our Communication on Progress (‘COP’) we are reporting • Engagement – demonstrating responsibility towards environmental on our programs to reduce our main impacts. protection can improve reputation with customers, local communities, employees and government Managing environmental issues involves doing more with less. Using less fossil fuel, less material, creating less waste, generating fewer emissions. 24 VimpelCom 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Issues and Priorities We are developing our commercial focus in these areas and are a member of the M2M World Alliance, There are a number of environmental issues relevant a partnership of seven other leading operators to mobile operator operations, including: around the world, providing global implementation • Energy consumption and climate change: mainly capabilities for customers. energy consumed in our mobile network base stations and data centers, but also in our ofﬁces, Governance Managing environmental and by our ﬂeet of vehicles Our Group Code of Conduct sets out our commitment issues involves doing to meet local regulatory requirements and relevant • Solid waste: mainly used network equipment, international environmental standards, as well as more with less. handsets and other electronic items, but also civil our aim to reduce emissions and waste, and to use Using less fossil fuel, waste (cables, concrete etc.) and ofﬁce waste natural resources responsibly. Environmental issues • The use of water will be represented in our Business Principles, being less material, creating • Local effects such as the noise, vibration and visual developed in 2014. less waste, generating intrusion of our base stations Energy use, and the related greenhouse gas emissions, fewer emissions. Our responsibility for protecting the environment are our main environmental impacts and we have extends beyond our own operations, and operators also developed a consistent approach to energy efficiency need to focus on the impacts generated by their supply across the business, including the introduction of chains, the use of their products and services common KPIs and reporting. As part of our monthly by customers, and the end of life of those products. focus on network performance (see page 29 – on network Resource Efficiency health), our markets report energy consumption and cost Our priorities lie where there is the biggest environmental per site. We compare these performance benchmarks impact and greatest stakeholder concern, the biggest and focus on where improvements can be made. We have opportunities to save costs or support our operations, developed a detailed database of efficiency measures and where there are opportunities to engage our (see overleaf) and this supports best practice sharing. customers and employees. Several businesses manage their environmental Based on our assessment of materiality, including our programs through an environmental management knowledge of programs elsewhere in the industry, system. The Africa and Asia BU implemented ISO14001 our priorities are: at its HQ and Djezzy in Algeria has also achieved 1. Improving the energy efﬁciency of our network certification. Wind Italy has merged this approach into and data center sites an integrated management system approach which also incorporates health & safety, social accountability and 2. Introducing renewable energy solutions wherever data security standards. economically feasible 3. Engaging with our suppliers to improve the environmental performance of the products and services we buy, and reduce the impact of the manufacturing processes involved 4. Engaging our employees in environmental issues through ofﬁce-based programs and community volunteering opportunities Impacts of noise, vibration etc. associated with our base stations are managed locally and we do not, at this time, collect performance data on this topic centrally, other than disclosing any ‘environmental’ fines or sanctions incurred on the basis of our activities, that are reported to Group. No fines relating to environmental laws or regulations have been reported by our businesses in 2013. We are aware of the potential benefits that mobile technology can bring in enabling third parties to reduce their carbon emissions, and this occurs on a daily basis across our markets as people use voice and data services to substitute for travel, and reduce material consumption. One area of focus in the ICT sector is so-called Machine to Machine (or M2M) technology, and applications in the automotive, logistics and utility sectors are generally seen as promising areas for emission reduction. www.vimpelcom.com 25 Resource Efficiency continued We estimate our total Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Within the total energy use is a small amount of Emission Data renewable energy from solar-powered base stations (52) Scope 1 and Scope 2 and solar arrays on buildings (in Italy and Bangladesh). CO2e emissions to In 2013, for the first time, we collected performance This amounts to less than 0.1% of total energy data on our Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas be approximately consumption and the economic case for solar power emissions. In practice this means: and base stations remains challenging. In addition, 1.35 million tonnes. • Scope 1: Emissions from fuel consumption to operate Wind Italy was awarded ‘power efficiency certificates’ network base stations that do not have access to (TEE) by the Regulatory Authority for Electricity and national power grids (generally from diesel Gas (the independent body which regulates, controls generators), and for heating, cooling and powering and monitors the electricity and gas markets in Italy) buildings / ofﬁces (mainly diesel and natural gas). totaling 23,259 tonnes CO2e. We also report emissions from vehicle fuel consumed We operate a fleet of approximately 5,700 vehicles, • Scope 2: Electrical power consumed by our network comprising approximately 40% diesel and 60% petroland our buildings / ofﬁces fuelled vehicles, as well as four electric cars. We do not currently collect emission data relating Network Efﬁciency Measures to air-travel, or on other Scope 3 emissions (use of As the majority of our greenhouse gas emissions originate products and supply chain-related) from energy use in our network, this is the main focus The data for energy use has been collected by reference for our energy efficiency programs. A series of energy to invoices, by extrapolation from known actual energy efficiency measures is being applied across our network performance of different types of base station, and infrastructure and these measures include: from estimation. It is the first time our businesses have Radio Access Network – Number of Radio Base collected and reported this information. In this context, Energy Efﬁciency Initiatives stations 2013 the table below sets out our best estimate of our carbon Free Cooling Units 11,577 footprint and we will be working over the course of 2014 Potential to reduce site energy to improve the quality and reliability of the data. consumption by 20% to 25% we are introducing Free Cooling Units in indoor RAN (Radio Access Network) sites Hybrid units 3,768 Sharing the power load between Table 9: Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emission Data batteries and diesel generators when Energy CO2e the power grid is unavailable can cut (mWh (tonnes (tonnes (tonnes diesel usage and carbon emissions by millions) millions) millions) millions) up to 20% Total % Scope 1 Scope 2 Total % Network, offices and 2.76 96% 0.21 1.10 1.31 97% ‘Outdoor’ sites 18,845 other buildings Most of the new sites are built in ‘Outdoor’ cabinets instead of the Vehicles 0.15 4% 0.04 — 0.04 3% traditional ‘Indoor’ shelters, saving Total 2.91 0.25 1.10 1.35 operational energy required by up to 50%. Where possible we swap existing Indoor sites into Outdoor cabinets Power Saving Features 46,537 Switching off some radio elements that are not needed when the traffic is low reduces energy consumption of base stations by 20% to 30% depending on the site configuration Individual base stations may utilize more than one of these approaches. The increasing level of tower sharing amongst operators can also have a positive impact on energy consumption and other environmental factors. 26 VimpelCom 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Supply Chain Beeline helped to implement activities for the whole Mobilink has developed an of Russia and provided free WiFi zones at the sites of Network energy efficiency is highly dependent on the Environmental Management large-scale clean-ups type of equipment used and the majority of this (and System at the Lahore office IT equipment) is specified and contracted for centrally. • Armenia – 200 employee volunteers participated in which helped to reduce the Energy efficiency is an important part of the Total Cost clean-up projects in four villages facility’s carbon footprint by of Ownership of equipment; this is a key factor in the • Kyrgyzstan – 250 employee volunteers participated 35%, and its solid waste by overall purchasing decision and efficiency claims for in a campaign to clean up the city and charitable 50%. Certification was audited equipment are tested in our labs in Russia and Italy. donations were made to manufacture and install by WWF in December and it Procurement and technical teams investigate new garbage bins in Bishkek achieved certification as a opportunities to improve equipment performance and ‘Green Office’. The program was are involved in trials of high efficiency power solutions • Pakistan – ‘Walk to Preserve’ events are organized to largely employee-driven through and solar power. help preserve the Margalla Eco-System in the vicinity volunteer “Green Wardens.” of Islamabad and also give employees a chance for Mobilink now plans to seek The environmental performance of our suppliers is a key some exercise. 225 volunteers participated and over certification for three additional element in the draft Supplier Code of Conduct referred 120 bags of waste and refuse were collected facilities elsewhere, including to on page 32. • Bangladesh – banglalink runs Cox’s Bazar Sea Beach the HQ Building in Islamabad. Engaging Employees and Communities Cleaning Project where a team of 26 female workers Several businesses have launched ‘Eco-Office’ programs are employed to clean the long 3 km beach. aimed at involving employees in helping to reduce Employee volunteers engaged more than 1,000 In March 2013 Beeline Russia people to remove trash from the beach on took part in the ‘Earth Hour’, Resource Efficiency office-based environmental impacts. These programs cover electricity, water and paper consumption, and International Coastal Clean-up Day in 2013 organized by WWF. More than 40 waste reduction. • Italy – ‘Puliamo il Mondo’ is the Italian version administrative offices across the of “Clean Up The World”, an initiative aimed at country turned off the exterior Volunteering, and engaging with customers and the and interior lighting. In addition, cleaning up schools, parks, gardens, squares and general public, are important aspects of our CR programs over 50 employees together with streets. 160 employees cleaned locations in Rome, and this also includes the environmental agenda: environmental supporters took Milan, Palermo, Pozzuoli, Marghera and Ivrea (the • Russia – Beeline is a key partner of ‘Bloggers against cities where the company has its main ofﬁces) part in planting more than 600 the garbage’ – a program held across Russia by the trees in a city park in Rostov. initiative of the famous traveler, entrepreneur and blogger Sergey Dolya. In 2013, 50,000 volunteers from 200 Russian cities from Kaliningrad to Kamchatka participated in the eco-action. www.vimpelcom.com 27 Responsible Behavior “Major issues will be related to human rights, especially privacy and freedom of expression in the markets in which VimpelCom are present.” — Industry body Introduction • Health and safety – are we providing a safe and healthy working environment for our employees and those others who visit or work Since publishing our first report we have carried out an initial review of issue on our premises? materiality (page 14). This confirmed that whilst a number of issues are relevant to how we can add value to society, others are more related to the • Ethical procurement – are we raising human rights and environmental need to behave responsibly as a business. These issues include: standards in our supply chain? • Network coverage and reliability – are we providing a good quality, • Radio frequency emissions and health concerns – are we keeping key reliable service to a broad range of the population? stakeholders informed? • The accessibility of our services – are our services affordable for poorer • Corporate governance – are we managing our business in accordance customers, and usable by the elderly and those who struggle to access with good standards of governance? communications due to disability? The following sections describe how we approach these issues and • Customer satisfaction and responsible marketing – are we meeting illustrate this with case studies from our markets and performance the expectations of one of our core stakeholder groups? data, where available. • Bribery and corruption – are we behaving ethically in our business There are issues which did not rate as highly in our materiality review but dealings in the markets where we operate? are nevertheless covered by the Principles of the UNGC to which we are signatories. These include our environmental approach and performance • Privacy, freedom of expression and government access to data – are (which is covered on pages 24 to 27) and our approach on freedom of we keeping our customers’ details safe, and safeguarding legitimate association and collective bargaining, forced and compulsory labor, child personal and political expression via our services? labor and discrimination. These issues are relevant to our supply chain • Online safety – are we helping to protect our customers from fraud, (see page 32), and our own operations and employees (page 33). We consider and vulnerable users from accessing inappropriate content online? that the risk of performing badly against these labor-focused UNGC Principles is lower in our own organization than in our supply chain. 28 VimpelCom 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Network Coverage and Reliability Accessibility Table 10: Population Coverage The coverage and reliability of our network are core to Modern telecommunication services allow billions of Population Number of our business success and subject to regulation through people to connect but some groups in society struggle to Coverage (%) Markets the terms of our operating licenses. Developing and access the benefits of this. The poor can have difficulties 2G 3G maintaining our network is the largest area of capital accessing communications through issues of affordability 95 – 100 4 1 expenditure and drives a large proportion of our – the so-called bottom of the economic pyramid. Mobile 90 – 95 2 0 sourcing activities. In 2013 just over $3bn was invested operators have been working over many years to make in our network infrastructure. As a result it receives a services affordable and constantly growing penetration 85 – 90 3 0 significant degree of management attention and detailed rates are indicative of continuing progress (see Table 13). 80 – 85 0 1 planning. It is also of key importance to our customers This is aided by low cost tariffs, falling prices in basic 70 – 80 2 0 and other stakeholders, many of whom rely heavily on handsets and the increasing availability of second-hand 50 – 70 0 3 the ability to use telecommunication services. Without phones, including smartphones. 0 – 50 0 2 a reliable network, covering a large spread of the 0 0 4 As well as basic connectivity, we are bringing new valuepopulation, we have no business. added services to customers across our footprint, much Figures for Ukraine are not reported as Therefore, whilst these factors are managed locally, of which is in emerging or transitional economies, often this data is not collected centrally. performance is scrutinised centrally on a monthly basis free-of-charge. During 2013 we launched 3G services though our Network Health reporting process which in Bangladesh and were awarded a 3G In 2013, we announced a partnership with the license in Algeria where services will captures a broad range of coverage, reliability, quality launch in 2014. We have 4G services Wikimedia Foundation to deliver free Wikipedia access and efficiency statistics. Performance is reviewed in Italy and Russia. to VimpelCom customers. Through Wikipedia Zero, through the Operational Performance Board, which Our ability to roll-out 3G / 4G is VimpelCom’s mobile customers have free access to the involves (among others) both the Group Chief Operating restricted by license agreements, mobile version of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia, not by our willingness to invest in Officer and Group Chief Technology Officer. Improvement along with a light-weight, text-only fast version of the infrastructure for our customers. and management of network performance is supported site. With this partnership, locally-relevant articles are by a Network Forum which controls the activities of available in both local language and English through various technical working groups. Table 11: Network Reliability the VimpelCom network. Our Beeline brand also Network performance can be summarized through the announced a new form of access to Facebook. Through Network Unavailability KPIs in the tables at the right of this page. 0.facebook.com, Beeline customers have the unique Monthly average Number of (%) Markets 0 – 0.5 8 Responsible Behavior 0.5 – 1.0 3 1.0+ 1 Table 12: Network Quality Unsuccessful Call Set-up Rate Monthly average Number of (%) Markets 0 – 1.0 6 1.0 – 2.0 5 2.0+ 1 Maintaining network availability and quality of service can be particularly challenging in markets where power supply is highly unreliable. Emerging markets can often experience regular and prolonged power cuts that can impact service even where back-up power sources are present. www.vimpelcom.com 29 Responsible Behavior continued opportunity to stay online with their friends using Our general approach to serving our customers is covered Table 13: Subscription the leading social network Facebook from their in our Annual Report and Accounts. Some issues are Growth 2000 – 2012 mobile phones free of charge. The 0.facebook.com particularly relevant to the CR agenda, and are covered Mobile subscriptions website is a simplified option of the mobile website elsewhere in this section (e.g. network reliability, Country per 100 inhabitants1 Facebook with full functionality. privacy, accessibility and online safety). 2000 2012 Algeria 0.27 97.95 During 2013, VimpelCom also strengthened its The main KPI for measuring our performance in relation existing partnership with Opera Software ASA to to customer satisfaction is the ‘Net Promoter Score’ – Armenia 0.57 111.91 offer a simplified and more efficient way to use the the degree to which customers would recommend our Bangladesh 0.21 62.82 internet via a mobile. Opera Web Pass enables users services to others. This is a relatively new approach and Georgia 4.11 107.81 to browse the mobile internet through easy to buy 2013 has seen extensive communication and education Italy 74.13 159.76 time-based or content-based mobile data packages in relation to the new measure. Performance is Kazakhstan 1.35 185.82 through a simple, one-click purchase. monitored via quarterly reporting and business reviews, Kyrgyzstan 0.18 124.18 and through discussion at Management Board meetings. Improving access to the internet for poorer people Pakistan 0.21 67.06 In 2013, six of our OpCos were either on par or ahead of is also supported by local initiatives such as Russia 2.22 182.92 competitors on NPS. Since the implementation of the introducing local language to Google Translate (see metric in our day-to-day operations, we see notable Tajikistan 0.02 81.51 case study from Kazakhstan, page 21), and helping improvements in our key OpCos at the main customer Ukraine 1.67 130.34 to develop basic literacy (see case study from touch points and a reduction in churn. Uzbekistan 0.21 71.03 Pakistan, page 21). Pricing guidelines are developed centrally as Source: ITU As well as the poor, people with poor eyesight or recommended practice for BUs. We are also working hearing or dexterity issues can have difficulties 1 Some markets are multi-SIM, i.e. more to harmonize our approach to customer contact to than one SIM card per customer. accessing services. Often these issues are associated ensure that the customer experience is not damaged with the elderly, arguably one of the groups in by unwanted spam communication. Advertising is society most reliant on communications to stay in managed locally to ensure that it is appropriate for In 2013, for the fourth touch with family and services. These issues are very local standards and culture. However, during 2013, time, Beeline Russia dependent on local socio-economic conditions and our businesses reported six incidents relating to our demographics and are managed locally. supported the Moscow marketing activities that resulted in a penalty and a Customer Satisfaction and further 23 incidents that resulted in a warning from Festival of Deaf People, the relevant body. There was one incident of non‘Peace and Love’, which Responsible Marketing compliance with a voluntary code reported. There were Customer experience is a major competitive was attended by more differentiator in the mobile industry and therefore no fines reported relating to non-compliance with laws or regulations covering the provision and use of our than 17,000 people. In is a key element of the Company’s Value Agenda. products or services. addition, a special tariff Customer experience can be influenced by many factors, particularly value for money and the Privacy and Freedom of Expression was launched for World quality of the products and services offered. Many benefits of mobile services are possible only War 2 veterans and 2,000 because operators collect and hold data on their received 300 minutes of customers, e.g. billing data, location data and browsing free calls. preferences. ICT brings incredible benefits for society but also provides the potential for those with the regulatory power and/or technical capability to abuse users for political and financial gain. 2013 has seen growing public alarm over personal privacy, relating mainly to two fears: • That government has unregulated access to personal data which may, for example, create an environment where public protest and free speech are curtailed; • Irresponsible harvesting and use of personal data by corporations which could lead to ﬁnancial or reputational loss for the individual. The situation is also complicated by the fact that the digital environment is not a country-specific arena and personal data in the digital environment are global by definition. Players in the digital environment are often multi-country organizations and yet legal frameworks are national and not harmonized internationally. Government Access Mobile operators are entirely reliant on governments for access to radio spectrum and the granting of operating licenses. The terms of operating licenses, all 30 VimpelCom 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report over the world, contain clauses allowing government to Health & Safety (‘H&S’) access customer data where this is necessary for crime Mobile operators must manage a broad range of health prevention and national security. This can be enacted and safety (‘H&S’) risks. A large proportion of employees in different ways, typically: are office based and face a relatively low level of risk. • By presentation of a court order to the operator, The main sector risks tend to relate to the following: requiring the operator to provide speciﬁc data items • Road-trafﬁc accidents – employees or contractors • By presentation of a court order to the operator, involved in distribution of products or network after which the government can access the relevant equipment. This is particularly risky in emerging database directly, facilitated by the operator markets where road and trafﬁc conditions are not • By direct access to the relevant data, following well regulated a court procedure, which does not require the • Working at height and electrical risks – building and involvement of the operator maintaining the network involves working with According to research (‘EU We have OpCos that operate under each of these types electricity, and on base station masts. Workers must Children online’), one fifth of of regime. Recent revelations in the media have also also be careful to limit their exposure to radio Russian children spend more alleged that some governments have the ability to access emissions when working close to antennae than three hours per day on data without any recourse to the operator’s cooperation In addition, a number of our markets have had to the internet and between or IT assets. Several of the license agreements that we maintain operations during times of civil unrest (the 70% and 90% of Russian operate under also forbid any form of disclosure on the Central African Republic, Ukraine and Bangladesh). At schoolchildren confirm that nature or extent of access to data, which drastically such times the personal security of individuals trying to they use the internet with limits what we can report to stakeholders. maintain network coverage and services (including, for no adult supervision. 79% of example, replenishing diesel in remote generators) must Russian schoolchildren post Through internal and external consultation, we are be carefully managed. Sadly, in 2013 two colleagues their personal data (name, age, currently reviewing options in this area, including the lost their lives as a result of civil unrest, although photo, school). 41% of children potential benefits of joining organizations such as the neither were as a direct result of their employment. personally meet their internetIndustry Dialogue on Freedom of Expression and Privacy These occurred as part of the civil war in the CAR, and acquaintances but only 11% (www.telecomindustrydialogue.org). a terrorist attack on the public transport network in of parents are aware of that. Privacy, Data Protection and Commercial Use of Data Volgograd. We also experienced a security incident in Since 2012 Beeline has provided Our businesses operate in markets with very variable one of our Africa and Asia OpCos, where there was an customers with a ‘Parental Responsible Behavior regulatory regimes relating to data security and privacy attempted kidnapping of a female member of staff, as Control’ solution that helps and as a result this issue is managed locally. During well as a violent protest outside our offices in Grozny parents to protect children 2013 we benchmarked these local approaches against when staff had to be evacuated for their own safety. from internet threats, as best practice standards and the strictest regulatory H&S is governed by many local labor protection laws and well as launching a children’s approaches in force around the world. We are now regulations and is managed locally within VimpelCom. internet library ‘Web-landia’ and developing roadmaps for improvement, where necessary, Most of our larger markets have an H&S policy, or sets campaigned to raise awareness of and considering the merits of a Group-wide policy. of procedures covering specific work activities. In how to use the internet safely. We recognize the importance of this issue to our nearly every instance, these policies cover both our own customers and are always seeking to improve performance. employees but also any contractors, including network However, during 2013 our businesses reported 50 contractors, who are on VimpelCom premises. complaints received from third parties relating to our Several of our BUs have formal H&S management systems management of customer privacy, together with 16 and Wind Italy has achieved certification to EHS18001 complaints from regulatory bodies. We identified 34 as part of its integrated management system approach. instances of loss of customer data, which were minor, Nearly all BUs carry out H&S training for relevant typically affecting individual customers. personnel on either a continuous basis, or on induction. Online Safety In 2013 we conducted an initial high level review of Due to its very ‘open’ nature, the internet can bring practices across the business and we are considering certain risks, including the exposure of children to the benefits of developing a more common approach inappropriate content or encounters with ‘predatory’ to H&S management. This is the first time we have users. It can also be an avenue for fraudsters. gathered H&S performance data centrally. It is clear from the data reported that our businesses are categorising Protecting vulnerable groups when online is a priority injuries differently and therefore we will be working for us. In last year’s report we set out in detail the through 2014 to calibrate a more consistent approach to initiatives being undertaken to protect children in two reporting injuries. of our largest markets, Russia and Ukraine. These measures included blocking of illegal sites, education No work-related employee fatalities were reported and awareness-raising for children and teachers, and in 2014, although sadly four colleagues died through internet filtering solutions for parents. In Italy and natural causes and a further colleague died in a transport Canada we have comprehensive measures in place, incident on her way to work. We do not yet collect data and are working on implementation in both Pakistan on contractor fatalities and injuries on a consistent basis and Bangladesh. across our businesses, but we did receive a report of one fatality from our Africa and Asia BU where, as a result of a road traffic accident, the vehicle driver who was transporting one of our employees sadly lost his life. www.vimpelcom.com 31 Responsible Behavior continued Bribery & Corruption A compliance roadmap has been developed covering: Table 14: Transparency risk analysis; policies and procedures; organization International corruption Transparency International rank 175 countries based and commitment; training and awareness; screening; rankings on the perceptions of the degree of corruption, record keeping and controls; reporting; internal audit Number of bribery, secret dealings, money laundering etc. Doing and monitoring; remedial and corrective actions; and ‘VimpelCom business in countries with a high degree of corruption 1 program leadership. Data has been collected on the Country Ranking Markets’ is challenging and risky. Corruption can slow down number, type and source of investigations since the 0 – 50 1 business and damage reputation, as well as lead to midpoint of 2013 and is summarized to the left. 51 – 100 4 criminal proceedings. VimpelCom businesses operate 101 – 150 8 in some of the higher risk countries and so a strong In 2014 we intend a major focus on building a strong and comprehensive approach is needed to protect our culture around anti-bribery and corruption and we will 151 – 175 4 business, and our stakeholders. disclose more on this project in the next report. 1 Scale: 1 = ‘cleanest’, 175th = worst The Company has put in place a governance structure to After the year end, on 11 March, 2014, VimpelCom focus on anti-bribery and corruption activities. All of received from the staff of the United States Securities Table 15: Compliance our larger businesses, and HQ, have either a Compliance and Exchange Commission a letter stating that they investigations Officer or Coordinator in place, and the Compliance Team are conducting an investigation related to VimpelCom meets regularly to share best practice and discuss issues and requesting documents. On the same day the HQ in Number of arising. Our approach is underpinned by our Group Code Amsterdam was visited by representatives of the Dutch Source investigations2 of Conduct which covers a range of personal behaviors, authorities, including the Dutch public prosecutor Whistleblowing and includes a focus on bribery and corruption. This office, who obtained documents and informed the line 50 is supported by a range of policies and procedures, in Company that it was the focus of a criminal investigation Other sources 248 place or under development, which address issues such in the Netherlands. The investigations appear to 2 For the second six months of as third party screening, conflicts of interest, gifts and be concerned with the Company’s operations in 2013. Note – not all investigations hospitality and incident management and investigation. Uzbekistan. The Company intends to fully cooperate discover conﬁrmed instances of with these investigations. corruption or other behaviors in At HQ-level the Global Compliance Committee performs conﬂict with the Code of Conduct. a consultative function, comprising members of the Supply Chain Group Executive Board and other functional heads, We sit at a point in the telecommunications supply including the Head of Internal Audit. This committee chain between our customers (the general public and structure is replicated at BU level, and in some OpCos. businesses) and the vast and complex network of supplier During the year, we have engaged with a number of businesses that design, produce, distribute, build and international business organizations, and NGOs, on maintain the network equipment, the devices we sell the topic of corruption. and the services that support our operations. In 2013 we implemented a new whistle-blowing process It is in our interests that our supply chain partners which allows employees to contact a third party service maintain excellent quality and value for money, but also provider to raise concerns, anonymously if desired (see that they in turn operate responsibly. Strikes, protests, Table 15). negative publicity or out of control environmental costs relating to energy, water or pollution impact on profitability and reputation and so responsible sourcing is a necessary commercial, as well as moral, activity. A number of our BUs / OpCos already have some focus on this, and Wind Italy has leveraged its integrated management system approach – including SA8000 and ISO14001 standards – to help improve and maintain standards across its suppliers. During 2013 we have been developing a VimpelCom Supplier Code of Conduct. This has been based on existing good practice in the ICT sector and initiatives such as the EICC3 Code. We have sought input from some of our largest vendors as well as relevant civil society organizations. The draft Code covers the 10 UNGC Principles. We aim to launch our Code during 2014. We have also been designing an operational approach to ethical procurement as a means to implement the Code. This has included carrying out initial risk assessment pilot exercises in Pakistan (2013), and Kazakhstan (in early 2014). It is likely that our focus will initially be on our largest suppliers, managed through Groupled contracting processes, as these comprise the overwhelming portion of our total spend, with a phased approach to introducing the Code in local businesses. 32 VimpelCom 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report In 2013, 71% of our procurement was with the largest 20 Freedom Of Association, Collective During 2013 we have suppliers in our markets. Through our membership of GeSI4, Bargaining, Forced and Compulsory we are able to access and participate in specific programs been developing a Labor, Child Labor and Discrimination VimpelCom Supplier Code relating to the conflict minerals issue (www.conflictfreesourcing.org). VimpelCom is a signatory to the UNGC Principles and several of these are relevant to how we manage employee of Conduct. Electro Magnetic Frequency (EMF) issues across the business. Mobile phones use radio frequency (RF) signals to For the businesses in scope for this Report (54,523 connect to the telephone network via the nearest base employees – 95% of total employees), 55% of employees station. Guidelines for exposure to RF fields are set by were male. Approximately 1.5% of male employees and the International Commission for Non-Ionizing Radiation 5.6% of female employees are part-time. There were a Protection (ICNIRP) and all the mobile phones that we total of 16,745 new hires (48% male and 52% female) – sell and the base stations in our networks are designed a new hire ratio of 31%. to operate well within the limits set. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining In recent years many independent scientific reviews We operate across markets with differing regulatory (e.g. by the World Health Organization – the WHO) have and cultural approaches to freedom of association been carried out which have found no adverse health and collective bargaining. In many of our markets effects caused by mobile phones or radio base stations unionization is not the ‘norm’, whereas in others, operating within international safety guidelines. For for example Italy, there is a regulatory framework in more information related to the International EMF place such that all of our employees are covered by Project and research conducted on EMF in general, see a collective bargaining process. http://www.who.int/topics/electromagnetic_fields/en/. Over 17% of employees are covered by collective Despite the position of the WHO, some individuals bargaining agreements (for reporting markets). This and communities remain concerned on safety. There percentage is purely an indication of the high variability is no clear pattern of concern across our markets (e.g. in local cultural and regulatory norms as there are no perceived as high in Armenia, but low in Algeria), with Group-wide restrictions or limitations on the ability some businesses reporting declining concern, and some for employees to associate (or unionize), or request increasing. Levels of concern tend to follow the roll-out collective bargaining processes. of new or updated radio base stations and some of our Responsible Behavior businesses, for example in Tajikistan, have carried out In all our markets the lowest ‘entry level’ wage is at least communications programs to help raise awareness equal to the level of the statutory minimum wage (two of the scientific position, and reduce tension. markets do not have this legislation). In five businesses, the lowest wage paid is at least double the statutory Corporate Governance minimum (and triple the minimum in four markets – all Our approach to corporate governance is set out in our in the CIS region). Annual Report and Form 20-F (available on our corporate Forced, Compulsory and Child Labor website). This includes information on members of the Any forced, compulsory or child labor is strictly Supervisory Board, and Management Board. Our system prohibited within the organization and this is explicitly gives the Supervisory Board authority for strategic stated in the Group Code of Conduct. In relation to child decisions for the Group. The Corporate Governance labor, we will not employ or contract below the age of ‘authority matrix’ requires that the Supervisory Board 15 or a higher minimum age if so stipulated by local approve important matters, including, among others, employment law or mandatory schooling law. the Group’s annual budget and audited accounts, organizational or reporting changes to management We are not aware of any breaches of these mandatory structure, significant transactions, as well as changes clauses in the Code. to share capital and other significant actions. Discrimination The amount of any fees or other remuneration payable to Discrimination of any kind is strictly prohibited and our directors is determined by the Supervisory Board upon Group Code of Conduct explicitly covers discrimination the recommendation of the compensation committee. on the basis of race, religion, gender, age, national At present, remuneration is not explicitly linked to CR origin, sexual orientation, marital status or disability. performance of the Company. This is reinforced by our Human Resources Standards document which sets out minimum core requirements VimpelCom is a public company listed on the NASDAQ, for HR functions across the Group and stresses the and complies with all of the applicable listing and need for the maintenance of a meritocracy, uninfluenced disclosure requirements as a foreign private issuer. by other factors. 3 Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition. 4 Global e-Sustainability Initiative. www.vimpelcom.com 33 Section title “You can’t be taking more out of a society than you’re putting back in.” Social — Industry Association Investment Introduction In some businesses social investments are regulated through Charity Committees, for example in Russia and Kazakhstan. We have a strong track record in supporting the communities we serve. We do this through our core services, through applying our technology Our businesses encourage volunteering activities. In some countries this in innovative ways e.g. to support health or education (pages 18 to 23), engagement has a particular scale, for example the Volunteering Institute and through targeted social investment programs (donations of cash and in Ukraine or Torchbearers in Pakistan (see case study on next page). equipment), volunteer activities and enabling our customers to donate more easily using our services. 34 VimpelCom 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report During 2013 our businesses reported providing • Kyrgyzstan – with the Administration of the In 2013, businesses cash donations of approximately US$2.0m including President of the Kyrgyz Republic, Beeline supported donations of services and equipment. Whilst many of a school debate team to participate in the reported employee our businesses organize opportunities for employees International Forum IDEA Asia Youth Forum 2013 volunteers contributed to participate in charitable projects in their own time, over 7,700 hours of time • Bangladesh – banglalink donated 2,000 recycled there are also opportunities provided to volunteer during working hours. In 2013, businesses reported employee school bags to disadvantaged school children (over 1,000 days) during volunteers contributed over 7,700 hours of time (over • Algeria – made cash donations to the Happy working hours. 1,000 days) during working hours. Childhood Charity in Ghardaîa which supports educational programs in the country Social investment and volunteering strategy is developed locally but nevertheless projects fall into a number • Burundi – Leo made ﬁnancial contribution to of common categories, mainly focusing on children / the construction of Polytechnique University of youth, environment, emergency situations/disaster Gitega Province relief and broad health issues. The following sections • Ukraine – As a part of the program “Security in provide examples of some of the many projects that our Internet” 37 volunteer employees were engaged for businesses have been involved in. 100 hours in providing on-line safety lessons, and participating in theatre performances on the subject Projects supporting children for children in summer camps Projects involving supporting children represent the • Laos – supported the campaign arranged by the largest category of activity. Projects are focused around British Embassy for the protection of children online education, supporting orphaned children and those with sickness or disability. Supporting Orphans • Russia – In 2008 Beeline and the “Volunteers to help Supporting Education Orphans” Fund launched the ﬁrst free Russian hotline • Kazakhstan – Beeline supported the national charity to help children from orphanages ﬁnd a family. Today project ‘Road to School’, organized annually by the it is the only free Russian hotline at the federal level. Ministry of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Between 2008 and 2013 volunteer employees received 20 employees participated in the event, providing more than 25,000 calls from all over Russia and more school sets for children from low-income families than 2,200 children found families • Armenia – ArmenTel (Beeline) supported programs • Ukraine – Company volunteers (170 people) on computer literacy for teachers and pupils and staged the New Year performances for children in donated computer equipment orphanages and donated sports equipment, toys, clothes, stationery, furniture, and other gifts Mobilink Torchbearers, Pakistan • ‘Teach to Transform’ (T2T) is Mobilink’s ﬂagship teaching assistance program that aims at improving the quality of education & Mobilink’s culture of excellence encourages employee volunteering curriculum at under-resourced schools. In 2013, Torchbearers Social Investment as a core value. Mobilink encourages its staff to lead and participate provided teaching assistance at marginalized schools at various through both payroll contribution and volunteering. Mobilink’s educational institutions across the country volunteers are recognized as ‘Torchbearers’ and comprise 800 active employees. These efforts are organized across the country with support • Torchbearers conducted student counselling sessions at underprovided by ‘Torchbearer Mentors’ who liaise with the CR team to resourced, charity and state managed schools, like the Citizens coordinate initiatives within their respective regions. Torchbearers Foundation School, Karachi have accompanied the Mobilink Flood and Earthquake Relief Caravan to • Torchbearers spent a day with students of Greenland School, Lahore remote areas and were involved in setting up relief camps. and arranged a visit to the zoo. Greenland School is for physically and mentally disabled children in Lahore’s semi urban neighborhood. During 2013, the Torchbearers logged a total 4,396 volunteer hours Mobilink Torchbearers (30 volunteers) arranged an orientation session and contributed almost USD 20,000 through payroll donations to with The Citizens Foundation for its ‘Rahbar Program’ (Mentoring the supported causes. Youth Program) These are examples of some of the projects that Torchbearers have been • Torchbearers support Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer Hospital involved in: and Research Centre (SKMCH&RC). 35 volunteers organized an • In collaboration with Islamabad Trafﬁc Police, Mobilink organized entertainment event for 1,000 young patients hosted by SKMCH&RC an arts competition for school children. Over 1,200 students and Torchbearers participated in a storytelling activity for young participated, and used their creativity and imagination to paint patients on the Chemotherapy & In-patient wards and sketch their understanding of road safety and hazard perception • Torchbearers arranged visits and counselling sessions at hospitals on the road operating in deprived areas www.vimpelcom.com 35 Social Investment continued Beeline Scholarships – Armenia General Director of ArmenTel, Andrey Pyatakhin, noted that the Beeline Scholarship project could be regarded as one of the most successful social In November 2013, ArmenTel CJSC (brand Beeline), the British Council projects implemented by Beeline in 2013. “Today, more than ever, the Armenian Branch and the RA Ministry of Education and Science launched role of education is invaluable in the modern world and we, as a socially the Beeline Scholarship project. The project was designed to give a helping responsible company, continue to support and encourage youth education hand to those students who had good results in studies but were from programs that help talented students to achieve success and make their socially vulnerable groups and had difficulty paying their tuition fees. life better.” 550 project proposals were submitted and in February 2014 95 students from Armenian State universities were awarded Beeline Scholarships, with ArmenTel CJSC covering their tuition fees for one semester. “Today, more than ever, • Georgia – Beeline supports selected children’s • Italy – made ﬁnancial contribution to arrange institutions through the Bright Colors for Children the ‘Musica per LAMU’ concert to support the role of education initiative, helping hundreds of children over the last orphaned children is invaluable in the few years. The initiative provides educational and Supporting Sick Children modern world and we, art equipment • Ukraine – 300 Kyivstar employee volunteers took as a socially responsible • Armenia – ArmenTel (Beeline) made charitable part in charitable sports event ‘Run Under Chestnuts’ donations for renovating the Nagashyan orphanage held on May 26 during the Kyiv Day celebration. company, continue to and organized New Year Parties for orphanage All funds collected during the event were used to support and encourage children. 300 employees were engaged in the project buy equipment and supplies for cardiac surgeries youth education • Kyrgyzstan – Beeline gave over 20 computers to for children with heart disease programs that help six orphanages and on International Children’s Day • Tajikistan – Beeline provided charitable donations organized several social events for childcare to support the charity campaign ‘Give joy to talented students to institutions children’ achieve success and • Bangladesh – banglalink arranges regular iftar and • Armenia – ArmenTel (Beeline) together with the make their life better.” dinner in different orphanages around the country, Children Development Foundation run a project on Andrey Pyatakhin, covering 12,000 children social inclusion. 100 volunteer employees helped to General Director of ArmenTel arrange and participated in art-therapy lessons for • Algeria – Djezzy made charitable donations to El children with special needs Yatim Charity Fund supporting orphan children • Kyrgyzstan – Beeline made charitable donations • Burundi – Leo runs a program focused on supporting to the public charitable foundation ‘Help the education to orphans and vulnerable children, Children-SKD’ to purchase blood products and beneﬁtting more than 3,000 children. About 200 have medical equipment for children at the National now graduated from high school. Leo also provides Centre for Maternal and Child Welfare school fees, exercise books, uniforms, pens and pencils, shoes, and specialized equipment (for those • Algeria – Djezzy made charitable donations to living with disabilities). About 12,000 children have IBTISSAMA Charity Fund that supports children beneﬁted from the program between 2009 and 2013 with disabilities • CAR – worked together with the NGO Voix du Coeur to help vulnerable street children. 200 children beneﬁted from the program 36 VimpelCom 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Projects supporting Community Health and those • Bangladesh – During the holy month of Ramadan, Beeline Tajikistan runs with Disabilities banglalink distributed dates and water among • Russia – Beeline supported the Fourth Moscow 84,000 people at heavy trafﬁc locations across a project called ‘Warmth Festival of the Deaf ‘Peace and Love’, which was several cities comes with Beeline’. attended by more than 17,000 people • Bangladesh – banglalink employees collected and During power shortages, • Russia – 45 Beeline employees participated in the donated clothes and blankets to more than 500 the company supplies ‘5275’ Fun Run, organized by ‘Life Line’ Charity Fund. disadvantaged people in North Bengal The run provided an opportunity to combine exercise electricity from its own • Algeria – supported several funds focusing on with making a contribution to tackling social community health and those with disabilities: diesel generators to problems. The funds raised were used to treat AAEFAB Charity (supporting abandoned children), schools, hospitals and children and older people Nada Charity (protecting children’s rights), El Barak other important social • Russia – Beeline became a partner of the ‘Vera’ Charity (supporting people with disabilities), SIDRA (Faith) Fund and donated 20 tablets and smart Charity (supporting food distribution to people with institutions in all regions phones with Beeline SIM cards low incomes), Waha Charity (supporting people with of the country. cancer), Al Amel Charity (supporting people with • Ukraine – 380 Kyivstar volunteers offered elderly cancer), Enfants du Sud Charity (supporting people an opportunity to make free calls to their abandoned children in the isolated areas of the friends and relatives in CIS and some European south west of Algeria) countries. Kyivstar provided ﬁnancial help to eight geriatric care centers which are home to over 2,000 • Laos – Beeline supported several events throughout veterans and lonely senior citizens the year including Handicap International Charity concert, International Children’s Day, Malaria Day • Kazakhstan – Beeline supports the AYALA Charity and The Second UN Global Road Safety Event Foundation that focuses on purchasing and installing life-saving equipment for Kazakhstan Emergency Situations / Disaster Relief perinatal maternity centers. Beeline made a • CAR – supported the population during the political charitable donation and 27 employee volunteers and military crises, providing food, clothes and participated in the charity bike ride, organized medical supplies. The company made a ﬁnancial by the Foundation contribution to a gospel group concert to sing • Tajikistan – Beeline runs a project called ‘Warmth for happiness in the country during the crisis comes with Beeline’. During power shortages, the • Tajikistan – Beeline provided ﬁnancial support to company supplies electricity from its own diesel constructing houses in Vahdat after the earthquake generators to schools, hospitals and other important social institutions in all regions of the country • Canada – Wind Mobile sent out an e-mail to encourage people to make a donation in support • Kyrgystan – Beeline supported the International of Philippines Tsunami victims and provided tools Day of Elderly People and delivered food packages, to help locate loved ones warm clothing and footwear to homes for the elderly in several regions Social Investment Russia ‘LizaAlert’ Lost Children Search Since 2011 Beeline has been a telecommunication partner of the ‘LizaAlert’ search and rescue team, providing volunteers with solutions and services that make the search of lost children more effective. In 2012, Beeline and LizaAlert launched the first lost children hotline (8-800-700-54-52). Since then LizaAlert volunteers have received more than 8,000 calls, processed 1,260 applications from 52 regions, and dealt with more than 500 certificates for lost people, and 800 applications from volunteers, the media and the police. Through this work, dozens of children were found. Beeline employees are involved not only in helping volunteers with administrative support but also in supporting LizaAlert social initiatives such as holding regional exhibitions. Three regional exhibitions were held in 2013 (Bryansk, Moscow and Rostov-on-Don). One of the main activities of the ‘Muzeon’ Art place is to educate the public and raise the awareness of social problems through the prism of art. The ‘Children at Home’ installation is made in the form of an architectural house and open to all visitors. The main element of this house is a band To watch a video about the project visit www.youtube.com/watch?v=6YnswvLGWJU that is associated with children found by LizaAlert volunteers. www.vimpelcom.com 37 Social Investment continued Wind Mobile has General fund-raising • Bangladesh – banglalink supported the World Congregation (the second largest Muslim gathering recently launched • Italy – Wind Italy fundraised US$7.07 M via sms in the world where everyone prays together for the and ﬁxed line calls offered for free by Wind, to the Wind.LIVE.GIVE 114 not-for-proﬁt initiatives and organizations welfare of society). banglalink provided facilities program, a recognition and arranged several activities in the Biswa Ijtema • Russia – in 2013 Beeline launched the M-charity premises. 50 employee volunteers were engaged in program that encourages project – a service of monthly SMS-donations from the project employees to get involved customers’ mobile accounts, greatly simplifying the • Italy – Supported IDIS Foundation – Naples in charitable activity in donation process. The service aims to make charity Science Park with a donation for the reconstruction a part of everyday life. Beeline cooperates with two their local area. major Charity Funds: ‘Gift of life’ and ‘Life Line’ and of the educational and scientiﬁc hub of the ‘science town’ in Naples, that had been set on since June both Funds have received more than 50m ﬁre by criminal organizations Rub (US$1.7m) • Canada – Wind Mobile partnered with UNICEF Canada • Kyrgyzstan – Beeline made charitable donations to to promote their survival gifts initiative. This was the Public Charity Foundation ‘Help the Childrenpaired with a social media giveaway, the purpose of SKD’. The funds were raised through the SMS lottery which was to drive people to donate to a worthy ‘Golden key’ cause. Wind matched our donation to the amount of • Kyrgyzstan – Beeline supported veterans of the money we gave away in handsets over the same period Second Word War with the funds collected through • Canada – Wind Mobile has recently launched the Wind. the annual charity SMS-campaign ‘We Remember’ LIVE.GIVE program, a recognition program that • Italy – 857 employees ran in the ‘Race For the Cure’ encourages employees to get involved in charitable marathon (the Susan G. Komen non-proﬁt activity in their local area. Since launch, employees Association), to raise funds for breast cancer have logged 100 hours working on a number of diverse • Canada – Wind Mobile fundraised for the Alberta Red projects including high school mentoring, hospital Cross Flood Relief volunteering and fundraising in multiple capacities Other Projects • Kazakhstan, and other markets in the region – each year Beeline runs ‘Call a Fellow-Soldier’ dedicated to veterans of the Second World War and workers on the home front. The company provides a free mobile service to call anywhere in the world for one month • Kyrgyzstan – Beeline provided funds to the Public Foundation ‘Bizdin Muras’ to support of the creation of an electronic version of the Kyrgyz language dictionary 38 VimpelCom 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Reporting Principles This section aims to Scope of Reporting, and Completeness Major Assumptions and Estimations provide an overview As indicated on page 1, we have focused our reporting The key area where we have made assumptions, and have on our largest markets. Whilst we have included some to make estimations, is in relation to our energy use and of our approach to information in relation to our smaller operations, these carbon footprint. The bulk of our energy consumption preparing this Report. have not been in the scope of our data collection comes from our network, which is made up of over process for this year. We are reporting information 145,000 base stations, many of which are not connected by ‘brand’/ country, rather than legal entity. A list of to national power grids. This means we have to estimate the material subsidiaries that comprise VimpelCom is consumption based on a mixture of invoice information provided in our 20-F filing. and knowledge of technical capabilities of different types of equipment. Material Aspects For several of our businesses, we estimate energy Pages 14 and 15 set out the approach we have taken consumption for the final period of the year as invoices to identifying our material aspects, based on industry are not available. This has been done through reference research and engagement, the local and global to other invoices received during the year and for the sustainability context and our own direct engagement same period in the previous year. with experts and stakeholders. We have calculated carbon dioxide equivalent emissions Deﬁnitions arising from energy purchased from national electricity The KPIs we have adopted have been defined with grids with reference to conversion factors provided by reference to the information provided in the GRI v4 the International Energy Agency. guidance material. Where KPIs have been developed which are specific to our sector, these have been based Internal Control Measures on accepted industry practice – for example, the level We have defined a series of control measures to help of network traffic, and numbers of base stations. improve the quality of our data gathering. This includes: Boundaries • Controls within the reporting software which ‘lock’ For this Report we have focused on our own operations. data once approved at different levels to prevent However, this focus includes several impacts that arise unauthorised changes through the use of our products and services (e.g. • Division of responsibilities between data owners privacy and online safety, health concerns, applications (responsible for providing initial data), ﬁnance in health, education, agriculture etc.) as well as on our (responsible for the reporting and data entry developing approach to ethical procurement. We are process) and local CR (responsible for checking focused on improving the measurement of our Scope data quality and content) 1 and 2 carbon emissions and so have not started to • Sign-off of locally generated data by the local attempt to quantify our Scope 3 emissions. Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer In several businesses we have outsourcing agreements • Review of consolidated data by Group CR and relating to the building, management and maintenance Group-level data owners of our network assets. Where this is the case we have attempted to capture the key impacts such as In 2013, we commissioned an independent review of our energy consumption, and relevant health and safety data reporting processes by DNV GL. Their statement can performance of contractors (when on VimpelCom be seen on page 41. In 2014 we hope to expand the scope premises). We do not intend to report on the broader of this work to include checking of specific data items. impacts of outsourcing partners as these issues should be included in their CR reporting. Similarly we do not Acquisitions and Disposals report on the impacts of our suppliers. Any businesses acquired by VimpelCom will not be required to submit CR performance data until the end of the financial year following the year of acquisition. The CR performance data for any businesses that are sold will be excluded from the CR Report for that year. Adjustments to prior year figures to reflect this will be made where appropriate. www.vimpelcom.com 39 Reporting Principles continued Table 16: UNGC Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact Principles Communication on Progress Principle 1 Businesses should support We are currently developing a Group CR Policy and Business Principles and these will explicitly and respect the protection of express support for, and respect the protection of, internationally proclaimed human rights. internationally proclaimed human We have identified potential areas where our activities could impact on human rights through rights, and... our materiality process (pages 14 and 15). Principle 2 ...Make sure that they are not Throughout this Report we have described our approach to these human rights issues e.g. complicit in human rights abuses privacy and government access to data (pages 30 and 31), supply chain management (page 32), bribery and corruption (page 32) and the application of our technology to areas such as access to healthcare, education and financial services (pages 18 to 23). We are building our capability in analyzing human rights issues through participating the Human Rights Working Group of GeSI, and due diligence best practice workshops facilitated by SHIFT1 and SER2. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the right We do not have a Group position which mandates against freedom of association or collective to freedom of association and the bargaining and our businesses act in accordance with national laws and regulations. We are effective recognition of the right to developing a Supplier Code of Conduct and supplier assessment process which explicitly support collective bargaining the right of workers to freedom of association and collective bargaining (see page 32). The Supplier Code of Conduct will be published in 2014. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of Our Code of Conduct strictly prohibits any form of forced or compulsory labor (page 33). forced and compulsory labor The Code is available from our website. We are developing a Supplier Code of Conduct and supplier assessment process which explicitly prohibit any forms of forced and compulsory labor (see page 32). The Supplier Code of Conduct will be published in 2014. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor Our Code of Conduct strictly prohibits any form of child labor (page 33). The Code is available from our website. We are developing a Supplier Code of Conduct and supplier assessment process which contain clauses relating to the issue of child labor. The Supplier Code of Conduct will be published in 2014. Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in Our Code of Conduct strictly prohibits any form of discrimination (page 33). The Code is respect of employment and occupation available from our website. We are developing a Supplier Code of Conduct and supplier assessment process which contain clauses relating to the issue of discrimination. The Supplier Code of Conduct will be published in 2014. Principle 7 Businesses should support a As a mobile operator we do not design or manufacture any physical products. However, we precautionary approach to procure significant amounts of electronic equipment and we are developing a Supplier Code of environmental challenges Conduct that will set certain standards of environmental performance for our suppliers (page 32). Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote The section of this Report on ‘Resource Efficiency’ (pages 24 to 27) sets out in detail our greater environmental responsibility environmental impact and the initiatives we have been undertaking to reduce this impact, and to raise the awareness of our employees on environmental matters. Principle 9 Encourage the development and We are developing our expertise, and partnerships, in machine to machine technology diffusion of environmentally (see page 25) and we see this as an opportunity to enable third parties to reduce their friendly technologies environmental footprints. We will provide further information on this in future reports. We also work with our suppliers to encourage the development of more energy efficient network equipment, as well as conducting pilot programs to research improvements in battery, renewable energy and generator technologies (page 27). Principle 10 Businesses should work against We operate in some of the most challenging markets from a corruption perspective and we have corruption in all its forms, including implemented a strict and extensive approach to compliance with our Code of Conduct (page 32). extortion and bribery 1 SHIFT is an independent, non-proﬁt center for business and human rights practice, whose Board of Trustees is chaired by John Ruggie. 2 The Social and Economic Council of the Netherlands (SER). SER is an advisory and consultative body of employers’ representatives, union representatives and independent experts, and aims to help create social consensus on national and international socio-economic issues. 40 VimpelCom 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report DNV GL was commissioned by VimpelCom to undertake Key ﬁndings from this review: an independent review process for the 2013 Corporate • While the GRI Guidelines are a useful tool to guide and inform VimpelCom’s reporting process, the disclosures/indicators on topics as Responsibility Report. set out in G4 are not in all cases as applicable to VimpelCom’s business. Many material issues as identiﬁed by VimpelCom are not covered by the GRI G4 Guidelines, but of the few indicators that are applicable, nearly all are disclosed; • In contrast, the indicators set out in the GRI’s pilot version of the Telecommunications Sector Supplement are largely overlapping with This review does not constitute independent assurance, but is a step towards the material issues as deﬁned by VimpelCom. We have made this objective for future years. No assurance is provided over the data and recommendations to VimpelCom on how to improve the disclosure of information contained within this Report. The objectives of this work were to: these indicators. However, the use of this sector supplement is not mandatory to be ‘in accordance’ with GRI G4; • Review the development of VimpelCom’s reporting and management arrangements for corporate responsibility, and to provide feedback • Overall, we found that VimpelCom’s reporting has developed and recommendations for improvement; substantially over the last year and is well aligned with the majority of GRI G4 requirements. We have made speciﬁc recommendations to • Analyse the Report in its draft form against the requirements of the VimpelCom to support ‘in accordance with’ the core requirements of G4 GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, and to provide feedback reporting for next year’s Report. We recommend VimpelCom should use on gaps identiﬁed between the Report and the G4 core requirements. the principles and guidance set out in the GRI G4 guidelines, but should We undertook a series of interviews at Headquarters level with senior continue to refer to other resources when selecting Indicators, in order managers responsible for areas covered by the Report and processes to for the report to be meaningful and relevant to the sustainability support reporting, and reviewed the operation of the head office data strategy of VimpelCom; collation and review process and associated controls documentation, • The existing framework for data collection and planned new controls including VimpelCom’s assessment of material issues. We provided on data quality, as well as the approach to materiality assessment, detailed feedback to VimpelCom on the full findings of this review: this appear to be well designed and appropriate to the company’s level of statement represents a summary of the top level findings in relation to the evolution in reporting. We have made recommendations for additional development of the Report towards the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting improvements to the system over the next year, including that further Guidelines, and the development of reporting systems. training and awareness raising should be provided to local teams responsible for data collection and submission. DNV GL – Business Assurance April 2014 Disclaimer This Report contains “forward-looking statements”, as the phrase is deﬁned in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements relate to our Value Agenda and CR Strategy, our partnerships, initiatives, goals and network and service developments, as well as the anticipated beneﬁts from such activities. The forward-looking statements included in this Report are based on management’s best assessments of the current situation. The actual outcome may differ materially from these statements. Certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in any forward-looking statements include the risk factors described in the Company’s Form 20-F and other public ﬁlings made by the Company with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which risk factors are incorporated herein by reference. The Company disclaims any obligation to update developments of these risk factors or to announce publicly any revision to any of the forward-looking statements contained in this release, or to make corrections to reﬂect future events or developments. www.vimpelcom.com 41 Claude Debussylaan 88 1082 MD Amsterdam The Netherlands Tel: +31 (0)20 79 77 200 Fax: +31 (0)20 79 77 201 www.vimpelcom.com Contact Point Bobby Leach Group Director Communications Tel: +31 (0)20 79 77 200 cr@vimpelcom.com This report is printed on Lumi Digital Gloss and has been independently certiﬁed by the Forest Stewardship Council®. It has been manufactured by a paper mill with ISO 14001 accreditation using an Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) process. The inks used are all vegetable oil based. Printed at Principal Colour Ltd. ISO 14001 and FSC® certiﬁed. Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc www.blacksunplc.com www.vimpelcom.com
