SUSTAINABILITY IS S IB ON I CORPORATE OUR NATURE LIT RESP Y RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ’12 RES PECT RE N C Y TION T BU PA S T RA N CONTRI OCI O S ET Y MENTAL DEVELO ON LUNTEE ENT VO ENVIR OTECTI PM PR G RIN ON BILITY NA SUSTAI BANIZATI UR ON DER ENG OL ERGY EFF N ME EMPLO E STAKEH AGE NT E LOYAL ENCY YE ICI TY OMMUNITY C BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 CONTENTS 52 THE VALUE WE ATTACH TO PEOPLE 3 Message from the Chairman of the 53 Our Principles on Employee Rights Board 54 Demographic Data of Our Employees 5 Message from the CEO 58 Our Recruitment Procedures 7 Bilim Pharmaceuticals At a Glance 61 Evaluation of Competencies 9 About the Report 62 Pay Management and Retirement 10 CORPORATE PROFILE Policy 11 About Bilim Pharmaceuticals 63 Benefits, Rights and Support 13 Our Processing Facilities Practices 19 Our Field of Work 64 Our Contribution to the 22 Our Management Approach Development of Our Employees 24 Our Boards 89 Employee Participation and 26 Our Strategic Planning Representation 26 Our Risk Management 93 Occupational Health and Safety 27 Our Quality Management 98 Product Responsibility 28 Our Reputation Management 106 Our Suppliers and Collaborations 29 Our Sustainability Management 110 Community Investment 33 Our Ethical Management 121 OUR RESPONSIBILITY 34 Our Stakeholders TO THE ECOLOGICAL 37 Our Memberships ENVIRONMENT 38 Our Awards 122 Environmental Management 39 OUR ECONOMIC ADDED 123 Our Environment-Friendly Practices VALUE 125 Our Environmental Related Targets 40 Operational and Financial 125 Materials Used in Production Information 126 Energy Consumption 41 Our Investments 127 Water Consumption 45 Our Work on Research and 128 Waste Management Development 134 Greenhouse Gas Emmisions and Our 49 Government Grants Received Carbon Footprint 49 Intellectual Industrial and 136 Biodiversity Commercial Copyrights 136 Legal Compliance 50 Compliance with Law and Fair 137 GRI CHECK Competition 137 GRI Statement 51 Fighting with Bribery and 138 GRI-GC Indicator Index Impropriety 152 Deloitte’s Statement BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD We are now talking about a new order with a new sustainabilitybased business model While balancing our needs and those of future generations; what we really need is to create “responsible world citizens” out of individuals and “good companies” out of corporations. 3 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Dear Stakeholders, As you will all be closely aware, our world is currently undergoing a process of difficult change with a rapidly increasing world population, irreversible consumption of Our first Corporate Responsibility Report natural resources and climate change. We published in 2009 was also the first report in began to put natural resources at risk by the Turkish pharmaceutical industry. Our 2010 consuming them in an unsustainable manner and 2011 reports were the first Corporate since the second half of the 20th century. Responsibility Reports in Turkey to receive Meanwhile, we neglected our humane duty to level A and A+ approvals from the GRI. With leave a more sustainable world to future these reports, we present the targets we have generations. If we continue to consume in this defined in line with our sustainability strategy, manner, we imperil the future generations’ as well as all of our practices together with all right to live. of the results we have achieve, for our stakeholders’ examination. We attach Sustainability simply importance to ensuring the maximum participation of our stakeholders and in refers to meeting our establishing effective communication with daily needs without them for a sustainable future. jeopardizing the needs of As a completely homegrown asset, our company, Bilim Pharmaceuticals, has played a future generations… key role in the progress of the Turkish pharmaceuticals industry from the past to the While balancing our needs and those of future present and now into the future and we have generations; what we really need is to create adopted a mission of working to contribute to “responsible world citizens” out of Turkey’s reputation. As the sustainability individuals and “good companies” out of leader of the Turkish pharmaceutical industry, corporations/organizations. we are aware of our responsibilities and demonstrate the efforts in this area. We have already left behind the era when we consumed resources extravagantly; the I would like to end by taking this opportunity dynamics of the current century are very to invite all companies in the Turkish business different. We are now talking about a new world to prepare Corporate Responsibility order with a new sustainability-based Reports. business model. As such, the business world in particular has to integrate all dimensions of Bülent Karaağaç sustainability into their corporate culture and Chairman accordingly, into all of their strategies and processes. 4 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO It is possible to become a successful company and create a better world at the same time… What really matters to us is to become a responsible company that, invests not only in our future, but also in the future of our sector, our country and our world. 5 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Dear Bilim Family and Esteemed Shareholders, invests not only in our future, but also in the I am proud to share our 4th corporate future of our sector, our country and our responsibility report with you. Every year we world. In this context, Bilim Pharmaceuticals provide you with information on our – which has placed the sustainability approach Company’s efforts and where we currently at the heart of its business-making style is stand with respect to our targets, while also considered as a model company. sharing what we have learnt with you. Our primary targets for the coming period are The consistency of our sustainability-related to outperform our economic, social and efforts along with our sincere belief in the environmental targets, to serve the cause of concept of sustainability strengthen our sustainable development by setting up joint company’s values, while contributing to the projects with our internal and external development of the ecosystem that we have stakeholders and to continue adding value to been managing with our shareholders. the community through our volunteering efforts. We pay attention to designing our We explain our sustainability-related efforts corporate management approach and on a number of platforms. We believe that strategic plans with a particular focus on sharing, raising awareness of volunteering and “sustainable growth”, and not compromising cooperation are at the heart of sustainable from our approach, regardless of how the development. dynamics of our sector evolve. On the other hand, our regular reporting and sustainability-related efforts add value to our company’s management approach. We view the innovative activities carried out It is possible to become a successful company under the management of our sustainability and create a better world at the same time… board as an opportunity to improve our I think Bilim Pharmaceuticals is a good capability and integrate the culture of example of a company that can grow while innovation into our corporate culture. investing in the community and the environment. Our GRI-approved level A+ report which covers our corporate management approach, As the Bilim Family, we are constantly as well as our corporate economic, social and approaching our target of becoming a “perfect environmental responsibilities sets out how corporate citizen” by maintaining a high level we serve sustainable development while of motivation at all times, and by never giving fulfilling these responsibilities. up learning and sharing. We would like to thank all of our shareholders, who actively Bilim Pharmaceuticals is a 100% Turkish capital stand by us and strengthen us. Your owned company that has been steering the contribution is invaluable in the firm steps Turkish pharmaceutical industry for almost 60 that Bilim Pharmaceuticals takes to establish a years. As the fastest growing pharmaceutical healthy and sustainable future… company in recent years, we are responsible for responding to the community’s needs and Dr. Erhan Baş expectations and for contributing to its Bilim Pharmaceuticals General Manager development. We do not position ourselves only as a profit-oriented company; what really matters to us is to become a responsible company that, in its sustainability efforts, 6 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 BILIM PHARMACEUTICALS AT A GLANCE THIRD IN MARKET With a 4.9% market share, 7 OF EVERY 100 PRESCRIPTIONS Bilim Pharmaceuticals is ranked 3rd in the Turkish In doctors’ prescription pharmaceutical market, preferences, Bilim which reached a size of Pharmaceuticals 14,449,935,392 TL in completed the year in 2nd 2012. place, with its medicines accounting for 7.1 of The Company has a total every 100 prescriptions. of 238 approved drugs on the market. The Company exports products to 52 In terms of the countries. number of boxes sold to the market, Bilim It has representative Pharmaceuticals offices in Moldova, closed the year in 3rd Georgia, Bosnia position with a total Herzegovina and of 109,972,071 boxes Albania. sold. 2008 TURNOVER IS DOUBLED IN FOREIGN MARKETS The Company’s turnover Its export share of from foreign markets has pharmaceutical products: doubled since 2008. 5.6% (2011) US$ 19.4 million (2008) US$ 38.6 million (2012) 6.2% (2012) 7 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 2,009 Bilim Pharmaceuticals undertakes its marketing and sales activities in 11 different locations throughout Turkey with 50% OF EMPLOYEES 11 different teams. ARE VOLUNTEERS 1,112 of its employees are Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers. Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers have touched the lives of 45,985 children and young people LISTED IN BEST 500 through 31,281 hours of The Company ranked 125th in voluntary work within the the ISO 500 in 2012. scope of 305 activities in 12 different projects. The Company ranked 193rd in the Fortune Turkey 500 in With a total production 2012. capacity of 250 million boxes per year, Bilim The Company ranked 246th Gebze accounts for a in the Capital 500 in 2012. 17% share of the Turkish pharmaceutical industry. Already ranking in 672nd position among the “Top 1,000 Exporters” list in 2011, Bilim Pharmaceuticals has raised its ranking to 450th in 2012. 8 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 ABOUT THE REPORT As well as setting out Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ corporate management approach, the report contains various content, covering each sphere of corporate responsibility in line with the Company’s three dimensional sustainability approach. We prepared our fourth Corporate Responsibility Report, which is a summary of the sustainability-related efforts undertaken by Report data was collected through focus group our company in 2012, to share with all of our meetings and revised in the final version under stakeholders. We published our three previous the supervision of the Sustainability Board. reports in June 2010, June 2011 and September Mikado Sustainable Development Consulting 2012. These previous reports can be accessed (www.mikadoconsulting.com), the from our website at www.bilimilac.com.tr. sustainability-related consultant of Bilim Pharmaceuticals, was commissioned for the In the report, the Company transparently preparation of the report. shares information concerning its performance, economic added value, people-oriented values Report data was subject to external audit by and ecological sensitivity, as well as related Deloitte. Deloitte’s statements are provided at targets. Working in close interaction with all the end of the report. the boards, and gathering data on stakeholder expectations, the Sustainability Board observes GRI has verified that the report is prepared and discusses the material topics covered in the according to the GRI Guidelines, at Application report. Level A+. We have included our unchanged policies in the report’s online version in order to We worked to two internationally-recognized prevent repetitions, while these sections are standards in preparing this report: the Global referred to in the pdf version. Compact Progress Statement standard and the GRI G3.1 standard. An online version of this report is included on our company’s website at www.bilimilac.com. We integrated indicators within a common index since both standards and their respective Readers may forward their feedback and indicators are similar to each other. The suggestions concerning the report to our indicator index is attached in the index at the Sustainability Board. (surdurulebilirlik@ back of the report. bilimilac.com) 9 CORPORATE PROFILE BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 ABOUT BILIM PHARMACEUTICALS Bilim Pharmaceuticals was ranked in 2nd place, with its medicines accounting for 7.1 out of every 100 prescriptions. Founded in 1953, Bilim Pharmaceuticals is a company with 100% Turkish capital, which conits marketing and sales activities in 11 different ducts production and marketing activities in locations throughout Turkey with 11 different the strategically important pharmaceutical teams, Bilim Pharmaceuticals evaluates its industry. Ranked 3rd among 300 corporations own performance every two years through in the Turkish pharmaceutical industry, Bilim customer satisfaction surveys and implements Pharmaceuticals continues to grow at a higher plans aimed at raising customer satisfaction. rate than the market. Bilim Pharmaceuticals prioritizes quality and adopts “respect for future Importance Attached to generations” as a corporate value. Finding and Developing New Products Steady and Consistent Growth Bilim Pharmaceuticals boasts the largest R&D Bilim Pharmaceuticals has demonstrated Center in the Turkish pharmaceutical industry. “steady and consistent growth” by being open The company also has the largest R&D center to continuous development. With a 4.9% marof the Turkish pharmaceutical industry which ket share, Bilim Pharmaceuticals was ranked 3 rd has a laboratory area of 4,500 m2. Striving to in the Turkish pharmaceutical market, which rank among the first the two companies in the reached a size of TL 14.4 billion in 2012. In terms Turkish pharmaceutical market and to have of the number of boxes sold to the market, Bilim the highest exports of local drug manufacturPharmaceuticals ended the year in 3 rd place ers by the end of 2014, Bilim Pharmaceuticals with a total of 109.9 million boxes sold. As far as allocates nearly 5% of its budget to R&D investdoctors’ prescription preferences are conment. Equipped with state-of-the-art technolcerned, Bilim Pharmaceuticals was ranked in 2nd ogy, the R&D Center undertakes its efforts by place, with its medicines accounting for 7.1 out deploying technologically advanced and sensiof every 100 prescriptions. Bilim Pharmaceutitive laboratory devices as well as laboratory cals, which is starting to become a strong player data automation and R&D pilot production not only in the domestic market but also in forfacilities which meet FDA (*) standards. A total eign markets as well, currently exports its products to 52 countries. The Company has representative offices in Moldova, Georgia, Bosnia Herzegovina and Albania. Customer Orientation Largest R&D Center in the Turkish “Customer orientation” is a key element of Bilim pharmaceutical Pharmaceuticals’ strategy of manufacturing industry and offering economic products and its principle of “respecting the community”. Carrying out 11 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 of 110 scientists are employed in the R&D center, established with a $ 15 million investment, where equivalent versions of original drugs – whose patents have expired – are prepared and subsequently offered to the market. The center is equipped with 220 different items of hightech equipment. First in Turkey to A total of 238 products developed by Bilim receive an A+ rating by Pharmaceuticals are sold in the Turkish pharmaceutical market, with 90% of these prodthe GRI for its Corporate ucts which we hold a license for developed Responsibility Report in through our activities in our R&D laboratories. 2012. Thanks to our license files, which comply with international regulations, as well the high standards of quality in our R&D plant and production, we are able to offer our drug portfolio to international markets as well as the domestic market. Our products are sold in 52 different porate Responsibility Report in Turkey countries from the Far East to Latin America, with an A grade as approval by the GRI in and from Africa to the Middle East, while Bilim 2011, and was the first in Turkey to receive Pharmaceuticals asserts its presence and qualan A+ rating by the GRI for its Corporate ity in global markets by reaching 798 license Responsibility Report in 2012. The Comfiles. We undertake our R&D activities with the pany was also deemed worthy of the first target of producing 40 new products every Sustainability Brand Award in Turkey. year for the domestic market and to expand in international markets through new products. Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ Employees: A Part of the Sustainability Awareness Solution Being aware of its social, environmental and The Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Voluneconomic impacts, as well as its responsibiliteers platform was established with the supties towards its stakeholders, Bilim Pharmaport of Bilim Pharmaceuticals in 2005 by volunceuticals deems serving sustainability with an tary employees who share their individual ethical, transparent and accountable corpocompetencies, intellectual knowledge, time, rate management approach as an indispensaeffort and experience with those in need “in ble part of its business approach and corporate order to be a part of the solution”. As of 2012, culture. Working to a strategy of protecting the platform, with a total of 1,112 active the environment and reducing the use of natumembers, was operating in 11 cities in Turral resources, Bilim Pharmaceuticals was key with 20 different teams. Every year, volthe first company in the Turkish pharmaunteers prepare projects and those that are ceutical industry to measure its carbon approved by the supreme board of team leadfootprint and has affected improvement ers are implemented with the voluntary supplans accordingly since 2010. The Company port of the families of Bilim Pharmaceuticals published the Turkish pharmaceutical employees, as well as that of stakeholders. Volindustry’s first corporate responsibility unteers have succeeded in reaching more than report in 2010. Bilim Pharmaceuticals was 45,000 children and youngsters through varialso the first pharmaceutical company in ous activities carried out within the scope of 12 Turkey to sign the Global Compact and also different projects. takes the honor of publishing the first Cor12 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 A Pioneer in the Quality Journey OUR Acting upon the principle of conducting all of its operations by prioritizing “quality”, Bilim PROCESSING Pharmaceuticals has been performing its activities since 1998 within the framework of the FACILITIES EFQM Excellence Model, which is an institutionalization and management model aiming to make all stakeholders happy. By doing so, the Company aims to yield results that satisfy its shareholders, customers, employees and Bilim Çerkezköy Processing the community, as well as to be a ”pioneer” in its journey to quality play its role of guiding the Facility is one of Turkey’s sector. most important penicillin As the first national company to receive the production plants “EFQM Competency Approval in Excellence” given by the European Quality Association in 2004, Bilim Pharmaceuticals also received “The With its center in the Maslak Headquarters National Quality Grand Prize” in 2006 and Building, Bilim Pharmaceuticals undertakes “Award of Continuity in Excellence” in 2010, production at two different facilitiesBilim which are given by TÜSİAD (Association of Gebze and Bilim Çerkezköy which were Turkish Industrialists’ and Businesses) and Kaldesigned to carry out production in compliance Der (Turkish Society for Quality). Having with CGMP (current Good Manufacturing Pracreceived the “Award of Continuity in Excellence” tices). in 2010, which is deemed as the most prestigious award of the Excellence Model, Bilim PharApproved by the German Ministry of Health, maceuticals was deemed worthy of the “EFQM the Bilim Çerkezköy Processing Facility is one Excellence Award” – which no corporation in of Turkey’s most important penicillin producEurope received for the last three years – and tion plants. Having received approval from the the achievement award in 4 different categoUK Department of Health, the Bilim Gebze Prories in 2011. cessing Facility is Turkey’s largest, newest and most environmentally friendly drug production plant. Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ Production Figures in 2012 (number of boxes) Gebze Processing Facility 96,800,525 Çerkezköy Processing Facility 29,025,229 Contract Manufacturing 32,506,784 13 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 ÇERKEZKÖY PROCESSING FACILITY Located at the Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone, the Çerkezköy Processing Facility is built on an area of 22,000 m2 with an indoor area of 9,250 m2. The facility became operational in 1998. Penicillin Oral Solid (tablets, film covered tablets, capsules and dry powder suspension) and Penicillin Powder Injectable drugs are manufactured at Bilim Çerkezköy Processing Facility, Environmentally Friendly which has a total production capacity of 44 Approaches and Practices million boxes per year. Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ environmentally Holding ISO 9001 Quality Management Sysfriendly approaches and practices are based on tem, ISO 14001 Environmental Management the protection of natural resources of today System and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and the future. The Bilim Çerkezköy Processing and Safety Management System certifications, Facility is equipped with environment-friendly the facility’s compliance with cGMP regulainfrastructural systems in compliance with legtions and integrated management system islations in order to ensure protection of natustandards has been proven. ral resources. Bilim Çerkezköy Processing Facility is a processing facility, where the following Products Manufactured at the Bilim environmentally friendly practices are conPharmaceuticals Çerkezköy Production ducted. Plant and Their Amounts Modern Automation Level Pharmaceutical Form Annual Capacity * Tablet 13 million boxes (182 million tablets) Planned in accordance with the legislation, the Bilim Çerkezköy Processing Facility, besides 4.8 million boxes (48 million being equipped with suitable technologies Capsule capsules) with respect to energy saving, is equipped with Dry Powder Suspension 12 million boxes computer systems during production processes. Injectable 20 million boxes (*) Amounts of products that can be manufactured at the plant in one shift 14 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Some of these technologies and systems are listed as follows: • The Building Management System (BMS), GEBZE PROCESSING FACILITY which controls all areas 24 hours a day Having entered operation in 2008, Bilim Gebze, and 365 days a year which is the largest drug manufacturing plant • Card pass system used for production in Turkey according to production forms, was areas and warehouses planned in accordance with the standards of • Automatic fire detection, alarm and the American FDA (Food and Drug Administraextinguishing system tion), one of the world’s most prestigious healthcare authorities. • Lighting automation Established at the Gebze Organized Industrial “Occupational Health and Safety” Zone on an area of 60,000 m2, the facility has an and “Social Facilities” indoor area of 51,500 m2. Bilim Çerkezköy Processing Facility was With a manufacturing capacity of 250 million designed with a “human-friendly” point of view boxes per year, Bilim Gebze was planned to so as to increase our employees’ living standcover any needs for capacity increase. The plant ards. Thus, Bilim Çerkezköy Processing Facility is able to meet 17% of the Turkish Pharmaceutioffers the following to its employees within the cal industry’s need on its own. The Bilim Gebze framework of “Occupational Health and Safety” Processing Facility holds ISO 9001 Quality and “Social Facilities”: Management Systems, ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems and OHSAS 18001 • OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Occupational Health and Safety Management Safety Management Systems and its Systems certificates. respective practices, • A workplace practitioner, resting room, Products Manufactured at the Bilim psychological consultancy services, and a Pharmaceuticals Gebze Production mothers’ room Plant • A cafeteria, resting rooms, library and internet rooms for employees, Gastrointestinal products, Analgesics-Antiinflammatory products, Dermatological prod• A gymnasium, ucts, Antibiotics (non Beta-Lactam), Vitamins • Outer environment walking areas and Minerals, Respiratory System products, Antiparasitic products, Sweeteners, Central Nervous System products, Cardiovascular products, Iron preparations, Muscle relaxants and Flu products. 15 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 • Solid waste is collected in accordance with the solid waste management procedure, and then taken by carrier compaPharmaceutical Form Annual Capacity * nies approved by the Ministry of Environment and finally annihilated at authorized Tablet 72 million boxes (1.5 billion tablets) incineration plants with no adverse impact on the environment; 18 million boxes (0.5 billion Capsule • Heat loss is prevented through an insulacapsules) tion system that minimizes heat transfer; Syrup 18 million bottles and • In selecting cooling towers, necessary to Sachet 5 million boxes cool all indoor areas, enclosed type towers were chosen which use the latest Dry Powder Suspension 7 million boxes technologies and are more expensive than open towers. Cream/Pomade 5 million boxes (*) Amounts of products that can be manufactured at the Modern Automation Level plant in one single shift Planned in accordance with FDA regulations, Bilim Gebze Processing Facility, besides being Environmentally Friendly equipped with latest technologies with respect Approaches and Practices to safety and energy saving, carries out high quality production that is able to compete in Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ environmentally international markets, thanks to the level of friendly approaches and practices are based on automation provided through computer systhe protection of natural resources of both tems in the production process, and fully today and in the future. The Bilim Gebze Processing Facility is equipped with environmentally friendly infrastructural systems which comply with EU regulations in order to ensure protection of natural resources. The Bilim Gebze Processing Facility is the most environmentally friendly drug manufacturing plant thanks to the following environmentally friendly practices: • Automatically controlled functions that reduce energy consumption have been established within the building automation system; • No pollutants are allowed in the air through highly impermeable HEPA filters used in the ventilation exhaust systems; • In powdered production processes, air extracted from each room is filtered through dust separators with an automatically controlled shaking system; 16 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 equipped building automation with smart building features. Systems, which allow Bilim Gebze Processing Facility to be defined as a smart factory, are as follows: • The Building Management System (BMS), which controls all areas 24 hours a day and 365 days a year • Energy Monitoring System (EMS) • Employee recognition and safety through the card pass system used for all areas • Automatic fire detection, alarm and extinguishing system • Automatic data collection and reporting from the production field through the Manufacturing Execution System (MES) • Lighting automation (LMS) • Full-automatic unmanned warehouse management system (WMS) • Chromatographic Data System / Scientific Data Management System (CDS/ SDMS) Full-Automatic Unmanned Warehouse Management System (WMS) Our full-automatic unmanned warehouse is 38 metres high and has a capacity of 11,400 pallets. It is the highest warehouse in Turkey to • Occupational accidents, which are freoperate with this technology. All pallets are quently encountered in conventional managed with robots, cranes and conveyors. warehouses, were eliminated. Thanks to this system, • An increase was realized in the efficiency and speed of warehousing and transportation activities; • The risk of loss of goods was prevented; 17 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 “Occupational Health” and “Social Facilities” The Bilim Gebze Processing Facility was designed with a “human-friendly” point of view so as to increase our employees’ living standards. Thus, the Bilim Gebze Processing Facility offers the following to its employees within the framework of “Occupational Health and Safety” and r Hi km et Ön de “Social Facilities”: Ph ar m ac ist • OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Bilim Pharmaceuticals is a company that, on Safety Management Systems and its top of everything, attaches value to human respective practices, health and focuses on the manufacture of • Building security system operated with high-quality drugs in light of ethical principles CCTV, rather than making money. Bilim Pharmaceuticals has been able to reach its • Workplace practitioner, resting room, present thanks to the foresight of its founder, psychological consultancy services, Mr. Adil Karaağaç. The Gebze Processing • Cafeteria, resting rooms, library and Facility recently established by the Company internet rooms for employees, has once again demonstrated its qualityoriented sensitivity and environmental and • Gymnasium, awareness of its social responsibility. • Outer environment walking areas I have witnessed that the material aspect is always secondary at Bilim Pharmaceuticals. The Company has always made us feel the concept of “people first”. I also witness that the Company adapts to changing times and technologies very rapidly, a fact proven by its facilities and the quality of its drugs. All products are manufactured in special hygienic rooms in compliance with current standards. One of the departments that impressed me the most was the quality control department. I believe this it is the most important department in any drug facility. With the awards it has received, Bilim Pharmaceuticals has again demonstrated that it attaches importance to human health and the environment and strives to work according to ethical principles. I believe Bilim Pharmaceuticals is a source of pride to Turkey. In my perspective, it is a leading company in every aspect. 18 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 OUR FIELD OF WORK There are two primary categories of drugs in the pharmaceutical industry: “original” and “generic”/“equivalent” drugs. An original drug refers to drugs that were proven to have • An equivalent drug must contain the positive impact on a specific disease as set same amount of the same active subsforth by long research and clinical trials. Moretance as the original drug. over, “original drug” is an international term used for new drugs, whose foundations are • An equivalent drug must have the similar based on a patented molecule and for which no formulation and pharmaceutical feasimilar drugs exist. tures. • An equivalent drug’s bioequivalence with Original drugs are protected for a specific time the original drug must have been proven. in many countries around the world under comprehensive patent laws and data protecWith these features, an equivalent drug has tion rights. During this time period, no other the same quality, effectiveness and reliability drug company is allowed to manufacture a with the original drug. Since research expendisimilar drug. Thus, original drug manufactutures are less, an equivalent drug is more ecorers are able to cover their R&D investments nomic than the original drug. and create resources for new researches. As the legal protection period of an original drug The pharmaceutical sector needs both original expires, pharmaceutical companies may offer and equivalent drugs for economic contribusimilar drugs to the market. These drugs are tion. There is no facility in Turkey which pronamed as “generic or equivalent drugs”. duces original drugs; only equivalent drugs are Companies that produce equivalent drugs have designed and produced. Our company’s field of to abide by some rules to offer these drugs to work is the production and marketing of equivthe market: alent drugs. Licensing Requirements Reference Equivalent General information on company √ √ Product features (prospectus, labelling, package) √ √ Expert report √ √ Composition of the medicine √ √ Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) √ √ Control of raw materials √ √ Control of end-product √ √ Stability tests (active substance and end-product) √ √ Comparison of the equivalent drug with the reference drug --√ Preclinical study √ --Clinical study √ --Bioequivalence √ √ 19 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 All stages between the production and the sale of an equivalent drug are the same with reference products. The only difference is that cliniOur Vision cal and preclinical studies, which were originally conducted by reference drug By the end of 2014, manufacturers on living creatures, are not • To be one of the top two companies in the repeated. Turkish pharmaceutical market and For equivalent drugs, all analysis and research • To achieve the highest level of exports of deemed necessary by medical authorities is any domestic producer of medicines by performed and their equivalence (i.e. whether the end of 2014. they perform the same treatment with the reference product) is proven through scientific Our Values studies. In Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ journey of success Our Mission, Vision and Values that began exactly 58 years ago, we have today achieved to be the fastest growing company of Our Mission the last decade in our sector. The most important privilege that has made us successful in Bilim Pharmaceuticals develops drugs that this journey is our “Values”. Our values have maintain human health and provide treatbeen prioritized at all times by each of our ment. The company produces these drugs in its employees since our foundation. modern and high-tech facilities by internaOur value, backbone of tional standards. By actualizing the publicity and marketing of its drugs in domestic and foreign markets with focus on the client, the company enables availability of medicines along with customer satisfaction at the highest level. our corporate It achieves fertile, profitable and sustainable growth through the experience it gained as a reputation, cover our principle, “We have no rooted corporation which has adopted the idea of quality of life as a life philosophy, and the value it places on people and human life, as well as its collaborations maintained through development and its dedication to change. more important It ensures the highest possible level is attained business than in employee commitment and satisfaction through innovative human resources systems managing our reputation”. We get and an organizational structure open to learning with the awareness that competent employees will be a driving force in competition. the inspiration that It protects natural resources and the environment with its awareness of social responsibiguides us, in managing our reputation from lity, places importance on ethical values, and contributes to the social and economic development of society. our values. 20 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 First step taken on any journey of success is passion Human happiness We know that quality of life is based on human happiness. We think that our employees’ competencies are reflected in our customers’ happiness. We believe that the concept ‘respect for humanity’ is the most important link of this chain. Respect for the future generations We know that we are responsible for the world. We think that it is necessary to wisely utilize all global resources, especially water and energy. We believe in the importance of making economic, ecological and sociological contributions to the community. Ethical management We know how important the triangle of justice, accountability and transparency is. We think that ethics is the spine of our decision making processes and that we have to abide by global laws and rules. We believe in the importance of sleeping with a peace of mind. Change We know that the only thing that does not change is change itself. We think that change does not only mean ‘being open to innovations’, but also means differentiating and developing. We believe that we must continuously improve and develop our business within the framework of the principle of excellence. Passion for success We know that the first step taken on any journey of success is passion. We think that having a solution-oriented positive character will make us reach the biggest achievements. We believe that each and every sunset is the messenger of a new success. 21 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH Shareholding Structure With a 97.19% share, Bilfar Holding AŞ is the largest shareholder of Bilim Pharmaceuticals. Bilfar Holding A.Ş. 97.19% Gülseren Karaağaç 0.75% Members of the Board of Directors are elected Adil Karaağaç 0.03% by the General Assembly and they meet at Kemal Karaağaç 0.57% least once a month and if necessary according to the legislation on joint-stock companies. Bülent Karaağaç 0.57% Board members are predominantly selected Alp Karaağaç 0.56% from such individuals, who have a high level of knowledge, experience and expertise in the Klaudia Ergene 0.33% areas of Marketing, Finance and the Pharmaceutical Industry. At the Board, the ratio of Board of Directors men and women is 80% to 20%. As the holder of more than 97% of Bilim PharChaired by the CEO, the Directors Committee maceuticals, Bilfar Holding sets up the board of is comprised of the heads of all departments directors and distributes duties to the board who directly report to the CEO. The committee members in line with corporate governance convenes once a week. At the Committee, the principles. The Board of Directors of Bilfar Holdratio of men and women is 67% to 33%. ing has administrative power on its subsidiaries. 4 of the members of the Board of Directors All performance indicators, which were of Bilfar Holding are independent. defined at the time of our foundation, are monitored and evaluated in line with the “EvaluaThree of these four independent members are tion, Review and Improvement Approach.The non-executive members. The chairman of the performance of the highest governance body is highest governance body has no executive duty monitored and evaluated through the “Perforin the holding. The holding is managed and mance Indicator with Respect to the Rate of directed by the CEO. Shareholders can make Realization of Strategies” and to which extent suggestions to the highest governance body, the primary business targets are reached. This but they have no power to give instructions. way, the highest governance body is able to Bilfar Holding – the largest shareholder of Bilim evaluate its own economic, environmental Pharmaceuticals – directly forwards its expecand social performance, since performance tations and suggestions to the management of indicators of the primary business targets are a Bilim Pharmaceuticals at the Board of Directors result of basic performance indicators of all primeeting, where results are also evaluated. mary processes (including the Sustainability Methods and mechanisms, which are deterManagement process). mined for how to obtain the expectations of shareholders and other stakeholders, are defined in detail in the company’s “Strategic Plan (SP) and Annual Plan and Budget (APB) Approach”. 22 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Rate of realization of strategies: There are 20 Primary Business Target indica2007 100.52% tors that are defined under the topics Growth, Profitability and Efficiency. When Bilim Phar2008 99.55% maceuticals shows higher performance than some of these indicators, the overall rate of 2009 99.10% realization of strategies may exceed 100%. 2010 102.07% There has not been any structural changes in 2011 100.73% our company within the reporting period. 2012 96.21% Organizational Structure WAREHOUSES MANAGER (GEBZE) MARKETING TECHNICAL PRODUCTION EVENTS SERVICES PLANNING MANAGER MANAGER SUPERVISOR (GEBZE) EXPORT MANAGER NATIONAL SALES PRODUCTION BUSINESS PURCHASING MANAGER MANAGER DEVELOPMENT MANAGER TECHNICAL (GEBZE) MANAGER SERVICES BUM MANAGER (HURRICANE) EXTERNAL ACCOUNTING (Ç.KÖY) MANAGER MARKETS BUSINESS PRODUCTION PLANT BUM DIRECTOR DEVELOP(STAR) MANAGER DIRECTOR BUDGET (Ç.KÖY) (GEBZE) MENT AND COST DIRECTOR ACCOUNTING MANAGER BUM PLANT (TYPHOON) DIRECTOR (ÇERKEZBUM KÖY) (NORTHEAST RESOURCE WIND) PLANNING DIRECTOR BUM CORPORATE (LIGHTING) COMMUNICATION GENERAL SUPERVISOR MANAGER MARKETING DIRECTOR INFORMATION TECH. MANAGER BUM (THUNDERBOLT) HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR BUM (GALE) FINANCE SCIENTIFIC QUALITY MANAGER DEPARTMENT DIRECTOR BUM HUMAN DIRECTOR (GEBZE) (STORM) RESOURCES (GEBZE) MANAGER BUM (SUN) INDUSTRIAL QUALITY RELATIONS R&D CONTROL MANAGER MANAGER MANAGER (GEBZE) BUM (GEBZE) (VOLCANO) BUM MEDICAL QUALITY (WIND) SUPPORT ASSURANCE & LICENCE MANAGER MANAGER (GEBZE) MARKET ANALY & DEV. SUPERVISOR QUALITY CONTROL MANAGER (Ç.KÖY) QUALITY ASSURANCE MANAGER (Ç.KÖY) 23 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 OUR BOARDS In our company, we have set up a number of boards, which are the starting point of many important applications, in line with our strategy of increasing participation Through these boards, it is possible that our employees become a part of administrative decisions, a situation which also supports teamwork. (APB). Our boards, where midand long-term As defined in the Board Handbook, our boards expectations and creative and innovative hold meetings once a year, where the effectivethoughts of our employees are discussed, are ness of the company’s approaches are evaluevaluated by board presidents at Quality Exeated and reviewed. Details of which board will cution Board meetings every quarter. Each evaluate and review, as well as which approach board has a sponsor, who is commissioned by will be evaluated and reviewed, are defined in the senior management. the DGG (Evaluation & Review) Plan. Boards evaluate and review performance indicators, Strategic decisions made by the boards are put benchmarks and information required to evalon the agenda of the Directors Committee uate the effectiveness of the current approach through sponsors. in terms of the EFQM Excellence Model, and monitor its application throughout the organiThe number of team members is increased and zation. Boards also evaluate and review the changes are made in team memberships every effectiveness of such criteria through the GBR year so as to encourage, support and stimulate (Feedback Report) if provided. Suggestions for participation of our employees. revision are dealt with at the Directors Committee with MDAs (Current Case Analysis) proAs of 2012, there were a total of 32 boards in our viding output for the Annual Plan and Budget company. 24 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Board Structure CAREER BOARD BILIM PHARMACEUTICALS COMMUNITY DISCIPLINARY VOLUNTEERS BOARD ENERGY BOARD SOCIAL AND MANAGEMENT BLUE-COLLAR BUSINESS BOARD COMMUNICASPORTS ASSESSMENT ACTIVITIES (ÇERKEZKÖY) TION BOARD BOARD BOARD HUMAN RESOURCES BOARD LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT QUALITY SUPPLY BOARD BOARD OF CHAIN AND COLEXECUTION DIRECTORS LABORATIONS BOARD BOARD QUALITY IMPROVEMENT BOARD (ÇERKEZKÖY) AWARDS GENERAL BOARD TRAININGS MANAGER BOARD NEW PRODUCTS BOARD RESOURCE PLANNING AND SUSTAINABILITY EVALUATION FIELD BOARD BOARD ADVISORY BOARD END-YEAR PRODUCT MEETING LAUNCH BOARD ETHICS BOARD ENERGY MANAGEMENT TECHNOLOGY CORPORATE BOARD MANAGEMENT OCCUPATIONAL COMMU(GEBZE) BOARD HEALTH AND NICATION SAFETY BOARD BOARD ENVIRONMENT (ÇERKEZKÖY) MANAGEMENT (GEBZE) BOARD (ÇERKEZKÖY) (GEBZE) QUALITY IMPROVEMENT QUALITY BOARD MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS BOARD (GEBZE) SYSTEMS (ÇERKEZKÖY) BOARD (GEBZE) 25 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 OUR STRATEGIC PLANNING Our Strategic Plan covers our mid-term (4-year) targets and the steps that OUR RISK must be taken in order to MANAGEMENT reach these targets. At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, At Bilim Pharmaceuticals we have been deterrisk management is shaped mining, generalizing, applying and reviewing our strategies in line with the EFQM (European as a part of company’s Foundation for Quality Management) Excelculture and strategy. lence Model since 1998. We have been undertaking Strategic Planning since 2001 and carry At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, risk management out all of our activities within the framework of practices are conducted after risks are prethe Strategic Plan and the Annual Plan & dicted and evaluated or after it is determined Budget. what solutions can be provided in the event of unpredicted risks. The risk management Our Strategic Plan covers our mid-term (4-year) approach was designed in a way that it suptargets and the steps that must be taken in ports the existing and potential growth, order to reach these targets. These include ensures the company’s further progress and activities that require a budget; new appprotects such progress under possible risks. A roaches, significant organizational changes great importance is attached to the following and investments, transformation and innovatwo factors when setting up the Risk Managetion projects, and new applications and ment System: improvements which will enable the Company 1. Penetration of risk management into the to leap forward. Our tactical improvement company’s culture and strategy activities are not included in our Strategic Plan. The Strategic Plan allows us, over a period of 2. Implementation of risk management time, to extend the use of substantial and practices by all employees and respective human resources that are required by our Comstakeholders as a body of rules within recpany to reach its vision and realize its mission. ognized systems Our current Strategic Plan covers the 2011-2014 Acting upon the fact that a risk management period. We review the plan and effect the necapproach which does not have a strategic or essary updates during our efforts for the preptactical place within all principles and policies aration of the Annual Plan & Budget. of the company would fail, Bilim Pharmaceuticals has shaped Risk Management as a part of its corporate culture. All processes, projects and systems are implemented after the risks that they imposed or would impose are evalu26 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 ated and measured. In the event of unpredicted risks, it is ensured that crisis management procedures and processes that are applied separately take effect. This situation gives the comOUR QUALITY pany the ability to act fast in order to eliminate the arising risks in times of crisis. Thus, the MANAGEMENT company set up its systems to perform crisis management with a higher authority in this and similar situations and applied it when required. At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we consider ‘the Another important feature of the risk managehuman, the quality and the future’ as crucial ment model applied at Bilim Pharmaceuticals factors. We place importance on the following is that it is implemented as a process that is points when considering the drugs we make known, applied and improved by employees available to clients and make sure to take all and stakeholders. This way, all related personprecautions to assure that: nel act consciously and within defined system• The drugs are compliant with the identiatics when applying such practices that prefied quality standard. vent or eliminate risks, while taking into account the risk factors during their strategic • The drugs are used safely. activities and operations. • The drugs are proven to be effective. The primary reason why risk management Our management and all of our employees plays a major role on the company’s policies is help us reach these targets with an awareness not only to practice envisaged plans and to and responsibility of providing competent serminimize the damage in the event of possible vices in view of human health. risks, but also risk management is very important in terms of ensuring sustainability by turnThe quality system applied in our corporation is ing risks into opportunities. Because of this, based on international standards and has been the company evaluates not only economic risks established on current regulations and guideor the risks related to its primary field of activlines (Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), ity, but all risks from a very wide perspective Good Laboratory Practices (GLP), Good Clinical and manages them within the systems it has Practices (GCP), etc) as well as current Quality built. Management Systems (ISO 9001). Reviewing risk evaluations frequently in comThe main constituents of our Quality Managepanies particularly in emerging economies like ment Systems have been explained in the Turkey and updating the risk ratings in line with ‘Quality Policies’ document published by our the changing conjuncture is of great imporcompany. Moreover, due to the importance tance. Risk evaluations made during the prepaour corporation places on the environment, ration of annual plans constitute only a part of health and continuous development as a result risk management procedures and practices, of its approach towards contemporary quality while review, evaluation and update of these standards and customer-oriented, it underrisks are carried out, continuously. takes the following actions: • The adoption of the principles of Total Quality under the EFQM (European Foundation for Quality Management) Excellence Model since 1998. 27 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 OUR REPUTATION • Compliance with ISO 9001 Quality Management Systems standards since 2004. MANAGEMENT • Compliance with ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems standards since 2004. • OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety at Work Management Systems Corporate Reputation isn’t just an important standards since 2004. issue for Bilim Pharmaceuticals but also a general issue for the entire pharmaceutical indusAll Quality and Management Systems applied try. The stakeholder research conducted also in our corporation are audited and reviewed supports this fact. As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, regularly, which allows for competency, suitawe manage corporate reputation effectively bility and effectiveness of the systems to be among all sectors not only in the pharmaceuticontinuously assessed and improved. cal industry and give place to the goal of being pointed out as a “benchmark” company in our As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we work to exceed business model. all our clients’ expectations with the high-quality products we produce under the warranty of Bilim Pharmaceuticals has been applying the “Quality Systems”. corporate reputation management model since late 2006. Our Quality Policy is available İn our web report. Reputation Ambassadors, which we have established to raise awareness on corporate reputation within the company, constitute a platform comparable with that in place in all companies. A Reputation Ambassador is a person with the duty of raising the reputation of the corporation they work for in their work and social environment, and who is also sensitive to their own reputation. The reputation ambassador is also a stakeholder representative acting on behalf of the company, and of all the ethical values recognized by society and the stakeholders of the corporation. The reputation ambassador is the voice of the corporation who is able to represent the company he or she works for and their colleagues, in line with the company principles and goals, and who can contribute to all the improvements and restructuring undertakings with their knowledge and experience. Reputation Ambassadors became specialists throughout the years (with training programs, workshops, source documents, etc). The Reputation Ambassadors Platform was comprised of 60 people as of the end of 2012. 28 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 OUR SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Transparency and accountability lies at the heart of our sustainability strategy. As a responsible company positioned not solely as a profit-oriented organization, Bilim Pharmaceuticals works to the principle of investing in its future as well as the sector, our country As Bilim and the future of our world. Having set out a target of leading the sector and the Turkish Pharmaceuticals, we aim at being business world through its sustainabilityrelated efforts, Bilim Pharmaceuticals began to be recognized as a “responsible company” and the “sustainability leader” in its sector. recognized as a Bilim Pharmaceuticals goes to great lengths “to become a company that respects future gen“model company” erations” at every level of its organization and implements social investment projects on the on sustainability, not only in the foundation of one of its corporate values: “respect for future generations”. As a company with a comprehensive and longterm sustainability strategy, we laid down the pharmaceuticals foundations of our sustainability-related efforts in 1998. We established a more corpoindustry, but in all sectors. rate structure through the EFQM (European Foundation for Quality Management) Excellence Model that we launched in 1998. This continuously developing process and performance Transparency and accountability lies at the management systematics allows us to focus on heart of our sustainability strategy. Before we all of our operations in our company and to credetermine areas open to improvement and ate a more efficient management model. effect improvement plans, we identify the Through such efforts, we continuously measunderlying factor and question it. In order for ure our economic, environmental and social improvement plans to be permanent and conimpacts and prepare improvement plans in our tribute to change, they must first be applicabid to reach perfection. ble. We believe that setting targets and working continuously on improvements to reach these targets will bring us closer to our sustainability mission. Our most important target is to integrate the sustainability approach into the corporate culture and, accordingly, ensure the participation and development of all of our stakeholders, 29 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 especially our employees, customers and suppliers. As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we pursue the target of effectively managing our corpoden Dr. Yılmaz ArgüChairman of the Board of Directorsectors g, Dir ARGE Consultin n of the Board of Board of Direct ors rate reputation not only in the pharmaTurkey, Chairma e Chairman of the Global Compact Association, Vic rpo rate Volunteer Co ceuticals industry, but in all sectors, and being recognized as a “model company” in I have enjoyed working with Bilim Pharmaceuticals first as this area. Bilim Pharmaceuticals, which a representative of ARGE Consulting, and then by serving has adopted business strategies based on on the Company’s board as an independent member. So, sustainable development, attaches straas a person who is closely acquainted with the Company, I tegic importance to “sustainable develwould like to offer my heartfelt congratulations to Bilim opment”. The company management Pharmaceuticals for its approach and achievements that are taken as a model by other corporations in Turkey. complies with the principles of corporate Bilim, a member of the Global Compact, has become governance and the Ethics Board, which one of the three largest companies in the Turkish has been structured in accordance with pharmaceutical industry in the last decade. the Company’s business ethics and princiAs one of the first implementers of sustainability in ples. This is an important factor contribTurkey, Bilim sets an example to other corporations in uting to the effective management of the Turkey by applying this concept to all economic, company’s corporate reputation. Underenvironmental and social areas. Moreover, it is lying these efforts is the fact that we have particularly praiseworthy that the Company carries out built our company’s corporate values these practices in the highly competitive generic drug together with our employees and intesector. By transparently disclosing details of its grated all of our values into our processes activities in its 2011Corporate Social Responsibility within the scope of the BI’L Leadership Report, it became the first Turkish company to receive Model applied by our Company. We have an A+ rating by the GRI for its report. The journey to excellence launched by Bilim together also ensured that all of our employees with us in 1998, allowed the Company to adopt share these values. corporate governance. It has taken swifter steps in its journey to sustainability with the driving force Supported by the CEO, the Sustainability created by corporate governance. The Company has Board comprises of people who hold the focused on rendering its operations efficient on one authority to undertake decisions on hand, while going to great lengths to raise the behalf of all departments of the company. awareness of its employees and everyone in its value In order to integrate the sustainability chain on the other. Its achievements, and the steps approach into all business strategies, our it has taken, were crowned with the receipt of the sustainability board drafts strategic EFQM Excellence Model Award in Europe in 2011 plans, determines targets and monitors with the highest ever level of achievement. and evaluates practices. The Company encourages its employees to allocate 2 hours of their working hours every week We have been to carry out voluntary work in the area of social responsibility and supports its employees in using providing this time effectively. Thanks to its disciplined approach and the importance it attaches to employee volunteering and stakeholder sustainability-related participation, Bilim received the ‘Most Successful Volunteer Program Award’ training to all of our handed out by the Corporate Volunteer Association, setting an example in this area as employees since 2011. well. 30 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Aware that we are still adopting the principle of Our top priority issues in sustainability, we aim to raise the awareness of each and every one of our employees on sustainsustainability: ability and help them become defenders of sus• Human Happiness tainability. Based on this perspective, we have been providing sustainability-related training to • Social Development all of our employees since 2011. While we work to • Environmental raise our employees’ knowledge of sustainabilProtection ity, we, as Bilim Pharmaceuticals, also explain to employees the steps we take on this issue and listen to their views. We also call on our employees’ voluntary efforts during these training sesstrengthening our reputation in the commusions, encouraging our employees to play an nity. The sustainability-related efforts trigger active role in the civil community. corporate learning, improving our capacity and spreading the culture of innovation. We observe that our sustainability-related efforts – which we perform in line with our phiFor us, the top priority issues in sustainability losophy of leaving a sustainable world to future are human happiness, social development and generations – yield positive contributions to environmental protection. We shape our social our business results. First of all, as a company investment projects, accordingly. that adds value to both our internal and external stakeholders, we think such efforts We handle all of our processes with their envistrengthen our reputation. Moreover, we ronmental impacts in mind and carry out our observe that our corporate responsibility operations in a manner which protects the efforts enhance customer loyalty. Our employenvironment and natural resources. Based on ees feel happy and proud to work in a responsiour perspective of “taking responsibility for a ble company that contributes both to their sustainable future”, we arrange our processing community the world at large. facilities and carry out our manufacturing activities through our ‘green company’ pracBeing a responsible company forces us to work tices. As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we continumore effectively in our business, strengthening ously apply and develop environmental standour relationships with our stakeholders, raising ards not only in our corporate responsibility the satisfaction and loyalty of our employees efforts, but also in our field of activity. and achieving significant savings, consequently Bilim Pharmaceuticals Receives Turkey’s First “Sustainable Brand Award” At the Sustainable Brands Conference held by the Sustainability Academy in Istanbul on May 31st, 2012, Bilim Pharmaceuticals was one of the two companies deemed worthy of the Sustainable Brand Award in honor of its successful efforts in the area of sustainability. The award was presented for the first time, in order to encourage Turkish brands to become sustainable brands. 31 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 In this context, we select organized industrial zones – whose infrastructure is in accordance with environmental standards – as production locations. Our Çerkezköy Processing Facility was deemed worthy of the Environment Award by the Çerkezköy Chamber of Industry and Trade. HavSe rd ar Di nl er cia l e Co rp or at e So Ch air m an of th n of Tu rk ey ing received the Environment Award handed out As so cia tio Re sp on sib ili ty by the Kocaeli Chamber of Industry in the cateAs the number of stakeholders seeking information gory of large enterprises, the Bilim Gebze Processregarding companies’ transparency and sustainability ing Facility was built in accordance the ISO 14001 performance has increased in recent years, Corporate Environmental Management System and the Social Responsibility (CSR) reports have gradually ‘green building’ concept. gained importance and the number of companies measuring their performance grows with each We have transparently disclosed our economic, passing day. Despite an increase in the number of social and environmental impacts, and our social CSR reports in Turkey every year, it remains short of responsibility projects through three corporate the desired level. Bilim Pharmaceuticals remains a responsibility reports; the first report, published model company in the Turkish pharmaceutical in 2010, was the first corporate responsibility industry and business world as it has adopted the report in the Turkish pharmaceutical industry. CSR concept and CSR practices as a significant element of its corporate culture. In addition, one of Our second report received a level A approval (a the Company’s most significant contributions to first in Turkey) by the GRI in 2011. The third report the CSR field could be considered its measurement received a level A+ approval (also a first in Turkey) and reporting of the results of its CSR practices by the GRI in 2012. since 2009. With the importance that it attaches to reporting, Bilim Pharmaceuticals provides Sustainability is Our Nature significant contributions to the CSR field by setting CSR-related targets for itself every year, performing improvement plans and expanding its sphere of influence in terms of sustainability. Stakeholders are not only interested in financial sustainability and the level of profit the companies generate, but also the details of these companies in CSR reports. Stakeholders also attach importance on knowing the impacts of companies on human life, the community and the world, and how the company’s character CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY and spirit are described in the report. Bilim REPORT 2011 Pharmaceuticals reflects its spirit beautifully and sincerely in its report. Also, in the CSR report – which, as expected in the CSR field, Our Strategic Sustainability features stakeholder participation – Bilim Targets Pharmaceuticals discloses details of its practices that lead to change in the CSR field in • Integrating the sustainability approach the pharmaceutical industry, as well as the into the corporate culture opinions of its stakeholders, who move hand • Instilling sustainability conscience by in hand together with the Company in its strengthening stakeholder dialogue journey forward, along with the content of its innovative CSR practices with other related • Improvement activities stakeholders. • Leadership in sustainability I would like to extend my gratitude to all members of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals family • Continuous monitoring-evaluation for their valuable efforts in the CSR field. Our Sustainability Policy is set out in our web report. 32 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 OUR ETHICAL MANAGEMENT In 2012, 86 % of all employees had participated in trainings programs on Ethical Management. It is our values which are the fundamental resource that asserts our business making style In 2012, no complaint was submitted to the at Bilim Pharmaceuticals; and Ethical ManageEthics Board with respect to any violation of ment is one of our most important values human rights in the regions of our presence. (please refer to the section, “Our Values”). In 2010 and 2011, we conducted training proOur Ethical Management approach is based on grams on Ethical Management aimed at ensurour corporate values and business principles ing participation of all employees. In 2012, we which have been guiding our activities successcontinued to organize these training programs fully for many years. Our Work Ethics Principles for all employees, including newly hired perdo not only protect our corporation and employsonnel and those employees who could not ees but also serve as a guide that helps us see the participate in previous programs. way in light of all our decisions and activities beyond laws, regulations and procedures. As of the end of 2012, the 86 %* of all employees had participated in trainings programs on EthiOur Work Ethics Principles consists of 2 parts, cal Management. Work Ethics Guidelines and Principles. These rules play an important role in protecting and Percentage of Employees Trained on strengthening the trust relationship between Ethical Management our corporation and the stakeholders and the 2011 82.2% third parties it works with. 2012 86% Our understanding of Ethical Management includes all members of management and all employees as well as members of the Board of Directors. All members of management are A total of responsible for ensuring suitable work ethic guidelines and principles. The Ethics Board is organized in order to ensure the healthy applica2,850.44 hours tion of work ethics by the Chairman of the Board. of ethical training was Problems faced by employees regarding ethical guidelines in day to day business, as well as all delivered to employees during information and complaints delivered by employthe 2011-2012 period. ees, suppliers and clients on ethical issues are shared with the Ethics Board. The Ethics Board reports all its decisions after considering Work Ethics Guidelines and Principles, laws, societal The primary topics of our Business Ethics and Business Ethics Policy are provided values and corporate values, to the Chairman of in our web report. the Board. The decisions are then applied after the Chairman of the Board has approved them. In * The group of employees who did not participate in 2011, no complaint was submitted to the Ethics the ethical trainings includes newly hired personnel or those employees who had a valid excuse for Board with respect to any violation of Human non-participation. Rights in the regions of our presence. 33 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 OUR STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholders are those people, groups and/or corporations which are directly or indirectly affected by our activities or which directly or indirectly affect our activities. Our stakeholders are our employees, customers, business partners/suppliers, shareholders, public institutions, local opinion leaders, non-governWe try to understand our stakeholders’ expecmental organizations, universities, the comtations, reflect them to our business strategies munity and the media. Our primary and shape our activities to provide mutual benstakeholders are our employees, customers, efits. In order to understand the expectations business partners, shareholders and the comof our stakeholders, we collaborate with indemunity. pendent agencies to carry out satisfaction surveys on a regular basis. Especially, the Employee Encouraging Stakeholder Satisfaction, Customer Satisfaction and SupParticipation plier Satisfaction surveys are performed every year. On the community scale, we get the We believe that it is important to ensure parResearch on Perception done every two years. ticipation of our stakeholders and to set up effective communication with them for a susWe set up clear, transparent and reliable relatainable future. tionships with all our stakeholders in line with our values, “ethical management” and “respect for future generations”. CUSTOMERS BUSINESS PARTEMPLOYEES NERS / SUPPLIERS STAKEHOLDERS PUBLIC SHAREHOLDERS INSTITUTIONS NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANİZATIONS THE COMMUNITY AND THE MEDIA LOCAL OPINION UNIVERSITIES LEADERS 34 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 The following table shows all our stakeholders, establish with them and the methods of parthe effective communication channels that we ticipation in these processes. Stakeholders Communication Channels Objective Employees • Notice Boards (continuous), To enable linguistic and goal • Bilim Portal (continuous), congruence, to provide them the • Electronic Communication (continuous), chance to follow up on and to • Quality Day (among directors in case of necessity), direct the Company’s agenda, to • CEO Information Meetings (twice a year), raise our employees’ competence, • Marketing End Period Meetings (once a year), to contribute to their development, • Open Door Meetings (monthly), to ensure their participation in • Acquaintance Cocktails (where necessary), business processes and to keep • “Welcome to the Club!” Dinner (were necessary), their motivation and loyalty at • Meetings with a Special Agenda (where necessary), a high level by means of various • Social-Sports Events (in the framework of the communications plan), effective communication channels • Bilim Family Activities (in the framework of the communications plan), / instruments • Period Meetings (every three months), • HR Regional Visits (where necessary), • Employee Satisfaction Surveys (every two years), • Communication Surveys (annual), • Subject-Based Surveys (annual), • Focus Group Negotiations (annual), • Competence Evaluation System (where necessary), • Performance Negotiations (annual), • Individual Suggestion System (continuous), • Boards (every three months), • Guest of the Month (in the framework of the communications plan), • Department Meetings (where necessary), • Bilim Portal E-Bulletin – News from Bilim (in case of necessity), • Motivation Practices (where necessary), • Marketing-HR Coordination Meetings (where necessary), • Employee Clubs (where necessary), • Quality Circle and Quality Improvement Projects, • Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers Platform (continuous), • Reputation Ambassadors Platform (continuous), • Orientation Program (monthly), • Exit Interview (where necessary), • Phase Trainings (where necessary) Customers • Medical Promotion Representative Visits (continuous), To understand our customers’ • Factory Visits (continuous), expectations and requirements • Customer Visits (continuous), accurately by establishing • Scientific Meetings, Congresses / Panels / Conferences (where necessary), bidirectional, sustainable and • Customer Satisfaction Survey (every two years), qualified communication channels • Corporate Reputation and Research on Perception (every two years), and to apply our processes in this • Customer Focus Group Research (where necessary), direction • Pharmacy Consultancy Board (where necessary), • Physician Consultancy Board (where necessary), • Foreign Market Partner Meetings (continuous), • Phone Calls (continuous), • Complaints (continuous) 35 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Stakeholders Communication Channels Objective Suppliers and • Supplier Visits (continuous), To trade ethically with our Collaborations • Factory Visits (continuous), suppliers through collaboration • Supplier Satisfaction Survey (every two years), and to raise awareness on • Supplier Evaluation Survey (during selection of new suppliers and where sustainability necessary), • Business Partners Summit (every two years), • Supplier Audits (continuous), • Phone Calls and Visits (continuous) Shareholders • Board of Directors Meetings (monthly), To raise the level of satisfaction of • Annual Reports (monthly), shareholders and to strengthen • Annual Plan Budget Meetings (according to schedule, 3-4 times a year), their investment motivation • Strategic Plan Meetings (according to schedule, 3-4 times a year) Public Institutes, • Project Partnerships (continuous), To inform about the sector, to Sectoral • Memberships, Participation in Meetings (continuous), ensure full compliance with the Associations • Benchmark Studies (where necessary /in the framework of benchmarking laws and regulations, to make plan) suggestions with respect to new draft laws and regulations in order to contribute to sectoral development Non-Governmental • Project Partnerships (continuous), To contribute to the development Organizations • Memberships (continuous), of NGOs, to employ their expertise • Representation (continuous) and to create an environment of mutual learning Media • Press Meetings (where necessary), To strengthen our corporate • Press Bulletins (where necessary), reputation, to ensure transparency • Interviews (where necessary), and to inform the community • Factory Visits (where necessary), • Corporate Reputation and Research on Perception (every two years) Community • Awareness Raising Efforts (continuous), To be sensitive, respectful, and • Factory Visits (students-upon request), responsive to the needs of the • Corporate Reputation and Research on Perception (every two years), community, to play a proactive • Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers Platform (continuous) role in the settlement of social problems and to contribute to social and cultural development 36 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 OUR MEMBERSHIPS • REC Turkey-Climate Platform-Climate Change Group of Leaders Membership, 2011 • Global Compact, 2010 • PERYÖN (Turkish Personnel Management Association), 2010 • WWF (World Wide Fund), 2010 • TEMA (Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion, for Forestation and the Protection of Natural Habitats), 2010 • TEID (Ethics and Reputation Society of Turkey) 2010 • TKSSD (Corporate Social Responsibility Association of Turkey), 2010 • Business Council for Sustainable Development of Turkey, 2008 • TKYD (Corporate Governance Association of Turkey), 2008 • GOSB (Gebze Organized Industrial Zone), 2006 • KalDer (Turkish Society for Quality), 2006 • ÖSGD (Corporate Volunteer Association), 2005 • ÇOSB (Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone), 1994 • IEIS (Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association of Turkey), 1972 37 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 OUR AWARDS 5 More Awards in 2012 European Foundation for Quality Management – Finalist of “EFQM – Excellence Award” Corporate Volunteers PERYÖN Human Association – “The KSS (Corporate Management Awards Most Successful Social Responsibility – Finalist in the Voluntary Program A first in the Kariyer.net – Association) “Training and Award pharmaceutical “Respect for Corporate Turkey-CSR Europe Çerkezköy Development/Talent sector – “National Humans Award” in Volunteers – “KSS Solutions A first in the Chamber of Management and Quality Grand Prize” the pharmaceutical Association and Winning Award” in pharmaceutical Industry and Applications that sector category make a difference” PERYÖN – Awards Turkey sector – “National Commerce – “Environmental categories from the Heart – Quality Grand “PERYÖN Special Prize” A first in the Award” Kariyer.net – Award” Turkish Kariyer.net – Principled “Respect for pharmaceutical ethical Corporate Volunteers Kocaeli Chamber of “Respect for sector – “EFQM Humans Award” management Respect Association – Awards Industry – “Şahabettin Humans Competence in Changing in the Award” in the for future pharmaceutical from the Heart – “Most Bilgisu Environmental Excellence generations pharmaceutical sector category Creative Project” and Award Approval” sector category “Most Successful European Human Volunteer” Awards Business Award – Passion for 2004 happiness success 2008 “Ruban 2006 d'Honneur Award 1999 2008 2009 2000 2006 2003 2008 2009 2010 2009 2007 2010 2009 2011 2010 2012 2010 2011 2010 2010 2012 2012 2011 EFQM – Excellence Award and Achievement Award in 4 categories National PERYÖN Human Turkey’s first Quality Kariyer.net – Kariyer.net – Istanbul Chamber of Management “Sustainable Award – “Respect for “Respect for Industry – “Sectoral Awards – Talent Brand” award “Continuity Humans Humans Award” in Environmental Management SEDEFED Award” in the in Excellence the pharmaceutical Initiative Award” Award and Finalist (Federation of pharmaceutical Award” sector category of the “Hiring” Industrial sector category category Associations) and Bilimk@mpüs is Competition chosen as one of Forum – “Most CSR Europe the three best Competitive Enterprise 2020 – projects in the Company of the “Turkish area of Year Award” Representative” e-learning at the “Bilişimin Yıldızları Three separate awards including the Stakeholder Winning E-Dönüşüm Award to our project, “My Career Is In My Hands”, at the Yarışması” Corporate Social Responsibility Marketplace (where Turkey’s (IT Stars: largest social responsibility projects compete with each E-Transformation other) organized by the Corporate Social Responsibility Contest) held by Association – the Turkish leg of CSR Europe the Informatics Association of Turkey (TBD) 38 OUR ECONOMIC ADDED VALUE BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION Domestic IMS Sales IMS Sales (TL-, 000,000) +22% 800 700 600 According to lMS data, Bilim Pharmaceuticals has been 500 the fastest growing pharma400 ceutical company over the last five years. 300 200 100 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Turnover 574 700 752 770 700 Our Market Share Market Share (%) 6 5 5.1 5.1 4.7 4.9 4 4.5 3 2 1 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 40 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 OUR INVESTMENTS Created Added Value (TL -,000) 2010 2011 2012 2013 Our operating costs in Target 182,665 204,844 305,829 303,733 2012 amounted to Realized 204,101 186,810 266,223 321,270,452 TL Tax Paid (TL -,000) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Target 18,400 23,000 33,000 40,500 48,321 48,711 Realized 18,518 23,265 35,147 32,066 43,804 Total Amount of Dividends in 2012: 3,095,400 TL Distribution of Dividends as a proportion of Total Profit: 0.04% Payments made to the Social Security Institution (TL -,000) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 11,796.00 11,401.00 11,971.00 12,938.26 13,411.01 Our Infrastructure Investments Our Environmental Investments In the section entitled “Our Processing Facilities”, our Bilim Gebze plant, medical storage Bilim Pharmaceuticals invests in environmenunit and R&D laboratory investments are tal protection and carries out environmentreferred to. friendly and energy-efficient practices to reduce its environmental impacts. These investments are discussed in the section entitled “Our Sensitivity towards Ecological Environment”. 41 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Our Contribution to the Community Bilim Pharmaceuticals develops and executes social awareness. Investments made in these social investment projects aiming to raise projects are given in the following table: Contribution to the Community (Social Investment Projects) (TL) Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2112 2013 Target 350,000 1,750,000 1,900,000 2,300,000 2,750,000 1,700,000 Realized 343,188 1,835,275 1,946,515 2,419,803 2,778,602 Our social investment projects predominantly physicians and pharmacists due to the amendaim to contribute to the health of the commuments to the Introduction Regulation of the nity by adding value to the scientific knowlMinistry of Health in 2012. Accordingly, Bilim edge of physicians and pharmacists. RestricPharmaceuticals plans to cut its budget for tions are imposed on communication with social investment projects from 2013. FOREIGN MARKETS Exports (US $) $ 40.000.000 $ 35.000.000 $30.000.000 $ 38.597.610 $ 29.854.855 $ 25.000.000 $ 26.418.867 $ 20.000.000 $ 23.354.206 $ 19.433.680 $ 15.000.000 $ 10.000.000 $ 5.000.000 $0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (29 %) (20 %) (13 %) (13 %) (29 %) Licensed 42 new product 42 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 • Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ Total Net Turnover Our Contributions to the Turkish from Foreign Markets grew by 29% YoY Pharmaceutical Industry when compared to 2011. • According to figures prepared by the In 2012, a total of 403 physicians, Exporters’ Association*, our share in total pharmacists and partners were pharmaceutical product exports rose from 5.6% to 6.2% in 2012. hosted in Istanbul • Bilim Pharmaceuticals accessed 42 new In 2012, Bilim Pharmaceuticals hosted various product licenses in various countries in physicians, pharmacists and partners from a 2012. number of countries in Istanbul and showed them the company’s processing facility. The Company provided information regarding the facility where our products are manufactured, aiming to create a positive reputation perception for Turkish pharmaceutical technologies. Country Number of Visitors Azerbaijan 60 Afghanistan 10 Croatia 50 Yemen 50 Ethiopia 3 Jordan 2 Moldova 34 * Classified into their respective sectors, Exporters’ Associations continue their activities under Iraq 110 the Foreign Trade Undersecretariat, Ministry of Economy. Drug export fall under the category of Bosnia 37 Pharmaceutical Products – Istanbul Exporters’ Kosovo 47 Association for Chemicals and Chemical Products. TOTAL 403 43 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Our Contribution to Turkey’s Foreign Trade The foreign trade deficit, which has a considerratio in our industry is around 12%. At Bilim able bearing on the Turkish economy, is also Pharmaceuticals, this ratio reached 45% in important in our sector. The exports/imports 2012, having gradually improved every year. Foreign Trade Deficit in the Turkish Pharmaceutical Industry (USD, -,000,000)* 2010 2011 2012 Turkey’s Pharmaceutical Products Imports US$ 4,800.00 US$ 5,100.00 US$ 5,000.00 Turkey’s Pharmaceutical Products Exports US$ 471.00 US$ 533.00 US$ 623.00 Exports/Imports Ratio 10% 10% 12% *Source: Istanbul Exporters’ Association for Chemicals and Chemical Products (IKMIB). Foreign Trade Deficit at Bilim Pharmaceuticals (USD, -,000,000) 2010 2011 2012 Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ Pharmaceutical Products Imports US$ 91.40 US$ 78.30 US$ 85.20 Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ Pharmaceutical Products Exports US$ 26.40 US$ 29.80 US$ 38.50 Exports/Imports Ratio 29% 38% 45% Our Country-Based Export Share Istanbul Minerals and Metals Exporters’ Associations (IMMIB) Product Class Country Report (Turkey) Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ Share in Exports to Foreign Countries* COUNTRY % COUNTRY % IRAQ 14.7% MACEDONIA 41.4% MOLDOVA 46.6% KOSOVO 23.6% GEORGIA 17.6% TURKMENISTAN 26.2% BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA 27.8% CROATIA 67.6% YEMEN 61.8% MALAYSIA 63.9% AFGHANISTAN 17.7% SOMALI 31.2% PHILIPPINES 48.6% ETHIOPIA 65.6% ALBANIA 25.0% ECUADOR 45.3% HONG KONG 48.2% SUDAN 71.7% * Source: Istanbul Exporters’ Association for Chemicals and Chemical Products (IKMIB). The table compares total exports of pharmaFor instance, Turkey’s total pharmaceutical ceutical products undertaken in Turkey to the products exports to Iraq amounted to US$ 61.6 respective countries to the exports of pharmamillion, while Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ exports ceutical products undertaken by Bilim Pharmato that country reached US$ 9.0 million, with ceutical to the same countries. Bilim Pharmaceuticals accounting for 14% of total pharmaceutical products to Iraq. 44 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 OUR WORK ON RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Bilim Pharmaceuticals and R&D The underlying factors behind our rising sales targets are our concentration on technologically based R&D activities and the steadily increasing budget allocated for these activiThe largest ties. Our Research and Department Center has local equivalent been equipped with more than 220 high-tech drug producer machinery units, apparatus and equipment. Bilim R&D Center is Our R&D department equipped with more than currently employs more 220 high-tech machinery than 100 scientists. units and equipment. As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we increase research Our investments should not be anticipated as and development activities in a planned way only buildings or equipment. We also underwithin the framework of our strategic planning take large investments in competent human practices. Acting upon these determined stratresources in our company. Researchers (such egies, we have created a well-organized envias Pharmaceutical Chemistry Experts, Pharronment of research and development; with a maceutical Technology Experts, Patent Proxself-consistent understanding of manageies, Pharmacologists, Analytical Chemists), ment, a scientific logic and technical who have scientific competence, are involved approaches that are cooperative, contempoin Project teams that are commissioned in our rary, encouraging and responsive to the needs R&D department. Our Research and Developof society. Thanks to our R&D activities, which ment department currently employs more develop continuously through this understandthan 100 scientists. Within the scope of the ing, we are the leader of the Turkish pharmaCareer Management Systematics in effect, we ceutical market with our products, which were defined “Post-Internship Recruitment Systemall developed in our own R&D laboratories and atics” for those employees wishing to continue which we hold licenses for. Evaluated from this or apply for a post-graduate or doctoral prostance, our corporation is the biggest local gram, thus providing support to the employees equivalent drug producer in the national pharworking at the R&D Center. maceutical markets’ genuine drug sales. In order to protect our position, we continue to Our products which are in solid, semi-solid and focus our attention increasingly on Research liquid dosage forms were developed in our own and Development projects. Our Research and R&D laboratories. Thanks to the understandDevelopment projects are at the heart of our ing the importance of sharing information and exports to 52 countries and the volume of our transferring it to future generations, which exports grows consistently as we gain licenses was adopted in our Research and Development for more new products. Centre, the knowledge that we gain during the 45 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 production of each product is carried over to the next project. As a result of our R&D activities, which are carried out from this perspective, product combinations that contain two or more molecules, as well as controlled release products that aim to reduce the side effects of drugs by increasing patient compliance, are added to the product spectrum of Bilim Pharmaceuticals. Two of our drugs were licensed in Western Europe. It is a part of our strategic plan to export drugs to Europe Bilim Pharmaceuticals earned the R&D Centre Cerand the USA in the following days from our two tification on February 17th, 2009. Our Research production plants, which were approved by the and Development Centre comprises of analytical UK and Germany. development laboratories (instrumental analysis laboratories, wet laboratories), formulation laboOur R&D budget, which has been growing increratories, pilot production and stability zones. mentally for many years, was raised even in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 when economic measures had Our Research and Development Centre at Bilim to be taken by pushing through significant cuts in Pharmaceuticals consists of groups dealing with drug sale prices, and the R&D budget was mainpatent-related works, active substances, formulatained at 5% of our net sales. tion and analytical method development for new products, clinical researches, product improveEven during the times of crisis, there was no let-up ment, and stability and technology for new prodin R&D investment at Bilim Pharmaceuticals. Our ucts, alternative API and improvement batches. In company aims to further increase its investments our Research and Development centre, patent in the coming periods and to allocate 8% of its net scanning and evaluation studies, active substance sales to R&D projects every year, in addition to the assessment, analysis and works, formulation and fixed investments that have to be made. analytical method development, laboratory and small scale pilot productions, process and analytiOur Research and Development cal method validations, clinical studies, product Center improvement studies, new product stability studies and the preparation of authorization files in With its building expenses as high as €120 million, CTD format are managed with the concept of our Research and Development Centre is the largQualityByDesign(QbD). est R&D centre of the Turkish pharmaceutical industry with a total of 4,500 m2 laboratory Another important role of our Research and Develspace. An investment of US$ 15 million was made opment Center is that it spreads and integrates a in our R&D centre located within our Bilim Gebze culture of innovation – so important in today’s plant, which is the biggest drug manufacturing world – throughout the corporation. Our new plant in the Turkish pharmaceutical industry. We product development processes are improved continue to make an average of US$ 5 million of through innovative measures, while our profitabiladditional investments every year. Bilim Pharmaity increases by implementing efficiency-increasceuticals’ R&D budget has been increased by ing and cost cutting efforts. approximately 320% in the space of the last four years only. 46 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Our Products In International Markets One of our cardiovascular product approved by the UK Department of Health and an anti-diabetic drug approved by the German Ministry of Health 90% of the products which we hold licenses for were developed through our R&D activities. Thanks to our license files, which comply with international regulations in order to respond to customer and market demands, as well as our R&D plant and the high quality of our production, we are able to offer our drug portfolio to international markets. We have a cardiovascular product approved by the UK Department of Our targets: Health and an anti-diabetic drug approved by • To concentrate our efforts to develop the German Ministry of Health. In the near controlled release tablets, which increase future, our products will begin to be sold in patient compliance and reduce the side Europe, too. In addition, at the end of 2012, our effect of drugs, in addition to widely used products were being sold in 52 different countraditional dosage forms like tablets; tries from the Far East to Latin America and Africa to the Middle East. This reveals Bilim • To increase the number of researches on Pharmaceuticals’ presence and quality in global patient-friendly products that include markets. two or more molecules as they reduce the number of administrated drugs; Our R&D Related Targets • To develop products for markets in which we currently do not operate; Our Bilim Gebze Plant, with its 51,500 m2 of indoor space, which entered operation in 2008, • To design and develop products for exportation to global markets, including Eurohas been approved by the UK. With annual propean and US markets; and duction capacity of 250 million boxes, this facility has the capacity to produce 17% of Turkey’s • To exploit opportunities arising from biomedicines. In our coming investment plan, our equivalent and nanotechnology-based target is to be the leader of the domestic pharproducts, which become popular each maceutical sector and to uphold our share and passing day in the pharmaceutical indusreinforce our position in global markets like the try and which are gradually used by an European market parallel to the development increasing number of customers, as part of our R&D activities. In this context, we plan our long-term strategies; development of to develop equivalent products aiming at equivalent drugs is only possible through untapped segments and to expand the range making contribution to a number of disciof products that are used in the treatment of plines such as pharmacy, chemistry, chronic diseases. chemical engineering, biology, etc. 47 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 TÜBİTAK Projects In 2012, a total of 21 in-house projects at Bilim Pharmaceuticals received support from TÜBİTAK. TÜBİTAK – The Department of Technology and Innovation Funding Programs Directorate has been established with the aim of speeding up the process of turning technology to social SANTEZ – Industrial benefit and supporting the research-technolThesis Projects ogy development and innovation activities of industrial corporations in our country. Support Programme Thus, the target is to increase the skills of our The programme is implemented by the country’s corporations in research and techMinistry of Science, Industry and nology and the increase of innovative culture Technology in order to institutionalize and the competitive capacity. The Department of Technology and Innovation Funding Proco-operation between firms and grams Directorate designs and manages supuniversities and to commercialize port programs in view of the aforementioned. scientific research undertaken in universities. The programme extends At the end of 2012, a total of 21 in-house prosupport to post-graduate and/or jects at Bilim Pharmaceuticals were receiving support from TÜBİTAK. Our aim is to reduce doctorate theses that are determined in the project costs by increasing the number of line with the needs of the industrial new projects with only a limited change in sector. The aim of the programme is to expenses. To this end, the Company planned innovate existing products and/or new projects for 2013 and preparing to apply for production methods, and to develop TÜBİTAK funding. new products and/or production methods that will create added value for our country and contribute to boosting Turkey’s competitive strength in international markets. As of the end of 2012, one SAN-TEZ Project which we had applied for was accepted. The project was developed in cooperation between Bilim Pharmaceuticals and Istanbul University and supported by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. 48 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 GOVERNMENT GRANTS RECEIVED We have met all provisions set forth in the law no. 5746 “Law on Supporting Research and Development Activities” and received an R&D Center certification for a period of 2 years being International VAT Refund effective as of 18.02.2009. The period was extended to February 2012. Also, a request was Although some improvements were made in made for re-extension and the period was EU countries with respect to VAT refund, since extended for another year beginning by Sepmember countries still have a set of their own tember 2012. regulations, we are required to pay tax at various rates concerning expenses that are related Grants received through this certification: to business travels to and participation at fairs in many countries. Although the amount varies R&D Deductions from one country to another, we ask refund of the tax that we pay, which is sometimes as For R&D and innovation activities carried out high as 25%, from the tax offices of respective at the Research and Development Centre, countries. INTELLECTUAL Bilim Pharmaceuticals benefits from R&D deductions by 100% in the section of deducINDUSTRIAL AND tions on the Corporate Tax account. • Income withholding tax incentive, COMMERCIAL • Insurance premium support, • Stamp duty exception, • Project-based cash support (TÜBİTAK) COPYRIGHTS The company also benefits from the “support for the unit rental expenses” for its representative offices in Albania and Georgia within the scope We stay loyal to our values of Supporting Foreign Units, Brands and Promoand act in respect to tion Activities of Turkish Companies no. 2010/6. industrial property rights Investment Deduction Practice protected by laws An incentive certificate was obtained from the Undersecretariat of Treasury with the beginPatents; one of the most important characterning of our Gebze investment. Our incentive istics of Intellectual Industrial and Commercial certificate will expire in April 2011. Copyrights, are tools that provide legal protection for inventions developed by companies We obtained new investment incentive certifiand individuals. In order to encourage invencates from the Undersecretariat of Treasury tions and to enable technical, economic and concerning the purchase of new machinery social developments in the application of and equipment for our facilities in Çerkezköy inventions into industry, the protection of and Gebze in August 2011 and October 2011, inventions through patents and useful model respectively. certifications have been brought under protection in our country under law 551 “Legislative The new certificates will expire in 2014. Decree About The Protection of Patent Rights”. 49 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 As Bilim Pharmaceuticals we stay loyal to our COMPLIANCE values in view of these laws and act lawfully in respect to industrial property rights protected WITH LAW AND by laws.We assess patents for the medicines before market entry in Turkey and abroad, FAIR ensure the transport of medicines into the markets without violating patents, and follow COMPETITION legal procedures and necessary processes. We make applications for newly developed ideas within the scope of research and development projects and follow up on their status. We comply with all the We collaborate with the Patent Institute of Turkey and universities to continue our work with legal obligations set out by ethical principles. our government and make For new inventions to be created information all our engagements clearly and technology have to be renewed/improved and shared. One of the most important steps in available. achieving this is patenting. Patenting documents are written products where information As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we pay our tax on on research and development is provided, identime and in full contributing to the economy of tifying the technology of industrial products or our country. methods that require patent protection, and explain them in detail while being the criteria The medicines first have to be licensed before for Research and Development projects. Our they are provided in the markets of many councorporation knows the importance of patenttries and in Turkey. Then if desired they have to ing and therefore has established a departbe made a part of the refunding system. ment for patenting as a first step. For other intellectual and industrial rights our corporaIn accordance with Article 27 of the Decree Law tion also acquires external support. no. 663 published in the Official Gazette, dated 02.11.2011 and numbered 28103, the formal We also observe the intellectual and industrial authority for licensing medicines in Turkey is property rights of companies that we work the General Directorate for Pharmaceuticals with as business partners. and Pharmacy managed by the Ministry of Health. Established as a public entity with a special budget, the Directorate has been operating since 19.03.2012. The formal authority for the refunding of drugs in Turkey is the Social Security Institution managed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Security. 50 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 FIGHTING WITH BRIBERY AND We get licenses for all our products in Turkey and abroad in compliance with related laws IMPROPRIETY and regulations. After licensing we make sure to conduct all follow-up stages. We manage all our relationships with universities and all formal health institutions such as We carry out all our activities concerning our government hospitals, community health cenorganization in accordance with laws, regulatres and private health institutions, pharmations and other rules of laws, as well as internacies as well as our relationships with doctors, tionally recognized rules of law. We execute dentists and pharmacists working in the aforeour relations with organizations and institumentioned environments or independently tions, which regulate, apply and audit laws and according to the regulations and ethical princirules of law, in a manner which is right, consistples of the Ministry of Health and the IEIS which ent and coherent with these rules. we are a member of. Bilim Pharmaceuticals prohibits giving anyWe carry out all our legal responsibilities fully thing or making any payments to anybody to and within the time frame given and manage gain advantage in the purchase or sales of correspondences and communication environgoods or services or to benefit improperly with ments according to our company mission, the help of official authorities. vision and values while considering the expectations of all our stakeholders and in concordWe pay special attention to bribery and improance with all state institutions’ and organizapriety during our activities. Due to the nature tions’ laws, decree, regulations and of our sector, we make use of knowledge and declarations. We have received no penalty with services of medical employees and scientists. respect to such matters as a violation of comWe conduct our services without neglecting petition, monopolization, etc. the fact that most of these people work for public institutions or are public authorities. It is our principle not to make any payment or to give any presents or services to public officials with the intent to affect their decisions or in a manner which may be anticipated so. Bilim Pharmaceuticals prohibits direct or indirect involvement of its employees, consultants, agencies and other representatives in commercial bribery. No incidence of bribery or impropriety was observed and no actions were brought against the company in 2012. 51 THE VALUE WE ATTACH TO PEOPLE BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 OUR PRINCIPLES ON EMPLOYEE RIGHTS The principle of treating our employees with fairness and respect is the fundamental reason for our company’s high standing in the industry. This principle is assured with our Employees’ Rights Principles. In this context, our priNo forced labour and no child labour are among mary principles are; our principles on employee rights, while we comply with these principles at 100%. It is one • No forced labour of our rules that the same principles apply to • No child labour our suppliers and collaborations. • No discrimination There is an overtime policy in our company. • Providing occupational health and safety Overtime pay is based on the ratios determined • Ensuring proper working conditions that by the law. comply with legislation Overtime is planned by our employees and put • Ensuring proper working hours and into practice upon the approval of our direcwages tors. Overtime pay is paid after the total overThe company complies fully with these princitime hours of our employees are recorded in ples. Moreover, queries and complaints subtheir payrolls in the respective month based on mitted by our employees who believe there are the ratios determined by the law. discrepancies between the laws and practices they encounter in the workplace and our poliMoreover, within the framework of employee cies and principles can be notified to the Toprights, we do not apply any limitation on our Level Management, Directors, Human employees’ right of unionization. Resources Division and the Board of Ethics without being pressured and with a sense of assuring themselves. Our Human Resources Policy is available in our web report. 53 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 DEMOGRAPHIC DATA OF OUR EMPLOYEES AVERAGE AVERAGE % SENIOR % BLUE % WHITE % GENDER AGE SENIORITY RATIO MANAG. RATIO COLLAR RATIO COLLAR RATIO FEMALE 30 3.7 403 20.1% 4 30% 15 5% 388 23.0% MALE 32 4.6 1606 79.9% 9 70% 316 95% 1290 77.0% TOTAL 2009 100% 13 100% 331 100% 1678 100% Number of Employees by Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Realized 1683 1696 1844 1950 2009 Target 1744 1822 1773 1999 2136 2114 2150 Number of Employees by Facility WHITE COLLAR BLUE COLLAR TOTAL Female Male Total Female Male Total Female Male Total AYAZAĞA 105 98 203 1 3 4 106 101 207 ÇERKEZKÖY 25 37 62 2 67 69 27 104 131 GEBZE 113 106 219 12 246 258 125 352 477 FIELD 145 1049 1194 0 0 0 145 1049 1194 TOTAL 388 1290 1678 15 316 331 403 1606 2009 Total Labour Force by Employment Contract Ayazağa Gebze Çerkezköy Field Total Female Male Total Female Male Total Female Male Total Female Male Total Female Male Total Employment Contract of 106 100 206 121 352 473 27 104 131 145 1049 1194 399 1605 2004 Indefinite Duration Employment Contract of 0 0 0 4 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 4 Definite Duration Employment Contract of 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 Partial Duration TOTAL 106 101 207 125 352 477 27 104 131 145 1049 1194 403 1606 2009 54 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 The Ratio of Overtime to the Total Working Hours (%) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Increasing production capacity led to Realized 5.37 3.37 4.3 4.46 4.62 an increase of overtime by years, due to changing sales conditions. Target 5.00 3.50 4.00 3.50 3.50 Number of Mobility Impaired Employees 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 FEMALE MALE TOTAL FEMALE MALE TOTAL FEMALE MALE TOTAL FEMALE MALE TOTAL FEMALE MALE TOTAL REALIZED 2 14 16 6 12 18 6 24 30 5 23 28 7 23 30 TARGET 22 29 30 37 31 Female-Male Breakdown at Managerial Level Year Location Gender CEO Director Manager Administrator Total Female 0 0 5 16 21 Ayazağa Male 1 5 29 48 83 Total 1 5 34 64 104 Female 0 0 1 1 2 Çerkezköy Male 0 1 2 8 11 Total 0 1 3 9 13 2008 Female 0 0 4 16 20 Gebze Male 0 1 3 14 18 Total 0 1 7 30 38 Female 0 0 0 3 3 Field Male 0 0 8 80 88 Total 0 0 8 83 91 Grand Total 1 7 52 186 246 Female 0 1 3 19 23 Ayazağa Male 1 3 24 40 68 Total 1 4 27 59 91 Female 0 0 0 2 2 Çerkezköy Male 0 0 3 5 8 Total 0 0 3 7 10 2009 Female 0 0 3 14 17 Gebze Male 0 3 2 17 22 Total 0 3 5 31 39 Female 0 0 0 4 4 Field Male 0 0 9 74 83 Total 0 0 9 78 87 Grand Total 1 7 44 175 227 55 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Year Location Gender CEO Director Manager Administrator Total Female 0 1 4 11 16 Ayazağa Male 1 4 22 18 45 Total 1 5 26 29 61 Female 0 0 0 2 2 Çerkezköy Male 0 0 2 5 7 Total 0 0 2 7 9 2010 Female 0 0 2 14 16 Gebze Male 0 3 2 12 17 Total 0 3 4 26 33 Female 0 0 0 4 4 Field Male 0 0 12 103 115 Total 0 0 12 107 119 Grand Total 1 8 44 169 222 Female 0 1 4 20 25 Ayazağa Male 1 3 26 27 57 Total 1 4 30 47 82 Female 0 0 1 2 3 Çerkezköy Male 0 0 2 7 9 Total 0 0 3 9 12 2011 Female 0 0 2 14 16 Gebze Male 0 2 3 13 18 Total 0 2 5 27 34 Female 0 0 0 5 5 Field Male 0 0 8 115 123 Total 0 0 8 120 128 Grand Total 1 6 46 203 256 Female 0 1 6 23 30 Ayazağa Male 1 3 22 35 61 Total 1 4 28 58 91 Female 0 0 1 2 3 Çerkezköy Male 0 0 2 6 8 Total 0 0 3 8 11 2012 Female 0 0 1 10 11 Gebze Male 0 2 4 13 19 Total 0 2 5 23 30 Female 0 0 0 5 5 Field Male 0 0 12 122 134 Total 0 0 12 127 139 Grand Total 1 6 48 216 271 56 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Age Breakdown at Managerial Level AGE GROUP NUMBER 18-30 12 30-50 248 OVER 50 12 Gender Breakdown of Employees by Year (%) 90 79 79 81 81 81 81 80 81 80 80 80 70 60 50 40 Female Target 30 Female Realized 21 21 20 19 20 20 20 19 19 19 19 Male Target 10 Male Realized 0 Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Female 21 19 19 20 20 20 TARGET (%) Male 79 81 81 80 80 80 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Female 21 19 19 19 20 REALIZED (%) Male 79 81 81 81 80 We aim to increase the proportion of our Age Breakdown of Employees female employees on an annual basis, whereby our target for 2012 was 20%. Moreover, inforAGE GROUP NUMBER mation regarding the proportion of female 18-30 889 applicants has been shared in the “Our Recruitment Procedures” section. Since we hired a 30-50 1105 high number of female employees for our Gebze processing facility in 2008 (the proporOVER 50 15 tion of female employees is higher particularly in Quality and R&D departments), an increase is observed in the proportion of female employees in the respective year. 57 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Demographic Data of Employees Working at The Representative Offices in Foreign Markets tive, multi-directional and participative peoNumber of Number of Number Average ple, who can rapidly adapt themselves to Employees Women of Men Age change, who have a global point of view and Representative Offices who continuously strive to improve themMoldova 31 21 10 33 selves and those around them, based on the Albania 14 8 6 27 principle of equality of opportunity and without discrimination, as set out in our HR policy. Bosnia 9 4 5 33 Georgia 15 11 4 30 The “Qualifications Catalogue” is one of the TOTAL 69 44 25 basic instruments which we use in our recruitPartners* ment process. Through their use, our decisions do not involve discrimination based on school, Iraq 43 1 42 27 region, gender, sexual preferences, religion, Yemen 27 1 26 34 language or race in line with our principle of Ethiopia 12 2 10 26 equality of opportunity. Azerbaijan 37 20 17 28 TOTAL 119 24 95 The reason for the low proportion of women in the workforce seen in the aforementioned Grand Total 188 68 120 worker breakdown chart is the heavy travel * Only indicates the number of employees working for Bilim schedule required when working in the field, as products. Wages are paid by the partners. well as the spread of the geographical dispersion. The percentage of female applicants for Our Principles on Management of job positions available in the field is much lower Differences are available in our than it is for male applicants. OUR web report. In our company, age is not considered as a criRECRUITMENT terion in hiring processes; we employ people in accordance with our qualifications catalogue. PROCEDURES We pay particular attention to the recruitment Our recruitment decisions of people from the local community and fair wage policies in domestic and foreign commudo not involve nities of our presence. In recruitment, we support local employment by allowing our employdiscrimination based on ees to be candidates from places where they school, region, gender, are born or where they live. We primarily evaluate the applications of the local community in sexual preferences, all hiring processes and establish our employee profile by taking these criteria into account. religion, language or race in line with our principle Total Number of Applicants and Ratio of Male and Female Applicants (2012) of equality of opportunity. Number of Ratio of Gender One of our priorities at Bilim Pharmaceuticals Applicants Applicants is to create equal opportunities for everyone in Male 29,659 59% our recruitment process. In line with this priority, the fundamental principle of our candidate Female 20,918 41% selection and recruitment process to hire creaTotal 50,577 100% 58 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Total Number of Applicants for Field Positions and Ratio of Male and Female Applicants (2012) Number of Ratio of Gender Applicants Applicants Male 16,212 69% By Work Status and Region: Female 7,253 31% White White Collar – Blue Total 23,465 100% Collar – Total Headquarters Collar Field Newly Hired Personnel in 2012 Adana 17 17 By age: Ankara 15 15 Under 25 85 Antalya 11 11 25-30 288 Antep 11 11 30-35 139 Ayazağa 28 61 1 90 35-40 27 Balıkesir 20 20 40-45 7 Bolu 12 12 45-50 1 Bursa 10 10 50-60 1 Çerkezköy 9 11 20 By gender: Çorum 20 20 Male 416 Denizli 4 4 Female 132 Diyarbakır 19 19 Total 548 Edirne 15 15 Erzurum 16 16 Eskişehir 18 18 Gebze 72 81 153 Izmir 10 10 Kayseri 10 10 Kırıkkale 5 5 Konya 10 10 Manisa 15 15 Mersin 9 9 Sakarya 17 17 Samsun 10 10 Trabzon 11 11 Grand 109 346 93 548 Total 59 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Employees Resigning from Their Positions: Breakdown By Gender Breakdown Age Kı va nç Ak de ni z eu tic als Bi lim Ph ar m ac Location Male Female Total 18-30 30-50 Over 50 Total Di gi ta l M ar ke tin g Sp ec ial ist Headquarters 11 14 25 9 15 1 25 I witnessed a systematic recruitment Çerkezköy 8 4 12 4 8 12 procedure that began as I applied for my current position at Bilim Gebze 75 33 108 46 59 3 108 Pharmaceuticals. I noticed that each step Field 296 56 352 129 223 352 of the procedure was managed in an extremely professional manner. The TOTAL 390 107 497 188 305 4 497 interview process, which is normally expected to be stressful, took place with Ratio of Internal Promotions* a minimum of stress thanks to the result-oriented negotiations, and 100 because I was given detailed information about the open position 94.6 90 and the Company’s corporate culture in 90.6 90.1 advance. From the very beginning of 86.3 my recruitment process right up to the 80 end, which involved discussions with the Human Resources Administrator, 77 the Director and the CEO, I had the 70 opportunity to see the importance of the role of corporate culture in managing this process. 60 The “adaptation to the company and the learning process”, something which is generally neglected by 50 companies but which, I think, is at 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 least as important as the candidate * Ratio of the total number of specialists and manevaluation process is one of the agers hired from outside the Company to the total issues dealt with uniquely at Bilim number of specialists and managers promoted within the Company Pharmaceuticals… Thanks to “my buddy”, who never left my side in my first day in office within the scope of Due to the difficulty in finding employees for the innovative human resources specific positions in the R&D Department approach applied by our Company, under the Science Department Directorate, I had the chance to meet my these positions were mainly covered from outcolleagues in a warm environment side the Company in 2012. In 2013, the Company and obtain detailed information on plans to reach its target by undertaking assignin-house processes through the ments for expertise-requiring positions and Human Resources Orientation promoting employees from its talent pool. Program. I consider myself fortunate to have experienced such Breakdown of Internal Promotions (2012) a recruitment process at Bilim Pharmaceuticals, a company that Female Male attaches value to the position and the individual, and motivates the Ratio of promotions of candidates 97.80% 97.00% candidate for who fulfill all criteria (by gender) recruitment. 60 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Ratio of Employees who return to work after giving birth 2012 98.48% Prior to the job offer, candidates who successIn 2012, 14 of our female employees took materfully pass these applications go through a refnity leave and returned to work, and 132 male erence check as per the job application inforemployees took paternity leave and returned to mation. Candidates who are not included in work. The ratio of employees returning to work is the job hiring process or are not positively eval98.48% for female employees and 100% for male uated are notified via the career portal, e-mail employees. Those employees who did not return or a telephone call. to work after taking maternity left their positions voluntarily. Internship Program EVALUATION OF As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we aim to find talent for not only the present, but also the future. In COMPETENCIES line with this approach, we aim to raise future leaders in cooperation between universities and industrial corporations by improving the qualities and competencies of our students, a At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, defined competencies move that we take in the light of our corporate are one of the important instruments with responsibility awareness. respect to the creation of equality of opportunity during the recruitment process. A number of difWithin the scope of our collaboration with uniferent instruments is used to evaluate the comversities and our awarded corporate responsipetencies of candidates the most accurate and bility project “My Career Is In My Hands”, we objective way. Elements that constitute compeoffer an increasing amount of internship tencies and the instruments that are used to opportunities each passing year to the stumeasure them are given in the following table: dents. • Occupational • Talent Tests personality inventory Talent Personality Skill/ Motivation/ Knowledge/ Interest Experience • Competency• Motivation Based Interview Inventory • Traditional Inter• Inventory of view interest • Knowledge Tess • Competency-Based • Foreign Language Interview Placement Test 61 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Number of Interns at the High School Level 20 40 57 41 58 Number of Interns at the University Level 70 85 81 118 114 TOTAL 90 125 138 159 172 Following our efforts that we carry out in order to own a qualified labour force, we hire the candidates in line with the “Post-Internship Recruitment Systematics”. By creating a platBeyond the legal requirements aimed at raising form where interns can share their innovative employee satisfaction and dependency and ideas through our training programs that going beyond these necessities, we have ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of the planned and are currently implementing noninternship program, we encourage and supsalary supplementary possibilities, resources port interns to produce creative and innovative and services. thoughts. PAY Bilim Pharmaceuticals ensures that pay management is monitored based on legal records MANAGEMENT and within the legal framework. Nobody is working informally and there is no incidence of AND non-payment at the company. RETIREMENT In taking into account salary research, legal increases and economic indicators, our PerforPOLICY mance Management System conducts salary raising practices every year. Our company pays insurance premiums for its In taking into account salary research, legal employees as defined by the law within the increases and economic indicators, our Perforscope of legal practices, which are defined by mance Management System conducts salary the government for retirement. raising practices every year. Pay Raises by Years We have a fair and transparent wage policy at Bilim Pharmaceuticals, which is not The rates of increase in pay have exceeded the affected by age, gender or criteria that rate of inflation every year. The pay raises would constitute other discrimination. offered to our blue-collar employees’ wages are higher than those of white-collar employees to We pay attention to maintaining competitive make a positive difference to blue-collar worklevels of pay for our employees. While deterers’ pay. mining our salary policy, we have benefited from the salary research conducted by the Our grades within the scope of our Wage Manaccredited HAY Job Evaluation and Grading Sysagement System are not only based on salary, tematic as well as Tower Watson, Poyraz Conwhereas we also utilize fringe benefits other sultancy and Mercer Human Resources. than base salaries. Special fringe benefits have been defined for grade-based positions. 62 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 No separate wage and retirement policy is BENEFITS, RIGHTS AND applied to our employees, whether hired, still working or resigned, based on gender. Average Wage Paid by Our Company as a SUPPORT PRACTICES Proportion of the Minimum Wage Analyst 200.23% Worker 112.98% Support Practices Provided by Our Start-up Coverage Company to Its Employees Year Employee 183.29% Overtime Pay to All Employees Engineer 191.64% Legal Rights Fuel, Maternity, Death, Religious Holiday, Annual Mechanic 131.04% Leave and Matrimony Assistance to All Employees Transport Opportunities for Overtime Workers Technician 164.44% Vehicle Allocation for Company Top-Level Medical Representative 178.20% Management and Field Employees Shuttle Fleet Service for Employees Working at Average wage paid to newly hired Ayazağa, Çerkezköy and Gebze Since its foundation personnel as a proportion of the Bi-Annual Clothing Allowance for Field Employees minimum wage in representative Bonus System for Field Employees offices in foreign markets Quarterly Bonus for All Employees The average wage paid by Bilim PharmaceutiEvening Meal for Overtime Employees cals to newly hired personnel as a proportion of Lunch the minimum wage in the following countries where our representative offices are located is Per Diem Payment for Employees Working outside as follows. The Company is careful to promote Their Normal Province the employment of local people; all staff Individual Accident Insurance for All Employees 2001 employed in our representative offices are Non-Salary Allocation of GSM Line, Blackberry and Notebook from the local community. 2001/2005/2010 SupplemenComputers to Marketing Department/Field tary Advance Payment to Employees in Need 2003 Possibilities Average Wage Paid to Newly Country Hired Personnel as a ProporPatient Transportation to the Hospital In Case of 2004 tion of the Minimum Wage Emergency Moldova 556% Credit Card Allocation to Field Employees 2005 Morning Breakfast Delivery Service Albania 263% Private Health Insurance for All White-Collar Staff 2004/2006 Bosnia 111% Herzegovina Mothers’ Room Practice for Our Employees at the 2010 Head-quarters and at our Plants Georgia 130% Psychological Consultancy Unit 2005 Insurance Consultancy Unit 2010 Legal Consultancy Unit 2009 The Psychological Consultancy Unit began to provide services to field employees through online 2011 channels 63 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 When the balance between wages, supplementary rights and promotions is taken into account, there is no discrimination between our Talent Management female and male employees. There is not any difference between full-time and temporary Our systems operate as employees concerning supplementary rights. a guide or an advisor The fact that our establishment has never been in every step that our subject to penalties during inspections pertaining to job legislation which has been conpersonnel take in their ducted by legal institutions and agencies is a careers. direct result of the sensitivity we show in carrying out our commitment to legal requirements. At the Human Resources Department, we conOUR sider all our employees to be “skilled” and allow them to exploit career opportunities by preparing CONTRIBUTION individual development facilities and by establishing a participative working environment where TO THE they can reveal and develop their potential. DEVELOPMENT In 2000, we launched the Talent Management System in which our employees can reveal their OF OUR talents, recognize and improve their potentials and receive consultancy for their career targets. EMPLOYEES Our systems operate as a guide or an advisor in every step that our personnel take in their careers. Discov erin nt g th ale eT h tT al R ig en t the Fin Selection and Placement Development Center din Potential Evaluation g Collaborations with Universities Performance Evaluation Evaluation Center Human Resources Plan BUSINESS TARGETS BUSINESS RESULTS Gaining Loyalty Employee Brand LEADERSHIP Bilim Family Creation Efforts Participation and MODEL of t EFQM Management Authorization he Model Working t Talen Reputation Conditions and the T Management ale Environment Sustainability Efforts g Volunteering tin Backup Plans nt Platform Training and ac Development ttr A Programs Stars Team Career Paths and Plans g the Talent Imp rovin 64 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Performance Management higher performance by integrating the performance evaluation process into potential evaluWe appreciate our ation, education and career processes. employees through our We appreciate the value generated by our “instant honoring” and employees in business results and recognize this value through our “instant honoring” and “honoring/awarding” “honoring/awarding” systems in addition to systems. our Performance Evaluation System. Percentage of Employees Who The Performance Evaluation process is applied Received Performance Evaluation based on determined measurement and performance criteria to evaluate employees in a 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 fair, equal and timely fashion in order to ensure 99 88 87 97 97 that Bilim Pharmaceuticals reaches its strategic targets as its employees realize their own Percentage of Employees Who individual targets. The Performance EvaluaReceived Performance Evaluation tion process also paves the way for the compe(Breakdown by Gender) (2012) tencies and performance of employees to be improved in line with targets through the feedMale 79.5 back that they receive during the operating Female 17.5 period, as well as through continuous dialogue; objective information is collected for pay and Total 97 career-related decisions; and achievements and the performances of the employees are This value is the ratio of the number of employknown by others and rewarded. ees who received performance evaluation to the total number of employees. Because the In this system that addresses all of our employnumber of employees who received long-term ees, the aim is not only to evaluate, but to medical report or took maternity leave ensure their participation in business plans, to increased in 2011, the ratio of the number of motivate them for success and to undertake employees who received performance evaluaplanning to improve their potential. Talent is tion to the total number of employees fell sigfostered and supported to demonstrate a nificantly when compared to previous years. Percentage of Employees Who Received Performance Evaluation 100 99 97 97 90 88 87 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 65 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 360° Competency Evaluation System The “360° Competency Evaluation System” is Percentage of Employees Subject to applied to contribute to the personal developthe Career Development Evaluation* ment of our personnel who are in managerial 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 or higher positions by giving feedback on their strong sides and sides that are open to improveRealized 78% 82% 81% 75.1% 98.6% ment. * The percentage of employees who are subject to potential evaluation is the ratio of employees who This system is based on the principle of the are given feedback as a result of such practices in the development program and evaluation and evaluation of a manager’s basic and managedevelopment centre. rial competencies by a number of different criteria, such as their executive senior managers, their subordinates who directly report to them, Ratio of Employees Who Were Subject to their functional superiors and subordinates, as Career Evaluation in 2012 (By Gender) well as themselves. This study aims to contribFemale Male ute to the personal development of our mana94.2% 99.7% gerial personnel by giving feedback on their strengths as well as their areas that are open to Of 242 female employees and 972 male employimprovement. ees eligible for career evaluation, 228 female and 969 male employees received evaluation. Potential Evaluation As a result, the ratio of employees subject to In 2012, a total of 1,197 career evaluation in 2012 (by gender) was 94.2% for female employees and 99.7% for male employees received employees. career development Those employees on maternity leave, who evaluation. could not be evaluated as they had left their position before 2012 but later returned, and Our corporation has a young and highly qualithose who left their position before the evaluafied workforce. It is critical for our Talent Mantion process in 2012 are not included in the calagement to know and manage our employees’ culation. expectations and targets, to ensure that they set up targets in line with the corporations and Development Center to guide them in order to properly manage their targets. In order to discover the talent in our company and to reveal their potential, as the Human In 2012, a total of 1,197 employees received Resources department we act within the career development evaluation. Because there framework of two basic approaches. The first is no performance evaluation result for those is to set up systems that will reveal and build on employees who have not yet completed their the talent of our employees, while the second first year in the Company, they did not receive is to perform this action on the basis of our career development evaluation, even though establishment’s needs. The “Development they deserved to. We submitted informative Center” is one of the instruments we use to e-mails concerning Expertise-Requiring Prohelp our employees reach their personal career motion Criteria to 348 employees in this positargets, which they determine in line with their tion, offering them “Tailored” career developabilities and talents, and improve their talents ment evaluation. in parallel with the targets of our company. 66 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 We include those employees in the DevelopImproving the Talent ment Center who have contributed to the company’s performance with successful perforWe plan and apply modern learning tools, mance results and are evaluated according to methods and systems that are based on the results of potential evaluation, while we individual and organizational needs and set up our Stars Team that would provide addimeasure their results the most effective tional development opportunities for our comway. pany’s future targets. The driving force behind change and developStars Team is our talent pool, which covers 10% ment of organizations is undoubtedly their of our employees and which is constituted of human resources. The thing that makes those employees, who follow career opportuhumans so important for organizations is nities by participating in a challenging developundoubtedly their ability to learn. Learning is ment program, in addition to standard develthe most important step in forming and development programs. Employees, who oping human behaviors. When defining our successfully complete their development on training and development targets based on the the Stars Team, are directed to the “Appointabove mentioned mentality, we aim to create ment Evaluation Center” when any career an employee profile, which would provide the opportunity arises. organization structure in line with our company’s requirements, in other words its mission, vision, values, strategic plan and primary business targets. Potential Evaluation Process In order to realize our corporation’s vision, we see creation of a learning organization as the Receiving basic element of strategic HR management. the Career For this purpose, we provide all of our employExpectations of ees with new learning methods and various Employees learning tools at our platform, BilimK@mpüs. Fully compliant with the latest e-learning standards in the world, BilimK@mpüs’s e-learning and management platform allows monitoring of classroom trainings and various Feedback development tools. Thanks to the methods from Potential and new technologies it makes use of, the platEmployee’s Evaluation form eliminates time and place restrictions. Manager Meeting Regarding Their Targets “We established a special and individual development platform for each of our employees.” Each of our employees has a special development platform at BilimK@mpüs. They can access the standard development programs and individual development tools that they require for their career development and business targets. 67 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 BilimK@mpüs Information grows as it is shared… The training portal can be viewed through the visitor link on the following website: www.bilimkampus.net İd il De ni zc ile r ENO CTA BilimK@mpüs is a model project which is integrated into training and personal development activities as part of strategic human resources management and has been incorporating all innovations in the field of training technologies since 2011. The project contributes greatly to our efforts to ensure the technical and professional development of our employees. Moreover, we invest in the professional development of employees, a primary field of investment for us. It also gives us an excellent opportunity to demonstrate the importance we attach to the motivation of our employees through personal development and the training offered. There are a wide range of training With “Career Paths”, our employees learn which programs on 300 different topics in the system. positions they can aim for in parallel with their In addition, a variety of visuals, articles and existing qualities and competencies, and how they presentations are shared through the system as additional personal development materials. can apply for these positions in accordance with Training programs are only offered through the career criteria. Our employees already receive system in English in order to improve the level of feedback during the Performance and Potential employees’ English. The offering of various Evaluation processes on their developed and undepersonal development training programs in veloped competencies, so they can achieve their English also contributes greatly to employees’ career goals. They may then improve their potenforeign language skills. tial by making use of our learning platform in the areas they want to improve. BilimK@mpüs plays a key role among Turkish pharmaceutical companies in the creation of organizational memory by implementing the first social learning and social information sharing model. It is, furthermore, one of the first projects in Turkey in terms of uninterrupted information gathering to provide access to such information through mobile devices as well. Thanks to its unique learning instruments, BilimK@mpüs is an extensive learning and information library. In this context, we will continue to integrate new products and solutions into BilimK@mpüs in line with technological innovations. In brief, BilimK@ mpüs is a leading project in Turkey which In 2012, a total of 66 online training programs includes all innovations with respect to were prepared for the Company. The number training and personal development and of such programs increases with each passing attaches maximum priority to the day. development of employees. 68 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 We evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of Bilimk@mpüs’… Each year we conduct a satisfaction survey to measure the benefits that Bilimk@mpüs provides to our employees. Through the survey, we measure the benefits of our learning management system and its contriburk Kü rş at Ac ar tü or tions to the training programs and personal developor Sa les Tr ain in g Su pe r vis Se ni ment, evaluate suggestions and further improve the system accordingly. Concepts such as technology, speed, competition, cost-efficiency and, in particular, productivity have become the most important elements of today’s business world. All companies ask their employees to work more efficiently and demonstrate their creativity. Training is one of the most prominent and critical success factors in terms of productivity. It is also one of the primary issues that Bilim Pharmaceuticals never gives up on. Bilim Pharmaceuticals aims to maximize both its productivity and its employees’ efficiency by strengthening their competencies during in-house training sessions and through the Internet. Sharing our corporate knowledge and I, as an educator, make use of these possibilities offered expertise with related employees through by Bilim Pharmaceutical at every opportunity, in order to create resources for the training programs which I online training… prepare. In particular, BilimK@mpüs has always been a learning instrument for the lecturers, as well as a way Each year we prepare a number of in-house online training to offer training to employees. BilimK@mpüs was programs on such topics as medical information, products, extremely beneficial when it came to creating quality management systems and basic processes and notifiefficient and memorable training programs prepared cations, etc and share information on these topics with all by instructors. Our company provides notebook related employees. Thus, we remove time and place related computers to all of our field employees, allowing restrictions and spread information more rapidly. employees to participate in appropriate training programs through the Internet. This ensures it is We create an organizational culture that possible to not only organize training programs, but learns through social learning. also measure the results of these training programs through the testing system. As a result of the studies performed on the human brain in As Sales Training Administrators, we have been the last decade, it is known that humans can learn better offering systematic training for a decade under via the learning methods they prefer. This introduces the PHASE 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 to our colleagues working in necessity to diversify learning tools according to learning the field. We plan to shorten the duration of field training sessions by 1 day by informing our Medical preference. At BilimK@mpüs, a number of tools and methRepresentatives (TTS) of these training sessions in ods can be simultaneously used during learning & training advance through BilimK@mpüs. This will save time programs. Social learning tools are among them... for our Medical Representatives and lower training-related costs to more economic levels. Our aim is to provide specialization through schools and academies. Thanks to BilimK@mpüs, employees may gain access to these training programs whenever they With its audio and visual contents, its library that makes want, and indeed have already benefited from a data sharing easier, its specially designed in-class developnumber of programs in a very short time. They may download the training programs to their ment programs, and its measuring-evaluation systems, Bilcomputers and watch them over again if they imk@ampüs aims to offer opportunities to our employees need to. and stakeholders for specialization through five different academies. 69 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Our target is to make learning a habit. 93% of our employees actively use this system that is open to all of our employees. The minimum rate of successfully completing the BilimK@ mpüs practices is determined as 80% among the employee performance targets for 2012. This way we aim to increase the ratio of our employees who actively use this system to 100%.E-learning is applied at a rate varying between 50-80% per employee. Communication is very important at BilimK@mpüs! BilimK@mpüs allows the executive senior manager to be informed of çin Ön el Dr. Nu rg ül Ak ec t every stage of learning and the status of his employee’s progress. ec ial ist & Pr oj Fo rm ul at io n Sp g Gu id e Tr ain in Moreover, senior managers are informed through general reports, Co or di na to r & which are automatically produced by the system. Some time after I joined the Bilim Pharmaceuticals family, I began to It is important that participants and their senior managers are active work as a training guide in and take responsibility throughout all stages of learning and developaddition to my current duty as the Project Coordinator. As someone ment programs. All the learning and development behaviour of paractively involved in the training ticipants, from requesting to learning and test results, are reported programs, I can say without over the system. hesitation that Bilim Pharmaceuticals, as its title proposes, is a company that attaches importance to science (bilim) and the development of Award from people, and continuously keeps “IT Stars abreast of technology. As a e-Transformation” dynamic company continuously Contest to renewing itself, it offers its employees the chance to train Bilimk@mpüs themselves at any desired time through BilimK@mpüs. The 6th Istanbul Informatics BilimK@mpüs is a platform Congress was held by the Informatics Association of offering an extremely extensive range of content… It Turkey (TBD) at Bahçeşehir University on November provides easy access to various 7th-8th , 2012. In the ‘Bilişimin Yıldızları E-Dönüşüm’ training programs, articles, (Informatics (IT) Stars e-Transformation) Contest held as book summaries, training content and many more part of the congress, Bilim Pharmaceuticals Online informative documents. It is Training Platform, Bilimk@mpüs, was deemed worthy of also possible for employees to the third price in the “E-Learning” category. receive certificates online through e-training programs. At the contest, where more than 30 awards are given in 11 “If your plan is for 1 year, plant separate categories including e-trade, e-mobile, e-services rice. If your plan is for 10 years, plant trees. If your plan and e-learning, Turkey’s IT Stars were evaluated in 3 is for 100 years, educate stages by more than 25 jury members who are specialists children”, says Huang Che. in their fields. In the final stage, the top 3 stars were We make plans for 100 years at Bilim Pharmaceuticals… determined by public voting. 70 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Employee Training Employee Training in 2012 (Breakdown by White Collar / Blue Collar) Occupational Development Training (General) (Employee/Hour) such programs as well as e-training and other White Collar 55.5 learning materials. We have ensured that all employees benefit from training and personal Blue Collar 7.88 development activities with no increase in the Personal Development Trainings (General) training budget. (Employee/Hour) White Collar 20.48 The training indicator was completely revised in order to better analyze the training process. Blue Collar 1.79 Total Quality Trainings (Employee/Hour) 2010 2011 2012 Employee/ Employee/ Employee/ White Collar 14.7 Hour Hour Hour Blue Collar 166.1 Occupational development train5.06 8.42 47.9 Occupational Health and Safety Trainings (General) ing (General) (Employee Hours) (Employee/Hour) Male 13.5 10.7 48.0 White Collar 6.20 Female 11 10 47.3 Blue Collar 33.28 Personal development training Total Number of Employees 37.2 36.8 17.4 (General) (Employee Hours) White Collar 1678 Male 27 38.4 16.0 Blue Collar 331 Female 35.2 30 20.4 Total quality trainings 8.36 9.47 39.7 An employee’s potential is associated with their (Employee Hours) learning speed and ability to reflect what he or Male 6.84 8.86 40.4 she learns in their job and job results. Within the scope of the principle of equality of opportunity, Female 10.07 12 37.0 we allow those employees who benefit from the learning environment we offer and who become Occupational Health and Safety training (General) 2.03 3.92 10.7 prominent with their achievements to join the (Employee Hours) Stars Team, where they are provided additional development opportunities. Male 1.95 3.79 10.3 Female 2.37 4.4 12.1 Development programs, which are designed and customized according to the employee’s career targets, current status and profile level, are created by professional training companies Breakdown of Employee Hours Target Realized and their consultants based on the results of Occupational development training (General) 50 47.88 the Development Centre. (Employee Hours) Personal development training (General) In 2012, some important notifications were 20 17.40 (Employee Hours) carried out through e-training. Technically, a Leadership training (General) (Employee Hours) 15 8.18 total of 10 instructors are currently developing e-training programs. The number of employee Total Quality Systems Training (General) (Employee 50 49.99 hours was increased in 2012 with the aid of Hours) 71 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 BI’L Leadership Model We organize the Leadership Summit every year, which we see as an important leadership development instrument and one that inspires our employees to reveal their leadership skills. We think that leadership is the responsibility of 1. I am the Leader of Myself! all of us for sustainable success and a stronger company. Because we believe that it is extremely important for an individual to first of all manage their own “Leadership is in our spirit.” attitude and behavior in order to be a leader. It has become impossible for companies to 2. I am the Leader of My Business! reach sustainable success without a strong leadership strategy. In order to reach our vision Because we believe that those who do their busiby realizing our mission, we attach great ness well are as important as the leaders who importance to the maximum use of our leadermanage the team. ship capability. 3. I am the Leader of My Team! We have implemented the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Leadership Model (BI’L Model) for a Because we believe that we can be successful stronger leadership strategy and to make sure only by bringing together our employees who are that all of our leaders act with a common leadunder our managerial responsibility under joint ership understanding and approach targets. This strong practice called the “BI’L Leadership By taking Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ values as a basis Model” aims to: in all of their activities and serving as a model for our employees, our leaders keep our corporate • Reveal a visionary, inspiring and holistic culture alive and ensure that it adopted by everyleadership model; one in our Company. • Further support our employees’ leadership skills; and In this context, we organize the Leadership Sum• Discover and develop the leaders among mit every year, which we see as an important us. leadership development instrument and one that inspires our employees to reveal their leadership The BI’L Model is classified into 3 categories, skills. A total of 350 managers, directors and adding strength to our employees: administrators participate in these summits. 72 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Stars Team Development Program Through our Talent Development Programs on the Stars Team, we offer our employees one of the target opportunities that they can benefit from throughout their entire career development process. In these programs, participants receive personal development consultancy, make intensive use of development tools such as Üm it Ce yla n em be r of SAYA Gr ou p, M s simulations, workshops and case studies in addition to training ac tiv e Bo ar d of Di re ct or Ph ar m sessions, prepare development-action plans in cooperation with The Marketing Trainee their administrators, manage social responsibility projects and (MT) Development Programme has not present the results of the projects that they manage to the career yet been put into practice by all board at the end of the program. companies in the pharmaceutical industry. Based on my sectoral observations, I would say that the It is much easier for managers to delegate jobs to the employees majority of those companies that have under by status and to manage the results than it would be to been implementing this program have manage a voluntary project. It requires leadership skills to connot yet achieved the desired level of vince and motivate people to undertake a different and challengsuccess. ing social responsibility project that you determine. to receive people’s support, to make them work for such purpose, and to When it comes to planning and make sure that they continue making voluntary contributions by implementation, the Bilim keeping their energy and motivation level high, allow managers Pharmaceuticals Stars Team MT to lead employees to perform such efforts by taking responsibility Development Programme stands out in the sector as the best development and by allocating extra time outside working hours. programme that I have ever seen. Acting upon this idea, those of our employees who are candidates I think the most important factor for first level managing positions have the opportunity to develop contributing to this achievement is themselves by carrying out voluntary projects throughwith the the fact that the topic is dealt with leadership skills that they gain during trainings. In these projects, in an extremely serious and multi-directional way and everyone they voluntarily develop a social responsibility project, create from the Human Resources their teams from voluntary employees and work together to Department to Product Managers, reach the determined targets. Candidates for mid-level managBusiness Unit Managers to the ing positions, on the other hand, work in a camp where they Deputy CEO and even the CEO ensure that their disabled guests have the best vacation of their have contributed personally to the lives. This way, they can overcome the obstacles inside themprogramme. selves. As a result of the supportive physical conditions provided for the training programs and thanks to the highly competent instructors who are so committed to the project, Bilim Pharmaceuticals was always able to raise new and bright MTs in each development program. 73 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 en Gö rk em De m irt Ph ar m ac eu tic als Ex po rt Bi lim M an ag er I joined Bilim Pharmaceuticals in 2001 as an employee in the Export Department. During my career journey in the Company, I was promoted as an Export Specialist, Business Development Administrator and finally as an Export Manager. During my 11 years at Bilim Each employee’s potential is related to their learning speed and Pharmaceuticals, I had the their ability to reflect what they learn to their business and busichance to observe important ness results. Based on the principle of equality of opportunity, we changes. I think one of the offer additional development opportunities to employees factors that made such changes through the Stars Team program, which is in addition to the contribute to the achievements learning environment that we provide and which helps them of our company is the successful became prominent with their potential and achievements implementation of the Career Management Systematics, The development programs which we have diversified according which was developed to enable efficient and effective use of to the professional levels and targets of our employees and rated human resources – our most according to employee profiles are prepared in cooperation with important asset. The following professional training companies and consultants based on the factors contribute to the results obtained from the Development Center. creation of environment of trust among employees: The Maroon Group defined under the “Stars Team” is an “Occupaemployees know their career tional Expertise Program” which was created in 2012 to improve paths since their first day in the functional competencies of our employees whose positions business; their career fit the key employee profile. Our target is to improve the profesexpectations are evaluated in sional and technical expertise of our employees selected to the Potential Evaluation group. Meetings; and their competencies are increased through the Stars Team practice Finally, I think that our colleagues who play the most important role in our Career Management Systematics that we have been applying at Bilim Pharmaceuticals; ‘We cannot direct the wind, but we can adjust the sails’. 74 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Leadership Development Program Today those companies that do not have a strong leadership strategy cannot be successful in a sustainable manner. Under these circumstances, we attach considleadership skills and inspire our administrators erable importance to the use of our leadership on leadership within the scope of the Leaderskills at the maximum level in order to reach ship Development Program through annually our vision by realizing Bilim Pharmaecuticals’ held Leadership Summits. mission. Within the framework of “Talent ManageOur administrators’ primary target is to disment”, our Company has adopted the internal cover and develop talent and gain their loyalty. promotion approach, raising its own leaders in the Leadership Development Platform through We apply internationally-recognized leadervarious development plans. By conducting the ship development programs in our Company Leadership Development Program, that is open and monitor our leaders’ performance in this to all employees who meet the criteria, we area in order to ensure that they adopt Talent raise potential management candidates in line Management. We develop our employees’ with the principle of equality of opportunity. Number of Employees Who Participated in the Leadership Development Program 140 120 124 126* 118 117 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 *Female: 23 Male: 103 75 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Coaching System Our target is to increase the ratio of employees who participate in the “Stars Team” and benefit The “In-House Coaching System”, which is from our Talent Management Programs. To applied by many successful organizations reach this target, we enhanced the efficiency throughout the world, is one of the strongest of the practice and raised the number of related instruments applied for transferring of knowldevelopment programs, enabling more comedge, experience and culture within a company petent employees to be involved in the Talent from one generation to another by use of inDevelopment Program over the years. house resources and thus to establish a “learning” organization structure. At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, the “In-House Coaching System” was launched in December 2005, taking its place in our history as one of our most successful practices. Our “In-House Coaching” system, which initially began with 19 mentees and 13 mentors within the framework of the first pilot practice, continued in a growing manner Ba lta ş Pr of. Dr. Ac ar aş Yö ne tim , and reached 26 mentors and 26 mentees, which Ba lta ş-B alt iti m , Da nı şm an lık Lt d. Şt i. were identified in line with quotas. Eğ The purpose of Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ Leadership Because of the system review in 2012 and due to Development Project is beyond reasons such as the examination of mentees “raising the administrators of the who have recently joined the system, the profuture”, a concept supported with gram continued with the participation of 23 similar practices in many mentors in 2012 and will continue in 2013 with organizations. In addition to the selection of new mentees. teaching young administrators how to perform their jobs and improve their performance, this Support for Graduate Study project essentially reminds them Number of Employees Supported for Graduate Study* that they have a responsibility to 50 society. This way, young administrators who are 45 preparing for the future have the 46** chance to learn the meaning of 40 living with and managing 38 values, and respecting the 35 principle that they will live a meaningful and valuable life if 30 31 they work for a purpose that 29 goes beyond themselves. 25 As it is effectively adopted by 20 20 employees in Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ daily routine 15 practices, this approach also 10 allows us to raise sound citizens for our world who not 5 only aim to be successful in their jobs, but also feel 0 responsible to give back what 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 they get from the *Data in this table is cumulative. **Female: 20, Male: 26 community. 76 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Our Company supports its employees for Graduate study in order to ensure the professional and personal development of employees and to offer them the opportunity to develop their careers. In order to increase the number of employees In order to ensure that our employees develop applying to study for a graduate degree or a emotional loyalty to our corporation, we doctorate, our Company allows its employees establish and manage systems in 4 different to take leave from their working hours during areas: individual, job/role-experience, working the week and also offers scholarship support to environment and corporate structure.In the those employees in the “Talent Pool”. job/role-experience area, we aim to properly identify our employees’ expectations and to Theses and reports prepared by supported ensure they are satisfied with what they are employees are shared with other related doing. We receive their business development employees through the Information Sharing ideas, authorize them and give them the Platform on our training portal, Bilimk@mpüs. opportunity for personal development, and appreciate their achievements through our Gaining Loyalty of the Talent honouring and awarding systems. In the working environment area, we aim to model the We further develop and differentiate our speleadership style expected by our employees cial practices every year which we have created and to maintain their business-private life balin line with our employees’ expectations so ance. In the corporate structure area, we aimed that they feel safe, adopt our corporate targets to draw talents to our corporation by creating and values, show efforts to be a part of the coran employee brand through excellent manageporation, and feel that they are members of a ment, sustainability, corporate image and repstrong family. utation activities. Our Employee Branding Practices Individual Job/ Role and Experiencing Working Environment Corporate Culture Bilim Family Learning & Development Bİ’L Leadership Model Our Principles Opportunities Bilim Children’s World Wages and Benefits R&D Performance Evaluation System Systematics Bilim Pharmaceuticals Technological Community Volunteers Talent Management System Flexible Working Model Infrasructure Management of Differences Potential Evaluation System Department Motivation EFQM Excellence Model Practices Psychological Consultancy Projects and Teamwork Sustainability Efforts Unit Social Facilities in all facilities Creative Idea Platform Reputation (Fitness Centre, Library, Bilim Legal Consultancy Unit Management Model Innovation Tours – Brainstorming Café, Café Mola, Cafe Beta Insurance Consultancy Unit Session Internet Room, dry cleaning Ethical Management Social and Sports Activities service) Instant Honouring Systematic Teams Recognition, Appreciation and Clubs Awarding Systematics Master and Doctorate Degree Application Systematic 77 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 BilimAilem (Bilim Family) and Bilim Children’s World We have been practicing BilimAilem as a project that is in line with our HR Policy and covers both employees and their families. The project aims to ensure our employees get acquainted with the families of each other and to contribute to personal and social development of our employees’ families, since 2005. We plan the projects, BilimAilem and Bilim Çocuk Dünyası (Bilim Children’s World), in parallel with our 3-year strategic plans and within the framework of the annual HR plan. Accordingly, we prepare the budgets for these projects, while keeping view of the performance of the projects as a factor that affects our corporate success. 78 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Sample Activities for Sample Activities for Bilimailem The Bilim Children’s World (Bilim Family) Painting Contest BilimAilem Magazine Chocolate Course Dalin Baby Care Basket & Baby Care Book Distribution Creative Drama Course Concert & Playhouse Organizations 2006 Mother’s Day, Father’s Day Celebrations General Manager Promotion Celebrations Communication within the family Trainings Stationery Campaign BilimAilem Magazine Visit to the Toy Museum Dalin Baby Care Basket & Baby Care Book Distribution Space Camp Welcome to Summer Picnic 2007 Çekül Birthday Card Practice General Manager Promotion Celebrations Mother’s Day, Father’s Day Celebrations Communication within the family Trainings April 23rd Festival BilimAilem Magazine Book & DVD Sending to Houses Dalin Baby Care Basket & Baby Care Book Distribution National Geographic Kids Subscription Photography Course Painting Contest Birth Photographer 2008 “Bilim’s Tastes” Cookbook Çekül Birthday Card Practice Mother’s Day, Father’s Day Celebrations General Manager Promotion Celebrations Communication within the family Trainings Ping-Pong Summer School BilimAilem Magazine Çekül Birthday Card Practice Dalin Baby Care Basket & Baby Care Book Distribution Wooden Toy Painting Workshop with Grandfather Photograph Exhibition Theo Communication within the family Trainings 2009 Boyner Discount Card Implementation Çekül Birthday Card Practice Mother’s Day, Father’s Day Celebrations General Manager Promotion Celebrations Cental Istanbul Workshops BilimAilem Magazine Bugs Bunny Basket Show Dalin Baby Care Basket & Baby Care Book Distribution Bilim Children’s World Semester Activities Release Concert and theatre organisations 2010 Communication within the family Trainings Mother’s Day, Father’s Day Celebrations Çekül Birthday Card Practice General Manager Promotion Celebrations Dolphinarium Trip BilimAilem Magazine Stationery Set Delivery Dalin Baby Care Basket & Baby Care Book Distribution Bulletin on Semester Activities March 8th World Women’s Day Delivery of Magazines, National Geographic Kids and Ağaçlar Konuşuyor (Trees Are Talking) Photograph Exhibition Winnie the Pooh Mother’s Day, Father’s Day Celebrations Book Delivery Communication within the family Trainings 2011 DVD Delivery BilimAilem Gebze Trips Discount Campaign for Tuluhan Uğurlu Concert Ticket Drawing for Saphire-Tuluhan Uğurlu Concert Ticket Drawing for the Piano Recital Çekül Birthday Card Practice General Manager Promotion Celebrations “Flight to the Heights with Pegasus” Exhibition March 8th World Women’s Day Distribution of Stationery Sets Mother’s Day – Father’s Day Celebrations Distribution of Toothbrushes Chocolate-Making Shop Semester Activities Release Discount Campaigns April 23rd Activities Release Discount Campaign for Valentine’s Day Concert 2012 Delivery of Magazines: “National Geographic Kids” Concert Ticket Draw and “Prenses/Arabalar” Delivery of Gift Baskets for Babies & Delivery of Baby Care Books Book Delivery CEO Promotion Celebrations DVD Delivery Çekül Birthday Card Practice 79 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Ad em Ya vu z eu tic als Bi lim Ph ar m ac tio n Fo re m an Pr od uc I have been working for Bilim Pharmaceuticals since 1993. I am a Production Foreman in the production department. I am extremely proud to have worked with the Bilim Pharmaceuticals family for 20 years and to continue working as a part of this family. During this period of time, I have witnessed at close hand the continuous transformation process that the Bilim Family has been through. As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we are involved in a great number of events; I think that it is beautiful to see such events address both Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ employees and the community. To mention the employee-oriented events held by Bilim Family, I think that the following events allow employees to establish stronger links with each other, while also strengthening and perpetuating employees’ motivation in their working lives: dinner organizations, picnics and boat trips, sports activities such as bowling and football matches, birthdays, and events held to remember and celebrate special days like Mother’s Day and Father’s Day. In addition, we at Bilim Family carry out sustainable projects to cover future generations’ needs and to contribute to their development, as well as to create a more sustainable world. The following projects represent only a handful of our activities aimed at protecting the environment: planting special saplings on birthdays, collecting acorns from the Fatih forest in cooperation with TEMA (Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion, for Forestation and the Protection of Natural Habitats) and planting these acorns as saplings to recover them back to the nature, as well as environmental cleaning activities. Other examples of our activities in the area of education are reading, teaching how to use a toothbrush and delivery of stationery items and DVDs in order to contribute to the development of students; training seminars aimed at facilitating career control and development for university students; and enabling participation in the Space Camp Turkey to educate students in the areas of science and technology and to support their personal development. I believe that as the Bilim Family presses forward with such successful efforts, it will win the hearts of employees and their families more than ever before. 80 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 SOSAK We Socialize with our Social and Sports Activities Club (SOSAK) As a platform established with the voluntary Bilim Pharmaceuticals participation of our employees working in difCommunity Volunteers ferent departments within our company, SOSAK organizes activities in line with the Bilim Pharmaceuticals plans prepared at the beginning of every year. Community Volunteers has In order to strengthen our communication with our employees and to create an environsucceeded in reaching more ment of social interaction between employees, than 45,000 children and in 2003 SOSAK began to systematically organize the social and sports activities which are young people through included in SOSAK’s activity programs. 31,281 hours of voluntary Through these activities, we help our employwork within the scope of ees find the balance between business and private life and set up social events which bring 305 activities in 12 our employees together. SOSAK teams decide on the activities that they would perform different projects. throughout the year. They determine their We took the responsibility to make life activities and the awards to be given in line more meaningful and volunteered as with their own decisions within a general private sector employees to make our budget approved by the General Directorate. world a more livable place in the future. A SOSAK announcement is published (in the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers form of e-mails) to inform all of our employees (BPCV) was established with the support of Bilim on cultural, art and sports activities to be Pharmaceuticals in 2005 by voluntary employees organized by SOSAK in and outside the comin order “to be a part of the solution” in social probpany and to ensure their participation in such lems based on the fundamental idea that volunactivities. Every year SOSAK traditionally teering is one of the most important issues which organizes bowling, football, ping pong, bilneeds to be improved upon for the development liards, backgammon tournaments as sports and growth of the community. Comprised of volunactivities and concert organizations for tary employees who share their individual compeemployees and their families, happy hour tencies, intellectual knowledge, time, effort and events and theater ticket draw as social activiexperience with those in need, BPCV, with a total ties. Moreover, a New Year’s cocktail is organof 1,112 members, was operating in 11 cities throughized by SOSAK teams every year. out Turkey with 20 different teams as of 2012. As Bilim Pharmaceuticals employees, we know that social responsibility transforms into a corporate living value only if it becomes a part of the corporate culture and is kept alive in collaborations and by all stakeholders. Such transformation is possible only if our employees improve their social sensitivity on a platform of volunteering and popularize volunteering among the community. 81 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers has succeeded in reaching more than 45,000 Management’s Commitment children and young people through 31,281 hours of voluntary work within the scope of 305 The Chairman of the Board of Directors, the CEO activities in 12 different projects. This achieve(General Manager) and the senior management ment is also a result of cooperation between have offered their guarantee to support the BPCV and contributions of a total of 116 institutions, platform through the following: including many NGOs, universities, local • Spending 2 hours a week from working hours administrations like municipalities and goverfor BPCV activities norships, and various public institutions like • Logistics support elementary schools. • Budget In such 12 projects, collaborations are entirely Generalizing Volunteering and Setting based on volunteering while social contribuan Example tions are the only focus. All of our partners support the projects with their competencies in Members of our senior management and many of their primary fields of activity; they are not our administrators voluntarily work for various allowed to make any substantial contributions NGOs, including the Corporate Volunteer Associato the projects. tion, PERYON (People Management Association of Turkey), TEMA (Turkish Foundation for Combating BPCV is a bridge between the private sector, Soil Erosion, for Forestation and the Protection of our employees, NGOs and the community. We Natural Habitats), Ethics and Reputation Society, explain in detail our volunteering approach to etc. Moreover, our General Manager is the chairman all of our partners that are involved in our proof the board of directors of the Corporate Volunteer jects, enabling them to adopt our point of view. Association. It is the primary target of our manageAs a result of this effort, even companies/peoment staff, in particular, to pioneer and become a ple who are competitors in their sectors come role model in the area of volunteering in Turkey. side by side in our projects, creating synergies to contribute to the community by joining their Considered as the best practice by 41 objective forces with no commercial expectations. institutions since the day it was founded, BPCV has been held subject to benchmark studies. MoreoA great potential in terms of social transformaver, our Project leaders and BPCV Coordinators voltion, our volunteers provide volunteer manuntarily provided “Volunteer Management” trainagement trainings to and perform benchmark ing to a total of 51 organizations, including studies for Turkey’s 92 leading companies and international institutions. extend their help to all social segments in need, including university students, educators, eleAll projects in the platform are managed according mentary school pupils and the disabled. to BPCV’s mission and principles. 2008 2009 2009 2010 2011 2011 2012 PERYÖN ÖSGD KSSD CSR Europe ÖSGD ÖSGD KSSD (People (Corporate (Corporate Turkish (Corporate (Corporate Marketplace Management Volunteers Social Representative Volunteers Volunteers Stakeholder Association of Association) Responsibility Association) – Association) – winner Turkey) – The Most Association) – Most SuccessMost Creative Special Award Successful Marketplace ful Volunteer Project Voluntary Winner of (Kadir (My Career is in Program Turkey Gökbakan) My Hands) Award 82 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY EFFICIENCY TEAMWORK BPCV’s Mission: “To ensure that our employees, our families and VOLUNTEERING our stakeholders share their knowledge, time, talents, resources and experiences with an understanding on social responsibility and with a voluntary approach for the benefit of individuals, who are not members of our famiSHARING PLANNING lies, without expecting anything in return, in order to become a part of the solution...” LEADERSHIP Projects that do not fundamentally fit this definition are not included in the platform. As the second criterion, BPCV considers how strongly The platform is directed by an autonomous mana project complies with the following princiagement team comprised of employees from Bilim ples. Pharmaceuticals. The BPCV Board, which comprises of 20 team leaders and 12 project managers, When determining the projects to be impleevaluates the projects submitted by employees or mented by the platform, their compliance with NGOs and implements those which it approves of. BPCV’s volunteering principles is evaluated. We revise and update the way of work and the Our primary principles are as follows; the most structure of our supreme board in annually held important source of the project is its volunboard (BPCV Board) meetings based on the knowlteers (and the project cannot advance if volunedge and experience we obtain from projects and teers’ efforts, knowledge, talents and time are NGOs. The most important duty of our board is to removed); the project is available for impledetermine the scope of projects to be implemented mentation based on the principle of volunteerand audit them for compliance with our principles. ing; the projects contain teamwork, improve Projects submitted to the board are evaluated by volunteers’ leadership skills, and focus on effecBilim Pharmaceuticals Delegates (including the tive and measurable results; the project is susGeneral Manager). Sponsorship approval for protainable and planned in detail and creates an jects that require a budget and logistics support environment of sharing and cooperation. are also given by delegates. Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers Organization Scheme Project Country Leaders General Secretary Bilim Fellows Bilim Fellows at Bilim Fellows in Bilim Fellows Ecoscientist Save a Life My Carreer is Remove the Remove the İpek Kul at School and the Theatre Pursuit of Seeds Curious Books, in My Hands Obstacles, Obstacles, Environmentalist Creative Reading Alternative Camp Audiovisual Book Penguins Kadir Selin İşcen Gözde Birce Pirinç Ayşegül Feray Ataç Evren İpek Kul Dilek Mete Gökbakan Özkamer Tekin Duman Maslak İstanbul Ankara Erzurum Denizli Antalya Çerkezköy Bursa Trabzon Erhan Baş Duygu Çakar Ali İlker Elçi Ozan Canyurt Fuat Kaçak Tamer Akbulat Aytaç Akyol Hülya Kara Atakan Çakar Suat Bayraktar Hüseyin Çopur Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Gebze Kadıköy İzmir Samsun Adana Konya Stars Team Van Diyarbakır Members Delegates Fahri Aykut Bora Pelin Şafak Cem Eyüboğlu Erhan Senger Samsunluİbrahim Obaz İlhan Yurt Dilek Mete Muhammet Ali Arda Geçer oğlu Sevenyener Gündüz Esra Çakır 83 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Number of Activities that were carried out by our volunteers: 305 Number of Activities 70 70 70 60 64 60 56 57 50 50 47 40 40 40 30 20 20 15 15 17 18 10 8 8 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Target Achieved Number of Projects 12 12 12 12 11 10 9 8 8 8 7 7 7 7 6 4 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Target Achieved Our employees have contributed 2012 Number of by carrying out Members: 31.281 1112 hours of voluntary 2012 Number of Projects: activities. 12 84 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Number of People Reached 14000 12000 13793 12500 12500 10000 12000 10000 8000 11103 8074 6000 4000 5362 2000 2500 2000 2100 3500 102 2056 2140 3355 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Target Achieved Volunteers from other We touched the organizations that contribute lives of through collaborations are also 45,985 children and added to these numbers. As youngsters. such, a significant professional force is transferred to the community through maximum motivation and self-sacrifice. Number of Active Volunteers 1200 1100 1000 1051 1112 1100 800 700 800 748 600 653 400 450 300 200 200 333 7 126 206 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Target Achieved 85 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Our company was ranked in 37 th place of the “50 Most Popular Companies”, which is determined according to the preferences of university students. This was due to a number of factors, including the increased popularity of the projects managed by our volunteering platform, particularly among university and elementary school students, the importance which we attach to volunteering projects that are conducted without any corporate support, and the impact of our project, “My Career Is In My Hands”. In addition, we carry out research studies on a regular basis to measure our reputation and perception among our stakeholders. In these studies, we observe that the efforts of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers platform also provides a positive contributions to Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ corporate reputation. Based on our approach which is founded on stakeholder satisfaction, we undertake a research study every two years in order to gauge our corporate reputation in the community, and see how we are perceived by the community. We received a score of 91.83% in the “contributions to the community” sub-category in 2004, but our score rose to 94.62% as a result of the activities carried out by Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers since 2005. Moreover, the influence of the BPCV platform is also observed in the in-house Employee Satisfaction Surveys. Because projects are conducted by voluntary human resources, it is very difficult to measure the financial dimension of such projects. However, it is possible to measure and digitalize the time periods allocated by competent employees – who are encouraged by Bilim Pharmaceuticals to serve the community – from their working hours to social responsibility activities. 86 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Fe ra y At aç ut ica ls Hu ma n Bi lim Ph ar mace rt, “A lte rn at if Ka mp” Re so ur ce s Ex pe ad er mp) Pr oje ct Le (A lte rn at ive Ca I joined the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers in 2009. I also wanted to be a part of the solution when I saw that a number of projects were simultaneously and successfully implemented to contribute to various segments of the community. As an active BPCV volunteer, I participated in the “Remove the Barriers” Alternative Camp Project in 2010 and the “My Career Is In My Hands” project in 2011, Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers and Our which helped me establish very strong Personal Development Congress, “My Career Is In My and rewarding relationships with Hands”, Receive Corporate Responsibility Awards young people. We were greatly touched when one of the students told The event, “KSS Çözümleri Pazaryeri” (CRS Solutions Marketplace), us that his participation in the organized by the Corporate Social Responsibility Association of Turkey congress and his internship in the (TKSSD), was held at the Kadir Has University on December 21st, 2012, as Company had been such a help for him in finding a job. It impresses me in the previous year. The theme of this year’s event was: “Enterprises greatly to see instantly and in place 2023: Corporate Social Responsibility at the 100th Anniversary of the how we contribute to the community Republic”. through this special project that supports mutual development. Turkey’s top 500 companies were evaluated in terms of how they had basically shaped their social responsibility practices with respect to the Being a BPCV volunteer has “Integration of CSR Practices into Business Processes” during the 2011contributed significantly towards 2012 period. As a result of this evaluation, the CSR practices of 18 compahelping me discover and make use of nies from Turkey were deemed worthy for exhibition in the “CSR Marketmy personal abilities. I recognize that my organizational skills have place 2012” and evaluated for a possible award. These companies were further improved and that I can invited to the Marketplace. produce solutions instantly. Moreover, I learned by experience At the Marketplace, where the most important projects of Turkey’s leadhow important teamwork is in ing companies competed, nearly 600 participants visited and examined achieving success. companies’ CSR practices in this 1-day long event. The winning award among the Stakeholders Awards given by these participants went to The pleasure I have in fulfilling my Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers, as in 2009. The Bilim duty to the community as a Pharmaceutical Community Volunteers, which was also handed an responsible citizen is priceless. honor plate by the 2420th Region Rotary and Marmara Rotary Clubs, Moreover, it raises and supports my job motivation and my loyalty was deemed worthy of an award in the “Employee Volunteering” cateto our Company to get involved in gory, thus maintaining its leadership in the field of volunteering. such projects and to see that they are completed with great success. 87 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION AND REPRESENTATION Within the scope of the strategy of “Raising Employees’ Participation” and in order to protect our employees’ private-business life balance and to cover their communication needs, A variety of communication and participation communication and participation plans are instruments and activities are widely used prepared every year and all internal communiwithin our company to get employees recogcation practices are implemented as per these nized, as well as to encourage, stimulate and plans. support their participation. Communication and Participation Instruments Participants Bilim Portal All employees Notice Boards All employees E-bulletins All employees Bilim Family Magazine All employees and their families Motivation Practices Systematics All employees Boards Board members Electronic Communication (e-mail) All office employees Employee Satisfaction Survey All employees Communication Survey All employees Focus Group Meetings All employees (excluding field staff) Subject-Based Surveys All employees Subject-Based Contests All employees Personal Suggestion System Blue-collar employees Quality Improvement Projects/Quality Circles All employees Marketing HR Coordination Meeting Marketing employees Office Communicator All office employees Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn Accounts All employees and the community 88 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Boards and Working Teams Boards are teams that are established to ensure that employees become a part of decisionNumber of Employees Participating in the Boards making processes and support teamwork. Midand long-term expectations as well as 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 creative and innovative ideas of employees are Target 80 95 120 125 125 received by chairpersons of the related boards and evaluated at Quality Execution Board Achieved 92 100 141 330 248 meetings on a quarterly basis. In 2012, our 248 employees participated in the boards. It is a board that meets every quarter, where Blue Collar communication related matters of in-house Creative Idea Platform Communication Board blue-collar employees are discussed. • To increase the speed of information access “Creative Idea Platform” by our blue-collar colleagues • To create an effective communication was redesigned as an network Targets of the Blue • To determine employees’ satisfaction with online function that Collar Communication respect to in-house communication means Board • To determine expectations with respect to allows all of our in-house communication means stakeholders to share • To encourage and support employees to participate at in-house communication their creative ideas. activities The Creative Idea Platform is a platform which was set up to generate ideas and encourage Number of Creative Ideas Produced rising levels of values and performances 2011 13 through continuous and systematic innovation by making use of our employees’ creativity 2012 25 in order to design new or improved products, services, processes and social interactions. We aim to open the creative idea platform, which Open-Door Meetings is already open to all our employees, to the use of all our stakeholders in 2011. These represent a communication medium that provides one-to-one communication In 2011, as per the efforts to revise Bilim Pharbetween the top management and employees, maceuticals’ website, a “Creative Idea Platform” and it allows employees to transparently share was established on the website as an online any issues that matter to them with the top function that allows all of our stakeholders to management. Every Wednesday afternoon in share their creative ideas. This way, the creative the second week of each month, employees ideas of not only our employees but all of our come together with managers through makstakeholders are supported and evaluated. ing appointments. The top management is always available on this precise day for possible requests for communication. 89 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Suggestion Systems The Personnel Suggestion System (PSS) is a system suggested and announced to all other employees throughout our organization. that allows our bluecollar employees to share The number of suggestions forwarded with the scope of the Personnel Suggestion System their remarks with since 2008 is given in the following table: respect to improvement Number of Suggestions from the Personnel Suggestion System activities, supports their 2008 136 innovative and creative 2009 483 initiatives, evaluates 2010 738 incoming suggestions 2011 549 and implements the 2012 547 suggestions deemed Internal Communication appropriate. Activities In line with our company’s purpose, targets In line with our strategy of “increasing commuand policies, and with the support of our bluenication among employees”, the most imporcollar employees, the suggestion system aims tant feedback resources that we use to identify to collect suggestions particularly with respect communication needs and expectations are to such matters as: the Employee Satisfaction Survey (point of contact), Communication Survey and Focus • Efficiency development, Group studies. • Quality improvement, • Cost-efficiency, Through communication surveys, the effectiveness of existing communication means and • Improvement of the working environexpectations regarding new communication ment, means are questionedFocus group studies are • Increasing customer satisfaction, conducted in coordination between Corporate Communication Department and Human • Occupational health and safety and Resources Department in order to to evaluate • Social development and environmental employees from various departments on their impacts communications means and methods in detail. Moreover, various benchmarking studies are The suggestion system also aims to evaluate carried out. By comparing in-house communiand implement, if deemed appropriate, the cation efforts of various organizations, we suggestions based on objective criteria and learn new practices, which are discussed at the thus, to provide further participation of our Corporate Communication Board. employees and to permanently increase the number of our company’s achievements. OwnAll information collected from the Communiers of the suggestions that are deemed approcation Survey, focus group studies, and priate and put into practice are rewarded parEmployee Satisfaction Surveys (under sub-secallel to the benefit achieved through what is tion entitled “Communication”), as well as the 90 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Employee Satisfaction Results of the Employee Satisfaction Survey (%) 100 80.64 80.7 77.5 79.2 80 75 60 40 results of performance-measuring and benchmarking activities are evaluated at the Corpo20 rate Communication Board. Our employees are informed aboout signicant 0 operational changes. In case of precedural 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 changes, people affected receive trainings and new procedures are distributed to all people Employee satisfaction survey will be held every concerned. Announcements with effective 2 years after 2012. dates are made when organizational and positional changes occur. Rate of Satisfaction of Employees Working in Representative Offices in General Rate of Satisfaction Regarding Internal Communication Means (%) Foreign Markets Rate of satisfaction of employees working in representative 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 offices in foreign markets: 72.3 Achieved 80 82 85 88.16 88 Target 80 83 84 85 89 89 We prepared special surveys with our consultant firm for our employees, who are actively working in our 4 representative offices in foreign markets, and asked them to fill in the survey Number of Participants: questionnaire online. A list containing the analyses performed 2008: 486 White-Collar Employees + 153 Blue-Collar Employees = 639 by the consultant firm and country-specific areas that require 2009: 552 White-Collar Employees + 157 Blue-Collar Employees = 709 improvement was then created. The primary areas were des2010: 761 White-Collar Employees + 53 Blue-Collar Employees = 814 ignated by Bilim Pharmaceuticals as its targets for 2013. For 2011: 552 White-Collar Employees + 136 Blue-Collar Employees = 688 instance, a plan was drawn up to establish a focus group and 2012: 414 White-Collar Employees + 213 Blue-Collar Employees = 627 to perform a benchmark study regarding working hours in our people representative office in Bosnia, as well as to share the results of such benchmark study with the team. The Corporate Communication Legal Action on Overtime, Harassment or Board: Discrimination A board sponsored by the General Manager 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 and chaired by the Corporate Communication Manager, which meets every quarter and Lawsuits 1 1 1 3 1 where internal and external communication Overtime 1 1 1 3 1 matters are discussed. Others 0 0 0 0 0 Our Corporate Communication No complaints were submitted to our Ethics Boards with Policy is available in our web report. respect to any violation of Human Rights in our offices or facilities. 91 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Management The Occupational Health and Safety Management System has been structured in Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ OHS policy and risk analysis foundation. We, at Bilim Pharmaceuticals, apply the IMS (Integrated Management System) which inteWe conduct emergency drills with emergency grated the Quality, Environment, Occupacrews and the participation of all our employtional Health and Safety standards within a ees in our operations twice a year. single framework. Our system is based on the cGMP, ISO 9001 Quality Management System, ISO 14001 Environment Management System We also provide training as well as the OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System standon occupational health and safety and the ards. Our Çerkezköy Production Facility has held the IMS Certification since 2004. As our Gebze Production Facility was certified in 2010, the scope environment to newly of the certification was expanded so as to cover our entire company. hired employees within The Occupational Health and Safety Managethe framework of orientation programs. ment System has been structured in Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ OHS policy and risk analysis foundation. Risk analysis studies are repeated annually in departments throughout the corporation in accordance with the Risk EvaluaAs soon as they start working in the Company, tion Regulation. Hazards stemming from our all recently hired medical representatives are activities within the study content, as well as provided with training for safe driving techrisks are ascertained by evaluating the possibilniques through the Company’s online training ity of their occurrence and severity. A business platform, bilimk@mpüs. Employees working in plan is formulated for unacceptable risks by headquarters and facilities may also receive taking the degree of risk into account. If risks their OHS training through bilimk@mpüs. are lowered to acceptable levels, then the related targets are integrated into the annual OHS targets. Business plans are included in the Regular check-ups and tests are still performed OHS management program, which is reviewed on all employees within the framework of the at specific intervals. “workplace medical observation procedures”. Natural disasters which may adversely affect business continuity and operational emergenOur OHS Policy is available in our cies are also regarded as part of the risk analysis. web report. 92 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 The OHS Board and OHS Working Groups The OHS Board In addition to the members who are defined in regards to the requirements of the Occupational Health and Safety Board’s Regulations, it is also ance with safe job rules in the departments comprised of department representatives at the they represent, to evaluate OHS bulletins, to management and specialist level. The board participate in internal inspection activities, meets at least once a month and conducts an and to plan and execute activities for areas evaluation and revision with the following open to development. agenda in addition to the standard agenda: The following table shows the total labor force • Risk Analysis Results, OHS Targets, OHS represented by official joint health and safety Management Program committees comprising of both members of • Internal and External Inspection Findthe management and employees, who help the ings, Corrective and Preventative Activimonitoring of occupational health and safety ties and Improvement Plans programs and make recommendations about • Findings and Recommendations Prethem. sented by Employee Representatives and Other Board Members Bilim Plaza Occupational Safety Committee 13 people • Job Accidents, Accident Risk, ‘Close Call’ Accident and Occupational Sickness BulGebze Occupational Safety Committee 25 people letins Gebze OHS Working Group 17 people • OHS Training Activities Çerkezköy Occupational Safety Committee 15 people • Preparations for Natural Disasters and Emergency Situations Çerkezköy OHS Working Group 12 people • Assessment and review of the progress deriving from the Current Status Analysis • Assessment and review of legal amendOHS Targets in 2013 ments (when necessary) • Monthly assessment of performance OHS Targets for Çerkezköy indicators related to OHS Processing Facility in 2013 • Assessment and review of innovative and creative ideas and learning data (when The following Occupational Health and Safety necessary) targets were determined at Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ Çerkezköy Processing Facility for the year • Assessment and review of OHS policy (at 2013 in line with the company’s OHS policy: the last quarter) • to reduce the weight rate of job-related OHS Working Group accidents to 0.045%; The working groups are comprised of manag• to conduct Emergency Drills at least twice a year; ers and specialists determined by the management of each department. They meet on a • to raise the number of employees who monthly basis and more often, if deemed necreceive first aid certification to 16; essary, to conduct risk analysis within the • to provide at least 12 hours of training per Training Management Systems context. Their employee to our employees; job is to conduct revisions in accordance with • to prevent critical and major errors in the experience gleaned from the practice of external audits. OHS, SOP and instructions, to ensure compli93 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 OHS Trainings OHS Targets for Gebze Processing At least 12 hours of OHS Facility in 2013 training is organized for The following Occupational Health and Safety each employee at Bilim targets were determined at Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ Gebze Processing Facility for the year Pharmaceuticals each year 2013 in line with the company’s OHS policy: One of the performance indicators through • to reduce the weight rate of job-related which the effectiveness of our company’s occuaccidents to 0.06%; pational health and safety practices is evalu• to conduct Emergency Drills at least ated is “training provided within the scope of twice a year; OHS”. Based on the regulations published by • to raise the number of employees who the Ministry of Labor and Social Security conreceive first aid certification to 75; cerning OHS training for employees, an aver• to provide at least 12 hours of training per age of at least 12 hours of OHS training is organemployee to our employees; ized for each employee at Bilim Pharmaceuticals • to prevent critical and major errors in each year. These include important training external audits; such as driving techniques, ergonomics, behavior-oriented safety management, per• to complete the necessary actions within sonal protection, intervention in emergency the framework of the Ergonomics Mansituations, protection against explosions, risk agement Program. evaluation and manual lifting and handling. Improvements and activities in 2012 within the scope of OHS A dedusting system was commissioned in Total training hours on order to absorb the dust spread from the Occupational Health machine in the E114 T7 Aromatic room to the environment. and Safety in 2012 A battery powered picker was bought to the solid production department in order to mini21,418 mize ergonomic risks, while scissor transpallets were delivered to liquid products packagMale / Total Hours: ing and technical services departments. Moreover, ergonomic chairs are provided for all 16,535 production areas. 77% During the OHS week, an Occupational Safety Female / Play was performed where risks related to Total Hours: occupational safety were described in an enlightening way. 4,883 23% 94 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Training Topics on Occupational Health and Safety (as of 2012) 1 Risk Evaluation 2 Results of Risk Evaluation Job-Related Accidents and 3 OHS Risk Analysis, Evaluation and Business Plan Efforts to Prevent Accidents 4 Risk Analysis Procedure 5 Emergency Management Severity Rate of Job-Related 6 Emergency Patient Transfer Systematic Accidents 7 Emergency Exit Information Training At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, the basic perfor8 Basic Training on OHS Study Teams mance of applications related to occupational 9 Procedure for Notifications by OHS Study Teams health and safety is evaluated through the KOA 10 Basic OHS Training (Accident Severity Rate) performance indica11 Targets and Policies for OHS & Environment tor. While the severity rate of job-related injuries covers accidents which result in the loss of 12 Safe Driving Techniques more than one working day, it indicates how 13 Working with Equipment Having a Screen many hours were lost in correlation to every OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Management 100 hours of actual working time during a cal14 System endar year. 15 Ergonomics 16 Training to Prevent Mobbing When any job-related accident occurs, we 17 Evaluation of Environmental Impacts notify and report the accident and keep related 18 Training on Stress Management statistics in accordance with the “Management of HSE Notifications Procedure”. 19 Health and Safety in Manual Handling Work Collection, Accumulation and Disposal of Solid and Liquid 20 The severity rate of occupational accidents Waste covers accidents that necessitate first aid. Cal21 Personal Protective Equipment culations are made based on calendar days 22 Safe Lifting and Handling (which include weekends). 23 Training for Safe Use of Forklifts 24 Basic First Aid Training The calculation of the severity rate of occupa25 Occupational Diseases and Their Reasons tional accidents also covers accidents that take place among sub-contractors. As the primary 26 Causes of Job-Related Accidents and Associated Risks employer, Bilim Pharmaceuticals is responsible 27 General OHS Rules for the occupational safety of sub-contractors. 28 Instructions for Checking Chemical Spillage and Leakage The company provides necessary training on 29 Training on Thermal-Chemical Burns occupational safety to sub-contractors before Issues Requiring Attention in Equipment Purchase in terms they begin working, enabling them to fulfill all 30 of OHS & Environment OHS-related requirements. Moreover, subIssues Requiring Attention in the Purchase of New Chemicals contractors are audited at specific intervals for 31 in terms of OHS & Environment compliance with occupational safety rules. No 32 Training on Chemical Eye Wash and Thermal Burn Kits job accident involving death occurred in our sub-contractors in 2012. 33 Instruction Manuals for Eye-Body Wash 34 Basic First Aid Practice The OHS procedures, instructions and action 35 Information Training on First Aid Cabinets plans have been formulated with the goal of 36 Firefighting reducing risks that emerge from the risk analy37 Training for Use of the Fire Cabinet and Burn Kits sis under control. The dissemination and appli38 Safe Working at Height and Equipment Used cation effectiveness is evaluated and revised in the light of feedback such as “near missed” acciTraining for Protection Against Explosions and Document 39 Training 95 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 dents, internal and external inspection findings and employee accident risk, personal exposure Medical scanning includes scanning procedures that level measurements, occupational illness risks, are compulsory by law and carried out under the accidents and incidents, as well as final risk analysupervision and instruction of our office doctor, as sis results. Areas open to improvement are hanwell as scanning procedures which are needed at the dled in these ways: “procedure and instructions end of risk evaluation. With this practice, we aim to revision”, “application methods and inspection”, reduce the rate of absence and illnesses by support“working environment”, “training”. ing our employees beyond the legal framework. Regular medical check-ups of our field employees, on the other hand, are carried out within the frameRegular medical work of “private health insurance” as they are at a distance from our medical unit in our company. scanning is performed The illness rate includes maternity leave. For this to protect the health reason, the illness rate of our female employees appears higher. of employees. Seventy Rate Beyond legal requirements, the scope of scanof Occupational ning covers measurement of the body-mass index, eye health, audiometric measurements, Accidents in 2012 respiratory tests, etc. Participation is open to all employees who request to do so, not only those in the risk group. 0.025% Severity Rate of Occupational Accidents by Year (%) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Performance Indicators T A T A T A T A T A Severity Rate of Occupational Accidents (%) 0.35 0.30 0.25 0.02 0.10 0.01 0.01 0.03 0.02 0.03 Gebze 0.35 0.03 0.25 0.05 0.10 0.05 0.01 0.09 0.06 0.06 Çerkezköy 0.35 0.00 0.25 0.09 0.10 0.00 0.01 0.04 0.04 0.05 Ayazağa and Regional Offices 0.35 0.37 0.25 0.01 0.10 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.01 0.01 0.40 0.35 Target Achieved 0.30 0.30 0.25 0.20 0.10 0.10 0.02 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.02 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 96 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Lost Workforce Total Working Total Number of Ratio of Total Number of Hours (Yearly) Hours Missed by The Workforce Hours Missed 2012 5,440,856.00 60,686.00 1.12% Illness Rates by Year PRODUCT 2013 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (target) RESPONSIBILITY Illness 0.57% 0.77% 0.78% 0.75% 0.72% 0,50% Male 0.32% 0.37% 0.43% 0.49% 0.76% Female 1.61% 2.41% 2.33% 1.87% 0.48% Monitoring Safety, Performance and Absence Rates by Year Quality of Our Products 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Following the certification Absence 0.53% 0.63% 0.73% 0.59% 0.49% 0,50% process, we evaluate to Male 0.30% 0.42% 0.37% 0.41% 1.27% what extent our products, Female 1.71% 1.43% 2.31% 1.34% 0.83% are effective and reliable Legal Compliance and whether they are easyto-apply; we pay attention to the feedback we receive Legal compliance is monitored and enforced through a system which is formulated in line with defined procedures. The regulation and make improvements, if related to business law is kept up-to-date. Legislative changes are monitored and evaluated necessary. by the Occupational Safety Board. No penalties were imposed on our Company for non-compliDue to the nature of the sector we serve, our ance with the law and legislation concerning establishment operates in compliance with business and labor practices. cGMP (current Good Manufacturing Practice) quality management standards, an issue which No impropriety was identified as a result of the is set forth in legislations as per regulations. audits performed in 2012 in terms of compliGMP regulations and the quality system are ance with the law, legislation and rules that we not only confined to production processes, but are subject to. all processes from purchase to delivery, which affect product and production quality. Following the certification process, we evaluate to what extent our products, are effective and reliable and whether they are easy-toapply; we pay attention to the feedback we receive and make improvements, if necessary. We keep close view of publications and evalua97 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 tions that include scientific developments regarding our products and try to provide patients/users, health care providers and public Licensing and authorities with up-to-date and qualified inforPharmacovigilance mation on risks and benefits of our products. To ensure health care providers recommend We do not limit the safety profile of our prodour products confidently to consumers, we ucts with the pre-certification period only; we continuously check and evaluate reliability and monitor it even after we release these products effectiveness of all products that we hold a to the market and make necessary improvelicense for and regularly report to official ments, developments and notifications. We authorities. try to collect as much information as possible about our products.For this purpose, we have If necessary, after obtaining official approval, commissioned “medical sales representatives”, we send information letters to health care prowhom our stakeholders, primarily patients and viders, organize meetings with them and health professionals, can reach in the first inform them through our staff in the headinstance, as well as assistants, safety and call quarters and in the field under the managecentre employees. This way, as Bilim Pharmament of our Marketing Department. ceuticals, we inform our employees through our specialized instructors of what action they The safety of our medicinal products for human are required to take when they receive feeduse is constantly monitored by our “Product back concerning the safety, quality or perforSafety Executives,” who are physicians and mance of our products. We also share such pharmacists under the Pharmacovigilance information as mandatory training in digital Administration that we have set up under our learning environments like Bilim Kampüs. In Medical Support and Licensing Department. line with our policies, as well as the law and All kinds of information concerning the effecregulations, we monitor all feedback related to tiveness and safety of our products are continthe quality, safety and effectiveness of our uously investigated from domestic and interproducts and notify respective authorities, if national sources. necessary. With in-house training, we inform personnel at In the event of feedback concerning the prodeach level, particularly our employees in the uct quality, we perform required analyses and marketing headquarters and in the field, with evaluations, respond immediately and make respect to how they will deal, manage and necessary improvements after obtaining monitor the matters concerning the safety of legally required permits. our products, which may be forwarded by consumers or health professionals. We carry out development efforts permanently in order to raise the level of safety and After they receive feedback concerning the quality of our products. safety of our products, our executives conduct the necessary initial evaluationsand receive Since 2011, all of our customers’ feedbacks – additional information if necessary from the including all complaints with respect to the person / people who submit the feedback.They adverse effects of our products which are then report to official authorities within a adapted within the framework of pharmamaximum of 15 days depending on the emercovigilance are accepted through our webgency and the importance of the situation/ based platform and jointly monitored by our matter. If there is any additional precaution Quality Assurance and Pharmacovigilance that has to be taken in the company, we notify departments. the respective department(s) and closely follow the subject. 98 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Traceability in the Drug Training with respect to product safety, a matProcurement Process and Fighting ter which we always prioritize in our way of Against Counterfeit Products business making, is completed within the orientation periods of newly hired personnel in Bilim Pharmaceuticals our company. We repeat these training sessions at specific intervals. We evaluate the has enabled full results of the trainings as a criterion when intersystem automation measuring the performance of our marketing personnel who are in continuous contact with in all of its processes our customer group. from its production lines Regulations in Turkey to the storage In order to release drugs and medicinal prodof products, ordering ucts intended for human use to the Turkish market, licensing procedures must first be process to the approved by the General Directorate for Pharproduction/sales maceuticals and Pharmacy under the Ministry of Health. During the development of new notifications made to products, which marks the beginning of the licensing stage, we go to great lengths to comthe Ministry of Health. ply with the requirements set forth in regulations and instructions in effect in Turkey and In September 2010, the Ministry of Health with the requirements and provisions set forth required the use of the “Drug Monitoring Sysby the European Medicines Agency (EMA) as tem”, which establishes communication part of the EU harmonization period and in line between the Ministry’s systems and drug manuwith our exportation efforts. We also follow facturers, drug distributors and drugstores, in the requirements of the Food and Drug Adminorder to prevent counterfeit products. The “Drug istration (FDA) in the USA, the health authoriMonitoring System” ensures traceability at every ties of the countries we export to, the Internapoint of the entire supply chain from production tional Conference on Harmonization (ICH), the to the delivery of drugs to patients. World Health Organization (WHO), and the Local and Central Ethics Boards. In line with Bilim Pharmaceuticals has enabled full intersysthe legislation published by these organizatem automation in all of its processes from its tions and the amendments in instructions, we production lines in Turkey to the storage of prodneed to update and restructure our efforts in a ucts, ordering process to the production/sales way that they cover these newly defined notifications made to the Ministry of Health. requirements throughout the scope of the amendments in question. In our processing facilities, which employ the latest technology, the following systems are These regulations and instructions define the used: matters that must be paid attention to during • The Werum Manufacturing Execution Systhe development of new products and guide us tem (MES) and SAP System are used in our in directing our efforts. production lines; • The Antares Drug Tracking System (ATS), which allows barcode printing, and the SAP System are used in drug production lines; 99 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 • The Schaffer Warehouse Management System which places the products in automatically controlled high bays (withNumber of Drugs Recalled from out human intervention), and the SAP the Market System; Because of the identification of foreign sub• The WMS System, which dispatches drugs stances, one series of the product entitled to warehouses without risking human “Aferin Sinüs Film Tablet”, one series of the error, and the SAP System; product entitled “Aferin Forte Film Tablet” and one series of the product entitled “Glifor 1000 • The Caretta System (T&T) that carries out mg Film Tablet” were recalled from the market the necessary notifications to the Minisin 2012 upon the order of the Ministry of Health. try’s (Ministry of Health – MoH) systems The recall of Aferin Sinüs Film Tablet, Aferin automatically. Forte Film Tablet and Glifor 1000 mg Film Tablet in 2012 was a “second class – level B” recall. Bilim Pharmaceuticals enjoys the privilege of being one of a handful of companies in Turkey First class recalls refer to situations where serito operate a number of systems in full integraous or fatal health problems could arise or in tion through the “Drug Monitoring System”. which there is reasonable evidence for this. Second class recalls refer to situations in which Thanks to this technology, Bilim Pharmaceutitemporary and treatable health problems arise cals, besides fulfilling the provisions set forth in or there is such a possibility. Third class recalls countries’ regulations, performs production to refer to situations in which use of the product global standards and is deemed as an example does not harm human health. of the best practices at an international level in terms of DMS (Drug Monitoring System), which Level A refers to the consumer level; first class will become more popular worldwide in the recalls are made at this level. Level B refers to future. the retailer level (pharmacy, hospital pharmacy, institutions, etc.); second class recalls are made at this level. Level C, on the other hand, refers to the pharmaceutical warehouses; third class recalls are defined at this level. A fine of a total of TL 78,000.00 was imposed because of the drugs recalled in 2012. 100 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Our Customers Customer Satisfaction We have been applying the Customer Satisfaction Survey (CSS) in order to learn what our customers rlı Ce ng iz Ha n Va expect and perceive. İst an bu l Ec za Ko op . l M an ag er De pu ty Ge ne ra We initiated the CSS with doctors in 2001 and Bilim Pharmaceuticals is one included pharmacies and pharmaceutical of the few local companies with 100% warehouses in 2004. Turkish capital in the Turkish pharmaceutical industry, in a world where capital is globalized. As one of The questionnaire forms used in this survey are the leading innovative companies in prepared in accordance with the EFQM Model the industry, the Company operates of Excellency, together with the employees of fully with local resources; this is very the Marketing Directorate and the support of important to us in terms of our the consulting firm. We review the questions corporate identity. on the survey in every survey period and update them in light of the current demands and Bilim Pharmaceuticals has a staff of expectations of our customers. dynamic and energetic people who are open to new ideas and who pay In accordance with the above mentioned, Bilim attention to the ideas of pharmaceutical warehouses, the Pharmaceuticals Customer Satisfaction survey other component of the industry. aims to: Furthermore, Bilim Pharmaceuticals • Search for answers about how much the is a company that applies a business corporation satisfies its customers; partnership understanding which differs from the traditional buyer• Identify strong sides and sides that are seller relationship. The fact that the open to improvement; and Company makes use of a • Establish a basis for improvement activitechnological system, which is a ties to be carried out in the future. requirement of the present day, is appreciated by corporations like The questionnaire forms consist of three secourselves who care about tions, the first of which covers expectations, technology. When it comes to the second examines their perceptions, attaching importance to ethical and deontological values in our whereas the third section helps us learn cusindustry, with human health at tomers’ suggestions and needs through the aid the focus, Bilim Pharmaceuticals of a series of open-ended questions. We use is one of the most important the “GAP Analysis” in analysing the measurecompanies which we would like ments and results of the level of satisfaction. to continue its operations for many years in the sector. Customer Satisfaction survey is applied once in two years. Our latest survey was published in our 2011 corporate responsibility report. 101 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 n Sa lm an Customer Satisfaction in Foreign Pr of. Dr. Nu ra of M ed ici ne , Ist an bu l Un ive rs ity, Fa cu lty alt h an d Di se as es Markets Ch ild re n’s He De pa rt m en t of I had the chance to know Bilim Pharmaceuticals A Customer Satisfaction Survey of 10 subheadand its employees in their visits to the hospital, in meetings ings was conducted with our 27 actively workwhere I was invited as a speaker, in congresses and in my visits to their production facilities. I have recognized that ing partners. The results of the survey are the primary areas that Bilim Pharmaceuticals attaches shown in the following graph and table, by importance to are human health, economic contributions, year. Improvement plans were drawn up for investment in the community and environmental each customer in areas requiring improveprotection. The following is a list of Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ ment. For instance, areas open to developsuperior qualifications that drew my attention: ment concerning payment maturity and limits Corporate management approach: Although it was founded as a family company, Bilim Pharmaceuticals set up are evaluated with the support of our Finance a professional management system by attaching Department upon the approval of the Board of importance to institutionalization and gained a corporate Directors. As another example, upon the identity through the EFQM Excellence Model in 1998. This request of Unilab in the Philippines, we underlater led to a more efficient economic model. Such an took the necessary investments and trials approach has brought along sustainability management as well. both in our Gebze and Çerkezköy processing Quality management: Bilim Pharmaceuticals has facilities to print the expiry date and the serial concentrated on high-quality production in its Gebze and number for each tablet in blister packaged Çerkezköy processing facilities. Allocating 5% of its products. This practice aims to ensure that budget to R&D activities, Bilim Pharmaceuticals has patients can safely use the drug in the Philipalways prioritizes product quality. The Gebze Processing Facility complies with FDA standards. pines, where tablet drug sales are permitted. Social development and environmental protection: Bilim Pharmaceuticals contributes to social development through the added value it produces. Its Customer Satisfaction Survey Results employees are actively involved in various social responsibility projects under the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers platform. By means of its 80 80 80 80 environmentally friendly processing facilities and by ensuring that some of the promotion materials are 78 79 79 recyclable, the Company also demonstrates the importance it attaches to the environment. 76 Ethical management: Prioritizing transparency and 74 75 accountability, Bilim Pharmaceuticals scrupulously complies with national and international law and legislation. I had the chance to personally observe 72 how much attention the Company pays to ethical rules. 70 People-oriented employees: Whenever I met 2010 2011 2012 them, I noticed how good-humored, positive and Target Achieved people-oriented Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ employees are. I have always witnessed their sensitivity towards people in their Company, as well as physicians, pharmacists, patients and the community. Consequently, the ethical, high-class, modern, sincere and professional attitude of Bilim Pharmaceuticals and its employees allowed me to establish positive relations with the Company. I wish success to Bilim Pharmaceuticals in the years to come. 102 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Informing Customers Sharing of Product-Related Information and Experiences Bilim Pharmaceuticals carefully monitors the benefit and risk profiles of all its licensed prodto-date and shared with the public in a timely ucts on a regular basis, ensuring their protecmanner. We fully comply with regulations and tion. voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling. There is no inciWithin the limits permitted by the existing law dence of non-compliance. and regulations, we pay maximum attention to forward product-related information to users (and/or appliers), health care providers Marketing Principles and Ethics and public authorities. As a license holder, we All the concerned people, both in Turkey and in prioritize patient safety and countries we export to, are informed with regard to a variety of features such as the use keep close view of all and safety of our products, situations in which they must not be used, usage in special condidevelopments regarding our tions such as pregnancy and lactation, and the products. side effects. Within the framework of the relevant law and Each newly hired employee receives training regulations, this information is presented on ethics. We plan and implement all marketthrough the following channels: ing communications activities that aim our customer groups within the framework of rel• Documents inside the packages such as evant regulations, rules and instructions of the prospectus or usage instructions; Ministry of Health and the Pharmaceutical • Letters entitled “Dear Health Care ProvidManufacturers Association of Turkey (IEIS), ers” sent to physicians, pharmacists and which we are a member of. other health care providers; • Informative and/or printed promotion We instruct all our personnel, who are materials; responsible for marketing, on marketing communications principles during the ori• Presentations made by our representaentation period and conduct reminder tives like our medical promotion executrainings on a regular basis. tives; • Sharing of relevant scientific publications We pass all kinds of materials and activities (medical literature, congress informaaiming at the promotion of our products tion, etc); through a series of checkpoints within the marketing team and confirm them. If needed, and • Reports presented to official authorities in order to receive feedback internally, we are (Pharmacovigilance reports, stability also supported by a unit which is completely results, etc.) independent from our marketing team. In the The shared information must be consistent event of any concerns that the marketing comwith scientific information and not be misleadmunications principles have been violated by ing. For this reason, in the event of any change our company or other firms, we take pains to in current information (or if such a possibility solve the problem first by mutual negotiations, arises), we rapidly complete all legal procethus allowing a self-regulating mechanism to dures, ensuring that information is always upestablish itself within the sector. 103 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 As a license holder, we prioritize patient safety and keep close view of all developments regardCommunications Guidance or Bilim Pharmaing our products. We have organized a separate ceuticals Business Ethics Principles, whichever unit, which is comprised of our product safety is more restricting, and repeat our internal executives, in order to view the side effects that training on these matters on a regular basis. may arise due to the use of our products and to We fully comply with regulations and voluntary take extra measures, if necessary. codes concerning the marketing of our products and services. There is no incidence of nonWe provide personnel, who will be responsible compliance. for the promotion of our products, with related training (pharmacovigilance training) during the Customer Privacy period while they are still candidates, aiming to raise social awareness on this matter as well. Our customer database is maintained by a CRM software company; Bilim PharmaceutiWe provide all our employees with comprehencals does not keep a record or have access to its sive trainings and request a letter of undertakcustomers’ personal information. No incidence ing on ethics from each of them in line with our of violence of customer privacy is reported. Ethical Management approach. The Ethics Board examines all types of violation of ethics which Customer Complaints are forwarded to the Board and independently takes all necessary measures after reporting the There are 4 factors (people, machinery and situation to the senior management. equipment, materials and methods) which can be a source of error in the evaluation of comWhen carrying out our activities, we ensure that plaints. Accordingly, 41% of complaints are we act in accordance with the provisions and caused by people, 10% from machinery and instructions of the Ministry of Health’s Marketequipment, 33% from materials and 16% from ing Communications Regulation, IEIS Marketing methods. Customer Complaints Ratio* NumTargeted Targeted Achieved ber of Number of Ratio (2012) Ratio Performance Indicator Ratio (2012) ComBoxes Sold (per mil(2013) (per (per million) plaints lion) million) Ratio of customer complaints in the domestic 39 75,938,832 0.7 0.51 0.65 market (per million) (Gebze) Ratio of customer complaints in the 6 17,697,090 0.25 0.34 0.25 domestic market (per million) (Çerkezköy) Ratio of customer complaints in foreign markets 7 14,688,514 0.65 0.48 0.6 (per million) (Gebze) Ratio of customer complaints in foreign 14 8,438,536 0.5 1.66 0.5 markets (per million) (Çerkezköy) * The customer complaints ratio is the number of customer complaints accepted by the company in a year to the total number of boxes sold in the same year. This ratio is expressed in the number of complaints per million. 104 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Ratio of Resolved Customer Complaints* Targeted Targeted Achieved Number of Ratio (2012) Ratio Performance Indicator Ratio (2012) Complaints (in a mil(2013) (in a (in a million) lion) million) Ratio of resolved customer complaints in 39 98 100 100 the domestic market (per million) (Gebze) Ratio of resolved customer complaints in the domestic market 6 98 100 100 (per million) (Çerkezköy) Ratio of resolved customer complaints in 7 100 100 100 foreign markets (per million) (Gebze) Ratio of resolved customer complaints in 14 100 100 100 foreign markets (per million) (Çerkezköy) *The ratio of resolved customer complaints indicates that the ratio of the total number of responds given to the complainants, including the results of the study performed on the accepted customer complaints and the actions to be taken, within the determined period of time to the total number of complaints received by the company. The ratio is expressed as a percentage. Patient Confidentiality OUR Some of our activities may necessitate review SUPPLIERS AND COLLABORATIONS and evaluation of the medical records or personal medical information of patients. Patientrelated information that we obtain or is delivered to us during our activities is kept We defined our collaborations based on our confidential. Unless required by the law and business relationships: regulations or without the patient’s consent, this information is not used and shared with Supplier: Refers to a business relationship of less others. than 3 years with companies from which we buy materials, products and/or services that are required All of our employees, suppliers and companies for our primary business. working with Bilim Pharmaceuticals go to great lengths to maintain confidentiality and Collaborations: Refers to a business relationship of provide the safety of this information which is more than 3 years in which we work with or order entrusted to us. No incidence of violation of from a business at least for 6 times a year and which patient confidentiality has been reported. produces value for or adds value to both parties. Project-Based Collaborations: Refers to a projectbased business relationship between our company and the organizations it cooperates with, which produces value for or adds value to both parties. Strategic – Critical Collaborations and Suppliers: Refers to all suppliers and collaborations where the company receives critical materials or services for GMP; or collaborations and suppliers that are highly important in terms of implementing our company’s strategies and that allows our company to achieve or even exceed its primary business targets. Our Collaboration and Supply Chain Policy is available in our web report. 105 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Collecting Feedback on Stakeholders’ Expectations and Needs Period Evaluation Responsible Stakeholder Source Short Medium Long Freq. Department Medium Frequency / Person Department Meetings, Board of Supplier Resource PlanCollaborations, Supplier Satisfaction X X X annually ning DepartSatisfaction annually Survey (SSS) ment Surveys, Improvement Plan Determination Meeting Collaborations Related DepartBoard of Collaborations every 3 and supplier X X always ment Meetings months meetings Quality DepartSupplier ment, Resource every 3 X X always Department Meetings checks Planning months Suppliers and Department Collaborations Resource PlanDepartment Meetings, Phone calls every 3 X always ning DepartBoard of Collaborations and visits months ment Meetings Related Department’s Receipt of Related Departevery 3 X always Meeting, Board of Colcomplaints ment months laborations Meetings Resource PlanDepartment Meetings, Suppliers’ X X annually ning DepartBoard of Collaborations once a year Summit ment Meetings Focus group Related Department’s studies on Related DepartX X X annually Meeting, Board of Colannually collaborations ment laborations Meetings and suppliers 2012, we added momentum to our efforts for Risk-Based Supply Approach alternative suppliers. This is important also in terms of backing up our current collaborations We have set up and improved on a supply with critical suppliers. organization that is flexible and able to respond instantly to continuously changing market Some details of our alternative suppliers in conditions affected by global competition. In numbers are provided in the following table: Number of Number of AlterTargeted Number of Ratio of Targeted Number Suppliers in native Suppliers Alternative Suppliers of Alternative Suppliers 2012 in 2012 in 2013 in 2013 Total Number of Suppliers 360 19 19 Domestic (Raw Materials & 60 11 14 23% Packaging) Import (API & Auxiliary 90 3 2 5% Materials) 106 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Supplier Satisfaction We listen to our suppliers’ expectations and perceived satisfaction levels in supplier meetings held on a regular basis as well as through the Supplier Satisfaction Survey (SSS). The supplier satisfaction survey is performed electronically with specially designed software in a web-based environment. A total of 192 strategic-critical suppliers and collaborating parties participated in the Supplier Satisfaction Survey in 2011, where the supplier satisfaction rate was found to be 96.54%. Following a decision taken by the Board of Collaborations, the company only ra Al aç am focused on critical-strategic collaborations in the Supplier SatisAl i Al aç am & Es faction Survey of 2011. The Company also decided to conduct the Eli t Of se t SSS every three years in order to see the results of the developThanks to its active operations in the ment in a reliable manner. The next SSS will be conducted by the Turkish pharmaceutical market, as well end of 2014. as the employment opportunities it offers and the social investment projects it supports, Bilim Pharmaceuticals We develop and apply action plans to improve the Areas Open to adopts a management model that Improvement, which are determined by the above-mentioned focuses on sensitivity towards people instruments. For instance, ordering methods are reviewed and and the environment. We think that the rendered more effective; special training programs are offered Company also demonstrates an to our employees who are in direct relationship with suppliers; impressive sustainability performance activities that aim to provide special technical support to supplithrough its HR and environmental ers are carried out; training is given on various topics (such as protection practices serving this GMP rules, amendments to regulations); and activities that aim purpose. Bilim Pharmaceuticals is a to increase suppliers’ awareness on the EFQM excellence model corporation that has adopted a are conducted. sustainable development model in terms of efficient use of renewable Selection of Suppliers energy resources and demonstration of a responsible attitude towards the 65% of our suppliers are nature. Besides its achievements in domestic; 35% are foreign the Turkish pharmaceutical industry, the Company also has a strong companies. We aim to corporate citizenship identity. Bilim Pharmaceuticals sets a model for maintain this ratio in 2013. other corperations by protecting its sensitivity towards the environment Competency criteria are prepared and presented to the Supply and the community while directing Chain and Collaborations Board (SC COL B) by the related proits business processes and cess owners in line with stakeholder expectations and related corporate initiatives. Consequently, strategies; and the Board evaluates and finalizes these criteria. we as Elif Ofset are happy to be a The criteria are reviewed and updated at the COL B each year. A stakeholder of this company, which selection of collaborations is performed based on these criteria does not neglect social and and through using various forms, particularly the Supplier Colenvironmental concerns while pursuing a steady and consistent laboration Selection Pre-Evaluation (SCSPE) Form. Corporagrowth path. tions that meet at least 60% of the competency criteria set forth in the SCSPE are selected. The related procedure is launched upon the approval of the concerning director and the COL B is informed accordingly. This procedure is not applied to monopolies or official/semi-official institutions. 107 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 The general criteria that are required for all suppliers are outlined below, and the competencies that are required on a subject basis are teria within the scope of ISO 9001, ISO specifically listed. 14001, OHSAS 18001 and the Global Compact, such as quality system, environ• Compliance with the law and regulations ment, occupational health and safety, • Holding ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS employing child workers, working envi18001 certifications ronment conditions, etc. After the findings are evaluated, the company is • Adopting an approach that fits the proviexpected to complete the shortcomings sions stated in the Global Compact conin question in order to be approved, or the cerning human rights and working condicompany is approved but asked to comtions plete the shortcomings until the next • Offering a competitive price inspection, depending on how critical • Presenting a list of reference companies these shortcomings are. • A satisfactory past • Within this framework, the company is guided, explained, suggested and pro• Having the ability to develop new prodvided information support with respect ucts/innovation to how to complete the shortcomings. Thus, we make a contribution to the 65% of our suppliers are domestic; 35% are fordevelopment of the company and to raiseign companies. We aim to maintain this ratio ing its awareness on these matters. in 2013. • We fully comply with the law and regulaSupplier Inspection tions with respect to the supply of products and services. No fine is imposed due to non-compliance. The prerequisite for consistent success is sustainable supply; it is only possible to make a difference in this area by increasing efficiency and Number of Suppliers That Were Visited / Inspected the level of quality. By means of in-house visits, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 we are able to evaluate the supply process and the materials supplied to us. Our purchase Achieved 59 65 72 75 30 department conducts regular visits to our supTarget 58 64 70 75 30 56 pliers based on the belief that such visits will be beneficial when it comes to managing demand Ratio of Evaluated Suppliers and Collaborations (%) and supply. We conduct such visits to manufac2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 turers with a sense of priority. Achieved 90.3 92.4 96 97.1 100 • If one of our suppliers or agencies (if it is a warehouse) forwards a request to us to Target 90 92 95 97 97 90 join our List of Approved Suppliers, the “Amendment Control Process” is launched by the Quality Assurance Department. Improvement of Collaboration One of the activities conducted during A contribution is made to continuous improvethis period is the inspection of the comment by mutually sharing knowledge and pany in question. This is called pre-inspecexperiences between our company and supplition, while regular inspections are made ers/collaborators, particularly with respect to after the company is accepted to the list the GMP, Quality, Environment, Occupational of approved suppliers. Health and Safety Standards and Management • During pre-inspection and regular inspecSystems, as well as related technical matters. tions, an investigation is held as to “Formal Benchmark Collaborations” are estabwhether the company meets various crilished. 108 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Innovative and creative ideas forwarded by suppliers and collaborators during meetings, which are made on a regular basis or whenever needed, as well as the “Business Partners Summit” and focus group studies, and their feedback received through the SSS (Supplier SatisAs a company that conveys and provides inforfaction Survey) are evaluated at the Current mation regarding sensitive issues such as Situation Analysis committee. (Please refer to human health, Bilim Pharmaceuticals is comthe table entitled “Creative Ideas and Innovamitted to open and honest communication. tion”.) The Company provides information to the media in a timely manner, responds to requests Moreover, meetings are organized, if necesunder all circumstances and adopts a reachasary, to promote a mutual exchange of ideas, ble collaboration approach. We view it as our technical support, improvement and sharing of priority to be a reliable source of information plans, as well as for problem solving, while for the media. legal and legislative amendments are shared in written form by related units/departments. RESPIRATION UNIT Short-term Annual Business Plans are also Global Climate Change and Human Health shared mutually in meetings organized with suppliers and collaborators. The Business PartBilim Pharmaceuticals ners Summit is held every three years after the Respiration Team SSS. contributes to the The most recent Business Partners Summit was held in 2011 under the theme, “Corporate environmental protection Responsibility for Sustainability”, raising efforts of the WWF (World awareness of business partners and suppliers on sustainability. The event was held under Wild Fund)-Turkey. “carbon neutral” conditions. Global climate change is increasing both the COMMUNITY rate of incidence and the severity of asthma. We know that the pollen season now starts INVESTMENT earlier and lasts longer; and the allergenic potential of pollen leads to a growing number of more severe allergies. A proportionality is Social Awareness observed between the rising temperature and the rise of the number of pollen. Moreover, We view it as our priority ozone levels which have increased in parallel with global warming also present a risk to to be a reliable source of asthma patients. High ozone concentrations information for the media. trigger excessive sensitivity in the airways of asthma patients and cause the airways to conThanks to the communication activities cartract readily and to a dangerous extent. Rising ried out by pharmaceutical companies, many air pollution is another result of global climate people are becoming more aware of issues change. The biggest source of air pollution is, such as illnesses, proper drug usage, family however, traffic. The management of asthma medicine, etc. In this context, we can say that becomes more difficult in parallel with increasthe task of raising public awareness (which ing urban traffic due to a growing population should actually be performed by the public) is and the fact that the impact of air pollutants is taken up mainly by pharmaceutical companies felt more acutely as a result of climate change. in an open and transparent manner. In light of all these factors are taken into 109 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 account, the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Respiration Team contributes to the environmental protection efforts of the WWF (World Wide Fund)-Turkey. We also support the campaign, “Türkiye’nin Canı” (Turkey’s Life). We raise our doctors’ awareness on the protection of the nature by encouraging them to be members of the WWF. By means of events that we plan Sü er de m Pr of. Dr. M ec it to r y So cie ty together with the WWF-Turkey, we inform t of th e Tu rk ish Re sp ira Pr es id en ny a others of the impacts of climate change caused (T RS ) M ed ici ne Ko ity, Fa cu lty of Se lçu k Un ive rs by global warming and what individuals can do to prevent them. I am honored to go through your corporate responsibility report containing your sustainability We ensured that the topic, “Global Climate efforts that are certified at the highest level in terms of human health and satisfaction, social Change and Lung Health”, is discussed in key development and environmental protection. I am congresses of two important respiration assoaware that your sustainability efforts most of ciations (TÜSAD-Turkish Respiratory Society which represents firsts for our country aim to and TORAKS-Turkish Thoracic Society) to draw invest in the community with an understanding attention to the subject, as well as to raise which stands above commercial concerns. Another important source of pride that Bilim social awareness on the environment. Pharmaceuticals has brought our country was the “EFQM Excellence Award” which it was awarded in By hosting meetings throughout Turkey 2011; no company in Europe has been granted this together with Prof. Dr. Mikdat Kadıoğlu for pulaward for the last 4 years. monology, otolaryngology and pediatrics speI would like to mention that we see Bilim Pharmaceuticals as a stakeholder in our area, and cialists, we informed doctors of global climate one that always wins our appreciation, thanks to change and various diseases, and the relationits contributions to post-graduate education. I ships between them. We have completed all also would like to add that the senior meetings, which were organized throughout management of Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ Turkey to inform doctors. As a result of these Respiratory Group has a special place among the administrative bodies of our society. I think efforts, nearly 2,000 pulmonology, 500 otolarif Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ sustainability-related yngology and 500 pediatrics experts were efforts that add value to the community and informed about the topic. give new meaning to the Company’s presence besides its profit orientation are announced Drawing attention to global climate more effectively, it would raise employees’ motivation and further strengthen Bilim change Pharmaceuticals’ prestige in the Turkish healthcare industry. As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we are one of the I would like to pay special tribute Bilim corporate members of WWF (World Wide Pharmaceuticals’ managers who are the Fund). We invite our employees, suppliers and architects of the Company’s sustainable corporate management approach built on customers to turn off the lights in their houses strong foundations with the target to for one hour in order to support the “World become a “responsible company”, as well as Hour” practice, which has been organized by Bilim Pharmaceuticals employees, who are WWF since 2007 to raise awareness of global voluntarily involved in the Company’s social climate change. On March 31st, 2012, each of our investment efforts. stakeholders allocated one hour at night to think about the future of the world in the dark. 110 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Breathing Exercises According to various research studies, 90% of people use only 30% of their breathing capacities. The limited breathing habits in question, as well as physical-emotional trauma, reduce CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM and slow the intake and circulation of oxygen UNIT necessary for cellular health by blocking the breathing system. Alzheimer’s Disease Call Center The Transformal Breathing Technique is a Alzheimer’s disease, which currently affects 35 breathing method aimed at increasing and balmillion people throughout the world and ancing our lung capacity. As the amount of between 300,000 and 350,000 people in Turoxygen intake increases through this techkey, is an incurable disease that changes not nique, our immune system is naturally only the patient’s life, but the lives of their renewed, while also gaining strength. A suffiwhole families. Patients’ families have to be cient amount of oxygen creates more energy supported during this difficult period which and leads to healthier joints and cells, thus sometimes reaches the limits of emotional allowing us to enjoy a healthier body-state of trauma. mind-psychology. Transformal Breathing (TB) is the most effective breathing technique that In order to help patients’ families overcome this provides uninterrupted oxygen circulation period in the easiest manner without comprowithin the body by opening the blockages in mising their quality of life, the “Alzheimer’s Disthe respiratory system. TB has been impleease Call Center”, a first in Turkey, was launched mented safely in USA and Europe for more than by the Alzheimer’s Association and the Alzhei30 years. In the USA, the breathing therapy is mer’s Foundation under Bilim Pharmaceutirecommended for asthma and COPD (Chronic cals’ leadership. Obstructive Pulmonary Disease) patients as supportive care. Launched in 2009, the pilot project began in 3 cities (Ankara, Istanbul and Izmir) with the Our purpose at Bilim Pharmaceuticals in conpatients of 30 doctors. The call center, where ducting this training program is to teach the specialist psychologists work between 9:00 right breathing techniques to doctors so that am and 5:00 pm every weekday, began to open they can share the techniques with their throughout Turkey on September 30th, 2009. patients to contribute to their patients’ treatIncoming calls out of work hours are recorded ment. A total of 25 physicians participated in and specialist psychologists return the calls. the training held in Istanbul in 2012. Regular follow-up calls are made to patient’s relatives every month and they are given information about the patient after contacting their doctor. Given the recent ageing in the world’s population, it is estimated that the number of people with Alzheimer’s disease will reach 115 million by 2050. Also, the increasing number of incoming calls to the Alzheimer’s Call Centre serves as a clear indication that the disorder is increasingly recognized by people each passing day. 111 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 “Gerçekler Maskelenmesin” (Don’t Let The Likewise, we held RUTBE (Mental and Social Skills Truths Be Masked) Training) with Prof. Dr. Mustafa Yıldız at the Community Mental Health Centers (CMHC) in Bilim Pharmaceuticals Eskişehir and Balıkesir in 2012, providing training draws attention to to the CMHC staff to raise schizophrenic patients’ social skills. schizophrenia with the Exhibition Of Paintings Of project entitled “Gerçekler Schizophrenic Patients At The Manisa Maskelenmesin” (Don’t let Mental Health Institution the truths be masked). Paintings by patients at the Manisa Mental Health Institution were displayed under the title This project, which Bilim joined in 2007, addresses “Voices, Faces and Stories from Where the Fire the treatment of the Central Nervous System. Drops.” The exhibition was opened at the Çetin Supporting both patients and patient relatives Emeç Art Gallery in Izmir on April 4th, 2012. Prowith its efforts in this field, the Company aims to ceeds from the sale of paintings were donated to formalize these efforts and to render them exemthe institution’s rehabilitation and social health plary activities for the entire community. unit. As well as drawing attention to schizophrenia, this project aims to demonstrate what schizophrenia patients can do when they are given the chance. Mask Workshops: Mask Workshops are one of the activities that we carry out in order to contribute to the rehabilitation of patients… We aimed to support the rehabilitation of patients by providing them with an opportunity to express their inner worlds through art which they have difficulty in opening. We helped schizophrenic patients raise their social skills by sending 350 masks to the Bolu Mental Institution, the Manisa Mental Institution and the Community Mental Health Centers in many cities. Bilim Pharmaceuticals is pursuing a social investment project entitled “Gerçekler MaskelWe also sponsored a documentary concerning enmesin” (Don’t let the truths be masked) with schizophrenia prepared by Dr. Berkant Yelken. the aim of encouraging schizophrenic patients The documentary was shown at the Social Psyto participate in the society and to raise public chiatry Convention 2012. awareness on the disease. On Wednesday April 4th, an art exhibition opened displaying the paintings of schizophrenic patients at the Manisa Mental Institution, in the project’s fourth year. A total of 63 paintings were displayed in the exhibition which remained open until April 11th. The paintings selected for the exhibition were prepared by patients admitted since 2008. 112 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Serving a total population of 13 million people GASTROENTEROLOGY UNIT across 12 provinces, the Manisa Mental Institution not only aims to treat diseases, but also We prepared an informative and educative provide supplementary treatment with “Psywebsite about acid reflux, a frequent disorder chosocial Rehabilitation” in a bid to enable that can severely deteriorate the quality of life. patients recognize themselves as individuals, not patients. Acid reflux is one of the most frequent diseases in Turkey as in many countries which affect one The exhibition aims to underline the productivperson in every five. If may lead to serious comity of schizophrenic patients, to read their inner plications if left untreated. world off the canvas and, most importantly, to emphasize the significance and necessity The website, www.mideilacim.com, includes of rehabilitation activities such as painting. the following: The criteria of selection for exhibition display • Methods for the diagnosis and treatment are artistic creativity as well as the formation of acid reflux, of a common language via paintings portraying patients’ emotions. • Videos showing preand post-operative endoscopy, THERE ARE 700,000 • Nutrition recommendations for reflux SCHIZOPHRENIC PATIENTS IN patients, and TURKEY! • Cities where gastroenterologists in Turkey are serving, as well as their departThe majority of the 700,000 schizophrenic ments patients in Turkey are out on the streets, in our work environments and common areas whilst hiding and/or attempting to hide the problem TEDAV‹ ve TEDAVİ DİYABET Sinir hasarı (nöropati) gibi sorunlarınız varsa ya da özellikle D‹YABET they are faced with. These patients, comkalp krizi geçirdiyseniz, insülin tedavisinden yarar görebilirsiniz. TEDAVİSİ PLANINIZ Doktorunuz, insülin tedavisini ağızdan alınan diyabet ilaçlarının Tip 2 diyabetin yerine önerebilir. Diğer yandan, insülin ve ağızdan alınan diyamonly labeled as “crazy” and “deranged”, are yaşamınız üzerindeki Tanının konmasının ardınbet ilaçlarını birlikte verebilir. etkilerini ve uzun yıllar dan, doktorunuz sizi tam bir sonra sorunların ortaya tıbbi muayeneden geçirecek ve TİP 2 DİYABET İÇİN BESİNSEL DESTEK çıkmasını en aza sonra size uygun bir bakım not receiving their expected support from indirmek için siz ve Söz edilen kabul edilmiş tedavi seçeneklerinin yanı sıra, dikprogramı oluşturacaktır. Bu progsize bakım sağlayan kate alabileceğiniz birçok besinsel destek bulunmaktadır. Tip 2 ekip iş birliği içinde ram sizi ve yaşam tarzınızı ilgilendiyabet tedavinizde kullandığınız yöntem ne olursa olsun, bu olmalıdır. İster diren bir takım tedavi hedeflerini konuda doktorunuzu wider society. As such, many hide their disease. yakın zamanda Tip 2 diyabet tanısı almış olun, ister kapsar. Genç bir diyabet hastasıysanız bu hedefler sizin için daha mutlaka bilgilendirmelisiniz. Besin destekleri ile ilgili bilimsel bağlayıcıdır, çünkü diyabetli olarak uzun süredir bu They want to have a place in society and cergeçen süre ne kadar uzunsa, uzun araştırmalar çok azdır hastalıkla yaşıyor ve ilaç tedavisine yarolun, diyabetli süre sonra sorunlar çıkma riski o dımcı olarak kullanılolmanın ne kadar yüksektir. malıdır. Yararlandığıtainly would like to work and become individudemek olduğunu nız bazı ek yöntemler, kavramalı ve Genel anlamda tedavi programının diğer tedavilerinizin iştedavi amacı; leyişini etkileyebilir, bu nedenle doktorunuzun bilgisi olmalıdır. seçeneklerini als through quality treatment without being bilmelisiniz. Bu • Günlük rahatsızlıkları kontrol altısayede Kaynak: hastalığınızın na alarak normal bir yaşam sürdürülmesini sağlamak, • Simple Guide to Type 2 Diabetes Bestmedicine Health Handbooks 2009 tedavisinde aktif looked down upon by society. The Project, rol oynayabilir ve size verilen önerilerin • Uzun süre sonra sorunların ortaya çıkması riskini azaltmaktır. arkasındaki entitled “Let Truths Not Be Masked”, proves yet nedenleri anlayabilirsiniz. again that these patients are able to produce striking pieces of work displaying their skills, when given the opportunity. In light of this understanding, we call upon all to understand DIABETES UNIT them and help prevent them from being stigmatized. Working to a mission of informing people with the motto, “more information, more therapy”, in order to contribute to the treatment and prevention of diabetes in Turkey, Bilim Pharmaceuticals prepared a website at www.pioglitazon.com. The patient section (www.diyabetliyiz.com) on this website includes the following information: BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 A diet guide, the body mass index, a booklet on nutrition, a calorie chart, as well as general information about diabetes such as: • Information on diabetes • What is Type 2 diabetes? • How is diabetes diagnosed? • Living with diabetes • Nutrition in diabetes • Exercise in diabetes Moreover, brochures were printed under the following topics for pharmacies, hospitals and clinics: • What is diabetes? “Remove the Obstacles” Audio Book Project • Can diabetes be prevented? • Diabetes and pregnancy The best-selling books are nowadays vocalized in order to support the personal development • Diabetes and nutrition/exercise of our visually impaired citizens. The Company • Diabetes and afterwards works with various NGOs like GETEM (Technology and Education Laboratory for the Visually • Diabetes and treatment Handicapped) in this project. BILIM PHARMACEUTICALS COMMUNITY “Bilim Fellows at School” Project VOLUNTEERS PLATFORM’S VOLUNTEERING PROJECTS A number of activities from supplying primary school students’ personal needs (i.e. stationery, school uniforms, shoes, jackets) to provid“Remove the Obstacles, Alternative ing schools with important educational faciliCamp” Project ties (i.e. a library, a computer laboratory) are carried out by our volunteers. At the Alternative Camp, which has been organized regularly every year, candidates for “Bilim Fellows in Pursuit of Seeds” middle level management positions ensure Project that their disabled guests have the best vacation of their lives. This way, they as volunteers A new education method is developed with the can overcome the obstacles inside themselves. cooperation between the Ministry of National Education and the Corporate Volunteer AssoA total of 50 managers have participated in the ciation (ÖSGD). In the first phase of the project, Alternative Camp project, while we as BPCV the play entitled “Tohumun Peşinde” (In Pursuit allocated TL 39,979.75 in resources to the proof Seeds), written by Bilim Pharmaceuticals ject. Community Volunteers, aims to raise environmental awareness. This “learn by living” experi114 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 ence, which will be practiced by volunteers in groups of 40 people, can be applied to elementary students by all private sector employees through 8-hour programs. The related activiplays, on the other hand, are asked to donate a ties in classrooms will be started in 2013. children’s book to enter. With these collected books, our volunteers build libraries in schools with no library. The play entitled “Aladdin and the Wonderful Lamp”, written by our volunteers, was performed a total of 5 times (3 times in Samsun, once in Sivas and once in Cyprus) with the support of about 10 collaborations, reaching 13,000 children in total. Libraries were built in 7 elementary schools with the books collected at the play. “My Career Is In My Hands” Personal Development Congress Project “Bilim Fellows: Curious Books, Creative Reading” Project Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers moved forward with the notion that “If we had In this project, we help children not only to received basic talent training from professional read, but also to experience what they have instructors (which contributes so significantly read through drama. Children who read books to our achievements in the private sector after by playing, dreaming and discussing together entering business life) during our college years, begin to love reading books, while developing we would be one step ahead in our career!”. their creativity. Accordingly, the BPCV platform enables university students looking for jobs and who offer The “Curious Books” project has been applied in potential and are equipped with the necessary 12 schools, instilling a love of books in a total of knowledge and talents to receive full-day train1,727 children. ing from professional instructors for a period of 4 days. “Bilim Fellows at the Theater” Project Today, inequality of opportunity in education and the lack of employment of skilled employAll actors on this stage are volunteers and their ees are among the three biggest problems in families. They perform children’s plays to conboth Turkey and the world. It can be seen that tribute to the social development of children, the equality of opportunity in education and while children of those families with financial employment worsens as you go from west to problems are allowed to watch these plays free east in Turkey, a phenomenon that can be conof charge. Adults who would like to watch the firmed with concrete information. 115 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Oğ ul ca n Ce lep eu tic al s Se ni or Bi lim Ph ar m ac es en ta tiv e Sa le s Re pr I joined the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers about 3 years ago. The most important reason for me to become a BPCV volunteer is that I deal The project primarily aims to raise the knowledge, comwith maritime affairs and I am a sea petencies and skills of students by reaching universities captain. Voluntary help is vital in the sea in Turkey’s eastern parts and to offer a special internship as it is in BPCV volunteers. In the BPCV platform, I took part in opportunity to those students who benefit from educavarious projects, including “Geleceğimiz tion facilities to a maximum extent. The other objectives Erimesin” (Let Our Future Not Melt), of the project are as follows: to encourage volunteering “Meraklı Kitaplar, Yaratıcı Okuma” among our stakeholders; to raise awareness among uni(Curious Books, Creative Reading), versities on volunteering; to ensure that students recog“Turmepa ile Kıyı Temizliği” (Shore nize volunteering not only as a way of helping each other Cleaning with Turkish Marine Environment Protection Association or sharing, but also as an instrument to develop and gain (TURMEPA)), Somali Yardım experience; and to contribute to social development and Kampanyası (Aid Campaign for Somalia) awareness by reaching students and lecturers in the and Van Depremi Yardım Kampanyası region. (Aid Campaign for the Van Earthquake). While I was working in these projects, I In the project, 20 different training programs can be felt unconditional loyalty to them, and, once the projects were completed, I simultaneously opened in a total of 49 sessions for a gained a great sense of satisfaction period of 4 days. The number of students who benefited from helping others… I, as a BPCV from the congress has reached 5,380. 50 students who volunteer, feel that my point of view are selected according to the determined criteria are has changed; the perception of how given the chance to participate in a special internship strongly assumptions can damage us program in Turkey’s leading companies. Students who and my increasing sensitivity in my approach to the events around me earn the internship right receive mentee trainings from that require my help. BPCV is now professional instructors and participate in specially one of the behavior models in my life; designed orientation plans together with the profesI continue my efforts in the BPCV sional volunteers – who have received mentor training platform with pleasure, as it has – from the private sector become a phenomenon that I would like to spread and cultivate. Volunteering further strengthens Launched in 2008 at the Eskişehir Anatolian University the stablemate system that is as a pilot application with a total of 60 participants, the currently applied in our company, project has evolved into a comprehensive congress. The while the support that we extend to program was organized for a 3-day period at the Erzuthose in need adds value to our rum Atatürk University in 2009 and at the Kayseri Erciwork. In brief, it is a great honor for yes University in 2010 with 300 participants and as a me to work for a leading company, as well as to take part in a platform 4-day comprehensive program with nearly 1,750 particilike BPCV. pants at the Diyarbakır Dicle and Elazığ Fırat Universities in 2011. 116 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Companies That Supported The Project in 2012 by Setting Up Intern Student Quotas: COMPANIES THAT HIRED NUMBER OF INTERNS INTERNS AKBANK 2 ATOS 2 AVIVASA 1 BILIM PHARMACEUTICALS 6 Oz an Ca ny ur t eu tic als Ar ea BORUSAN ENERJI 1 Bi lim Ph ar m ac M an ag er BORUSAN HOLDING 1 I was one of the first members of BPCV. BORUSAN LOJISTIK 2 When our HR Director first mentioned the project, I was very excited. Like BORUSAN OTOMOTIV 1 everyone else, I already have the instinct BRISA 1 to help the right people at the right time. I had to be a part of and a pioneer ÇIMSA 1 in such a move. I became a member ENERJISA 1 without hesitation. In all regions I served, I took part in activities such as GSK 1 visits to rest homes, nursing homes KADIKÖY ŞİFA HOSPITAL 1 and the society for the protection of children and I delivered stationery OLMUKSA 2 materials to elementary school pupils ROCHE ILAÇ 1 and theater organizations. I provided coordination support in aid campaigns TOTAL 24 held by our company to help the victims of natural disasters such as the floods in Pakistan and the Hayat Kurtar (Save A Life) Project earthquake in Van. I personally took charge in the platform’s ongoing Approved as the Turkish leg of the European Union’s projects, like “Curious Books, project, “25,000 lives to save”, our project “Hayat Creative Reading” and “My Career Is Kurtar” (Save A Life) is an awareness raising move In My Hands”. aimed at preventing possible accidents and at taking life-saving measures after accidents or natural Throughout the period that I was a disasters. Medical Representative, my volunteering efforts helped me A total of 1,071 people have received online training improve my management and organization skills, and contributed through the project. to my inner peace. Although I was physically and mentally exhausted in each project, I had satisfaction in my spirit… As a part of the solution, I will continue to contribute and volunteer as much as I can in order to be a person who respects future generations and who extends his hands towards hope. 117 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Ekobilimciler (Eco-scientists) Having received sustainability-related training in 2011, all of Bilim Pharmaceuticals employees EFFORTS TO RAISE SOCIAL have each become a sustainability ambassaAWARENESS: dor. With the awareness brought about by environmental consciousness and a love of By means of our efforts to raise social awarenature at a young age, our volunteers menness throughout 2012, a total of 3,860 doctors tioned that they would like to get involved in and physicians were informed about our comthe training to be given to elementary school pany and products in 6 different countries. We pupils, and a range of activities such as ‘art provided up-to-date information and provided from scrap’ workshops and planting activities detailed product presentations and promogot underway and the eco-scientists begun tions to the doctors about their fields of expertheir efforts to be voluntary instructors in prestise through various congresses, seminars, entations and training sessions to be provided conventions, conferences and exhibition to our customers and other stakeholders in an stands. effort to raise their awareness. Moreover, we opened a Bilim Pharmaceuticals The project, entitled “Çevreci Penguenler” stand in the center of Tuzla, Bosnia-Herzego(Environmentalist Penguins), which is a part of vina within the scope of World Diabetes Day the “Eco-scientists” program, has been conand tested blood glucose levels of Tuzla’s residucted in 14 schools to instill environmental dents with the support of specialists. People awareness and love of nature among children. were guided and informed concerning the related topics based on the test results. In addiSocial Investment Projects and tion, we distributed informative brochures, Efforts to Raise Social Awareness in entitled “Diyabetten Korunma” (Preventing Foreign Markets Diabetes) and “Diyabeti Yönetme” (Managing Diabetes). Aware that it is a global citizen, Bilim Pharmaceuticals carries out efforts to raise social SOCIAL INVESTMENTS: awareness as well as social investments not only in Turkey, but in all regions where it is preMOLDOVA sent. Our teams come together with doctors and pharmacists in a number of countries, par“Dreams Come True!” Event ticularly those where our representative offices operate, and conduct informative conventions Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ Representative Office and conferences aimed at raising their knowlin Moldova held an event in a psychiatric clinic edge. Our social investments, on the other in Kishinev which shelters 59 disabled children, hand, are tools that we use to educate children and young people in order to raise their social awareness. Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers extend their support to those in need outside Turkey, by preparing projects within the scope of our volunteering strategies applied in Turkey. 118 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 some of whom have no family and some are forced to live their lives in this clinic because of their families’ financial problems. Six musicians from the “Valeriu Poleacov” music academy held a concert for the children. Bilim Pharmaceuticals employees donated chairs and tables to the clinic and gifted stationery materials for the children in order to contribute to their education. “We Care Crihana Veche, Cahul” Event 56 disabled children with no families living in the village of Crihana Veche in Cahul, a city 200 km from Kishinev, enjoyed a pleasant day with the organization of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ Moldova team. Following an entertaining play conducted by the theatrical company from Cahul, a surprise party was organized. Children who were brought together in a room full of balloons were happy once again with the gifts handed out by Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers. After the party, a friendly football match was held between Bilim Pharmaceuticals employees and the children. The children won the game. 119 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 New Year’s Event We erected a pine tree decorated with various lights and ornaments in the COMC Pediatric Cardiology Clinic (where 28 children stay) for the surprise New Year’s party. We also gave presents to children, aiming to ensure they began the New Year with smiling faces. ea Co rn eli a Vi nt er Pr od uc t M an ag Bi lim M ol do va Multinational pharmaceutical companies are a relatively new phenomenon for the Republic of Moldova a country with only 22 years of independence since the break-up of the Soviet Union. Working at Bilim Pharmaceuticals Company as a Product Manager represents a significant opportunity for me, having New Year’s Event graduated from Medical School, to combine medical knowledge and native We handed out books and toys to children from various age analytical skills and creative abilities. groups in the surprise New Year’s party held in the Hincesti Bilim Pharmaceuticals organizes Children’s Hospital, where 43 children were patients. The fact various CSR events such as Christmas party for our team employees’ children, that such an event was held for the first time at this hospital, the Professional Day of doctors and with these children celebrating the New Year for the first time pharmacists, collective sports events in their lives added meaning and influence to the project. and the social projects, organized in children’s hospitals. Primarily, these events are an opportunity for employees to spend time as a team in a relaxed atmosphere and to get to know each other better and build up lasting friendships. Through CSR activities, the Company demonstrates recognition and respect for staff, cultural aspects and values, and, without doubt, improves the quality of life for employees and their families’. Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ reward for BOSNIA HERZEGOVINA carrying out the CSR activities is the improvement in self-confidence “We Care for Children” Project seen among employees and their families, along with the team members’ loyalty to the company. We organized an event in Bosnia-Herzegovina on the World Over the years we have become Diabetes Day to bring diabetic children together; specialists family members of the company informed the children about diabetes, proper nutrition methwe work in, and we are proud of it. ods and important points that diabetic patients should to pay This also increases confidence and attention to. Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers commitment to the company and also briefly described about their platform in the event, where to the promoted products, which represents an additional source of children were given small presents that would be useful in value in our mutual success. their education. We aim to maintain such awareness raising efforts in the coming years by keeping in touch with the specialists who are responsible for this event. 120 OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ECOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT We draw up and apply the Yearly Environment Management Action Plan in order to reduce identified environmental risks, as well as to keep them under control. We consider the environmental aspects and impacts of our activities during all stages from the development of new products to recycling of packages of marketed products in order to minimize ecological impacts. We attach the reduce environmental impacts or to keep them utmost consideration and respect to the prounder control. All applied procedures and tection of natural resources as we carry out our instructions are associated with the requireactivities. ments of the ISO 14001 standard and defined in the Environmental Management Handbook. We have structured our Environment ManageWe comply with the environmental legislation ment System on the basis of ISO 14001 standencompassing the receipt of legal permits, ards as set out by Integral Management Sysapprovals and licenses, in line with the “Procetems (IMS). We identify the environmental dure of Monitoring Compliance with the Legisaspects and impacts of our activities and prodlations on Occupational Health & Safety and ucts, in line with legal and local requirements, Environment, as well as Other Requirements”. routine and exceptional management circumWe refer to ‘Waste Management Procedures’ stances, emergency situations, the findings of and ‘Energy Management Procedures’ as a external and internal audits and stakeholders’ guide in the activities we undertake on the profeedbacks. This study is performed by ISO tection of ecological environment. We dispose 14001 work teams. We determine and review of such products, materials and semi-finished our annual environmental targets in line with products as waste where a decision has been the results of the ‘Environment-Aspect and taken to dispose of such items due to expiry or Impact analysis’. non-compliance with quality specifications. We carry out the disposal procedure within the We draw up and apply the Yearly Environment framework of the “Rejection and Disposal ProManagement Action Plan in order to reduce cedure”. identified environmental risks, as well as to keep them under control. We have set up Environmental Management Units at our Gebze and Çerkezköy processing We have developed important procedures and facilities in parallel with the legislation on perdirectives deriving from the results of ‘Environmits and licenses that must be obtained in ment-Dimension-Effect Evaluation’ in a bid to accordance with the environment law. 122 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 OUR Our Environmental Management Model A sustainable ecological environment requires ENVIRONMENTeffective governance that needs to be coordinated with all other processes. Within the FRIENDLY framework of our sustainability management process, and in line with our strategy of “protecting the environment and reducing the conPRACTICES sumption of natural resources”, we set up the Energy Saving Environmental Management Board, the • We have deployed high efficiency state-of-art airEnergy Management Board and the ISO 14001 cooled chillers with frequency inverter at our Environmental Work Teams, which play an Çerkezköy Processing Facility. With this investactive role in processes such as evaluating our ment, we have reduced energy consumption for environmental impacts, the planning and percooling by an average of 15%, paving the way for formance of necessary activities to minimize around 245,000 kWh (TL 56,000) in annual energy determined impacts and in reducing the consavings. sumption of natural resources. The Environmental Management process is carried out • Besides saving energy through the refrigerating with the participation of all our employees and group investment undertaken in our Çerkezköy Proin cooperation with other processes. cessing Facility, we minimized the environmental impact caused by the cooling systems in all of our The Environmental Management Board and the processing facilities by starting to use the ozoneEnergy Management Board were established friendly refrigerant fluid, R410, which has an under the umbrella of the Sustainability Board extremely low environmental impact. to evaluate and review management, planning • We installed and commissioned a state-of-the-art and implementation processes, while Environgranulation tower with a capacity of 1,200 liters mental Work Teams were established to exeand very low energy consumption in order to meet cute and disseminate activities in practice. the increasing production volume at our Gebze Processing Facility. A granulation tower comprised of Our Environmental Policy is set wet granulation, a wet sieve, dryer with a fluid bed out in our web report. and dry sieve that work in conjunction with each other based on the principle of gravity, rather than separate equipment such as the pulp blender, furnace, granulator, sieve, etc. Hence, we expanded the group of products processed at our Gebze facility and shortened production time. This reduced the amount of energy consumed per unit product when compared to previous years. • We decided to undertake the necessary investments for a high-capacity tablet film coating machine, a blister machine and a suspension filling machine in an effort to meet the increasing production volume of our Çerkezköy Processing Facility’s in a cost-efficient manner and in a shorter space of time. • We decided to carry out an investment for a new tablet film coating machine with a perforated pan, in an effort to meet our Gebze Processing Facility’s increasing production volume in an energy-efficient manner. 123 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Waste Reduction • An environmental project carried out by our employees at Çerkezköy Processing Facility lowered solvent (solvents are used in the film coating boiler) consumption by 35 tons per year. • We began to recycle non-hazardous blister packaging waste – which is non-recyTo lg a Ba şt ak clable since it is composite waste – in Ge ne ra l W W F-Tu rk ey cooperation with a company licensed by M an ag er the Ministry of Environment and UrbanIn its research and scientific studies, the WWF reached the conclusion that our planet had ization. Hence, we recovered nearly 27.2 approached a breaking point in the last 30 years. tons of aluminium and PVC/PVDC materiIn order to survive, we are now taking more from als in 2012. nature than what nature can give to us. Keeping • A total of 3,000 packages of A4-sized abreast of this critical situation, Bilim paper were saved through the Document Pharmaceuticals continued the support that it has extended to WWF-Turkey since 2009 by Management System (DMS), which was becoming a Golden Sponsor of the campaign actively used in 2012. entitled “Türkiye’nin Canı” (Turkey’s Life), which was launched by WWF-Turkey in order to raise Water Saving awareness on the protection of our biological diversity and to broaden activates and • We installed flow restrictors at various initiatives concerned with environmental locations at our Çerkezköy Processing protection throughout Turkey. Facility where domestic water is utilized. Helping people change their lifestyles is as important as the success and sustainability in • In sustainability-related contests held on all of our activities and projects on natural special days, we awarded the winners protection. Our ongoing cooperation with with presents with a theme of raising Bilim Pharmaceuticals has yielded significant environmental awareness. contributions to the sustainability of our natural protection efforts from day one. In this respect, Bilim Pharmaceuticals offers the Reduction of Emissions WWF-Turkey a seat in its annual meetings and conventions, allowing us to deliver our • We reduced solvent consumption and messages to a higher number of people. VOC emissions through the improvement Bilim Pharmaceuticals also informs the of the film coating process at Çerkezöy doctors it visits of the WWF-Turkey’s efforts Processing Facility. and invites them to become members of our foundation. Moreover, it chooses • We raised thermal efficiency by replacing WWF-branded products as gifts that it the conventional heat exchanger with a distributes to its customers, employees plate type heat exchanger. and/or suppliers in some specific periods of the year, an example of its commitment to Raising Employees’ reducing its carbon footprint. As a foundation that supports the use of Environmental Awareness natural resources without exceeding ecological boundaries, we appreciate • We prepared a training module for enviBilim Pharmaceuticals’ efforts to reduce ronmental management system within its ecological footprint and to transform Bilimk@mpüs –our electronic training its processes by paying regard to the environment – and ensured that each of ‘environmental’ concept. our employees participated in this training program. 124 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 OUR ENVIRONMENTRELATED TARGETS Our Environmental Targets for the Çerkezköy Processing Facility for 2013 The environmental targets for Çerkezköy Processing Facility, are as follows: • To realize the rate of loss of materials in • To realize electricity consumption at a production at a maximum of 1.24% maximum of 0.122 kWh per box • To provide at least 4 hours of training to • To realize natural gas consumption at a each of our employees on the ISO 14001 maximum of 0.0075 m3 per box Environmental Management System • To realize water consumption at a maximum of 0.65 liters per box MATERIALS USED IN • To realize the amount of hazardous process waste of a maximum at 0.330 g per PRODUCTION box • To realize a maximum rate of loss of materials in production at 1.30% • To provide at least 4 hours of training to Material Number Kg Liters Total each of our employees on the ISO 14001 Glass 3,538,000 3,538,000 Environmental Management System Labels 77,894,405 77,894,405 Our Environmental Targets for the Gebze Processing Facility Raw materials 4,467,703 85,778 4,467,703 kg + 85,778 liters for 2013 Parcels 559,000 559,000 The environmental targets for Gebze are as folBoxes 2,931,403 2,931,403 lows: Plastic 48,000 48,000 • To realize electricity consumption at a maximum of 0.168 kWh per box Prospectus 168,974,420 • To realize natural gas consumption at a PVC-Folio 382,263 382,263 maximum of 0.015 m3 per box • To realize water consumption at a maxiDue to the nature of our sector, we cannot use mum of 0.98 liters per box recycled products in our raw materials or primary and secondary packaging materials. All • To realize the amount of hazardous promaterials in production processes are for single cess waste at 1.560 g per box use only. 125 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 ENERGY CONSUMPTION Electricity Consumption 0.20 0.16 0.19874 0.18352 0.12 0.16834 0.16635 0.15897 0.15235 0.14467 0.14889 0.13816 0.14293 0.13177 0.08 0.04 0.00 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Target Achieved 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 T A T A T A T A T A T Electricity consumption 0.19874 0.16834 0.18352 0.16635 0.15897 0.15235 0.14467 0.14889 0.13816 0.14293 0.13177 (kWh/box) Gebze 0.22741 0.19197 0.23919 0.20683 0.19731 0.18984 0.17491 0.17633 0.16052 0.17788 0.16820 Çerkezköy 0.20554 0.18832 0.18795 0.18646 0.18139 0.17072 0.16698 0.19219 0.18911 0.15384 0.12204 Ayazağa 0.03869 0.03515 0.03377 0.03448 0.03356 0.03321 0.03273 0.02876 0.02686 0.02770 0.02822 Reasons why electricity Total Electricity Consumption in 2012 consumption at our Gebze facility exceeded the target in 2012: kWh MJ • The operating hours of the air-conditioner terminals serving the laboratory Gebze 17,297,803 62,272,094.4 fields in Block B, including the pilot proAyazağa 878,532 31,62,715.2 duction, were increased; Çerkezköy 4,323,101 15,563,164 • The total number of free-cooling days between January-April 2012 amounted to Our Gebze and Çerkezköy plants are located in 3 weeks less than 2011; the Gebze and Çerkezköy organized industrial zones. These industrial zones procure their • The average cooling requirements energy from EnergySa. EnergySa acquires 79% between May and August increased when of the electricity it produces from natural gas compared to the previous year. combined cogeneration, 19.2% from hydroelecDue to the reasons set out above, electricity tric power plants and 1.8% from wind power. consumption was higher than the budgeted Hence, these industrial zones meet 21.2% of projections. their total energy need through renewable energy resources. 126 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Natural Gas Consumption 0.016 0.01620 0.012 0.01456 0.01446 0.01437 0.01400 0.01311 0.01274 0.01228 0.01251 0.008 0.01319 0.01176 0.004 0.000 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Target Achieved Perfor2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 mance Indicators T A T A T A T A T A T Natural gas consumption 0.01620 0.01456 0.01446 0.01437 0.01400 0.01311 0.01274 0.01319 0.01228 0.01251 0.01176 (m3/box) Gebze 0.01804 0.01606 0.01773 0.01721 0.01695 0.01607 0.01577 0.01588 0.01479 0.01554 0.01545 0.01819 0.01781 0.01765 0.01762 0.01686 0.01476 0.01268 0.01086 0.00965 0.00892 0.00754 Ayazağa 0.00399 0.00360 0.00361 0.00358 0.00351 0.00354 0.00340 0.00692 0.00639 0.00639 00432 Total Natural Gas Consumption in 2012 tained by the Gebze Organized Industrial Zone in reserve. Likewise, this reservoir provides water for kWh MJ residential users and cultivated areas in the region, as Gebze 15,108,510 54,390,636 well as the Gebze Organized Industrial Zone. Maslak 2,073,321 7,463,955.6 The Gebze Organized Industrial Zone is currently Çerkezköy 2,508,012 9,028,843 undertaking a preliminary project to provide garden irrigation water to industrial establishments by The electricity consumption per box was higher installing an advanced treatment system to the exit than the target, as natural gas consumption at of its current central water treatment facility. our Gebze facility exceeded the target in 2012. When this project is implemented in the coming WATER years, we will get the chance to obtain our garden irrigation water from the exit of the Gebze Organized CONSUMPTION Industrial Zone’s central water treatment facility. In our Çerkezköy processing facility, water is provided At our Gebze facility, water is provided from the from 17 deepwater wells within the boundaries of the Yuvacık reservoir through the municipality’s organized industrial regional directorate. Moreover, water supply network. This water source is used the use of the Yoncalı reservoir is allocated to the by residential areas in the region as well as the Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone, while a tender Gebze Organized Industrial Zone. Within the will be called soon for the construction of the dam. scope of plan B, we drew water for one week in 2011 from the Denizli reservoir which is mainRainwater is not collected or reused. 127 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Water Consumption 0.0012 0.00134 0.0010 0.00119 0.00115 0.00114 0.00111 0.0008 0.00100 0.00099 0.00087 0.00082 0.00079 0.00076 0.0006 0.0004 0.0002 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Target Achieved Perfor2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 mance Indicators T A T A T A T A T A T Water consumption 0.00134 0.00119 0.00115 0.00114 0.00111 0.00100 0.00099 0.00087 0.00082 0.00079 0.00076 (m3/box) Gebze 0.00151 0.00133 0.00144 0.00140 0.00139 0.00126 0.00124 0.00110 0.00103 0.00100 0.00098 Çerkezköy 0.00146 0.00144 0.00140 0.00136 0.00127 0.00108 0.00100 0.00082 0.00080 0.00075 0.00065 Ayazağa 0.00029 0.00024 0.00023 0.00020 0.00020 0.00020 0.00020 0.00018 0.00018 0.00019 0.00017 WASTE MANAGEMENT We collect the recyclable waste on a process Amounts of produced wastes, including their basis as shown on the sample process flow category, are continuously recorded at their scheme in Figure 1 and separate them at the source and their monthly trends are kept view source under such categories as hazardous of. All hazardous wastes associated with our wastes, industrial wastes, recyclable wastes activities are monitored as a performance indiand recoverable wastes in the scope of our cator: “amount of hazardous waste per box” summarized in Table 1. We dispose them, giving priority on recycling and recovery, through We continuously keep our employees, supplicollaboration with accredited firms licensed by ers, business partners and visitors informed the Ministry of Environment and Forestry in a about waste management in order to increase way that does not harm nature. the effectiveness of our waste management system. 128 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 TABLET PRODUCTION Tablet ProductionDRY DryGRANULATION Granulation Process PROCESS CONTAMINATED SOLID WASTE (070513) WASTE FILTER (150202) CONTAMINATED RAW MATERIAL WEIGHING PACKAGING ENTERING MATERIAL (150110) INDUSTRIAL WASTE WATER WOODEN PALLET CONTAMINATED (150103) SIEVING SOLID WASTE (070513) MIXING TABLET CONTAMINATED SOLID WASTE PRESSING (070513) COATING FILM COATING INDUSTRIAL SOLUTION (IF NECESSARY) WASTE (070504) WATER 129 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 No WASTE DESCRIPTION / CONTENT TYPE OF WASTE DISPOSAL METHOD Blister, paper-cardboard and plastic packaging waste containContaminated Waste Transported by vehicles licensed by the ing residues of hazardous substances or contaminated with / Contaminated Used Ministry of Environment to the companies hazardous waste; Glass licensed by the Ministry of Environment Laboratory waste (such as HPLC and GL column waste, TLC for recycling in accordance with the reguplates, capillary tubes, etc), ink rollers and their casing; lation on the control of hazardous waste, 1 Injectors needles used in laboratories; or dispatched to the incineration plant Contaminated wood, glass or plastic paint cans; Sheet metal or plastic raw materials barrels containing residue Contaminated Sheet of hazardous substances or contaminated with hazardous Metal Packaging / waste; and IBC tanks Contaminated Plastic Packaging Filter components and oil filters contaminated with hazardous Used Filters Transported by vehicles licensed by the substances Ministry of Environment to companies licensed by the Ministry of Environment 2 for incineration in accordance with the regulation on the control of hazardous waste Vacuum-raw materials powder waste/tablet-capsule waste Powder Waste / Transported by vehicles licensed by the Tablet-Capsule Waste Ministry of Environment to companies licensed by the Ministry of Environment Semi-Finished/Finished Products Shelf Samples / for incineration in accordance with the Stability Products regulation on the control of hazardous / Semi-Finished / waste Finished Products Destroyable raw materials (destroyable liquid-powder waste Destroyable Raw 3 produced during manufacturing); Destroyable products Materials (expired products, products recalled from the market, finished (Liquid-Powderproducts that are destroyable because of low quality) Pomade, etc.) Destroyable Finished Products Reducing solvent Reducing Solvent Waste Coating solution Coating Solution Laboratory chemical waste (acid, base) Acid Waste-Base Transported by vehicles licensed by the Waste / Ministry of Environment to companies Other Chemical licensed by the Ministry of Environment 4 Wastes for incineration in accordance with the regulation on the control of hazardous waste Softening resin Waste Resin Transported by vehicles licensed by the Ministry of Environment to companies licensed by the Ministry of Environment 5 for incineration in accordance with the regulation on the control of hazardous waste Toner and printer cartridge waste containing hazardous Used Toners-Used Transported by vehicles licensed by the substances Cartridges Ministry of Environment to companies Inky waste (ballpoint pens, ink boxes, highlighters-glass marklicensed by the Ministry of Environment 6 ers, board markers, etc.) for incineration in accordance with the regulation on the control of hazardous waste 130 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 No WASTE DESCRIPTION / CONTENT TYPE OF WASTE DISPOSAL METHOD Batteries and accumulators Used Batteries Transported by vehicles licensed by the Radio and phone batteries Ministry of Environment to companies licensed by the Ministry of Environment 7 Used Accumulators for incineration in accordance with the regulation on the control of used batteries and accumulators Waste oil Waste Oil Transported by vehicles licensed by the Ministry of Environment to companies 8 licensed by the Ministry of Environment for recycling in accordance with the regulation on the control of waste oil Tires of vehicles and forklifts Used Tires Recycled by companies licensed by the Ministry of Environment in accordance 9 with the regulation on the control of worn out tires Electrical-electronic waste (IT and telecommunication waste, Electrical-Electronic Transported by vehicles licensed by the monitoring and control devices and instruments, automation Waste Ministry of Environment to companies 10 systems, lighting devices and instruments, large white goods, licensed by the Ministry of Environment small household electrical appliances, consumer tools, etc.) for recycling in accordance with the regulation on the control of hazardous waste Fluorescent lights and other waste containing mercury Fluorescent Waste – Transported by vehicles licensed by the Mercury Containing Ministry of Environment to companies Waste licensed by the Ministry of Environment 11 for recycling in accordance with the regulation on the control of hazardous waste Injectors and other waste collected from the room of the Medical Waste Transported by licensed medical waste on-site doctor which are contaminated with blood, body fluids transportation vehicles for disposal at or drugs the incineration plants licensed by the 12 Ministry of Environment in accordance with the regulation on the control of medical waste Waste from the garden, cafeteria, washbasins and toilets Domestic Waste Disposed of by regular storage plants licensed by the Ministry of Environment in 13 accordance with regulation on the general principles of waste management and the regulation on the control of solid wastes Glass – paper – cardboard – metal – wooden waste; Recoverable Waste Recycled by companies licensed by the Clean PVC, aluminium folio Ministry of Environment in accordance with the regulation on the control of 14 packaging waste and within the scope of the communiqué on the recovery of some non-hazardous wastes Clean blister, sticky back label paper; Industrial Waste Disposed of by incineration plants Clean caps, galoshes licensed by the Ministry of Environment in 15 accordance with regulation on the general principles of waste management 131 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Waste Recovery In the scope of the Regulation on the Control of Packaging Wastes, we have been collaborating with ÇEVKO, an authorized institution in recycling activities, for the collection of our packaging waste at a specified quota since 2005. For packaging waste which we have been offering to the market, the recycling rate rose from 38% in 2011 to 40% in 2012. The recycling rate for the The central wastewater treatment system of packages of products sold in 2012 was 40%. the Gebze Organized Industrial Zone is comprised of chemical and biological treatment Amounts of Recovered Waste (kg) units. Our wastewater is analyzed by the Gebze 2011 2012 Organized Industrial Zone twice monthly for compliance with the criteria of water admitType of recovered packaging waste / tance to the central wastewater treatment 39,533 63,840 Plastic system of the Gebze Organized Industrial Zone. The results of this analysis, performed by Type of recovered packaging waste / 293,830 424,440 accredited environmental laboratories in Paper-Cardboard accordance with the requests of the Gebze Type of recovered packaging waste / Organized Industrial Zone in 2012, are provided 46,473 32,400 Glass below. Type of recovered packaging waste / 58,430 62,670 COD (ChemScrap palette Suspended ical Oxygen Sulphur pH Date Solids Demand) (mg/l) (mg/l) Recovered Waste (kg) (mg/l) (mg/l) 2012 24.01.2012 958 124 1 7.17 Plastic 12,017 06.02.2012 1,168 163 1 7.73 Paper-Cardboard 884,853 08.03.2012 1,042 134 1 7.2 26.03.2012 1,216 120 1.2 6.96 Wastewater 23.05.2012 1,136 94 1.2 7.3 As the central treatment facility was commissioned at the Gebze Organized Industrial Zone 06.06.2012 1,896 166 1.5 7.23 in early 2011, the industrial wastewater treat12.06.2012 1,024 76 1.4 7.45 ment and the domestic wastewater treatment systems installed at our Gebze Plant were 02.07.2012 142 85 1 7.31 closed in April. We began to collect our indus16.07.2012 382 115 1.2 6.7 trial and domestic wastewater associated with our activities in the reservoirs of our old treat30.07.2012 2,860 80 1.1 8.16 ment facility, now disused, and direct the wastewater through a canal directly to the 21.08.2012 838 60 1.3 7.04 central treatment system of the Gebze Organ04.09.2012 1,408 101 1.1 7.22 ized Industrial Zone. 132 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Domestic and industrial wastewater is processed through our wastewater chemical pretreatment facility at our Çerkezköy processing facility, and drained to the Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone’s Chemical and Biological Treatment Facility. Likewise, our wastewater is Management of Hazardous analyzed by the Çerkezköy Organized IndusWaste trial Zone for compliance with the criteria of water admittance to the central wastewater If a decision made to destroy material and treatment system of the Çerkezköy Organized products which are rejected by QABC, a Industrial Zone. destruction form is filled. Based on this form, products and/or materials are transferred to The waste water at Gebze Processing Facility is project inventories, provided they are kept in first discharged to Gebze Organized Industrial the warehouses of the rejected materials Zone Central Treatment System by complying within the SAP system. The related informawaste water discharge criteria. The treated tion is later conveyed to the Cost Accounting water is than discharged to Yumrukaya Stream. Department. Meanwhile, correspondence setting out the pertaining information is submitIn accordance with the discharge criteria of the ted to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry central wastewater treatment system of the of Health, and officials from the tax office and Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone for the the Ministry of Health check the destruction receiving environment of the exit water, the amounts and the reasons for such destruction. wastewater at our Çerkezköy processing facilFollowing the official compliance letter, the ity is discharged into the Çorlu stream. The products and materials are destroyed by the Çorlu stream carries the wastewater into the authorized institution (Izaydaş) in the presence Ergene River which drains into the Meriç River of the Notary and officials from the Ministry of before finally being carried to the Saroz Gulf. Health. The volume of wastewater discharged by our In addition to this process, where a material Gebze and Çerkezköy processing facilities and may be delivered to any recycling company, it is our headquarters in Ayazağa into the receiving sold as scrap. The Ministry of Health is not notienvironment are provided in the following fied of such products and materials. We have table: not encountered any spills caused by our operations. Water Discharge (m 3) 2010 2011 2012 Based on this new approach, the amounts of hazardous waste per box and targets for 2012 Gebze 17,600 37,734 34,072 are given in the following tables: Çerkezköy 10,948 7,494 6,235 Amount of Shelf Sample and Ayazağa 5,395 5,392 5,950 Destroyable Hazardous Waste in 2012: Total amount of shelf sample and 0.75432 destroyable hazardous waste (g/box) Total amount of shelf sample hazardous 0.19525 waste (g/box) Total amount of destroyable hazardous 0,55907 waste (g/box) 133 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Amount of Hazardous Waste Per Box Performance 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Indicators T A T A T A T A T A T Process-Based Hazardous 1.350 1.340 1.100 1.076 0.900 0.538 0.780 1.0840 1.093 1.042 1.019 Waste (g/box) Gebze 1.850 1.843 1.450 1.425 1.190 0.737 1.100 1.6250 1.617 1.580 1.560 Çerkezköy 1.350 1.336 1.200 1.168 0.980 0.507 0.520 0.3820 0.380 0.333 0.330 Ayazağa 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.0000 0.000 0.030 0.000 Carbon Monoxide (mg/Nm3) Gebze max.100 27.09 max.100 max.100 0 max.10 0 max.10 18.50 max.10 Çerkezköy max.100 10.3 max.100 10.4 max.100 9.68 max.10 0 max.10 0 max.10 Sulfur Dioxide (mg/Nm3) Gebze max.100 0 max.100 max.100 0 max.10 0 max.10 0 max.10 Çerkezköy max.100 0 max.100 0 max.100 0 max.10 0 max.10 0 max.10 Powder (mg/m3%3Ref.O2) Gebze max.10 0.73 max.10 0.37 max.10 3.66 max.1 <5 <5 2.27 <5 Çerkezköy max.10 0 max.10 0.38 max.10 0 max.1 7.2 <5 1.82 <5 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AND OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT Greenhouse gas emissions caused by our company’s activities in 2009 and 2010 were reviewed under the consultancy of an independent institution. We calculated our greenhouse gas emissions in 2012 based on the metrics set forth herein. The scope was expanded Due the new regulation covering reference to cover other activities throughout the organprices in the pharmaceutical industry, changes ization: direct and indirect energy consumpin repayments lists and the increase of input tion, company vehicles, air miles, personnel costs in foreign currency, and as a result of the transportation services and transportation Ministry of Health fixing the reference that is outsourced to third companies between exchange rate, we were forced to limit the our warehouses and distribution outlets. investment that we had aimed to make in order Greenhouse gas emissions arising during the to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. supply of input materials, which are used in our production and distribution services in the supWe expect the regulation covering reference ply chain within the Scope 3, are excluded. drug prices to continue being applied in 2013. 134 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Year 2009 CO2 (tonnes) 2010 CO2 (tonnes) 2011 CO2 (tonnes) 2012 CO2 (tonnes) Scope 1 12,107 11,558 13,333.18 14,839 Scope 2 10,778 9,680 11,555.07 11,896 Scope 3 2,815 1,954 3,297.32 2,240 Total 25,700 23,192 28,185.57 28,975 Emissions of Substances That Consume Ozone According to Weight Amount of Refrigeration Location refrigeration gas CO2e (tonnes) gas added in 2012 (kg) Ayazağa Headquarters Freon R 22 136.00 246.16 Air cooling refrigerating group, 1x1.45 MW Gebze Processing Facility 134 A Water cooling refrigerating group , 3x3 MW R410 A Çerkezköy Processing Facility Freon R 22 160.00 289.60 Water cooling refrigerating group , 1x1.45 MW Total 296.00 535.76 Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions in 2012 CO2e (tonnes) Flights for business 1,464.27 Service vehicles (diesel) 403.54 Transfer of products from facilities to pharmaceutical warehouses (diesel) 372.48 Total 2,240.29 NOx and SOx emissions caused by natural gas, gas oil and LPG in our facilities Gebze Processing Facility Parameter (kg/hour) Hot water boiler 1 Hot water boiler 2 Steam boiler 1 Steam boiler 2 SOx 0 0 0 0 NOx ( NO + NO2 ) 0.213 0.299 0.428 0.362 Çerkezköy Processing Facility Parameter (kg/hour) Steam boiler 1 Steam boiler 2 SOx 0 0 NOx (NO + NO2) 0.490 0.450 According to the Ministry of Environment legiscompounds is measured every 2 years. Accordlation, the emission volume of exhaust coningly, the next measurement will be performed taining organic pollutants and the emission in 2013. volume of exhaust containing volatile organic 135 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 BIODIVERSITY Both facilities went through Environmental Impact Assessment during establishment and the negative environmental impacts arising from the activities of these facilities were evaluated. Our facilities were established at Organized Industrial Zones (OSB). One of the foundation targets of OSBs is to provide waste management and to minimize and keep the possible LEGAL negative impacts on biodiversity under control. Both facilities went through Environmental Impact Assessment during establishment and COMPLIANCE the negative environmental impacts arising from the activities of these facilities were evalBoth of our processing facilities received the uated. The issued report stated that our faciliEnvironment Permit, which is obligatory folties would have no negative impact on flora lowing the amendment to the pertaining legisand fauna. lation in 2012. We continuously monitor our emissions and No fines have been levied on our facilities. No discharges with accredited independent organenvironmental incidents or accidents, includizations, which are licensed by Ministry of Enviing chemical leakage or spillage, have taken ronment and Forestry of the Republic of Turplace and no penalties or fines have been key. This way, we ensure that our emissions imposed by legal bodies in connection with our and discharges are well within the legal limits. processing facilities in 2012. 136 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 137 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report was prepared in compliance with the GRI G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Principles and the Global Compact’s Communication on Progress (COP) Reporting. The following table is an integrated indicator index table that brings together the indicators of both standards. Status of reporting concerning all indicators has been specified. Related GC Reporting GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report Page Number Explanation Indicators* Status GC Statement *Message from the CEO Statement from the most senior 1.1 of Continued Fully *Message from the 3-6 decision-maker of the organization. Support Chairman of the Board *Message from the CEO *Our Sustainability Management Description of key impacts, risks, and 5-6, 26-27, 1.2 Fully *Our Risk Management opportunities. 29-32, 106 *Our Strategic Planning *Risk Based Supply Approach 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully *Cover Page *About Bilim Primary brands, products, and/or Pharmaceuticals 2.2 Fully 11-20 services. *Our Field of Work *Our Processing Facilities Operational structure of the *About Bilim organization, including main Pharmaceuticals 2.3 Fully 11-13, 22-25 divisions, operating companies, *Our Management subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Structure Location of organization’s 2.4 Fully *Our Processing Facilities 13 headquarters. Number of countries where the organization operates, and names *About Bilim of countries with either major 2.5 Fully Pharmaceuticals 11, 42-44 operations or that are specifically *Foreign Markets relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. *Shareholding Structure 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully 22-23 *Board of Directors Markets served (including geographic *About Bilim 2.7 breakdown, sectors served, and types Fully Pharmaceuticals 11, 42-44 of customers/beneficiaries). *Foreign Markets *Bilim Pharmaceuticals At a Glance *About Bilim Pharmaceuticals *Our Processing Facilities 7-8, 11-18, 22, 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully *Shareholding Structure 40-44, 54-58 *Operational and Financial Information *Number of Employees *Our Investments Significant changes during the 2.9 reporting period regarding size, Fully *Board of Directors 22-23 structure, or ownership. 138 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Related GC Reporting GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report Page Number Explanation Indicators* Status Awards received in the reporting 2.10 Fully *Our Awards 38 period. Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar *Cover Page 3.1 Fully 9 year) for information provided. * About the Report Date of most recent previous report 3.2 Fully September 2012 (if any). Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, 3.3 Fully Annual etc.) Contact point for questions regarding 3.4 Fully * About the Report 9 the report or its contents. * About the Report 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully 9, 34-36 *Our Stakeholders Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, 3.6 leased facilities, joint ventures, Fully * About the Report 9 suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 3.7 Fully * About the Report 9 (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other 3.8 Fully * About the Report 9 entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to * About the Report 3.9 the compilation of the Indicators Fully *Greenhouse Gas Emissions 9, 134 and other information in the report. and Our Carbon Footprint Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons 3.10 for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/ Fully * About the Report 9 acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, 3.11 Fully * About the Report 9 boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. Table identifying the location of the 3.12 Fully *GRI ve GC Index 138-152 Standard Disclosures in the report. Policy and current practice with 3.13 regard to seeking external assurance Fully * About the Report 9 for the report. 139 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Related GC Reporting GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report Page Number Explanation Indicators* Status Governance structure of the *Our Management organization, including committees Approach under the highest governance body 4.1 Fully *Demographic Data of Our 22-25, 55-57 responsible for specific tasks, such Employees / Age Breakdown as setting strategy or organizational at Managerial Level oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the *Our Management 4.2 highest governance body is also an Fully 22-23 Approach executive officer. For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number *Our Management 4.3 and gender of members of the highest Fully 22-23 Approach governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders *Our Management Structure/Our Boards and employees to provide 22-25, 34-36, 4.4 Fully *Our Stakeholders recommendations or direction to the 88-91 *Employee Participation and highest governance body. Representation Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, *Board of Directors and executives (including 4.5 Fully *Pay Management and 22-23, 62-63 departure arrangements), and Retirement Policy the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). *About Bilim Pharmaceuticals *Our Management Approach Processes in place for the highest *Our Journey of Excellence 11-13, 22-23, 33, 4.6 governance body to ensure conflicts Fully *Our Ethical Management 50-51 of interest are avoided. *Compliance with Law and Fair Competition * Fighting with Bribery and Impropriety Process for determining the *Our Management composition, qualifications, and Approach expertise of the members of the *Our Recruitment Procedures *Evaluation of 22-23, 58-62, 4.7 highest governance body and Fully Competencies 64-76 its committees, including any *Our Contribution to the consideration of gender and other Development of Our indicators of diversity. Employees *Our Management Approach *Our Mission, Vision and Values *Our Quality Management *Our Reputation Internally developed statements Management of mission or values, codes of *Our Ethical Management *Our Sustainability 20-21, 22-23, conduct, and principles relevant to 4.8 Fully Management 27-33, 39-51, economic, environmental, and social *Our Economic Added Value 52-120, 121-136 performance and the status of their *The Value We Attach to implementation. People *Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment *Our Ethical Management *Our policies are available in our webreport 140 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Related GC Reporting GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report Page Number Explanation Indicators* Status Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s *Our Management identification and management of Structure economic, environmental, and social *Our Strategic Planning 22-25, 26-27, 4.9 performance, including relevant risks Fully *Our Risk Management 29-32, 33 and opportunities, and adherence *Our Sustainability or compliance with internationally Management agreed standards, codes of conduct, *Our Ethical Management and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, *Our Management 4.10 particularly with respect to Fully 22-23 Structure economic, environmental, and social performance. *Our Strategic Planning *Our Risk Management Explanation of whether and how the *Occupational Health and 26-27, 93-98, 4.11 precautionary approach or principle is Fully Safety 98-106, 107, addressed by the organization. *Product Responsibility 121-136 *Environmental Management *About Bilim Externally developed economic, Pharmaceuticals environmental, and social charters, *Our Memberships 11-18, 27-28, 4.12 principles, or other initiatives to Fully *Our Quality Management 29-32, 37 which the organization subscribes or *Our Journey of Excellence endorses. *Our Sustainability Management Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in 4.13 Fully *Our Memberships 37 governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. List of stakeholder groups engaged by 4.14 Fully *Our Stakeholders 34-36 the organization. Basis for identification and selection 4.15 of stakeholders with whom to Fully *Our Stakeholders 34-36 engage. *Our Stakeholders *Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers Approaches to stakeholder *Employee Participation and 34-36, 81-87, engagement, including frequency Representation 88-91, 101-105, 4.16 Fully of engagement by type and by *Our Customers/Customer 105-109, stakeholder group. Satisfaction 109-120 *Our Suppliers and Collaborations *Community Investment 141 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Related GC Reporting GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report Page Number Explanation Indicators* Status *Our Stakeholders *Our Quality Management Key topics and concerns that have *Our Sustainability been raised through stakeholder Management 27-33, engagement, and how the 4.17 Fully *Our Economic Added Value 34-36,39-51, organization has responded to those *The Value We Attach to 52-120, 121-136 key topics and concerns, including People through its reporting. *Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment Economic * Our Mission, Vision and Values *Our Management Approach *Our Strategic Planning Management *Our Quality Management 20-21, 22-25, Fully Approach *Our Reputation 26-27, 27-33 Management *Our Ethical Management *Our Risk Management *Our Sustainability Management Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee EC1 compensation, donations and other Fully *Our Economic Added Value 40-42 community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. *Our Management Approach *Our Strategic Planning *Our Risk Management *Risk-Based Supply Approach Financial implications and other *Our Responsibility to the 22-23, 26-27, risks and opportunities for the EC2 GC 7 Fully Ecological 106, 122-124, organization’s activities due to Environment / 126-127, 134-135 climate change. Environmental Management Our Environment Friendly Practices Enerji Consumption Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Our Carbon Footprint *Our Economic Added Value / Our Investments Coverage of the organization’s EC3 Fully *The Value We Attach to 41, 62-63 defined benefit plan obligations. People / Pay Management and Retirement Policy *TÜBİTAK Projects *Government Grants Significant financial assistance EC4 Fully Received 48-50 received from government. *Investment Deduction Practice Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to *Pay Management and EC5 GC 1 Fully 63 local minimum wage at significant Retirement Policy locations of operation. 142 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Related GC Reporting GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report Page Number Explanation Indicators* Status Policy, practices, and proportion of *Our Suppliers and EC6 spending on locally-based suppliers at Fully 105-109 Collaborations significant locations of operation. Procedures for local hiring and *Our Recruitement proportion of senior management Procedures EC7 GC 6 Fully 58, 63 hired from the local community at *Pay Management and significant locations of operation. Retirement Policy Development and impact of *Our Economic Added Value Not applicable / infrastructure investments and / Our Investments We do not have EC8 services provided primarily for public Partially *Our Work on Research and 41-48, 109-120 any infrastructure benefit through commercial, in-kind, Development services. or pro bono engagement. *Community Investment *Bilim Pharmaceuticals At a Glance Understanding and describing *About Bilim EC9 significant indirect economic impacts, Fully Pharmaceuticals 7-8, 11-13 including the extent of impacts. *Our Risk Management *Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment Environmental *About Bilim Pharmaceuticals *Our Processing Facilities *Our Values *Our Management Approach *Our Risk Management 11-18, 20-21, Management GC Environmental Fully *Our Quality Management 22-25, 26-33, Approach Commitment *Our Reputation 121-136 Management *Our Sustainability Management *Our Ethical Management *Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment *Materials Used in EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. GC 8 Fully 125 Production Percentage of materials used that are *Materials Used in EN2 GC 8, GC 9 Fully 125 recycled input materials. Production *Energy Consumption Direct energy consumption by Greenhouse Gas EN3 GC 8 Fully 126-127, 134-135 primary energy source. Emmisions and Our Carbon Footprint *Energy Consumption Indirect energy consumption by Greenhouse Gas EN4 GC 8 Fully 126-127, 134-135 primary source. Emmisions and Our Carbon Footprint *Our Environment Friendly Practices Energy saved due to conservation and *Energy Consumption 123-124, 126-127, EN5 GC 8, GC 9 Fully efficiency improvements. *Greenhouse Gas Emmisions 134-135 and Our Carbon Footprint 143 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Related GC Reporting GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report Page Number Explanation Indicators* Status *Our Environment Friendly Initiatives to provide energy-efficient Practices or renewable energy based products *Energy Consumption 123-124, 126-127, EN6 and services, and reductions in GC 8, GC 9 Fully *Greenhouse Gas Emmisions 134-135 energy requirements as a result of and these initiatives. Our Carbon Footprint *Our Environment Friendly Practices Initiatives to reduce indirect energy *Energy Consumption 123-124, 126-127, EN7 consumption and reductions GC 8, GC 9 Fully *Greenhouse Gas Emmisions 134-135 achieved. and Our Carbon Footprint EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. GC 8 Fully *Water Consumption 127-128 Water sources significantly affected EN9 GC 8 Fully *Water Consumption 127-128 by withdrawal of water. Percentage and total volume of water *Water Consumption EN10 GC 8, GC 9 Fully 127-128, 132-133 recycled and reused. *Waste Water Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, EN11 protected areas and areas of high GC 8 Fully *Biodiversity 136 biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services EN12 on biodiversity in protected areas GC 8 Fully *Biodiversity 136 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. GC 8 Fully *Biodiversity 136 Strategies, current actions, and EN14 future plans for managing impacts on GC 8 Fully *Biodiversity 136 biodiversity. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species EN15 GC 8 Fully *Biodiversity 136 with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Total direct and indirect greenhouse *Greenhouse Gas Emmisions EN16 GC 8 Fully 134-135 gas emissions by weight. and Our Carbon Footprint Other relevant indirect greenhouse *Greenhouse Gas Emmisions EN17 GC 8 Fully 134-135 gas emissions by weight. and Our Carbon Footprint *Our Sustainability Management *Our Environment Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas 29-32, 123-125, EN18 GC 7, GC 8, GC 9 Fully Friendly Practices emissions and reductions achieved. 126-127, 134-135 *Energy Consumption *Greenhouse Gas Emmisions and Our Carbon Footprint We have no significant Emissions of ozone-depleting EN19 GC 8 Not applicable emissions of substances by weight. ozone-depleting substances. NOx, SOx, and other significant air *Greenhouse Gas Emmisions EN20 GC 8 Fully 134-135 emissions by type and weight. and Our Carbon Footprint 144 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Related GC Reporting GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report Page Number Explanation Indicators* Status Total water discharge by quality and EN21 GC 8 Fully *Waste Water 132-133 destination. Total weight of waste by type and EN22 GC 8 Fully *Waste Management 128-134 disposal method. *Our Responsibility to the Total number and volume of EN23 GC 8 Fully Ecological Environment / 136 significant spills. Legal Compliance Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed Not applicable / hazardous under the terms of the EN24 GC 8 Not applicable We have no waste Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and shipment. VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and EN25 related habitats significantly affected GC 8 Fully *Biodiversity 136 by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. *Our Sustainability Initiatives to mitigate environmental Management EN26 impacts of products and services, and GC 7, GC 8, GC 9 Fully 29-32, 121-136 *Our Responsibility to the extent of impact mitigation. Ecological Environment Percentage of products sold and EN27 their packaging materials that are GC 8, GC 9 Fully *Waste Management 128-134 reclaimed by category. Monetary value of significant fines * Our Responsibility to the and total number of non-monetary EN28 GC 8 Fully Ecological Environment / 136 sanctions for non-compliance with Legal Compliance environmental laws and regulations. Significant environmental impacts *Our Sustainability of transporting products and Management other goods and materials used * Our Environment Friendly 29-32, 123-124, EN29 GC 8 Fully for the organization’s operations, Practices Greenhouse Gas 134-135 and transporting members of the Emmisions and Our Carbon workforce. Footprint *Our Sustainability Total environmental protection Management EN30 expenditures and investments by GC 7, GC 8, GC 9 Fully 29-32, 121-136 *Our Responsibility to the type. Ecological Environment Labor Practices and Decent Work *About Bilim Pharmaceuticals *Our Processing Facilities *Our Values *Our Management Approach *Our Risk Management *Our Reputation Management 11-18, 20-21, Management Fully 22-25, 26-27, Approach *Our Sustainability 28-36, 52-97 Management *Our Ethical Management *Our Stakeholders *The Value We Attach to People *Occupational Health and Safety *The Value We Attach to Total workforce by employment type, People LA1 employment contract, and region, Fully 54-58 Demographic Data of Our broken down by gender. Employees 145 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Related GC Reporting GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report Page Number Explanation Indicators* Status Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee *Our Recruitment Proprietary LA2 GC 6 Partially 58-61 turnover by age group, gender, and Procedures information region. Benefits provided to full-time *Benefits, rights and employees that are not provided to support practices LA3 Fully 62-64 temporary or part-time employees, *Pay Management by major operations. and Retirement Policy Percentage of employees covered by *Our Principles on Employee LA4 GC 1, GC 3 Fully 53 collective bargaining agreements. Rights Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, *Internal Communication LA5 GC 3 Fully 90-91 including whether it is specified in Activities collective agreements. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and *The OHS Board and OHS LA6 GC 1 Fully 93 safety committees that help monitor Study Team and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Rates of injury, occupational *Job-Related Accidents and diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, LA7 GC 1 Fully Efforts to Prevent Accidents 95-97 and number of work-related fatalities *Lost Workforce by region and by gender. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs *Occupational Health and LA8 in place to assist workforce members, GC 1 Fully Safety 92-97, 109-120 their families, or community *Community Investment members regarding serious diseases. Health and safety topics covered We have no LA9 in formal agreements with trade GC 1 Not applicable agreements with unions. trade unions. Average hours of training per year per *Employee Training LA10 employee by gender, and by employee Fully 71, 94-95 *OHS Trainings category. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the *Our Contribution to LA11 continued employability of employees Fully the Development of Our 64-87 and assist them in managing career Employees endings. *Our Contribution to the Development of Our Employees/ Performance Percentage of employees receiving Management 360 ° LA12 regular performance and career Fully Competency Evaluation 65-67, 72-77 development reviews, by gender. System Potential Evaluation Leadership Development Program Coaching System 146 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Related GC Reporting GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report Page Number Explanation Indicators* Status Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to *Demographic Data of Our LA13 GC 1, GC 6 Fully 54-58 gender, age group, minority group Employees membership, and other indicators of diversity. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by *Pay Management and LA14 GC 1, GC 6 Fully 62-63 employee category, by significant Retirement Policy locations of operation. *Our Recruitment Return to work and retention rates Procedures Ratio of LA15 Fully 61 after parental leave, by gender. employees who return back to work after giving birth Human Rights *About Bilim Pharmaceuticals *Our Processing Facilities *Our Values *Our Management Approach *Our Risk Management *Our Quality Management *Our Reputation 11-18, 20-21, Management Management 22-25, 26-27, Fully Approach *Our Sustainability 28-36, 52-97, Management 105-109 *Our Ethical Management *Our Stakeholders *The Value We Attach to People *Occupational Health and Safety *Our Suppliers and Collaborations Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses GC 1, GC 2, GC 3, *Our Suppliers and HR1 Fully 105-109 incorporating human rights concerns, GC 4, GC 5, GC 6 Collaborations or that have undergone human rights screening. Not available / We are working on improving Percentage of significant suppliers, our supply chain contractors and other business GC 1, GC 2, GC 3, *Our Suppliers and HR2 Partially 105-109 management partners that have undergone human GC 4, GC 5, GC 6 Collaborations and we will adopt rights screening, and actions taken. more systematic processes in the future. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning GC 1, GC 2, GC 3, HR3 aspects of human rights that are Fully *Our Ethical Management 33 GC 4, GC 5, GC 6 relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. *Our Ethical Management Total number of incidents of *Our Principles on Employee GC 1, GC 2, GC 3, HR4 discrimination and corrective actions Fully Rights *Legal actions on 33, 53, 91 GC 4, GC 5, GC 6 taken. overtime, harassment or discrimination 147 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Related GC Reporting GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report Page Number Explanation Indicators* Status Not available / Operations and significant suppliers *Our Principles on Employee We will put more identified in which the right to Rights emphasis on exercise freedom of association and *Selection of Suppliers supplier inspections HR5 GC 1, GC 2, GC 3 Partially 53, 105-109 collective bargaining may be violated *Supplier Inspection and are planning or at significant risk, and actions *Improvement of to conduct more taken to support these rights. Collaboration indepth inspections in the future. Not available / *Our Principles on Employee We will put more Operations and significant suppliers Rights emphasis on identified as having significant risk for *Selection of Suppliers supplier inspections HR6 incidents of child labor, and measures GC 1, GC 2, GC 5 Partially 53, 105-109 *Supplier Inspection and are planning taken to contribute to the effective *Improvement of to conduct more abolition of child labor. Collaboration indepth inspections in the future. Not available / Operations and significant suppliers *Our Principles on Employee We will put more identified as having significant risk Rights emphasis on for incidents of forced or compulsory *Selection of Suppliers supplier inspections HR7 GC 1, GC 2, GC 4 Partially 53, 105-109 labor, and measures to contribute to *Supplier Inspection and are planning the elimination of all forms of forced *Improvement of to conduct more or compulsory labor. Collaboration indepth inspections in the future. Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies *Our Sustainability HR8 or procedures concerning aspects of GC 1, GC 2 Fully 29-32 Management human rights that are relevant to operations. Total number of incidents of Our operations HR9 violations involving rights of GC 1, GC 2 Not applicable do not affect any indigenous people and actions taken. indigenous people. Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to *Our Suppliers and HR10 Fully 105-109 human rights reviews and/or impact Collaborations assessments. Number of grievances related to *Our Ethical Management human rights filed, addressed and HR11 Fully *Legal actions on overtime, 33, 91 resolved through formal harassment or discrimination grievance mechanisms. Society *About Bilim Pharmaceuticals *Our Processing Facilities *Our Values *Our Management Approach *Our Risk Management *Our Quality Management *Our Reputation Management *Our Sustainability Management *Our Ethical Management 11-18, 20-21, Management *Our Stakeholders 22-25, 26-27, Fully Approach *The Value We Attach to 28-36, 50-51, People 81-87, 109-120 *Occupational Health and Safety *Our Suppliers and Collaborations *Compliance with Law and Fair Competition *Fighting with Bribary and Impropriety * Bilim Pharmaceuticals Communiety Volunteers * Community Investment 148 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Related GC Reporting GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report Page Number Explanation Indicators* Status *Our Risk Management *Our Quality Management *Our Reputation Management *Our Sustainability Management Percentage of operations with *Our Ethical Management 13-18, 26-36, implemented local community *Our Stakeholders SO1 Fully 81-88, 93-98, engagement, impact assessments, * Bilim Pharmaceuticals Communiety Volunteers 110-120121-136 and development programs. *Occupational Health and Safety * Community Investment *Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment *Our Ethical Management Percentage and total number of *Compliance with Law and SO2 business units analyzed for risks GC 10 Fully Fair Competition 33, 50-51 related to corruption. *Fighting with Bribary and Impropriety Percentage of employees trained SO3 in organization’s anti-corruption GC 10 Fully *Our Ethical Management 33 policies and procedures. *Our Ethical Management *Compliance with Law and Actions taken in response to incidents SO4 GC 10 Fully Fair Competition 33, 50-51 of corruption. *Fighting with Bribary and Impropriety GC 1, GC 2, GC 3, Public policy positions and Political lobbying GC 4, GC 5, GC 6, SO5 participation in public policy Not applicable for companies is GC 7, GC 8, GC 9, development and lobbying. forbidden by law. GC 10 Total value of financial and in-kind Political donations contributions to political parties, SO6 GC 10 Not applicable by companies is politicians, and related institutions forbidden by law. by country. Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, *Fighting with Bribary and SO7 Fully 50-51 and monopoly practices and their Impropriety outcomes. Monetary value of significant fines *Our Ethical Management *Compliance with Law and and total number of non-monetary SO8 Fully Fair Competition 33, 50-51 sanctions for non-compliance with *Fighting with Bribary and laws and regulations. Impropriety Our operations do Operations with significant potential not affect any local SO9 or actual negative impacts on local Not applicable communities in a communities. negative way. Prevention and mitigation measures Our operations do implemented in operations not affect any local SO10 with significant potential or Not applicable communities in a actual negative impacts on local negative way. communities. 149 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Related GC Reporting GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report Page Number Explanation Indicators* Status Product Responsibility *About Bilim Pharmaceuticals *Our Processing Facilities *Our Values *Our Management Approach *Our Risk Management 11-18, 20-21, Management Fully *Our Quality Management 22-25, 26-27, Approach PR *Our Reputation 28-36, 97-105 Management *Our Sustainability Management *Our Ethical Management *Our Stakeholders *Product Responsibility Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for PR1 improvement, and percentage of GC 1 Fully *Product Responsibility 97-105 significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and *Number of Drugs Recalled voluntary codes concerning health from the Market PR2 GC 1 Fully 100, 103-104 and safety impacts of products and *Marketing Principles and services during their life cycle, by type Ethics of outcomes. Type of product and service information required by procedures, PR3 and percentage of significant GC 8 Fully *Informing Customers 103-104 products and services subject to such information requirements. Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and *Informing Customers PR4 voluntary codes concerning product GC 8 Fully *Marketing Principles and 103-104 and service information and labeling, Ethics by type of outcomes. Practices related to customer *Müşteri Memnuniyeti satisfaction, including results 101-102, 104PR5 Fully *Customer Privacy of surveys measuring customer 105 *Customer Complaints satisfaction. Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary *Informing Customers codes related to marketing PR6 Fully *Marketing Principles and 103-104 communications, including Ethics advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations *Informing Customersi and voluntary codes concerning PR7 Fully *Marketing Principles and 103-104 marketing communications, Ethics including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. 150 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 Related GC Reporting GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report Page Number Explanation Indicators* Status Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches *Customer Privacy PR8 GC 1 Fully 104-105 of customer privacy and losses of *Patient Confidentiality customer data. Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and *Number of Drugs Recalled PR9 Fully 100 regulations concerning the provision from the Market and use of products and services. * We have made use of the Practical Guide in the Communication on Progress of the UN Global Compact for the matching of GRI-GC indicators. 151 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 BILIM PHARMACEUTIC AL S CORP OR ATE RESP ONSIBILIT Y REP ORT 2012 This report has been prepared with the support of Mikado Consulting, our consultant on sustainability strategy building. www.mikadoconsulting.com Designed by MYRA T 90 212 243 26 70 www.myra.com.tr 153
