Sustainability Report 2013 We Build Value For this Report a “Materiality Matters” check was conducted by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This check confirms that the most critical disclosures in the Report, based on the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, have been correctly located at both the GRI Content Index as well as in the final Report. CEO introduction 02 About the Salini Impregilo Group 04 1.1 2013 at a glance 09 1.5 Corporate governance 12 1.2 Competitive environment 09 1.6 Business integrity worldwide 13 About the Salini 1 Impregilo Group 1.3 Strategy to 2017 10 1.7 Materiality analysis 14 1.4 Business Sustainability Model 10 1.8 Our commitment to open dialogue 16 Our commitment to excellence 18 Our commitment 2.1 Excellence in serving clients 20 2.2 Innovating to succeed 20 to excellence 2 2.3 Supply chain management 20 Our commitment to shared growth 22 Our commitment 3.1 Job creation 24 3.3 Community support 27 3.2 Local procurement 25 3.4 Shared growth performance results 30 to shared growth 3 Our commitment to people care 32 Our commitment 4.1 Human resources development 34 4.3 Personnel wellbeing 38 4.2 Health and safety protection 35 4.4 People care performance results 39 to people care 4 Our commitment to environmental stewardship 44 Our commitment 5.1 Better infrastructures to face 5.2 Local impact mitigation 49 global environmental challenges 46 5.3 Environmental stewardship to environmental 5 performance results 52 stewardship Future commitments 56 Future 6 commitments Appendix 59 7.1 Main memberships 60 7.2 Methodological note 60 Appendix 7 7.3 Glossary 66 Third-party assurance report 68 Third-party assurance report 8 02 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 CEO introduction Pietro Salini Dear stakeholders, I am delighted to present the 2013 sustainability report, sharing with you the significant successes we have achieved over this year of exciting work building real value. Thanks to the extraordinary support of all our people around the world, Salini Impregilo today represents a clear example of Italian excellence in the global market, capable of implementing new ambitious achievements on behalf of all of our stakeholders. As a global player in the complex infrastructure sector, we are determined to address the key challenges facing societies today, promoting the values of sustainable development in our industry and among our clients, partners, employees and communities, wherever we operate. 03 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini 1 Impregilo Group Our approach Our achievements Our ambitions Our business model is developed and The robustness of our shared value approach 2014 is an important year for Salini Impregilo Our commitment updated through continuous dialogue with is confirmed by the achievement of excellent Group, with the full integration of our values, our main stakeholders worldwide and focuses 2013 results, on behalf of our key stakeholders: cultures and procedures. We are already to excellence on the creation of shared value. working to grow and develop new markets, –– Our shareholders and investors benefited hire new employees, ensure profitability for In developing our projects, we are particularly from the growth of our revenue (+13.6%) our shareholders and for new financing focused on satisfying and exceeding the and backlog (+9.9% in the construction investments and create wealth for the expectations of our clients while supporting and plant sector) in terms of return on their communities in which we live and work. the economic development of the countries investments and share value (+108.57%); Our commitment where we operate. We do this through local We are committed to being the contractor, –– Our communities continued to receive job creation, development of local supply partner, employer and company of choice to shared growth strong support for their economies, in terms chains, capacity building and support for for new clients, suppliers, employees and of job creation (90% of total workforce hired the communities where we work. In so doing, investors worldwide, advancing the application locally), local procurement (73% of supply we aim to ensure the highest standards of of the principles of sustainable development purchased locally) and social support safety and wellbeing for our people, as well across the whole construction industry and its initiatives (about 90 in the year); as working to help advance the UN Global value chain. Our commitment Compact’s ten universal principles on human –– Our people benefited from our development rights, labour practices, the environment and welfare programs in terms of training to people care and anti-corruption. received (+9% to workers), investment in health and safety protection (+54%) and injury reduction (-30%); –– The environments around our projects benefited from the growth of our investment in protection programs (+82%), in reuse of Our commitment raw materials such as rocks and soil (48%), to environmental recycling of waste (46%) and water (6%), stewardship as well as a reduction in GHG emissions intensity (-2%). Pietro Salini CEO These important results prove the strength Salini Impregilo Group of our distinctive business model. They are Future also the outcome of the day-to-day work of an extraordinary management team and workforce who are committed to excellence commitments and who I am very honoured to lead. We are also proud to be among the worldwide pioneers to have adopted the new GRI-G4 Guidelines in preparing this report, choosing the “comprehensive” option to ensure the full Appendix disclosure of our material sustainability topics. Third-party 2013 was a year assurance report of significant developments and changes for our Group. 04 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 1 05 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini About the Salini 1 Impregilo Group Impregilo Group Our commitment to excellence Salini Impregilo is an industrial group specialising in the construction of major, complex infrastructure projects throughout the world. Our commitment to shared growth Our commitment to people care Our commitment to environmental stewardship In this section… 1.1 2013 at a glance 09 1.2 Competitive environment 09 Future 1.3 Strategy to 2017 10 commitments 1.4 Business Sustainability Model 10 1.5 Corporate governance 12 1.6 Business integrity worldwide 13 1.7 Materiality analysis 14 Appendix Future 1.8 Our commitment to open dialogue 16 commitments Third-party assurance report 06 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About us Salini Impregilo is world leader for infrastructure Our track record projects in the water segment1, and a top player in the railway and metro segment. 230 We deploy first-class professional resources Dams and hydroelectric plants through our highly experienced management team. We focus on developing and successfully executing innovative projects capable of enhancing 1,250 km communities and contributing to the economic Of underground works and social improvement of nations. 6,700 km Of railways 340 km Of metro systems 36,000 km Of roads and motorways 320 km Of bridges and viaducts 1 According to special ENR (Engineering News Records) rankings. Our Expertise Dams, Hydroelectric Plants Motorways and airports and Hydraulic Works Salini Impregilo is a world leader in the construction of dams, Road infrastructure plays a decisive role in economic growth and hydroelectric plants and hydraulic engineering works, with key social development. Salini Impregilo has constructed over 36,000 km projects both completed and underway. The Group has constructed of roads and motorways and approximately 320 km of bridges and approximately 230 dams and hydroelectric plants, with an installed viaducts across the globe. The Group is currently involved in capacity of more than 36,800 MW of low-cost, clean energy: numerous projects of various sizes and complexity around the world. a vital prerequisite for economic development. It is involved in These range from building roads to connect the built-up areas of the development of significant projects in this sector, including the Sierra Leone to the resurfacing of the Kazakh motorway – which massive project involved in doubling the size of the Panama Canal retraces the ancient ‘Silk Road’, as well as important urban and extraand several mega hydroelectric projects in Africa. urban routing systems in densely populated areas such as Dubai, Milan and Long Beach. 07 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 >31,000 90% Staff worldwide Personnel hired from 42% Employees under About the Salini local community 30 years old 1 Impregilo Group Our presence Our commitment to excellence Our commitment to shared growth Our commitment to people care Our commitment to environmental stewardship Future commitments Appendix Railways and undergrounds Civil and industrial buildings Rail transport represents the most sustainable terrestrial mobility Working in partnership with prestigious architects and designers, Third-party assurance report method currently available. The Group has contributed to its Salini Impregilo continues to play an important role in the construction development through building more than 6,700 km of railway lines of innovative civil buildings worldwide. Significant contracts including and approximately 340 km of metro lines as well as more than hospital complexes, university campuses, government buildings and 1,250 km of underground works. Salini Impregilo is active in the other structures not only satisfy practical needs, but also play an propagation of high-speed railway lines and the ‘rebirth’ of metro important cultural role. The Group is currently involved in the urban transport throughout the world. Projects include the new AV construction of two important cultural centres. The first is in Abuja, Ankara-Istanbul line in Turkey, the Milan-Genoa line in Italy, the Sydney promoted by the Federal Ministry of Culture and Tourism in Nigeria. North West Rail Link in Australia, metro projects in Thessaloniki in The second is the new cultural centre in Athens, promoted by the Greece, San Francisco in the US, Copenhagen in Denmark, Santiago Stavros Niarchos Foundation and designed by the firm of Renzo Piano. in Chile, Doha in Qatar, Riyadh in Saudi Arabia and Lima in Peru. 08 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 Our results Economic performance In 2013 Salini Impregilo realised pro forma1 revenues of €3,970 million, +13.6% compared with the 2012 pro-forma figures. The order backlog at the end of the period totalled €28.8 billion, of which €22.0 billion was in construction. During the period, new acquisitions reached €8,633 million, €5,903 million of which was in the core activity of construction. In 2013 the Group launched a bond of €400 million, with demand three times oversubscribed. The share value rose 108.57% in the year. 2013 Revenue by geography2 2013 Backlog by geography (%) (%) 1. Italy 5. North America 2 1. N America 5. Oceania 7 8 1 16% 3% 8 1 3 1.7% 1.0% 2. Europe 6. Africa 2. C America 6. Italy 20% 1.5% 4 2 24% 7 31.1% 3. CIS 7. Asia & Oceania 3. Lat America 7. Europe 6 2% 5% 11.4% 10.6% 5 4. Lat America 8. Middle East 4. Africa 8. Asia 3 4 27% 3% 6 31.1% 11.6% 5 Socio-environmental performance In 2013 our HSE expenses amounted to over €55 million, with excellent The Group has continued to play a leading role in the markets in which results in terms of safety performance and environmental protection. In it operates, particularly with regard to the creation of new employment, particular, we reduced our injury rates by over 30% and reduced our contribution to local economic development, investment in health, environmental footprint in terms of reused earthmoving materials (48%), safety and the environment and community support. recovered water (6%), waste diverted from landfill (46%) and restored areas (over 600,000 m2 reforested). At the end of 2013 Salini Impregilo employed over 31,000 staff from 88 different countries, 42% of whom were under 30 years old, plus We continued to stay in close contact with our communities, arranging over 16,000 sub-contractors’ employees. about 300 local meetings and over 400 engagement activities comprising open-doors events, information campaigns and our Over 372,000 training hours were provided to our workforce during the management’s participation in public events. We also directly period, plus approximately 225,000 hours for sub-contractors’ supported our communities through about 90 social initiatives, mainly personnel on HSE issues. 90% of direct employees and 88% of subin the fields of health, basic needs, education, local development and contractors’ employees were hired from the local communities, while humanitarian aid. local procurement comprised 73% of the total. 1 Pro-forma Consolidated Income Statements are prepared on the basis of the Salini Group and Impregilo Group consolidated income statements for the years 2012 and 2013, respectively approved. 2 Data refers to construction business only and does not include Todini. 09 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini 1 Impregilo Group 1.1 2013 at a glance 1.2 Competitive environment 2013 represented a turning point for the two Italian major construction Over the last decade, complex and large-scale infrastructures have Our commitment companies – Salini and Impregilo – which together created a National continued to be a priority in the development and support of economies Champion in large-scale civil engineering. around the world, particularly in emerging markets. Alongside this, the to excellence slowdown in the global economy has had significant repercussions The Salini Impregilo merger took place within the context of a broader for the construction sector in the more developed economies. industrial and strategic plan, promoted by Salini Costruttori Group in 2011 and aimed at creating a national champion in the global These trends have pushed those construction companies operating at infrastructure sector, with shares listed on Mercato Telematico global level into a process of consolidation. This has been aimed at Azionario, organised and operated by the Italian Stock Exchange both achieving critical dimensions and acquiring the specific skills ‘Borsa Italiana S.p.A.’. necessary for executing technologically complex and higher valueOur commitment to shared growth added projects (‘mega projects’). The merger was the outcome of a process that saw a successful outcome in one the most important proxy fight operations conducted In Salini Impregilo’s reference market, other international companies are in Europe in 2012, supported by small investors, institutional investors also active in the concession and plant segments. However, the Group and activists. This was followed by the full voluntary public tender offer has focused its business model on the core segment of construction, made by Salini for Impregilo, finally completed in April 2013. which has excellent growth potential, becoming the world leader in Our commitment water/hydraulic works and a top player within rail/metro sector. The result is a new Group, positioned among the world’s leading Moreover, this strategy has enabled the Group to become the most operators in large-scale civil engineering. Salini Impregilo is a pure to people care geographically diversified player among its peers, with other global infrastructure player and, due to economies of scale and size companies more concentrated within their local markets of reference1. across geographies and sectors, is capable of competing more effectively in international markets for the largest civil engineering and The Group estimates that in the period 2014–2017, the infrastructures infrastructure projects. construction sector will grow by an average of 9% per year, with global investments to 2030 equal to $5,700 billion, mainly in the energy, transport and other civil engineering segments2. Our commitment Italian M&A Award 2013 In this scenario, significant business opportunities arise from the needs to environmental of the more developed countries to replace or enlarge existing stewardship The Salini Impregilo Merger was honoured with an infrastructures to meet growing energy and mobility needs, as well as award at the IX edition of the M&A Award 2013, organised by KPMG Italy and Fineurop Soditic. the needs of emerging countries involved in urbanisation and economic growth. The National Champion Project was considered by the jury panel as ‘an operation that makes Salini Group the Indeed, the construction sector plays a decisive role in addressing the first Italian General Contractor specialising in the critical challenges facing society all over the world, including: Future construction of major works and one of the foremost worldwide players in the construction of hydroelectric Poverty alleviation – Infrastructures improvement is inextricably linked commitments power plants.’ with poverty alleviation, particularly in low-income countries, where better infrastructure can provide a safety net against natural disasters and economic shocks. Energy security – Access to energy represents one of the major pillars for the development of society. Yet the current fossil fuel-based Appendix energy system leaves about 1.4 billion people around the world without access to electricity. Transition to a low carbon economy – Investment in the energy, water, transport and building sectors has been highlighted by the United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) as fundamental to Third-party achieving a low-carbon and resource-efficient future. assurance report Demonstrating compatibility of economic growth and sustainability – Under the ‘green economy’ paradigm, economic growth and socio-environmental sustainability are viewed not as incompatible, but as mutually reinforcing; creating jobs and sustainable 1 For more detail, see 2014–2017 Industrial Plan, http://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/investorrelations/presentations.html. 2 According to an analysis carried out by McKinsey for the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). 10 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 growth, while avoiding risks such as the effects of climate change, water scarcity and the loss of ecosystem services1. 1.4 Business Sustainability Model Thanks to our vision, approach and track record of delivery, we have a Over 100 years of experience in the construction of roads, motorways, major role to play in addressing these challenges at international level. railways, dams, hydroelectric plants, tunnel, aqueducts and civil and Today, Salini Impregilo is undertaking some of the most important industrial buildings worldwide have enabled Salini Impregilo to develop hydroelectric projects in the world, which will produce clean, affordable a strong business model, inspired by the principles of sustainable energy, allowing for river flow control and flood avoidance. The Group development, which we rigorously apply to our key processes. is also contributing to the mitigation of global warming, realising new We operate across the entire construction value chain, from designing railways and underground projects as well as ‘green’ buildings that will and planning to building and delivering. We use the best resources reduce greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution from transport and available to ensure our clients are satisfied and to create value for all civil public buildings worldwide. our stakeholders. Our Business Sustainability Model, hereinafter depicted, comprises four key integrated elements, through which our approach to 1.3 Strategy to 2017 sustainability supports our business development: The Salini Impregilo Business Plan for the period 2014–2017 is founded –– Mission on four pillars and involves a considerable development of the Group’s operations. The strategic guidelines are: –– Strategic resources Creation of value – the excellent results reached in 2013 created the –– Key value-adding sustainability activities foundations for the Group’s growth, with a strategic –– Key outcomes. positioning worldwide. Our Mission is at the base of the model, orienting our strategic decisions and guiding our day-to-day work. Salini Impregilo is founded upon the principle that the Company should contribute to the wellbeing Win and execute new large-scale projects – the critical success and social and economic development of its areas of operation. factor of the Salini Impregilo Group will be the integrated ability to acquire and execute large-scale complex This principle has led us to a cosmopolitan business culture focused infrastructures, competing with the main international on the value of people, that enables us to work in numerous and players. diversified environments, interpreting and meeting the expectations of institutions, clients, communities, employees and technical and Technical and managerial skills to increase margins and optimise operating counterparties with different histories and cultures. costs – the ambitious growth plans will be made possible thanks to our extraordinary professional To live up to our mission and develop our business, we rely on four resources and further investment in technical and Strategic Resources: managerial skills development. First class professional resources – our people’s skills are Strengthen the geographical presence in certain high-growth fundamental to maintaining the Group’s leadership in the large-scale countries considered core to the Group – the infrastructure industry and our day-by-day activities. strategy involves strengthening the presence of the Organisational skills and technical assets – our extensive Group in our core areas, namely Europe, Africa and experience and skills in the planning, design and implementation of Latin America through participation in a high percentage projects around the world, alongside the deployment of the most of tenders in these regions, and diversification of the efficient plant, machinery and equipment enable us to excel and portfolio; strengthening our presence in markets with innovate the large-scale infrastructure market. high growth potential, such as North America and Australia. Financial strength and risk management skills – our solid financial structure is built on our commitment to contract schedules, ability to The main targets of the 2017 Business Plan are of €7 billion revenues, optimise time and costs, strict control of cash flows and extensive risk with EBITDA and EBIT of approximately €800 and €500 million management know-how. These capabilities ensure we retain a respectively. Average annual orders during the period will exceed competitive position in the global marketplace. €7 billion, and the Net Financial Position is expected to be Strategic relationships – our capacity to deliver complex projects approximately +€500 million. around the world is closely linked to our aptitude for building and Through the growth strategy outlined in our 2014–2017 Business Plan, maintaining relationships with our clients, partners, authorities, we aim to create shared value for all our stakeholders who will join communities and other parties along the entire value chain, by with us in our development plans, including shareholders and new sharing experience, knowledge, interests and identifying common investors, employees, clients and the countries in which we operate. opportunities. 1 ‘Towards a Green Economy – Pathways to Sustainable Development and Poverty Eradication’, UNEP, 2011. 11 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini 1 Impregilo Group Salini Impregilo Our shared value Business –– Client satisfaction –– Environmental protection Sustainability Our commitment –– Innovation –– Long-lasting relations Model –– Job creation –– Return for shareholders and to excellence Key –– Local growth investors outcomes –– Community support Our market Our community –– Excellence in serving clients –– Engagement with local –– Supply chain enhancement stakeholders Key –– Social support initiatives Our commitment value-adding Our people –– Personnel training and Our environment sustainability to shared growth development –– Better infrastructures to face activities –– Safety and wellbeing in the global environmental workplace challenges –– Local impacts mitigation –– First class professional –– Financial strength and risk resources management skills Our commitment Strategic resources –– Organisational skills and –– Strategic relations technical assets to people care To develop construction solutions capable of enhancing communities Mission resources and contributing to the economic and social improvement of nations Our commitment At Salini Impregilo, sustainability is embedded into the whole The key outcomes are: to environmental organisation, representing a key element of our position in the global –– Delivering complex large-scale infrastructural projects that meet and stewardship market and informing the way we do business. Our key value-adding exceed clients’ expectations, in terms of contract schedules, sustainability activities relate to four main areas: technological innovation and sustainability performance; Our market – we are committed to excellence in our markets, working –– Contributing to the growth of local economies through job creation, with our technical and financial partners and supply chain to develop local supplies, capacity building and communities support; Future bespoke project proposals, innovative solutions and deploy the latest technologies, advancing the development of the entire engineering –– Ensuring safe and healthy workplaces, in which relationships are industry. based on respect and promoting skills development and equal commitments opportunities; Our people – we are committed to training our employees and promoting the culture of safety in all our workplaces, through –– Contributing to global environmental challenges posed by climate comprehensive policies, extensive vocational training activities and change and growing pollution in urban areas, enabling the capacity welfare programmes. of territories through the development of better infrastructures; Our community – we are committed to developing and maintaining –– Maintaining excellent relations with all our stakeholders, both internal Appendix good relationships with our local stakeholders and contributing to the and external, ensuring high-level acceptance and optimum results in development of our communities through investment and direct each of our areas of expertise; support for social initiatives. –– Creating value for our shareholders and investors, making them part Our environment – we are committed through our projects to of our growth plans and sharing our future projects with them. generating renewable energy and developing green mobility solutions, as well as protecting the environment in our own operations and Integrating sustainability into the business Third-party assurance report mitigating our impact at local level. To ensure effective management of sustainability throughout the entire These commitments, supported by our values and fuelled by the organisation, Salini Impregilo has revised its policies and procedures in above-mentioned strategic resources, enable us to create shared recent years, establishing an integrated framework comprising specific value, achieving tangible results both for the Company itself and for our policies, management and control systems, in line with major stakeholder groups, in a ‘win-win’ scenario. international standards and guidelines. A dedicated Sustainability Department oversees these activities. 12 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 Global Compact Participation in the Salini Impregilo has voluntarily adopted an Integrated Management System in compliance with ISO 9001 (Quality), ISO 14001 1.5 Corporate governance (Environment) and OHSAS 18001 (Health and Safety) international Salini Impregilo’s governance system is based on the traditional standards. This is implemented by all Group companies and certified management model and pursues international best practice by an independent external body. standards, in order to operate at maximum efficiency and ensure high levels of transparency. In March 2014 the Board of Directors appointed the General Manager Domestic Operations as the Management Representative for Quality, The Board of Directors comprises 15 members, 11 of whom meet the Environment, Health and Safety. He is supported by a Group-level independence requirements, representing 73.3% of the Board, while QEHS Department in charge of ensuring the application of four of them are women (equal to 26.7%). management systems, and periodically reports to the top To ensure added value in the Group’s governance, when selecting management on these issues. directors, the Group takes into account both the professional The certifications represent a guarantee of correct management and qualifications and the capability of individuals to be proposed for monitoring of the quality, safety and environmental aspects of the shareholder approval. business – for all internal and external stakeholders. The Board has established four internal committees, as well as a Corporate Governance Advisory Board. It pays particular attention to The United Nations Global Compact the management of potential conflicts of interest and the protection of The Group is also a signatory to the UN Global Compact, the world’s non-controlling investors. largest strategic policy initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles In 2013 the Board of Directors, at the recommendation of the relating to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Compensation and Nominating Committee, approved a new Remuneration Policy aimed at attracting, motivating and retaining Salini Impregilo recognises the need to collaborate with governments, qualified professionals, as well as aligning the interests of the civil society, employees, suppliers and the United Nations to help management with the medium to long-term interests of the advance the UN Global Compact priorities. The Group is also shareholders. committed to an annual announcement of its progress regarding the ten principles of the Global Compact through this Sustainability Report. Shareholders’ Meeting Approves the financial statements, elects the Board of Directors and the Board of Statutory Auditors, appoints the Independent Auditors, amends the Bylaws and performs the additional tasks assigned to it pursuant to law and the Bylaws. Corporate Governance Board of Directors Board of Statutory Auditors Independent Auditors Advisory Board Analyses the existing governance Has full responsibility for the Monitors compliance with the law and Audit the financial statements structure and makes corporate Company’s ordinary and extraordinary the Bylaws and monitors the and exercise accounting control. governance recommendations management. implementation of sound management to the Board of Directors. practices. Executive Committee Compensation and Risk and Control Committee Committee for Related-party Nominating Committee Transactions Exercises the powers and Assesses the adequacy of the Assesses the adequacy and Performs the tasks assigned to it by attributions delegated to it by compensation policy for Directors and effectiveness of the internal control the Procedure for Related-party the Board of Directors. recommends candidates to be coand risk management system and Transactions adopted by the opted by the Board of Directors. assesses the correct utilization of Company. More specifically, the accounting principles. it renders opinions about the substantive and procedural fairness of Related-party Transactions. 1 For managers with strategic responsibilities, the Policy provides for a progressive migration to a greater influence of variable components on the total compensation. Further information can be found in the Report on Remuneration Policy, available on our website www.salini-impregilo.com 13 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini 1 Impregilo Group The Policy has been defined on the basis of the principles of Organisational Model proportionality, competitiveness, consistency, meritocracy and Salini Impregilo has adopted a Group Organisational, Management economic sustainability, taking into account a benchmark composed Our commitment and Control Model aimed at: of comparable Italian and international large companies operating in the construction sector. –– affirming and spreading a corporate culture based on compliance and transparency; to excellence Based on these criteria, the remuneration package of the CEO and managers with strategic responsibilities is divided in three components: –– raising awareness among employees and stakeholders. fixed payment, short-term and long-term incentives1. The Model operates under the scope of the Internal Control System To ensure transparency and build relationships of trust with our and is aimed at preventing offences under Italian Law 231/2001, Our commitment investors and stakeholders, an Investor Relations unit maintains an through monitoring of operations with a risk of civil and penal liability for ongoing dialogue with shareholders and the Market. This ensures the Company and its representatives. to shared growth comprehensive and timely distribution of information on which they can The Model contains measures that guarantee activities are conducted base their investment decisions. in compliance with the law and that promptly detect and eliminate potential risk situations. 1.6 Business integrity worldwide Supervision of effective implementation and compliance with the Our commitment Model is entrusted to an independent control body – the Integrity For Salini Impregilo, combining business values with the principles of Board – by means of special audits conducted by the Compliance to people care ethics and integrity represents the best way to protect the Group’s Department. wealth and reputation, as well as stakeholder expectations. For this The Group places particular emphasis on corporate processes purpose, our commitment to stakeholders in conducting business with exposed to the risk of corruption. The Internal Audit and Compliance integrity represents a milestone for the Group’s employees. Departments concentrate their monitoring and audit activities on these areas. In the three year period 2011–2013, all divisions exposed to such Code of Ethics Our commitment risks were subject to risk assessment and audit activities. This commitment is clearly stated in the Group’s Code of Ethics. The to environmental Code defines the values and principles of honesty, fairness, integrity, To further promote conformance with ethical standards and full transparency, impartiality, confidentiality, safety of physical integrity and compliance with regulations governing the prevention of corruption, as stewardship human dignity, protection of the environment, dialogue and well as integrity, transparency and fairness in its activities, the Company engagement with stakeholders as the distinctive elements of the initiated the preparation of a Group Anti-Corruption Model in 2013. Group’s activities. This will provide a systematic reference framework of regulatory instruments and anti-corruption policies and will encompass direct or The Code represents a reference point for those who work in the Future indirect, active or passive corruption, guaranteeing compliance with Group, for anyone involved in the pursuit of the Company’s mission or national and international anti-corruption laws, including Anticommitments who contributes to the pursuit of the Group’s objectives. The stated Corruption Law 190 of 6 November 2012 issued in Italy, the Foreign principles guide the conduct of Directors, employees and anyone who, Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) issued in the United States and the for whatever reason, collaborates with the Salini Impregilo Group United Kingdom Bribery Act. worldwide. The Control and Risk Committee and the Integrity Board are in charge Internal Control System of monitoring compliance with the Code of Ethics. In particular, the The Internal Control System is a central element of the Salini Impregilo’s Integrity Board – an independent three-member committee Appendix governance system. It comprises a collection of organisational rules, established in accordance with the Italian Legislative Decree no. procedures and structures aimed at allowing the correct running of the 231/2001 – ensures compliance with the Code through inspections business in line with established goals, through a process of identifying, carried out by the Compliance Department. All recipients of the Code measuring, managing and monitoring the main corporate risks. The can use a direct mailbox to inform the Integrity Board of any possible design, monitoring and updating of the Internal Control System were breaches. The Board manages this process to ensure the implemented by the Group in line with international best practice. Third-party confidentiality and protection of those involved. In line with the 2012–2014 Audit Plan, the Internal Audit department assurance report continued to identify intervention areas to reduce the corporate risk profile, conducting over 60 audits across corporate functions and Salini Impregilo Group companies and contracts. 14 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 Enterprise Risk Management 1.7 Materiality analysis Salini Impregilo is committed to the systematic identification and The Group has a good track record in voluntary reporting of nonassessment of risks arising from its activities and operations, during all financial issues. Impregilo was the first Italian company in the project life cycles. construction industry to produce and publish an Environmental Report To achieve these objectives, the Group is implementing an Enterprise in 2002, while Salini was the first to publish a Sustainability Report Risk Management process. This includes the identification of hazards, prepared in compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and assessment, mitigation and monitoring of risks – providing Guidelines in 2009. management with an overview of project activities, enabling them to In accordance with this strong legacy of transparency and judge whether the necessary control and mitigation measures are accountability, we continue to lead by example. We have prepared this being effectively carried out. Sustainability Report in accordance with the new GRI G4 Sustainability The most significant types of hazards the Group is exposed to are: Reporting Guidelines: the most advanced reporting framework, issued in May 2013, effective from 2016 and replacing the G3/G3.1 guidance. –– managing the duration of a project, with respect to timing, costs and scope, mindful of potential variations in contractors’ operations; Compared with the previous version, the new G4 Guidelines place a greater emphasis on materiality, requiring organisations to focus their –– potential financial losses, both direct and indirect; reporting on key economic, social and environmental impacts and –– health and safety hazards, including personal injury and loss of life; dialogue with stakeholders. –– hazards to third party properties, including buildings, structures and infrastructures; Defining report content To identify topics relevant to Salini Impregilo and determine the report’s –– environmental hazards, including pollution and damage to flora and content, we have defined a specific process in accordance with the G4 fauna. Guidelines, summarised as follows: Risk assessments have already been carried out on the principal –– Internal identification of possible sustainability topics relevant to ongoing projects, involving all site departments, including Quality, our industry, including an analysis of peers, sustainability rating Environment, Health and Safety and technical staff. agencies, sectorial surveys and media; Identified hazards are strictly monitored to achieve maximum mitigation –– Internal prioritisation of identified topics with the Group’s of risks, according to the ALARP (As Low As Reasonably Practicable) management, through consultation with senior leadership including principle. human resources, quality and HSE affairs, procurement, production, technical department and investor relations; Materiality Matrix 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Structure High p People wellbeing p Safety at Open dialogue Section 1.8 •performance Quality workplace Stakeholder engagement •management Supply chain Excellence Section 2 – Innovation Importance to our stakeholders wGlobal environmental pPersonnel training – Quality performance Our commitment to challenges and development – Supply chain management • Innovation iJob creation Shared Growth Section 3 wLocal impacts mitigation iLocal procurement – Job creation – Local procurement – Community support sengagement Stakeholder iCommunity support People care Section 4 – Personnel training and development – Safety at workplace – People wellbeing Environmental Stewardship Section 5 – Global environmental challenges – Local impacts mitigation Low Low Importance to Salini Impregilo High G4–18 15 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini 1 Impregilo Group –– External prioritisation of identified topics with the main Group’s In particular, we have chosen to show the best practices adopted at stakeholders, through interviews at selected operating sites (with Gibe III hydroelectric project, in Ethiopia, which represents the largest representatives of clients, employees, unions and sub-contractors), ongoing project in terms of employed personnel (7,620 staff at the end a survey of a cross-section of employees, as well as interviews with of 2013). Our commitment proxies, both at headquarters (investors and clients) and at operating sites (local communities and authorities); Sustainability risks and opportunities to excellence –– Final approval from Group senior management of the defined To provide a broader view of the materiality analysis, the following table shortlist of priority topics. shows our main sustainability risks and opportunities, broken down by areas of commitment. The 12 priority topics are reported in the materiality matrix opposite. Our commitment These are aggregated in five main areas of commitment, which have been used as the basis of this report. We have selected several stakeholder engagement projects in the to shared growth following sections to illustrate how we create shared value in our dayto-day operations. Our commitment Area Topics Potential risks Potential opportunities to people care Open dialogue Stakeholder engagement Possible opposition by local communities with Licence to operate from local and global stakeholders related delay and increase in costs; personnel’s thanks to the Group’s leadership in engaging with all parties security risks in sensitive areas; loss of confidence involved in projects; climate of mutual trust and broad local from investors and authorities. approval, with reduced risks of opposition, staff security and delay; better capacity to promptly understand local needs. Excellence Innovation Increased competition from peers in response to Clients and communities served by us are able to benefit clients and societal demand for innovative and from the deployment of the best available technologies and Quality performance sustainable construction solutions; delay and competence; advantages over competitors thanks to a strict Supply chain management increase in costs due to misjudgements in control of the supply chain; reduced reputational and Our commitment selecting suppliers and partners; reputational risks financial risks. of malpractice by suppliers. to environmental stewardship Shared growth Job creation Inability to recruit specialised local workforce; local Lower transport and customs costs through use of local production system lacking; weak awareness of suppliers; capacity building in terms of staff training and Local procurement HSE issues; reputational risks of malpractice in suppliers’ support; access to qualified labour and suppliers Community support community relationships. for future projects; tangible benefit at local level derived from the generation of direct and indirect employment, additional income, social initiatives for local communities. People care Personnel training and Inability to deliver best-built projects due to failure Ensuring skills and expertise to deliver projects; increased Future development in developing personnel; impacts on morale and productivity due to personnel’s wellbeing; minor recruitment productivity due to low investment in training, costs due to internal development of employees and Safety at workplace welfare and safety; increase in absences and increased capacity to fill vacancies; minor absences and commitments People wellbeing personnel costs due to injuries. insurance costs; capacity to win contracts by clients who prioritise H&S in their tenders. Environmental Global environmental Poor evaluation of environmental impacts; Reduced environmental impacts ensured by strict stewardship challenges weak management and control plans; assessment, management and control practices; minor disturbance of local communities; potential risks of delay in delivery of projects due to environmental Local impacts mitigation damage to existing infrastructures and concerns of local communities; reduced litigation risks; private properties. enhanced reputation. Appendix Third-party assurance report G4–19 G4–26 16 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 1.8 Our commitment to open dialogue Stakeholders also recognised the Group’s leadership in communicating with all parties involved in its projects. This Dialogue is at the heart of our commitment to our stakeholders. acknowledgement is particularly important for us, since it represents Working closely every day with them at our sites has made us naturally one of the keys to our success: the ability to listen to stakeholders’ open to dialogue. Transparency and engagement are at the base of needs, to find viable solutions to meet their expectations and be our sustainability strategy and we have always been committed to transparent about our actions. developing and maintaining strong relationships with all our stakeholders. In 2013 some 300 meetings were held with local communities and their representatives at our operating sites. We also hosted over 160 visits to Thanks to this approach, Salini Impregilo maintains excellent our projects from local citizens, schools, authorities etc. We ran over relationships with clients, institutions, employees, suppliers, 150 information campaigns about our projects, visiting community communities and third parties worldwide. groups to explain our activities and distributing information materials Our engagement practices are diverse and flexible, reflecting the to thousands of people. Management participated in over 100 public distinctive corporate and geographical nature of the Group. events at local level, including sector exhibitions, conferences and workshops. At a corporate level, our key stakeholders include shareholders, investors, clients, partners, government and media. At an operating level, engagement practices relate to a project’s features and key stakeholders include partners, employees, local communities, suppliers, contractors and sub-contractors, clients, local authorities and organisations such as unions and NGOs. Engagement at operating level Salini Impregilo places great emphasis on the legitimate expectations and needs of stakeholders. Community relations play a fundamental role in our activities and our involvement spans all levels of the organisation. The guiding principles of these activities are respect for local cultures, fairness and transparency. The Group takes the needs of people affected by the sites into account at all stages of the realisation of an infrastructure: from preliminary environmental impact studies to the construction through the use of the best available technologies and efforts to compensate for or Engaging indigenous groups mitigate the effects of activities. Everywhere in the world, Salini Impregilo is committed In conjunction with its clients, Salini Impregilo implements to establishing good relations with local communities communication policies to inform people about projects’ progress living in its projects’ areas. and execution methods with the aim of stimulating shared activities A significant example of this commitment is involving local people. represented by the engagement programme Each site, based on contractual arrangements, establishes dedicated implemented in Malaysia, where we are constructing a hydroelectric project (Ulu Jelai) in an area surrounded communication channels with external stakeholders. These can be by 12 Orang Asli’s villages housing an indigenous physical – i.e. offices at the site and/or adjacent to it – and ‘virtual’ in the community. form of dedicated telephone lines, websites etc. These channels allow the Group to maintain ongoing direct contact with local people, Engagement activities include regular meetings on providing them with information about the activities carried out and several issues – from updates on potential impacting activities (such as the use of local water sources), collecting any feedback. Comments are analysed by the site to understanding the community’s needs to find management and dealt with according to specific procedures. appropriate solutions. Salini Impregilo’s excellent reputation has been confirmed by Thanks to this approach, we have implemented a stakeholders specifically engaged in 2013 for the preparation of this development programme which consists of local report. Consultations carried out at project level highlighted the road improvements, electricity supply, sport important role we play in protecting the environment, creating facilities construction and job opportunities. employment, building the capacity of the local supply chain and supporting communities. G4–24 G4–25 G4–26 G4–27 17 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini 1 Impregilo Group Stakeholders Employees Clients and Shareholders Suppliers, Local communities Governments Trade Our commitment potential clients and Investors Contractors and and NGOs and Public associations Subcontractors, Administrations and Media Business partners to excellence Communication channels in place Regular meetings, Stable and continuing Shareholders’ Selection processes, Meetings with Stable relations with Participation in trade internal training relationships meetings, reports and regular meetings, community host association activities, surveys, with clients, in all accounts, investor training activities, representatives, countries’ authorities activities, systematic evaluation processes, project’s phases relations, stable feedback systems, regular and local institutions press review Our commitment trade union meetings, relations with financial stable relationships communications (often clients) activities, press intranet institutions and rating with partner firms, activities, releases, website, agencies in all project’s phases sponsorships and organisation of to shared growth social contributions events activities Issues of interest Working environment, Quality performances, Corporate Governance Quality performances, Project-related Infrastructures Financial health and safety, technical support in system, financial technical concerns, transfer of development, performance, Our commitment security, skills planning and performance, future enhancement, shared know-how, social project management, project-related development, fair implementation of development plans, management of HSE services and facilities, anti-corruption, issues, to people care evaluations projects, capacity investments in listed local development auxiliary services infrastructures and compensation building activities companies support development Our commitment to environmental stewardship Future commitments Appendix Third-party assurance report G4–24 G4–25 G4–26 G4–27 18 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 2 19 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 Our commitment About the Salini Impregilo Group to excellence Our commitment to excellence 2 Salini Impregilo aims to play a key role in advancing the large-scale infrastructures industry worldwide, working in close collaboration with the entire value Our commitment chain to ensure the best results – and continuously to shared growth innovating in terms of quality, health, safety and environmental sustainability. Our commitment to people care Our commitment to environmental stewardship In this section… 2.1 Excellence in serving clients 20 2.2 Innovating to succeed 20 Future 2.3 Supply chain management 20 commitments Appendix Third-party assurance report 20 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 2.1 Excellence in serving clients with the world’s most renowned professionals and engineering companies, as well as with the most innovative suppliers and Salini Impregilo works with a diverse range of clients worldwide; mainly technology developers. public bodies, local administrations and large public service companies, as well as major private companies and industrial Analysing clients’ needs, producing high-quality project proposals and organisations. developing bespoke construction solutions involves hundreds of professionals. This drive towards excellence and continuous Thanks to the extraordinary breadth of expertise acquired throughout improvement enables us to increase our competitiveness across the the world, Salini Impregilo has a strong reputation for client satisfaction. globe, and directly benefits a number of our stakeholders: partners and The Group adopts a systematic approach, based on the development suppliers that develop new products and services; sub-contractors and deployment of innovative technologies and construction methods that learn and practise new construction methods and develop designed to guarantee optimum performance in terms of quality, health solutions for future contracts and our workforce that acquires new and safety and environmental sustainability. expertise and know-how. These elements enable the Group to play a key role in important This is a typical win-win situation and represents one of the areas in international tenders, where contracts are awarded based on the which we consolidate our aspiration to be a value-sharing company. advantages offered by the bidder for established aspects. These include quality of work, realisation and running costs, financing schemes, environmental impact and improvements made to the projects in terms of safety for end users. In addition, depending on the 2.3 Supply chain management projects and the type of client, other factors are also increasingly As stated previously, the supply chain is a fundamental factor in value evaluated in tenders including the involvement of local operators, creation, because of its contribution to a project’s development and impact on employment and community involvement. implementation. Quality in the construction industry plays a key role, because each We interact all over the world with thousands of counterparties from project is unique and cannot be replicated. Similar works may require different cultures and backgrounds. To efficiently manage the complex different solutions and processes depending, for example, on location. processes connected with supply chain management, we have The Group has developed an ISO 9001-certified Quality Management developed policies and procedures aimed at creating stable and System, which encompasses the entire scope of its activities, from lasting relationships with our partners. design stage and management of works to implementation and subsequent running. It assigns specific responsibilities and obligations Procurement process to people who, at various levels, work during the different stages, from To ensure consistent quality levels and performance worldwide, the the design to the site, focusing on organisational, operational, decisionGroup requires its partners to conform to specific standards and rules, making and internal control aspects of the project. including ethical, social and environmental principles and respect for human rights. This system is an integral part of the Quality, Safety and Environment Integrated Management System (QSE), in compliance with best In particular, the procurement system consists of three main elements: practice and with a broader and more complete vision of quality for a supplier register, a vendor list and a vendor rating. large works. The Salini Impregilo Quality Management System has had From the supplier register, which includes all potential counterparties considerable success, not only in meeting client expectations, but in required to be qualified, a vendor list is created, including suppliers that simplifying client audits and reducing the risks of disputes. have successfully passed the qualification process. During this process, the Group checks the reliability, integrity and professionalism of its counterparties, establishing whether they are 2.2 Innovating to succeed capable of satisfying the technical, professional and quality Innovation is a key element for us. In recent years it has been enriched requirements of the product/service to be provided, adequately with new insight related to the technologies of materials, components serving the geographical area and meeting financial and commercial and their physical behaviour – as well as the optimisation of the reliability requirements. activities related to the production process. In all supply contracts, counterparties are required to sign up to the In the large-scale infrastructures industry, several factors exponentially principles of the Salini Impregilo Code of Ethics. Special contract multiply the level of innovation required to achieve the end result. These termination clauses apply if the supplier acts in direct opposition to the include the amount of resources needed, the uniqueness of each provisions of the Code. project, different environmental contexts, the timeframe required to During the provision of the goods or service, Salini Impregilo – in ensure profitability of the projects and the parameters of safety for addition to administrative/accounting and quality checks – also carries personnel, local communities and end users. out specific checks to ensure compliance with environmental and Partnering is also crucial to maintain leadership in innovation. We are occupational health and safety requirements. strongly committed to building and reinforcing strategic partnerships 21 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini Impregilo Group After the provision of the goods or service, the departments involved in managing the contract submit their feedback on the supplier to the The procurement process for LEED projects Procurement Division, which updates the vendor rating, i.e. a supply Our commitment A special procedure is adopted to procure goods and chain evaluation performance system. Based on the feedback services for the development of buildings aimed at received, a supplier can be confirmed into the vendor list or blacklisted. to excellence 2 reaching a LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification. Supply chain in 2013 For these projects raw materials employed must meet In 2013 our supplies consisted mainly of sub-contracts (33% of total), precise environmental criteria and performance, e.g. in raw materials and goods (20% of total), investment in plant and terms of percentage of recycled content, VOC (volatile equipment (17% of total), services (8%), transport and customs and organic content), certified materials (as FSC certified rentals (7%). wood), as well as distance of manufacturer location Our commitment from the project’s site. Design and construction to shared growth We have evaluated the socio-environmental impacts of our supply activities must comply with specific criteria. chain, identifying sub-contracts as the most significant, since they can potentially impact our direct operations. For this reason, they are For these purchases, the qualification process includes subject to the same worldwide rules that apply to our direct workforce the prior verification of the compliance of the materials and activities. with the LEED’s criteria, also through special audits at manufacturers’ factories. Our commitment The following pages describe how this commitment is applied to our operations. to people care Panama Canal: quality, safety and the environment guaranteed throughout the entire supply chain Our commitment out, the importance of the materials on the final quality of the work and the sophistication of the technology to to environmental be employed. Each category follows a specific selection stewardship route, with increasingly stringent criteria. During the procurement stage, the heads of the Quality, Health and Safety and Environment departments take part in the selection process evaluating various aspects of potential suppliers, from management systems and experience gained to the degree of technology used. Future The Quality and HSE departments conduct audits for commitments certain categories of materials at the plants of potential suppliers in order to check the ability to comply with supply requirements and specifications. At the end of the checks, a reasoned opinion is formed about potential suppliers for inclusion in the Register of Suppliers and The Panama Canal expansion project represents one of Sub-contractors. Appendix the most challenging works now under construction The Quality and HSE departments carry out regular onworldwide. About 10,000 workers and hundreds of site audits and continuous monitoring of the activities engineers and technical partners are working on an conducted by suppliers and sub-contractors to infrastructure that will contribute to the international guarantee that the standards at the time of selection and maritime exchanges development, designed to run for a those agreed during the contract stages are effectively century at least. complied with in the field. In 2013 sub-contractors were Here, the issue of guaranteeing top quality and HSE involved in about 2,000 HSE meetings, over 27,000 Third-party toolbox talks, over 60 quality and HSE audits and over assurance report standards is of crucial importance, and for this reason a specific method of selecting suppliers has 34,000 training hours were provided to their workforce. been adopted. Thanks to this systematic approach, the Group ensures All supplies of materials, services and works to be high quality, health and safety and environment purchased throughout the project are classified standards, reducing compliance risks and nonaccording to the complexity of the activity to be carried conformity costs. 22 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 3 23 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 Our commitment About the Salini Impregilo Group to shared growth Our commitment to excellence Salini Impregilo aspires to build infrastructure projects that act as catalysts for the growth of territories in which it operates; through job creation, Our commitment professional development, local suppliers growth, to shared growth increased revenues for governments and social 3 support for local communities. In line with our mission, we deploy ideas, people, Our commitment knowledge and investment that aim to contribute to the economic and social wellbeing of our to people care communities. Our commitment to environmental stewardship In this section… 3.1 Job creation 24 3.2 Local procurement 25 Future 3.3 Community support 27 commitments 3.4 Shared growth performance results 30 Appendix Third-party assurance report 24 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 90% Workforce hired locally +19% Entry-level wages compared to local minimum ones Our projects have the capacity to stimulate local and regional Indirect job creation economies and our Business Sustainability Model is focused on In addition to the direct workforce, the construction industry makes maximising the resources available at local level, to benefit the wider regular use of sub-contractors for certain activities, as well as other community. providers of services (including technicians, consultants, catering staff, etc), which contribute significantly to the number of jobs created at a local level. In 2013, 16,740 people were employed by our sub3.1 Job creation contractors, 88% of whom were hired locally. The principal measure of Salini Impregilo’s contribution to local Developing local skills and expertise economies is the number of jobs created in host countries. As far With the provision of skills training, health surveillance and high as possible, the Group adopts a strategy focused on using a local employment standards, job creation plays an important role in workforce in areas where projects are located. In 2013, the Group enhancing the capabilities of local personnel, mainly in developing employed a total local workforce of over 47,000 people, comprising countries – in addition to salaries paid and the contribution we make direct employees and subcontracted workers. to local economies. Direct recruitment of local personnel Building local employment capacity is a priority if we are to benefit from a skilled workforce for present and future projects. It is also appreciated During the year, some 90% of our 31,000 directly-employed staff by local authorities and governments, because of the important consisted of local personnel, mainly employed within our African and contribution that vocational training plays in fostering local growth. American continent operations. The chart below shows the breakdown of Salini Impregilo’s total workforce by geography. For further information about these issues, refer to section 4. In Ethiopia, our ongoing Gibe III project and GERDP (Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam Project) employ over 12,000 direct staff, 96% of Ensuring equal rights and opportunities whom are recruited from local communities. These projects have Through our operations around the world we aspire to promote established important relationships with the local administrations, multicultural work environments based on equal opportunities, supporting them through social programmes such as the construction with respect for human dignity and freedom. of new roads, water supply, schools, hospital, bridges, administrative In line with our Code of Ethics provisions, the Group adopts offices, HIV and malaria prevention programmes and health appropriate guidelines aimed at promoting the respect and assistance; strongly contributing to the social and economic safeguarding the rights of all workers, prohibiting any form development of these areas. of discrimination. Although management roles at operational sites are primarily filled by Moreover, in recent years the Group has developed and applied a expatriate Italian employees, the Group is involved in training talented human rights assessment tool at all its sites, aimed at evaluating local people, in order to create an international management team the adherence of our operations to best practice in managing capable of transferring project capabilities around the world. our personnel, sub-contractors and other third parties (such as recruitment agencies). 2013 workforce by region All workers at our sites have grievance mechanisms at their disposal, (%) allowing them to communicate with management about any concerns 1 1. Africa regarding labour practices, health and safety, the environment, etc. 4 60% We respect national and international law at all our sites and contracts 3 2. America in force ensure equal rights and fair treatment. Regulatory conditions 19% for non-EU personnel are based on, and therefore similar to, those for 3. Europe EU personnel, with the key differences being that leaving indemnity is not provided in all countries, and taxes and contributions are linked to 2 7% the region in which an individual is employed. 4. Middle East and Asia Where applicable, the minimum salary levels in all countries in which 14% Salini Impregilo operates are rigorously respected. In 2013 entry-level wages exceeded local minimum wages by an average of 19%1. Regardless of local rules on minimum working age, we only hire personnel worldwide over the age of eighteen years, verifying applicant documents at each site to prevent and detect any fraud. 1. This value represents the Group’s global average percentage; refer to the section 3.4, G4-EC5 indicator, for detailed data on our significant countries of operation. 25 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini Impregilo Group 3.2 Local procurement In addition to job creation, we are committed to providing opportunities for economic development to the suppliers of goods and services Our commitment based in host countries. In fact, the Group’s supply strategy aims to satisfy project requirements as much as possible within the territories in to excellence which projects are located, according to local availability of required goods and services. Local supply chain spend In 2013, our links with local providers of goods and services – i.e. Our commitment suppliers, contractors and sub-contractors in the countries where our to shared growth projects are based – remained strong, with an average of 73% of spending placed with locally-based providers of goods and services. 3 This peaked at nearly 90% in Europe and North America. In monetary terms, the total economic value distributed to the supply chain was Innovating industrial relations in Ethiopia €2,650 million. Our commitment Tesfaye Tilahun is the labour union representative and safety workers’ representative at Gibe III to people care project, Ethiopia, where the Group presently From employee to entrepreneur directly employs over 7,000 people. His viewpoint confirms our excellence in engaging Ensuring development opportunities for local with unions to develop shared solutions to advance people is a distinctive element at Salini Impregilo. workers rights and protection in emerging countries. We firmly believe that is the best way to build and Our commitment seize chances for mutual benefits, as happened to “Gibe III is one of the most important ongoing to environmental Belachew Solomon, who spent 15 years as our infrastructure projects in Ethiopia and represents a unique opportunity for local personnel to acquire stewardship employee and is now the owner of the main subcontractor company at Gibe III. Supported by the experience and professional capabilities. Group’s management, he started his own We are extremely satisfied with the Salini business about 12 years ago. Impregilo’s commitment to people care and with His success story started with small jobs, the management of labour relations. The employing few workers. Thanks to his experience Company is paying great attention to training and Future commitments with the Group, he now employs over 300 people, developing skills of local personnel, as well as many of whom are female, and has reached a ensuring the wealth of the workforce. high operating standard, enabling him to work with The joint and proactive work by the management international companies both in Ethiopia and and the labour union has delivered excellent abroad. results. In fact, the collective bargaining agreement Today he comments: “Salini Impregilo’s main applied to Gibe III provides for a biannual strength is its commitment in helping employees to automatic increase of remuneration linked to grow through important investments in training, current inflation. This best practice was officially Appendix contributing in this way to the economic and social introduced in Ethiopia by the Group for the first growth of the entire Country. As an entrepreneur, time at Gilgel Gibe II project. I am happy of working with Salini Impregilo, These achievements, along the high-quality because it provides a great support to our facilities granted to the staff (health care services, Third-party workforce, granting us access to health care accommodations, canteens, etc.), make Salini the services, canteens, accommodations and assurance report best company to work with in Ethiopia”. transportation. In addition, we have an ongoing dialogue on each issue and the Group’s management is always available to us, finding the right solutions to meet our needs”. G4–26 G4–27 26 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 73% Precurement from local suppliers Suppliers support and monitoring As well as dealing with local enterprises, we support and monitor our suppliers and sub-contractors during and after the execution of contracts, to ensure the achievement of satisfactory performance regarding quality, health, safety and the environment. For this reason we regularly deliver specific training activities on these issues and in 2013, we provided 225,085 training hours to our subcontractors’ personnel. In addition, our site-based HSE departments carry out regular monitoring of sub-contractors, agreeing any improvement plans necessary to improve the protection standards and performance. The Group also periodically checks the compliance of sub-contractors and service providers with regard to legal obligations related to wages, social security and insurance for workers employed at our sites. Salini Impregilo as a partner for development As with our direct workforce, sub-contractors are eligible to use our onMembratu Thesome is the site manager for our client, site grievance procedures to report any concerns and suggestions to the Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation (EEPCo), at the management. Gibe III. He knows the Group very well because he We are therefore committed to sharing our knowledge and skills with worked on other hydroelectric projects successfully local suppliers and sub-contractors, to develop strong partnerships delivered by Salini Impregilo in Ethiopia. and promote their growth and technical development. “Salini Impregilo is one of the most appreciated and respected companies in Ethiopia, especially for its contribution to the growth of the Ethiopian people, in Learning about safety terms of capacity building for personnel, support to community development, care for the environment and In 2013 two of our Italian sites (Tangenziale Est and open dialogue. Salerno-Reggio Calabria highways) hosted students from a technical high school for experts in construction, In all the hydroelectric projects developed by the Group territory and the environment for an internship on several social support initiatives for local communities occupational health and safety and monitoring of the have been established, and I am sure the Ethiopian supply chain. people do not forget the help received. The internship, carried out on the basis of a training Here at Gibe III, before the project’s start, there was a programme ratified by the Italian Ministry of Education lack of roads and services. Salini Impregilo, besides and led by the Group’s managers and technicians, other initiatives, has built about 100 km of roads to allowed the students to have a unique experience in connect the site, linking 3 woredas (i.e. administrative managing practical safety issues in the construction areas) previously isolated. This has represented a big industry. improvement in the living standards of people living in these areas and an enormous opportunity for One of the students commented: “Thanks to this economic development due to easier communications experience I had the opportunity to better understand and exchange of goods. the link between good safety performance and strict monitoring of the supply chain, because in safe During the last 50 years of its presence in the Country, worksites there are fewer incidents, there is a better the Group has realised many schools, hospitals, control over sub-contractors and potential risks are churches, police stations, administrative offices, etc., promptly detected and eliminated”. giving its strong support to the local authorities and communities. For this reason Salini Impregilo is not considered simply as a contractor. We consider Salini Impregilo as a strategic partner of Ethiopia, and we hope the Company will continue to support developing countries like ours, with the same spirit of development supporter, helping us advance in producing low cost and clean energy to escape from poverty”. G4–26 G4–27 27 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 €1.9 million Investments in local community initiatives About the Salini Impregilo Group 3.3 Community support Our distinctive approach consists of deploying our core skills and competencies in the service of our communities, intervening directly to We have built a strong reputation as an organisation committed to design, build and deliver infrastructures to the benefit of local respecting local cultures, needs and expectations; creating and inhabitants, using our workforce, equipment and sub-contractors. Our commitment strengthening development drivers of the socio-economic systems of to excellence This approach allows us to maintain tight control over an initiative’s host countries. implementation, ensuring economic and technical efficiency throughout the process. It also represents the best way to raise Local communities involvement awareness on CSR initiatives among our employees, clients, partners, “The most important elements for the success of a project are the sub-contractors and local authorities. ongoing dialogue and commitment towards the community, based on Our commitment a deep knowledge of the territory,” says Eugenio Zoppis, Project Using this method, we have realized dozens of projects in recent years, Manager at Gibe III, Ethiopia. including schools, health centres, public offices, water networks, roads to shared growth His statement mirrors the Group’s approach towards local communities, which aims to ensure full integration of our sites with the and bridges – mainly in Sub-Saharan Africa. We also seek viable solutions when reallocating a site’s facilities after a 3 surrounding area. project’s completion, making access roads, offices and worker accommodation available to communities. We are committed to being an ‘open’ company – and our engagement Our commitment practices ensure we remain in close and constant contact with our Our direct involvement in public infrastructures represents the main stakeholders, obtaining strong local support and the best results for all. part of our investment in local communities. In the 2012–2013 period to people care we delivered 45 initiatives (26 in 2013). Our facilities in the service of communities For us, being an open company means, first of all, allowing anyone that wishes to communicate with us to be able to do so. For this reason, our sites are equipped with various communications channels to facilitate contact with stakeholders. Depending on the context, these Our commitment to environmental vary from dedicated phone lines to public relations offices and websites. stewardship Being open means also sharing our facilities with our communities. During the execution of our projects, local communities can access some of our sites’ facilities, such as on-site clinics, training rooms, wells, roads and bridges. These free services offer an immediate improvement in the quality of Future life for many communities, especially those in rural areas not served by basic amenities. commitments Core competencies for developing social infrastructures Salini Impregilo demonstrates its support for communities through the design and development of a wide range of programmes and activities, Appendix based on a thorough knowledge of the territories in which we operate. Third-party assurance report 28 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 Our social programmes Besides direct intervention in construction activities (principally in developing countries), we are also committed to supporting communities through social initiatives and programmes, carried out directly and in partnership with other organisations. Community support by areas of intervention Area Field of activities Main interventions in 2012–13 Basic infrastructures Especially in remote areas, where people We carried out 47 interventions in this field. Of particular and services do not have access to basic infrastructures importance was the creation of a water supply line in and services, we build roads, bridges, wells Ethiopia that withdrew pure water from a fountainhead on and pipelines, as well as providing them high ground to serve a remote village and a health centre with potable water and electricity. offering care to almost 200,000 people. Health Care Projects located far from health centres We provided support to 41 initiatives in this field. In Uganda offer free healthcare assistance to people for example, in partnership with Oncology for Africa, we from local communities, including established a house to welcome patients from rural villages dedicated staff and equipment to access requiring chemo/radiotherapy at Nsambya Hospital in villages and transfer patients. We also Kampala. (For more details see the following box). Our provide healthcare facilities to benefit Ethiopian site clinics also ensured over 12,000 free communities in partnership with local healthcare interventions for local communities. institutions and non-governmental organisations. Local development A good knowledge of our local We supported 14 projects in this field. In Venezuela we communities enables us to understand developed a vocational training programme aimed at their needs, identify opportunities for teaching sustainable farming techniques to people from improvement and help them fulfil their local communities. (For more details see the following box). potential through vocational training programmes and professional education. Education In some countries, particularly in Africa, We supported 15 educational initiatives around the world, where the educational infrastructures are comprising the provision of educational materials and the limited in number and children and young realisation and rehabilitation of schools’ facilities including people have difficulty accessing these, we libraries, laboratories, computer and sports facilities. build schools and provide assistance for their daily operation. Solidarity and human Being a part of our communities also We carried out 49 interventions in this area, principally rights means helping them in emergency supporting orphanages, charitable institutions and helping situations such as natural disasters as well people in need of medical treatment and assisting as supporting families and those in need. communities. In Italy we helped the city of Palmi with technical and operational intervention to reconstruct and secure the access road to the city damaged by a landslip. Culture and sport We promote culture and sport as values We supported 62 cultural and sporting organisations in the that help build communities, supporting areas in which we operate. We began supporting the local organisations and teams with Circolo Canottieri Aniene’s sailing team in Italy, with the aim arranging events, as well as cultural and of supporting young athletes aspiring to compete in the athletics programmes. 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games. We base our programmes on a sound knowledge of our territories, In 2012–2013, € 5.2 million (about 1.9 million in 2013) was invested in which means we can ensure we only support initiatives of real interest initiatives with local communities. This only includes direct costs and for our communities. Management and staff are actively involved in does not consider the value created for local communities or the cost designing and structuring these programmes, ensuring close sustained for infrastructures developed by the Group for project-related monitoring of all initiatives supported. needs (e.g. mainly roads, bridges, water wells and basins), that also remain available to communities. A total of 183 social programmes were carried out in the 2012–2013 period (67 in 2013). Altogether, we supported our communities through over 220 initiatives in the period, summarised in the table above. 29 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini Impregilo Group Building the capacity of local communities Our commitment in Venezuela to excellence Among the various ongoing projects we have in Venezuela, a significant social initiative for the community has been implemented in 2013 at the hydroelectric project of Tocoma. Our site’s Environmental and Social Responsibility Our commitment department has developed a vocational training programme aimed at teaching sustainable farming to shared growth techniques to people from the local community. The programme has been developed after a study of 3 communities’ needs, carried out through surveys and Supporting communities also after interviews. The initiative involved over 50 people for six projects’ completion months on theoretical and practical training sessions, allowing them to learn about farming techniques, land Our commitment In Uganda, where we have delivered the Bujagali to people care reclamation, biodiversity protection and natural hydroelectric project in 2012, we are continuing to seek resources conservation. Special practical sessions viable ways to help communities in need. have been provided on production of organic In Africa cancer has dramatically increased over the pesticides and fertilizers, humus, seeds and resource last years. Poverty, lack of knowledge and logistic supply (water, soil, recycled materials). difficulties are the main reasons for a too late cancer The objective of the project has been to train this Our commitment diagnosis with fatal consequences. first group of people in order to allow them to to environmental To help people in need of oncological treatments we become experts among their communities and teach other people in turn, ensuring the continuity stewardship have created a partnership with Oncology for Africa, a non-profit organisation that implements cancer of learning dissemination. prevention, treatment and training programmes in The project also responded to the Millennium Africa, establishing in Kampala a house to welcome Development Goals 1 (eradicate poverty), 3 (promote patients from rural villages that need chemo/radio gender equality) and 7 (ensure environmental therapy at Nsambya Hospital. sustainability); 1,340 total training hours were Future commitments The “Family House for Uganda” can host 24 patients, delivered and 25 of Salini Impregilo’s staff were with rotation, for the entire period of treatment totally deployed, 13 of whom were volunteers. free of charge, and represents an innovation for hospitals in the country. This is a clear example of how business and non-profit organisations can join forces and combine their Appendix expertise, involving local institutions to introduce new and sustainable ways to help their communities. Third-party assurance report 30 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 3.4 Shared growth performance results GRI Reference Performance indicator Unit 2012 2013 and notes Direct economic value generated and distributed G4-EC1 Operating revenue €000 1,174,185 3,333,820 Other income €000 327,947 207,437 Financial income €000 33,527 66,628 Direct economic value generated €000 1,535,659 3,607,885 Operating costs €000 944,858 2,647,811 Employee wages and benefits €000 138,001 459,443 Payments to providers of capital €000 1,832 138,186 Payments to government €000 28,781 43,234 Community investments €000 3,241 1,910 Economic value distributed €000 1,116,713 3,290,584 Economic value retained €000 418,946 317,301 Proportion of direct and indirect workforce hired from the local community by region Direct employees Africa % 95% 95% Central and South America % 98% 96% North America % 91% 95% Europe % 85% 83% Middle East and Asia % 52% 61% Total % 88% 90% Sub-contractors’ employees Africa % 91% 97% Central and South America % 97% 95% North America % 100% 100% Europe % 88% 80% Middle East and Asia % 95% 86% Total % 93% 88% Ratios of entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation G4-EC5 Colombia Women % na 100% Men % na 100% Denmark Women % na na (1) Men % na na Ethiopia Women % na 100% Men % na 100% Italy Women % na 105% Men % na 104% Malaysia Women % na 133% Men % na 133% Panama Women % na 123% Men % na 123% Venezuela Women % na 110% Men % na 110% 31 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini Impregilo Group GRI Reference Our commitment Performance indicator Unit 2012 2013 and notes Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation G4-EC6 to excellence Colombia % na – Denmark % na 21% Ethiopia % na – Italy % na 100% Malaysia % na – Our commitment Panama % na 21% Venezuela % na 70% to shared growth Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported G4-EC7 3 Community initiatives Infrastructure investments no. 19 26 Services supported no. 117 67 Total no. 136 93 Our commitment to people care Community investments Pro-bono €000 379 666 In-kind €000 2,862 1,243 Total €000 3,241 1,910 Our commitment Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation G4-EC9 Colombia % 94% 97% to environmental Denmark % 76% 73% Ethiopia % 46% 47% stewardship Italy % 100% 100% Malaysia % 50% 55% Panama % 51% 31% Venezuela % 92% 92% Future commitments Grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through grievance mechanisms G4-SO11 Number of grievances addressed during the reporting period no. na 201 Number of grievances resolved during the reporting period no. na 194 Number of grievances addressed previously and resolved in the period no. na 6 na: not available for 2012 because the indicator has been introduced/modified by the GRI-G4 Guidelines. Notes (1) Data is not reported because a local minimum wage is absent in Denmark. Appendix Third-party assurance report 32 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 4 33 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 Our commitment About the Salini Impregilo Group to people care Our commitment to excellence People are the cornerstone of Salini Impregilo’s development and success, contributing to the achievement of the Group’s objectives and fuelling Our commitment future growth. to shared growth We are committed to enhancing the capabilities of our employees, ensuring their continuous development, health and safety protection, Our commitment and providing a robust welfare system. to people care 4 Our commitment to environmental stewardship In this section… 4.1 Human resources development 34 4.2 Health and safety protection  35 Future 4.3 Personnel wellbeing 38 commitments 4.4 People care performance results 39 Appendix Third-party assurance report 34 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 372,000 Training hours Behind every major project in the world is the labour, passion and Staff training and development commitment of thousands of people: the highly skilled and professional We are firmly committed to creating a work environment that enhances women and men who are the keys to our success. individual capabilities and fosters the development of competencies At the end of 2013 we employed 31,172 people worldwide, 42% of and learning potential at the Company, so that each employee can fully whom were under 30 years old. The majority of our workforce is based realise his or her potential and contribute to the achievement in Africa, followed by Central and South America, Middle East and Asia. of common goals. We consider continuous training as vital for our employees and for the Employees Breakdown by Age Group’s future. For this reason, we define and implement an annual (%) 1 1. <30 yrs Training Plan that consolidates and develops the corporate skills 42% 3 system, with the aim of maintaining the continuous drive for excellence in professionalism, performance and results. 2. 30/50 yrs 48% Investing in the development of professionals at an area level is an important strategic factor, since it allows us to be able to depend on 3. >50 yrs qualified resources that can be deployed on projects in the same – 10% or other geographical areas. 2 We foster the development of our people both through specific training and knowledge sharing. Both at our operating sites and headquarters, a balanced mix of young people and qualified staff ensures that our know-how and expertise is steadily transferred to the next generation of professionals. In addition to induction training on Group policies and procedures for all 4.1 Human resources development new hires, each employee undergoes a training programme according to the tasks assigned, to develop and maximise his or her skills and Belonging to Salini Impregilo means participating in the construction of abilities. In addition to traditional training systems, an e-learning unique, high engineering international projects; working in a programme has been launched to support personal development on multicultural environment in which relationships are based on dialogue, specific issues of general importance, allowing us to reach out to respect, transparency and trust; developing competencies and employees around the world in a more targeted and efficient manner. professional skills in a dynamic and competitive organisation – and In 2013, more than 372,000 hours of training was provided for Group interacting with the best industry professionals at the global level. personnel, equal to an average of approximately 12 hours per head. Personnel recruitment and management Salini Impregilo researches and selects candidates in several ways, Performance evaluation and compensation The Group regards competencies, experience and merit as essential including collaborative projects with major Italian and overseas to growing the wealth of its human assets. universities, as well as other professional educational institutions1. In order to guarantee equal opportunities, managerial continuity and To manage the complex processes of recruitment, management and the growth of the business, we use a performance management development in an organic and structured way, the Group uses system. This is aimed at measuring and evaluating competencies, guidelines for the Management of Human Resources. These are performance objectives, behaviours and potential for further defined at Head Office and adapted locally to meet the needs of development of our employees according to their role in a individual organisations. Our guiding principles are equal opportunities, defined period. non-discrimination, physical and moral integrity, fairness and professional development. The system consists of a regular employee evaluation process carried out at headquarters and at operating sites, with a particular focus on To sustain the growth forecasted in the Business Plan to 2017, we need the individuals included in a development path, to ensure coverage to hire and develop a large number of people. We are therefore of key corporate and site positions. developing new strategic guidelines to attract the best resources for our projects around the world. These include the establishment of The Group ensures that – in addition to an individual’s competencies, special new agreements with major Italian universities to develop experience and merits – high and robust competitive standards of ad hoc courses and programmes to select and employ talented compensation are maintained, relative to peer group companies2. young people to direct towards international careers. Moreover, we are committed to increasing the percentage of our workforce under 30 years old, employing young people from local markets through new training and development paths. 1. For example, in Italy we collaborate with the Politecnico of Milan on a Masters in Project Management that allows us to identify and select talented young students to employ. 2. The remuneration system adopted is based on a fixed system in which, depending on specific individual and/or Company performance, a variable remuneration payment can be added in the form of a one-off bonus. 35 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini Impregilo Group 4.2 Health and safety protection HSE committee in Abu Hamour Project Salini Impregilo recognises the critical importance of occupational health and safety – and the protection of employees and third parties The Abu Hamour Southern Outfall Tunnel Phase – 1 Our commitment across all activities at its offices or operating sites. The Group’s main to excellence (AHSO) project team works on the principle of 5 Es, objectives in this area are eliminating or reducing to a minimum the risk i.e. Evaluation, Engineering, Education, Encouragement of accidents by adopting a prevention and protection system and Enforcement. applicable to all operating activities, according to the principle that all accidents can be prevented. The multi-national and multi-cultural workforce around 12 different nationalities involved in this project demands Our commitment Safety management special communication skills, clear and user-friendly Effective management of safety is ensured by dedicated procedures documentation, coupled with close monitoring and to shared growth that involve risk assessment, the planning and implementation of control. This is efficiently managed by our highly training activities, active involvement of personnel and operational versatile staff. monitoring activities. In order to fulfill the contractual obligations towards Through the adoption of the Safety Management System, certified our clients and to maintain a healthy and safe working according to the BS OHSAS 18001 standard, Salini Impregilo has environment for our personnel and visitors, we have Our commitment achieved good results over the years, namely: the best technology and efficient and safe systems in place. Most of the HSE matters are resolved at the to people care –– development of a safety culture among its employees; –– reduction in accidents at work; design and planning stage. AHSO’s HSE team exercise general control over the 4 –– prevention of occupational diseases; implementation of the HSE system and are responsible –– reduction in insurance costs; and for preparing and updating HSE policies and documentation. Our commitment –– decrease in administrative and criminal fines. AHSO’s policy is to encourage benchmarking and to environmental Wherever it operates, the Group complies with the laws in force HSE improvement proposals by its personnel during and guarantees high standards of health and safety protection in stewardship periodic safety meetings, trainings and toolbox talks. the workplace. In order to evaluate the HSE performance of the Each operating site establishes its own organisation to undertake daily project, a HSE committee has been constituted under monitoring activities in respect of safety in the workplace. Safety the guidance of the Project Manager. This committee officers are also in charge of recommending disciplinary measures will take a tour of the site, and meet every month to to management for those employees who violate safety rules. Future address the HSE matters. The Quality, Environment, Health and Safety Department at the commitments As a part of encouragement, the HSE committee Group’s head office carries out regular audits into the safety identifies two workers for the award of ‘HSE Man of procedures adopted at Group sites and evaluates the application the Month’. The award will be presented by the Senior of Company standards on health and safety in the workplace. Management representatives to the winner. The Company’s senior management reviews the suitability, adequacy In line with the above standards we, at present, and effectiveness of the management systems annually, evaluating have successfully completed more than six Appendix their strengths and weaknesses and taking the necessary corrective hundred thousand Safe Manhours without any actions to ensure continuous improvement in performance. Major Incidents/Accidents. Third-party assurance report 36 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 +54% H&S expenses compared with 2012 Health and safety training and awareness Excellence in H&S management at Panama All personnel receive an induction on the Group’s health and safety Canal extension project policies and procedures when they join, with additional training on specific risks in line with their assigned tasks. Before starting any new Advanced planning, organization and control system activities, special ‘toolbox’ meetings are held to explain safety together with a strong focus on training and raising procedures to be adopted. In 2013 over 182,000 toolbox meetings awareness among employees make the Panama Canal’s were held, in addition to approximately 8,800 HSE meetings that also H&S management system an absolute best practice involved clients and management. worldwide. The site’s Health and Safety Policy involves Salini Impregilo requires all those working on its sites to comply with its the explicit target of achieving zero accidents, through the standards. In this context, sub-contractors’ employees are considered rigorous application of standards and zero tolerance for in the same way as direct employees and also participate in training cases of non-conformity. and awareness activities. In 2013 sub-contractors’ personnel received All newly hired personnel are informed of this policy, approximately 225,000 dedicated hours of training on HSE issues. as well as of the entire system, before being able to access the site, through a three-day training course Safety performance on health and safety. In 2013 we continued to emphasise the importance of health and safety by increasing our investment in this field. In the last two years, At the start of each shift, team leaders organise tool H&S expenditure increased from €20.5 million to €31.7 million (+54%). box talks meetings to explain to the workers the specific safety risks related to the activities to carry out. During the period, we maintained our Health, Safety and Environment In addition, they explain the causes of the accidents (HSE) monitoring activities, with 959 audits carried out by site occured the day before, if any, in order to discuss and departments, 90 by corporate departments and 347 by external share appropriate prevention measures to avoid other control bodies – including clients, funders, local authorities and external similar events. assurance bodies. The Safety Officers hold meetings with all workers In 2013 the Injury Rate (IR)1 was equal to 2.28 and the Lost Day Rate every week, in which the safety performance achieved (LDR)2 was equal to 23.07. Both rates saw a decrease compared with and the improvement targets are presented. Sub2012 of over 30%, confirming the effectiveness of our management contractor employees also take part in all these systems and giving us confidence to advance further in reducing activities, and they are managed in the same way workplace health and safety risks. as direct employees. For specific activities, such as working in confined spaces trained employees with special certification are used. These specialist workers hold monthly meetings in which problems relating to safety are discussed, sharing any mutual experiences and identifying possible improvement actions. In addition, all work areas are subject to daily and weekly audits by the Health and Safety department, and regular external audits are conducted by the client, local authorities, financers and the management system certification body. Team leaders and their managers are assessed through a KPI (Key Performance Indicators) system developed to measure the safety performance achieved at the respective areas of responsibility. The best performance are rewarded every month. Thanks to this approach, the Panama Canal project has achieved excellent performance in terms of injury rates and the number of non-conformities detected during internal and external audits. 1. IR represents the number of injuries occurring per 100 employees and it is calculated as a rate between the total number of injuries occurring in the period (fatalities included) and the total hours worked, multiplied by 200,000. The complete formula is indicated in the Glossary (7.3). 2. LDR represents the number of working days lost per 100 employees and it is calculated as a rate between the total number of lost days (only injuries with temporary disability) and total hours worked, then multiplied by 200,000. The complete formula is indicated in the Glossary (7.3). 37 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini Impregilo Group Workforce Injury rate* Our commitment 6.00 to excellence 5.00 4.00 3.37 3.00 2.28 2.00 Our commitment 1.00 to shared growth 2012 2013 *Number of injuries/worked hours x 200,000 Ensuring education for our employees children in remote areas Our commitment Workforce Lost day rate* Providing our employees with the chance to have their to people care 50.00 45.00 families at work is one of the most important challenges we face in remote areas, due to the lack of public 4 services such as schools. 40.00 35.67 This represents a major concern to settle in order 35.00 to attract and retain young people on these challenging projects. Our commitment 30.00 25.00 23.07 For this reason at our camps we seek to establish site to environmental 20.00 schools for our employees’ children. Among these, in stewardship 15.00 2013 the Nicolas Mini School at our Gibe III project, Ethiopia, was recognised by the Italian Ministry of 10.00 Education, being able to provide education accepted in 5.00 Italy and the EU. The school is currently attended by children of different nationalities and lessons are taught 2012 2013 Future in Italian and English by experienced teachers. *Number of lost days/worked hours x 200,000 commitments Francesca Francesconi, the principal at the school, has a long experience in teaching at construction projects’ site schools, and her viewpoint is important to understand how these schools improve the life quality of personnel at site. “Site schools at projects in remote areas represent a powerful means of attracting and retaining employees, as well as a ‘glue’ among the employees’ community. Usually a site school opens Appendix with just a few children, but their number grows rapidly as other employees move their families to the site or new staff arrives knowing about the school, and this significantly improves the workforce’s morale and retention of young people”. Third-party assurance report 38 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 4.3 Personnel wellbeing Early collective bargaining Working in Salini Impregilo means being part of a Group that takes care of its people. We are committed to providing the best working In Italy the Group has always played a primary role in conditions for all our workforce, improving their quality of life and managing industrial relations, creating the model of so fostering a good work-life balance. called ‘early collective bargaining’ that now has been adopted in the national collective bargaining system for Around the world, our workforce receive a series of benefits in addition the construction industry. to their compensation, including social security, financial benefits (healthcare, life and extra employment injury insurance) as well as other The model provides for an industrial relations system in-kind benefits (canteen, accommodation, company car), depending structured on different levels (national, local, site) and on their level. different issues, so that in each level the appropriate interested parties are involved. The key element of Welfare at operating sites this model is represented by special Memoranda We pay particular attention to the provision of good living conditions of Understandings (MoU) signed with the interested for personnel employed in remote areas and challenging socioparties before the project starts. environmental contexts. The MoU fixes the common agreed rules to be applied Our efforts involve designing and building suitable camps to to the project, mainly concerning working conditions accommodate workers and their families, equipped with facilities (working hours and shifts), job market (employment of including canteens, hospitals, fitness centres and athletics fields, local personnel), health and safety (included training and markets, bars and internet connections. inspections), site logistics (accommodation, canteens, transport), responsibility towards sub-contractors We aim to make these villages as comfortable as possible, and our (monitoring of respect of agreed rules by sub-contractors). dedicated Village Chiefs manage the camps and arrange social activities for residents and guests. Industrial relations Healthcare system All personnel management policies and practices at our work sites are Salini Impregilo has a company health service, which informs conducted in the context of our industrial relations system. This personnel about disease prevention and control procedures, carries ensures compliance with the principal international codes of conduct, out regular health surveillance campaigns and inspects operating sites such as the ‘Universal Declaration of Human Rights’ (1984), the to ensure that all health surveillance protocols are respected. During ‘International Labor Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental these inspections, our doctors visit local hospitals to assess their Principles and Rights at Work’ (1998), the ‘ILO Tripartite Declaration quality and accessibility, especially in areas with poor standards of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy’ of public healthcare provision. (2000) and the ‘Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for multinational enterprises’ (2000). All our sites outside Italy have medical facilities that provide 24-hour medical advice, an ambulance service and a guarantee that each work We also signed an agreement with the Building and Wood Workers’ shift has access to medical staff. All operating sites have a pharmacy, International (BWI)1, which commits us to the application of specific providing access to urgently-required medicines and those needed principles2 on human rights to our workforce worldwide. for the treatment of chronic diseases. These health facilities are available to employees’ family members at Security at operating sites operating sites, as well as to local people for any acute and serious Salini Impregilo is also committed to guaranteeing the integrity and medical matters. security of its assets and people wherever it operates, paying particular attention to areas with specific security risks. Doctors responsible for the operating sites regularly offer local personnel training courses and provide information to local We have a Corporate Security service in charge of developing, communities on improving environmental sanitation and preventing the implementing and managing the Group’s corporate security strategy and spread of endemic diseases (such as malaria) and sexually transmitted programmes. This provides guidance and advice to site management diseases (including HIV and hepatitis). In Ethiopia, free Voluntary on security-related matters and assists security staff at our operating Counselling and Testing (VCT) on HIV is offered to employees sites in identifying, developing, implementing and maintaining processes and people from the local communities, based on a policy to reduce security risks, respond to potential security incidents and limit of non-discrimination and confidentiality. exposure to liability in all areas of physical and personal risk. Security at our operating sites is managed in agreement with clients 1 BWI is the international union for workers in the construction, building, woodworking, forestry and the local authorities, and operated by in-house personnel, and allied industries, present in 125 countries throughout the world. specialist external companies and – where necessary – by public 2 The agreement includes the principles of work as a free choice, no discrimination at work, no child labour, freedom of association and collective bargaining, adequate working hours and security authorities. Our security managers ensure that all staff involved remuneration that conforms to applicable regulations, working conditions that respect the in surveillance activities are aware of the Group’s policy and ethical dignity of people, specialist training and a guarantee of adequate welfare, specifically with regard to the health and living standards of personnel. principles with which they must comply when conducting their tasks. 39 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini Impregilo Group 4.4 People care performance results Our commitment GRI Reference to excellence Performance indicator Unit 2012 2013 and notes Direct and indirect workforce by region G4-10 Direct employees (1) Africa no. 15,873 18,700 Central and South America no. 7,875 5,811 Our commitment North America no. 160 252 Europe no. 1,773 2,136 to shared growth Middle East and Asia no. 5,249 4,273 Total no. 30,930 31,172 Sub-contractors’ employees Africa no. 3,561 3,492 Central and South America no. 4,893 4,284 Our commitment North America no. 56 36 Europe no. 5,535 6,191 to people care Middle East and Asia Total no. no. 4,741 18,786 2,737 16,740 4 Total workforce Africa no. 19,434 22,192 Central and South America no. 12,768 10,094 Our commitment North America no. 216 289 to environmental Europe no. 7,308 8,327 Middle East and Asia no. 9,990 7,010 stewardship Total no. 49,716 47,912 Percentage of direct employees by category, age group and gender G4-LA12 By category (1) Manager % 1% 1% Future commitments Staff % 19% 20% Workers % 80% 79% By age group Under 30 years old % 38% 42% 30-50 years old % 51% 48% Over 50 years old % 11% 10% By gender Appendix Women % 8% 7% Men % 92% 93% Percentage of individuals within the Board of Directors by age group and gender G4-LA12 By age group Third-party 30-50 years old % 27% 27% Over 50 years old % 73% 73% By gender assurance report Women % 27% 27% Men % 73% 73% 40 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 GRI Reference Performance indicator Unit 2012 2013 and notes Percentage of direct employees by educational qualification Italian headquarters Compulsory education % 1% 1% High school % 50% 50% University % 49% 49% Operating sites Compulsory education % 57% 56% High school % 34% 35% University % 8% 8% Total number and rate of new employee hires at headquarters G4-LA1 By age group Under 30 years old no. 16 22 30-50 years old no. 42 28 Over 50 years old no. 6 6 Under 30 years old % 42% 49% 30-50 years old % 13% 8% Over 50 years old % 3% 3% By gender Women no. 42 23 Men no. 22 33 Women % 23% 12% Men % 6% 9% Total number of new employees hired no. 64 56 Total rate of new employees hired % 11% 10% Total number and rate of employee turnover at headquarters G4-LA1 By age group Under 30 years old no. 2 10 30-50 years old no. 11 10 Over 50 years old no. 9 8 Under 30 years old % 5% 22% 30-50 years old % 4% 3% Over 50 years old % 4% 4% By gender Women no. 12 6 Men no. 10 22 Women % 7% 3% Men % 3% 6% Total number of employee turnover no. 22 28 Total rate of employee turnover % 4% 5% 41 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini Impregilo Group GRI Reference Our commitment Performance indicator Unit 2012 2013 and notes Total and average per capita hours of training to direct employees by category G4-LA9 to excellence Total hours Manager hours 4,945 3,998 Staff hours 176,798 80,021 Workers hours 263,373 288,420 Total hours 445,117 372,439 Our commitment Average per capita hours Manager hours 17 13 Staff hours 31 13 to shared growth Workers hours 11 12 Average hours 14 12 Ratio of the remuneration of the highest-paid employee to the median one at significant countries of operations G4-54 Colombia times 3 4 Our commitment to people care 4 Denmark times 3 3 Ethiopia times 5 3 Italy times 15 8 Malaysia times 3 3 Panama times 4 4 Our commitment Venezuela times 18 31 to environmental Ratio of the increase in remuneration of the highest-paid employee to the median one at significant countries of operations G4-55 stewardship Colombia times na – Denmark times na – Ethiopia times na –12 Italy times na –51 Malaysia times na –2 Future commitments Panama times na – Venezuela times na – Ratio of the remuneration of women to men at headquarters by category G4-LA13 Manager % 78% 87% (2) Staff % 94% 83% Workers % – – Appendix Third-party assurance report 42 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 GRI Reference Performance indicator Unit 2012 2013 and notes Direct employees injury, occupational diseases, and absenteeism rates by region G4-LA6 Global Injury rate IR 3.37 2.28 Lost day rate LDR 35.67 23.07 Fatalities no. 17 15 Occupational diseases rate ODR – 0.17 Absentee rate AR 2,684 2,577 Africa Injury rate IR 2.36 1.39 Lost day rate LDR 20.87 15.18 Fatalities no. 9 15 Occupational diseases rate ODR – 0.02 Absentee rate AR 3,393 2,739 Central and South America Injury rate IR 5.90 3.90 Lost day rate LDR 60.42 36.99 Fatalities no. 5 – Occupational diseases rate ODR – 0.19 Absentee rate AR 2,261 3,508 North America Injury rate IR 1.27 – Lost day rate LDR 6.24 – Fatalities no. 1 – Occupational diseases rate ODR – – Absentee rate AR 62 – Europe Injury rate IR 4.14 1.32 Lost day rate LDR 89.55 38.09 Fatalities no. 2 – Occupational diseases rate ODR – – Absentee rate AR 5,550 1,194 Middle East and Asia Injury rate IR 1.34 1.84 Lost day rate LDR 21.61 10.84 Fatalities no. 1 – Occupational diseases rate ODR – 0.76 Absentee rate AR 676 151 43 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini Impregilo Group GRI Reference Our commitment Performance indicator Unit 2012 2013 and notes Sub-contractors’ employees injury, occupational diseases, and absenteeism rates by region G4-LA6 to excellence Global Injury rate IR 2.12 2.67 Lost day rate LDR 15.87 26.87 Fatalities no. 11 9 Occupational diseases rate ODR – 0.06 Our commitment Absentee rate AR 159 761 Africa Injury rate IR 1.25 1.88 to shared growth Lost day rate LDR 12.57 6.66 Fatalities no. – 5 Occupational diseases rate ODR – – Absentee rate AR 126 2,832 Central and South America Our commitment to people care 4 Injury rate IR 3.17 3.48 Lost day rate LDR 17.50 24.94 Fatalities no. 4 1 Occupational diseases rate ODR – 0.12 Absentee rate AR 175 136 Our commitment North America Injury rate IR 2.91 – to environmental Lost day rate LDR – – Fatalities no. – – stewardship Occupational diseases rate ODR – – Absentee rate AR – – Europe Injury rate IR 2.85 3.41 Lost day rate LDR 35.89 77.25 Future commitments Fatalities no. 4 1 Occupational diseases rate ODR – – Absentee rate AR 359 335 Middle East and Asia Injury rate IR 0.19 0.65 Lost day rate LDR 0.19 4.24 Fatalities no. 3 2 Occupational diseases rate ODR – 0.03 Appendix Absentee rate AR 2 6 Sub-contractors and service providers identified as non-compliant with labour practices and human rights rules G4-LA15/HR11 Suppliers with which improvements were agreed % na 2% Third-party Suppliers with which relationships were terminated % na – assurance report Grievances about labour practices and human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms G4-LA16/HR12 Number of grievances addressed during the reporting period no. na 50 Number of grievances resolved during the reporting period no. na 45 Number of grievances addressed previously and resolved in the period no. na 68 na: not available for 2012 because the indicator has been introduced/modified by the GRI-G4 Guidelines Notes (1) Data refers to the entire Group’s personnel, including branches and the operating sites resulting as not significant from the materiality analysis. For more details please refers to the section 7.2 Methodological note. (2) 2012 data does not include personnel employed at Milan offices (Italy). 44 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 5 45 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 Our commitment About the Salini Impregilo Group to environmental stewardship Our commitment to excellence Infrastructures are the foundation of the development of societies. Our commitment Through our projects worldwide we aim to contribute to shared growth to the transition towards more sustainable growth, providing the infrastructures to address global environmental challenges. Our commitment to people care Our commitment to environmental 5 stewardship In this section… 5.1 Better infrastructures to face global environmental challenges 46 Future 5.2 Local impact mitigation 49 5.3 Environmental stewardship commitments performance results 52 Appendix Third-party assurance report 46 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 13,130 MW Expected capacity from ongoing projects 5.1 Better infrastructures to face global environmental challenges Large-scale infrastructures are inextricably linked to the environment in which they are located, enabling the development of territories and improvements in living conditions. Salini Impregilo’s projects are mainly devoted to enhancing the accessibility and economic potential of territories – through energy and transport infrastructures, as well as improving their public utility services – through hydraulic engineering works, civil and industrial buildings such as hospitals, universities, government facilities, cultural centres, commercial and industrial areas. In designing and delivering our projects we have an important role to play in terms of environmental sustainability, ensuring a positive contribution to tackling the global challenges facing today’s societies, such as climate change and increasing pollution in urban areas. Focus on Africa 2013 Our role in tackling climate change In April 2013 our Group was main venue sponsor of the High consumption of fossil fuels is widely recognised as the primary AFRICA 2013 congress held in Addis Ababa (Ethiopia). cause of global warming, which in turn leads to increased unpredictable precipitation, rising sea levels, increased catastrophic flooding and the The conference took place under the auspices of the spread of pests and diseases once limited to the tropics. African Union, and with the patronage of the Ministry of Water and Energy of Ethiopia. For the construction sector, climate change poses significant challenges, from building new infrastructures that are resilient to more Africa, with some of the world’s largest waterways, is frequent natural disasters to developing renewable energy solutions the continent with the greatest potential for future water such as hydroelectric plants that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. resources and hydropower development, and the most urgent need for accelerated development. Unlocking Thus through our projects we play an important role in combatting the vast potential of the region is the key to poverty climate change. Our worldwide leadership in the water segment1 has alleviation and rapid socio-economic development. been built on a track record of 230 hydroelectric projects completed The African Union’s Programme for Infrastructure with an installed capacity of more than 36,800 MW. We continue to Development in Africa (PIDA) is currently strongly play our part, with 13 ongoing hydroelectric projects in 11 countries supporting large-scale hydropower development with a new expected capacity of 13,130 MW. across the African region. Most of our projects have been in developing countries, boosting AFRICA 2013, focused on four major river basins of energy generation capacity, which in turn fuels the economic potential Africa (Nile, Congo, Niger and Zambezi) to review of these areas. Reliable electricity and lower energy costs are at the experience of integrated river basin development, was cornerstone of rising business opportunities, both for local and an ideal opportunity to further international dialogue international enterprises, with direct positive impacts in terms of job and to illustrate the two mega hydroelectric projects creation and social well-being. currently being built by our Group: Gibe III and the One of the best examples is the completion of the Bujagali Hydroelectric Grand Renaissance Dam. project in 2012, included into the CDM’s (Clean Development Ethiopia has a vast hydropower potential, the second Mechanism’s) register, which now provides 50% of Uganda’s total largest in Africa, of which only about 4% has been energy demand, significantly contributing to the reduction of the GHG developed. emissions (858,173 certified metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent avoided per year) and the sustainable development of the country. After the conference, two of our Group’s projects were used as a study tour for delegates who were able to The International Energy Agency (IEA) forecasts that global installed visit the Gibe II plant (in operation) and the Gibe III hydropower capacity will continue to grow, reaching 1,300 GW in 2017. project (under construction), two major elements in the But this level represents just a small part of the global technical Omo River Cascade in the south of the country. potential, estimated at 3,750 GW worldwide. All regions currently have significant undeveloped potential, beginning with Africa (92%), Asia and Oceania (80%) and Latin America (74%) to North America (61%) and Europe (47%)2: all areas where Salini Impregilo has a presence and has successfully delivered significant hydropower projects. 1 According to ENR 2013 Ranking. 2 Technology roadmap: hydropower, IEA, 2012 47 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini Impregilo Group Our contribution to fight urban air pollution Gibe Ill as a pilot project for It is estimated that more than one billion people are exposed to outdoor environmental management Our commitment air pollution annually, with important consequences for the health of urban populations and public accounts1. Michele Pulcini is the HSE Manager at the Gibe III Over 90% of air pollution in cities around the world is attributed to project. He has been working in Ethiopia for seven to excellence vehicle emissions brought about by high number of older vehicles years and, before this appointment, he was in charge coupled with poor vehicle maintenance, inadequate infrastructures of environmental management at Beles Multipurpose and low fuel quality. project, another Salini Impregilo hydroelectric project delivered in the country. Our commitment Most urban area infrastructures were not designed to meet the needs of a rapidly increasing population, resulting in traffic congestion and His day-to-day work, together with that of his environmental team is delivering excellent results, to shared growth weaker public transport services, that in turn affect quality of life and local economies. also in terms of official acknowledgements. We actively contribute to the development of solutions that address “Gibe III is a very big project that poses huge changing population needs and resolve air pollution problems in urban challenges in terms of environmental issues. areas. In addition to our underground projects, which ensure the Nevertheless, we are facing these challenges Our commitment delivery of sustainable mobility solutions for millions of people by in the right way, building a valid and solid environmental avoiding emissions and pollution from private vehicles, we also develop management system. to people care urban road projects aimed at decongesting highly-populated areas, Proofs of its effectiveness are the awards given to directly improving traffic and environmental conditions. the project in this field. One of these came from the One of the most recent examples of interventions in this field is the 36 Ethiopian Parliament which, during its last visit of 2013, Milan Motorways connection in Italy, delivered by the Group in 2013. declared Gibe III as the best project in Ethiopia regarding environmental protection management. Our commitment The project has relieved congestion in one of the most populated areas Moreover, the Ethiopian Environment Protection of northern Italy, with important benefits for the health of nearby Authority is considering Gibe III as an illustrative project to environmental 5 inhabitants, reduced environmental pollution levels and an economic to be used as a benchmark to raise the environmental upturn. stewardship protection standards on other projects under According to independent studies , the new infrastructure has enabled 2 development in the country. citizens to reduce their travel time from 25-30 minutes to 2-5 minutes, We are very proud of our work here at Gibe III, sure with air pollution reduced by 70-80% and €120 million saved per year, that ur commitment to advance the environmental thanks to reduced fuel consumption and vehicle use. management standards in developing countries like Future Local enterprises are expected to benefit indirectly from the new Ethiopia is the key to achieve better protection of infrastructure by €2 billion in ten years, generating 700,000 new jobs. environment and broad sustainability results”. commitments The potential for similar new projects around the world is enormous; Gibe III’s management system delivered an excellent we are well positioned to compete in the global arena and continue to performance in 2013 on all major environmental issues. help territories improve their infrastructures and environmental In particular, we saved about 4.9 million litres of diesel conditions. both through purchasing renewable energy and recovering on-site energy by using special energyWe are also committed to reducing the direct impacts of our Appendix saving devices, achieving associated reduction of GHG construction activities to a minimum. The following pages provide an emissions of 13,192 tonnes of CO2 equivalent, equal to overview of our environmental management systems and protection. 16% of total direct and indirect emissions. Moreover we installed a water recycling system at our batching plant recovering industrial water for reuse. In the period we also reached the record level of recycled waste, equal to 68% and we reused all the rocks and soil excavated. Third-party Furthermore, no environmental accidents occurred at the site and over 266,000 m2 of land were involved in assurance report reforestation activities during the period. 1 It is estimated that urban air pollution is linked to up to one million premature deaths and one million pre-natal deaths each year, while urban air pollution costs approximately 2% of GDP in developed countries and 5% in developing countries. Source: United Nations Environment Programme 2 Commissioned by the local citizens’ committee “San Fruttuoso 2000” and by the local G4–26 Chamber of Commerce. G4–27 48 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 Salini Impregilo environmental footprint Here are reported the main 2013 environmental data and KPIs regarding our operating activities. For more details please refer to the end of this section. Input Output Main resources used 23,349,219 t Production Waste 2,378,919 t Concrete 4,066,212 m3 Aggregate 81% Non-hazardous 99.7% Asphalt 1,838,764 t Ready-mix concrete 9% Earth-moving 33,463,019 m3 Hazardous 0.3% Cement 5% HSE management Others 5% Expenses 55,241 €’000 GHG emissions 642,919 t Personnel training 291,190 h Scope 1 61% Sub-contractors’ training 225,085 h Water withdrawals 14,923,438 m3 Tool-box and meetings 191,162 no. Scope 2 15% From rivers 60% Audits 1,393 no. Scope 3 24% From other sources 40% Footprint mitigation achievements Reused rocks and soil 48% Energy use 6,217,640 GJ Recycled and reused waste 46% Recycled water 6% Diesel 82% Saved energy 3% Other energy sources 18% Avoided GHG emissions 2% Environmental management Salini Impregilo manages its worldwide activities according to a structured Environmental Management system that conforms to ISO 14001 standard requirements. This table summarises the main activities carried out in each stage of the system, based on the Life Cycle approach. Impact assessment Footprint monitoring Supply chain evaluation Training and awareness All potential environmental impacts deriving Environmental Control Plans assess in detail Identified environmental prevention and Each site plans and carries out training activities from our construction activities are assessed the environmental footprint of the project in protection measures are applied to the supply for all staff involved in operations with potential according to a standardised methodology, the local community, through a three-stage chain involved in the execution of projects, impacts on the environment, sub-contractors’ based on specific criteria (probability of evaluation process (pre-construction, particularly to sub-contractors and suppliers personnel included. occurrence, consequences for the construction, post-construction). of certain materials, such as chemicals and In addition, all personnel receive an induction environment, duration of the event, materials used in projects aiming for LEED Our site environmental departments, supported on the Group’s environmental policies and difficulty of restoration). (Leadership in Energy and Environmental by external agencies and HSE Department at procedures at hiring, while regular awareness Design) certifications, that have to pass a Following the impact assessment, each project headquarters, conduct regular audits on campaigns are issued on specific topics special qualification process. prepares an Environmental Management Plan, construction sites and sub-contractors (e.g. waste, spills, chemicals, etc.). which describes the management and to check compliance with applicable Logistic needs are evaluated in order to reduce monitoring activities (Environmental Control environmental policies and procedures. environmental impacts and related costs. When Plans) for all environmental components goods are not available in the local market, the Environmental performance is periodically involved. Group uses sea shipments for equipment and reviewed by Salini Impregilo’s senior materials transportation as much as possible, management, who assigns targets to ensure since this is the method with the lowest ongoing performance improvements. associated carbon-emissions. Environmental protection Salini Impregilo ensures that all sites have monitoring, control and mitigation measures in place to protect the environment and prevent any potential pollution. This table summarises the main activities carried out at an operating level on the principal environmental issues. Natural resources Energy and GHG emissions Water Waste Soil We place great emphasis on Salini Impregilo strives to reduce We are committed to ensuring at Waste management plans are set up Salini Impregilo carefully monitors and rationalisation and efficiency in the energy consumption and related each site a close management of all at each site to manage waste in a protects its sites to prevent potential use of raw materials, favouring Green GHG emissions in several ways, phases of the water cycle: from the proper manner, complying with all damage to the soil and subsoil. Design solutions that allow: including: identification of water needs and applicable regulations and best Special containment tanks, supply sources to the realisation of practices. • a reduction in the consumption of • linking the site plants and facilities water collection networks and water handling networks with related natural resources, to local power grids, All construction waste is segregated waterproofing works are carried out supply and discharge points, control and collected in dedicated enclosed during the initial site development • the reuse of rejects (e.g. the reuse • regularly maintaining vehicle fleets, plans and emergency response areas, from where it is taken for reuse stage, while specific environmental of unpolluted excavation earth), procedures. • replacing equipment with more wherever possible, while the risk assessments are carried out • the use of reusable/ recyclables efficient models, Closed-loop water systems are remainder is sent via authorised for all chemicals, oils, fuels and products or items, implemented where possible, with transport companies to approved hazardous material that could be in • implementing energy-saving the aim of recycling and reusing waste disposal facilities. contact with soil and groundwater. resulting in lower costs and reduced lighting systems, industrial water, e.g. at crushing environmental impact. Particular attention is paid to the Environmental emergency plans are • switching technologies used at plants, batching plants and preparation of adequate deposit in place at our sites to manage both plants (e.g. from diesel to natural machinery washing stations. areas, verification of the qualifications environmental accidents and cases gas), Wastewater is collected in treatment of truckers and waste recipients, as of polluted soil. • installing energy recovery systems, plants and, before being released into well as to the education and training the environment, its quality is carefully of the employees involved in waste • increasing awareness of monitored, ensuring compliance with management. employees about energy saving local laws. behaviours. 49 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini Impregilo Group 5.2 Local impact mitigation Noise and vibration management Aspects relating to noise and vibration are of dual importance for Salini In keeping with our consolidated approach to operating construction Our commitment Impregilo: both in terms of workers’ health and with regard to the sites with respect to surrounding communities and habitats, we pay impact on the environment and local communities. close attention to the evaluation and mitigation of any disturbance. As part of our integrated management system, prior to starting any to excellence Reducing inconvenience for citizens activities we carry out an assessment of the potential impacts deriving Working in densely populated urban areas poses technical and social from the planned activities. With this information we determine which challenges. So far as is practicable, we are committed to minimising preventive and protective measures to adopt to safeguard workers’ disruption to neighbours near our sites regarding noise, traffic or road health and safety (e.g. through the use of personal protective Our commitment restrictions for vehicles and pedestrians. equipment) and the surrounding environment (e.g. by consolidating structures and using acoustic insulation). to shared growth Over the years we have gained significant experience in managing these issues, developing construction solutions and social initiatives Areas of greatest acoustic impact are protected by anti-noise barriers, that significantly reduce adverse impacts on communities. For both fixed and mobile, which are constructed either from artificial example, we use tunnel-boring machines (TBMs) wherever possible dunes or from supporting buffer panels of various materials. Anti-noise to deliver our underground and hydraulic projects in urban areas barriers can also be made from one or more rows of plants or trees without closing roads to traffic and citizens. We also establish lines of capable of absorbing noise which, at the same time, improve the visual Our commitment communication with our neighbours, keeping them up to date about effect. to people care our activities and seeking ways to reduce disturbance. In Copenhagen Vibrations are a particularly important issue when site works are (Denmark), for example, we developed a web-based messaging located in densely populated areas. Because the effects of pressure system capable of informing thousands of citizens in advance of our waves on the ground can cause damage to buildings or other artifacts activities, while local artists have decorated the worksite fences to in the vicinity of the works, we study the geomorphology of the soil enhance the visual environment. before starting any activities, to understand how vibrations could affect Our commitment the ground and identify the best working technologies. Air quality management The most significant direct impacts on the atmosphere during the During all our activities, noise and vibration measurements are to environmental construction of an infrastructure are related to the dispersion of dust caused in different construction phases: digging, soil movement, continuously taken to verify the effectiveness of mitigation measures and intervene in case of problems. Measurement instruments are 5 stewardship circulation of heavy vehicles on unpaved roads, crushing equipment installed close to sensitive locations (e.g. buildings, urban parks, offices, and the demolition of existing structures and objects. etc). In Copenhagen, where we are building an underground line, we have implemented an SMS (short message service) system that To minimise the production of dust at our sites, we implement a series immediately informs site supervisors in case of vibration limits being of mitigating actions that include keeping unpaved roads moist, exceeded, allowing prompt intervention. Future equipping crushing plants with sprinkler systems to moisten aggregates, using air filters at cement storage silos, as well as commitments equipping sites with systems to wash vehicle wheels. In urban areas, road washing is carried out regularly by special vehicles, transport activities are conducted using covered trucks and, where possible, materials are moistened before transportation. Another atmospheric impact derives from the exhausts of vehicles Appendix used to process and transport materials from and to construction sites. We mitigate these through particle filters installed on machines and using regularly maintained low-impact vehicles. Third-party assurance report 50 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 Traffic and commuting management Educational campaigns are arranged at project sites, so that all The sites included in this report cover an area of some 1,150 km and 2 workers can contribute to safeguarding species, beginning with include over 8,200 vehicles, a workforce of about 31,000 employees the simple reporting of sightings. and 16,700 sub-contract workers. The organisation of such a large In 2013, 14 projects under the scope of this Report had an interest in number of people and vehicles requires considerable coordination protected areas. Specifically, 0.3% of total managed areas were inside to ensure the safety of our people and to mitigate disturbances for protected areas and 14.7% were adjacent to protected areas. our communities. The table opposite shows information relating to these areas. Where For this reason, each project has a dedicated Traffic Management environmental impact assessments highlighted risks of interference Plan, which specifies the general circulation rules for vehicles and with protected species and, more generally, with the biodiversity of the pedestrians within the confines of the site. Traffic is controlled by interested areas, technical arrangements have been implemented to dedicated teams comprising in-house personnel and, in some cases, mitigate the possible impact of works on the environment. local police. Personnel who drive dumper trucks or vehicles for transporting passengers receive special training on safe driving and At our Lake Mead tunnel project (USA), for example, we have installed are regularly tested for alcohol and drugs. At some sites, speed is desert tortoise fencing around the site to prevent them being harmed monitored through GPS systems installed in our vehicle fleets. by construction activities. No travel is allowed outside the fenced perimeter without a biologist from the Southern Nevada Water To reduce vehicle traffic and related emissions, sites use special Authority (SNWA) to monitor the activities. Predator-proof rubbish bins personnel mobility management programmes, aimed at optimising are used to prevent predatory animals from being attracted to the site. transfers between work areas, canteens and lodgings. These In addition, the equipment and machinery is inspected by biologists comprise collective transport vehicles for workers and car-pooling prior to acceptance at the site to verify they do not potentially carry for site office staff. invasive plant materials. Biodiversity management The Group also pays close attention to the protection of local flora and fauna in areas not protected by law. Every infrastructure project has an impact on the landscape and local flora and fauna. It should therefore be designed to ensure full integration with the surrounding environment and preservation of local Reclamation of affected areas species, such as the animal cross overpasses/underpasses that we We are committed to reclaiming all areas affected by our plants, are implementing on some motorways, for example in Poland. facilities, quarries and landfills during or after the completion of a project. The aim is to leave these areas in a condition that facilitates During the construction phase, special protection measures are natural re-vegetation, prevents soil erosion, improves slope stability, required when sites are adjacent to – or within – protected areas returning affected areas to their original state. and/or if protected wild species are present. Reclamation activities are agreed with our clients and planned in Salini Impregilo consolidates its monitoring and mitigation efforts with partnership with local authorities and communities. We aim to a commitment to preserving and protecting biological diversity in the understand the needs of future stakeholders (e.g. farmers) and where areas surrounding its operating sites. possible, we arrange the handover of these areas to local farmers after Flora and fauna are protected by careful management of water, restoration, ensuring a direct benefit for local communities. operating areas, quarries and areas designated for the storage In 2013 we reforested about 626,000 m2 of land, planting over 131,000 of materials. trees. We also restored topsoil on about 2,267,000 m2 of land and In particular, the Group strictly prohibits the removal, damage or protected over 4,767,000 m2 of soil from erosion. disturbance of natural habitats in its site areas, applying to the relevant Reforestation activities have been undertaken using native plants and authorities for any intervention. Moreover, internal procedures forbid the species, also grown at special nurseries at some of our projects. hunting, capturing or disturbing of animals, including damaging nests or eggs. 51 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini Impregilo Group Projects related to protected areas and/or species Our commitment Central and South Middle East Africa America North America Europe and Asia Projects located inside None None 1 project: 6 projects: None to excellence protected areas –V egas Tunnel-Lake – CMT Copenhagen, Mead, USA Denmark – A4 third lane extension, Italy – Salerno-Reggio di Calabria motorways, Italy Our commitment – COCIV, Italy – Metro M4, Italy – Pedemontana to shared growth Lombarda motorways, Italy Projects located 4 projects: 2 projects: None None 1 project: adjacent to – Ingula, South Africa – Sogamoso, –S tep Deep Tunnel protected areas – Oued Zarga – Colombia Sewer, Arab Boussalem, Tunisia – Puerto Cabello – Emirates Our commitment – Sfax-Gabes, Tunisia Contuy Ferrocarriles, – Mukorsi Dam, Venezuela Zimbabwe to people care Size of operational 92 km2 (13% of 67 km2 (18% of 0,16 km2 (33% of 12 km2 (38% of 0,23 km2 (1% of sites areas managed areas managed areas managed areas managed areas managed in the region) in the region) in the region) in the region) in the region) Protected status National or National or National park National or local parks National park local parks local parks and Natura 2000 sites Main activities and Construction activities Construction activities Construction activities Construction activities Construction activities Our commitment impacts with short-terms with short-terms with short-terms with short-medium with short-terms reversible impacts reversible impacts reversible impacts terms reversible reversible impacts on water basins, air on water basins, air on water basins, air impacts on water on water basins. to environmental Presence of IUCN Red List species and soil. 1 project: – Ingula, South Africa and soil. 1 project: –E l Quimbo, and soil. None basins, air and soil. 3 projects: – M5 Minsk-Gomel 1 project: – Step Deep Tunnel 5 stewardship Colombia road, Belarus Sewer, Arab – COCIV, Italy Emirates – Pedemontana lombarda, Italy Future commitments Appendix Third-party assurance report 52 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 5.3 Environmental stewardship performance results GRI Reference Performance indicator Unit 2012 2013 and notes Materials used G4-EN1 Non-renewable materials Aggregates t 12,298,050 18,954,053 Bitumen t 119,417 87,834 Cement t 750,638 1,114,081 Metallic material t 131,083 222,152 Precast concrete t 498,052 295,621 Ready-made asphalt t 637,637 567,898 Ready-made concrete t 2,090,611 2,032,868 Total non-renewable materials t 16,525,487 23,274,507 Renewable materials Fly ash t na 74,712 Total renewable materials t na 74,712 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials G4-EN2 Rocks and soil % 52% 48% Concrete % 2% 2% Energy consumption within the organisation G4-EN3 Non-renewable energy sources Diesel GJ 4,652,507 5,094,436 Gasoline GJ 175,313 149,089 Kerosene GJ 5,780 2,841 Natural gas GJ 428,372 35,014 Electricity GJ 416,945 930,880 Total non-renewable energy sources GJ 5,678,918 6,212,259 Renewable energy sources Electricity from renewable sources GJ – 5,381 Total energy consumption GJ 5,678,918 6,217,640 Energy consumption outside of the organisation G4-EN4 Sub-contractors’ energy consumption GJ 1,015,696 1,700,096 Energy intensity G4-EN5 Energy consumed within and outside/revenue GJ/€mn 1,915 1,994 Total water withdrawal by source G4-EN8 Ground water m3 3,064,932 2,914,312 River m3 7,471,852 8,959,233 Lake m3 663,669 2,244,319 Sea m3 12,301 6,824 Municipal water supplies m3 888,319 798,750 Total m3 12,101,073 14,923,438 53 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini Impregilo Group GRI Reference Our commitment Performance indicator Unit 2012 2013 and notes Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water G4-EN9 to excellence By source (1) Ground water no. na 10 River no. na 9 Lake no. na 2 Sea no. na 1 Our commitment Total no. na 22 By importance to local communities and biodiversity to shared growth Used also by local communities no. na 9 Located in a protected area no. na 1 Interested by protected or endemic species no. na 3 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused G4-EN10 Our commitment to people care Water recycled and reused m3 na 912,705 % na 6% Direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2 and 3) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions G4-EN15/16/17 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) t CO2e 399,169 391,607 Our commitment Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) t CO2e 34,750 94,550 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) t CO2e 141,528 156,763 (2) to environmental Total GHG emissions Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity t CO2e 575,446 642,919 G4-EN18/CRE4 5 stewardship Total GHG emissions/revenue t CO2e/€ mn 165 162 Other significant air emissions from stationary sources (power stations) G4-EN21 NOx t 1,960 1,914 Future commitments CO t 146 142 HC t 14 13 PM t 20 19 Total water discharge by destination G4-EN22 River m3 na 3,501,293 1,125,314 Appendix Lake m3 na Sea m3 na 104,018 Soil m3 na 3,316,507 Ground water/subsoil m3 na 291,257 Sewage system m3 na 139,608 Total m3 na 8,477,997 Third-party assurance report 54 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 GRI Reference Performance indicator Unit 2012 2013 and notes Total weight of waste by activity, disposal method and type G4-EN23 Non-hazardous waste by activity Construction and demolition waste t 206,938 1,561,475 Excavation waste t 8,406,055 784,487 (3) General and other waste t 81,670 26,194 Non-hazardous waste by disposal method On-site recovery, reuse and recycling t 54,409 202,890 On-site incineration t 117 20 On-site storage t 8,491,342 45,673 Off-site recovery, reuse and recycling t 148,572 896,208 Off-site incineration t 223 840 Off-site storage t – 1,226,525 Total non-hazardous waste t 8,694,663 2,372,156 Hazardous waste by activity Construction and demolition waste t 10,988 1,669 Excavation waste t 10,599 9 General and other waste t 4,222 5,085 Hazardous waste by disposal method On-site recovery, reuse and recycling t 204 188 On-site incineration t 0 16 On-site storage t 23,603 811 Off-site recovery, reuse and recycling t 1,458 4,597 Off-site incineration t 543 259 Off-site storage t – 892 Total hazardous waste t 25,808 6,763 Total waste t 8,720,471 2,378,919 Waste by type Solid waste % 99% 98% Liquid waste % 1% 2% Waste diverted from landfill % 2% 46% (4) Total number and volume of significant spills G4-EN24 Significant spills no. 73 2 (5) m3 3 0 Water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the organisation’s discharges of water and runoff G4-EN26 By source Ground water no. na – River no. na 5 Lake no. na 1 Sea no. na 3 Total no. na 9 By importance to local communities and biodiversity Used also by local communities no. na 4 Located in a protected area no. na 2 Interested by protected or endemic species no. na 6 55 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini Impregilo Group GRI Reference Our commitment Performance indicator Unit 2012 2013 and notes to excellence Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations G4-EN29 Total monetary value of significant fines €000 47 229 Total number of non-monetary sanctions no. 2 3 Our commitment Land remediated and in need of remediation CRE5 Decontaminated and remediated land m2 – 7,123 (6) Land assessed for remediation but not yet remediated m2 – 60,868 to shared growth Potentially contaminated land but not yet assessed m2 – – Total HSE protection expenditures and investments by type G4-EN31 Health and Safety protection expenses €’ 000 11,553 16,609 Waste management, emission treatment and remediation costs €’ 000 9,202 15,735 Our commitment to people care Health and Safety prevention and management expenses €’ 000 8,983 15,119 Environmental prevention and management expenses €’ 000 3,692 7,778 Total HSE expenditures and investments €’ 000 33,430 55,241 Sub-contractors and service providers identified as non-compliant Our commitment with environmental rules G4-EN33 Suppliers with which improvements were agreed % na 3% to environmental 5 Suppliers with which relationships were terminated % na – stewardship Grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms G4-EN34 Number of grievances addressed during the reporting period no. na 71 Number of grievances resolved during the reporting period no. na 69 Number of grievances addressed previously and resolved in the period no. na 15 Future commitments na: not available for 2012 because the indicator has been introduced/modified by the GRI-G4 Guidelines Notes (1) For what concerns the size of the reported water sources, our withdrawals account for ≥ 5% of the annual average volume or capacity of them in nine of the ten ground waters, in two of the nine rivers and in one of the two lakes/wetlands reported. (2) Scope 3 emissions include those deriving from energy consumption of our subcontractors, from business travel and from shipping of goods and materials. (3) The huge amount of excavation waste in 2012 is mainly due to the excavation activities carried out at the Ulu Jelai project (Malaysia) both to prepare the dam’s foundations and to open a quarry to be used for the aggregate’s production. These activities substantially affected also the data on waste diverted from landfill (see following note). 2012 data has been restated in respect to that reported in the 2012 Sustainability Report of Salini Costruttori, having applied the conversion factor provided for by the ‘ENCORD Construction Waste Measurement Protocol’ (Version 1.0, May 2013) to convert volume of excavation waste into tonnes. (4) Data includes only waste reused/recycled on-site and off-site. However, data is strongly affected by the working phases of each project, so total trends could be not representative of the adopted mitigation activities’ effectiveness. Appendix (5) 2012 data include all spills occurred instead of significant ones, while in 2013 the reporting system has been improved to sort spills by their significance. The two reported spills occurred in Italy and Colombia, both of them under the responsibility of subcontractors. In Italy, a spill of paint occurred at Pedemontana Lombarda motorways project, that we treated according to the local law removing the contaminated soil and verifying the good status of the environment with the local environmental protection agency. In Colombia, a spill of ready-mix concrete occurred at Ruta del Sol project involved a surface water body, that we treated removing the spilled material under the supervision of the local authorities and, again, verifying the good status of the water after the intervention. (6) 2012 data does not include ex Impregilo projects. Third-party assurance report 56 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 6 57 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 Future About the Salini Impregilo Group commitments Our commitment to excellence The previous pages presented our commitments and day-to-day work towards sustainability, showing our management approaches, Our commitment key performance and results. to shared growth In the same spirit of openness and transparency, we share our goals and ambitions for the years ahead. Our commitment to people care Our commitment to environmental stewardship Future 6 commitments Appendix Third-party assurance report 58 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 We have already achieved several important goals, from joining the UN Global Compact and the threefold voluntary certification system for Quality, Environment, Health and Safety, to the accountability ensured by sustainability reporting in accordance with the latest GRI standards. In line with our ongoing commitment to improvement, we consider 2014 will be focused on integrating the management procedures and these results not as ‘finishing lines’, but as solid foundations on which systems of the former Salini and Impregilo companies; from these to build and achieve new sustainable development goals. activities we expect to identify a set of improvement goals that will be set out in our next Sustainability Report. We will continue to play a key role in promoting sustainability in the large-scale infrastructures construction industry, reinforcing our We are already working towards the following specific objectives: distinctive approach towards our markets, people, communities –– Signing up to international sustainability initiatives, such as and the environment. the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) through which we will Our efforts in the coming years will be focused on: inform investors about aspects relating to the management of climate change; –– Continuing to develop and deliver world-class projects based on innovative solutions, capable of creating shared value through our –– Completing the development of the Group Anti-Corruption Model, actions for all involved parties; which will apply worldwide extending the protection of the Company and its staff; –– Maintaining open dialogue with our stakeholders, to create the best conditions for their engagement and support; –– Implementing internal communications initiatives to reinforce a business culture based on ethical values and sustainable –– Ensuring the care of all people working with us, improving our safety development and share the best sustainability practices adopted performance in the workplace and the skills of our employees; and at our sites; and –– Protecting our environment: developing innovative, sustainable –– Improving the accounting systems adopted by our sites to monitor projects and mitigating our direct impact on communities. stakeholder engagement and community support activities, to better plan future interventions. 59 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 In this section… 7.1 Main memberships 7 7.2 Methodological note 7.3 Glossary Appendix 60 60 66 7 Third-party Appendix Future Our commitment Our commitment Our commitment Our commitment About the Salini assurance report commitments to environmental to people care to shared growth to excellence Impregilo Group stewardship 60 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 7.1 Main memberships –– Comitato Leonardo – (Italian Quality Committee) (chairman) –– Istituto Grandi Infrastrutture (Large Infrastructure Institute) (Steering Committee member) –– Associazione Grandi Imprese (Large company Association) (member) –– Global Compact Network Italy (member) –– Italian Committee on Large Dams (member) 7.2 Methodological Note The Sustainability Report as of 31 December 2013 (hereinafter also referred to as the ‘2013 Sustainability Report’ or the ‘Report’) aims to provide reliable, complete, well-balanced, accurate and comparable information regarding Salini Impregilo’s values, strategies and performances during the reporting period. Reporting cycle The Sustainability Report is published annually on the instruction of the Board of Directors of Salini Impregilo S.p.A.. Adherence to best practice standards The Salini Impregilo 2013 Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the “Comprehensive” option of the new “GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” and with the “Construction and Real Estate Sector Disclosures”, issued by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in 2013 and early 2014 respectively. By applying the Comprehensive option, we chose to disclose all Indicators related to the identified material aspects. The GRI content index is available on our website: www.salini-impregilo.com In addition, the Report contains references to the ten principles of the Global Compact, showing the actions and systems implemented by the Group in order to integrate these principles into the corporate strategy and day-to-day activities of the Company. Materiality analysis In order to implement the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content provided for by GRI G4 Guidelines, the Group has defined an internal procedure aimed at identifying, prioritising, validating and reviewing material topics. A brief description of the process is available at paragraph 1.7. Material topics identified through this process with related boundaries are listed opposite1. A complete list of significant sites where topics are material is also available. 1 Topics regarded as not material are: Products and Services, Customer Health and Safety, Product and Service Labelling, Marketing Communications and Customer Privacy. 61 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini Impregilo Group Salini Impregilo Related GRI G4 Material within Material outside priority topics material issues the organisation the organisation Excellence Our commitment to excellence Innovation and quality – Headquarters and Partners, suppliers, submanagement significant sites contractors* and consultants Supply chain management Procurement Practices, Supplier Headquarters and – Assessment for Impacts on significant sites Environment, Labour Practices, Human rights, Society Our commitment Shared Growth Job creation Market Presence, Child Labour, Headquarters and Sub-contractors and service Forced or Compulsory Labour, significant sites providers (i.e. recruitment to shared growth Assessment, Grievance agencies, security providers) at Mechanisms for Impacts on Labour significant sites* Practices and Human Rights Local procurement Procurement Practices, Headquarters and Sub-contractors and service Our commitment Economic Performance, significant sites providers at significant sites* Investment to people care Community support Indirect Economic Impacts, Local Significant sites – Communities, Indigenous Rights People Care Personnel training Employment, Training and Headquarters and – and development Education, Diversity and Equal significant sites Our commitment Opportunity, Equal Remuneration for Women and Men to environmental Safety at workplace Occupational Health and Safety, Significant sites Sub-contractors at significant Supplier Assessment for Labour sites* stewardship practices and Human Rights People wellbeing Labour/Management Relations, Significant sites Sub-contractors and service Non-discrimination, Freedom of providers (i.e. recruitment Association and Collective agencies, security providers) at Future Bargaining, Security Practices significant sites* Environmental Stewardship Global environmental – Headquarters and – commitments challenges significant sites Local impacts mitigation Materials, Energy, Water, Significant sites Sub-contractors at Biodiversity, Emissions, Effluents significant sites* and Waste, Land degradations, Contamination and Remediation, Transport, Compliance, Overall, Appendix Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Environment 7 Open dialogue Stakeholder engagement Local communities, Grievance Headquarters and Clients and sub-contractors at Mechanisms for Impacts on significant sites significant sites* Third-party Human Rights and Society Others assurance report Main results Economic performance Headquarters and local – subsidiaries Internal control and risk Public Policy, Anti-Competitive Headquarters and local Third parties as per Code management Behaviour, Anti-Corruption, subsidiaries of Ethics Compliance, Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society * We require all our sub-contractors and service providers to supply us with data on their socio-environmental performance; however, based on the geographical area of operation, these are not always available. G4–18 G4–19 G4–20 G4–21 62 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 Third party assurance Comparative data (2012) corresponds to the sum of data reported in To assure the reliability of the information provided in the Report and to the 2012 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report and those recorded by improve the accounting procedures, Reconta Ernst & Young S.p.A. Impregilo relevant sites. has been engaged to carry out audit activities. The independent In setting the scope of environmental and social data, starting from 48 assurance report is available at the end of the document. operating sites (both reported in the 2012 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report and Impregilo relevant sites), six sites have been Scope of the Report excluded3 because work was completed or because their 2013 The 2013 Sustainability Report contains an overview of the initiatives revenue was not material, while 13 new projects have been included. and activities carried out by the Group in 2013, as well as performance Any specific limitations to the scope are directly indicated in the Report, data from the period 2012–20131 and significant events which have particularly in the Performance results’ footnotes and in the GRI involved Salini Impregilo after the 2013 year end. Content Index. The information provided in the Report refers to Salini Impregilo S.p.A. The Code of Ethics, Organisational Model and certifications for and the consolidated companies. Quality, Environment, Health and Safety management systems at Salini Impregilo S.p.A. is the result of a merger between Salini S.p.A. 31 December 2013 were in place both for Salini S.p.A. and for and Impregilo S.p.A., achieved through a full voluntary public tender Impregilo S.p.A.. From 1 January 2014 a unique certification for Quality, offer made by Salini S.p.A. on Impregilo S.p.A. and successfully Environment, Health and Safety management system is in place for completed in April 2013. The merger agreement was stipulated on 26 Salini Impregilo S.p.A., while a new Code of Ethics and Organisational November 2013, providing for the merger of Salini S.p.A. into Impregilo Model have been adopted in May 2014. S.p.A., and is effective for statutory and tax purposes from 1 January It should also be noted that the injury figures in this Sustainability 2014. For further details, refer to the Directors’ report available in the Report refer to a scope wider than the one used for the Group Quality, 2013 Salini S.p.A. Consolidated Financial Report. Environment, Health and Safety management system, which is Unless otherwise specified in the Report and/or in the GRI Content restricted to projects with the following characteristics: Index, the scope of the report follows the criteria described below: –– direct contract; –– Financial data relates to the scope of the 2013 Salini S.p.A. –– contract managed by a consortium/JV/temporary partnership in Consolidated Financial Statements (that in 2013 was the parent which Salini Impregilo is the leader; company of Impregilo S.p.A.), except for the figures on local purchases (see below); –– contract where, in the shareholders’ agreements or through the presence of particular decision-making roles entrusted to Salini –– Corporate governance data and information relates to Salini Impregilo (e.g. PM or Head of QSE), the application is established. Impregilo S.p.A.; Therefore certain performance indicators used by the Group to –– Environmental and social data (plus local purchases) refers to a evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of the QSE system – and scope established based on the materiality of the operating sites in disclosed through other channels – could differ from similar ones 2013. Specifically, sites included in the report (listed opposite) have referred to in this Report. been identified on the basis of their revenues, backlog and worked hours at 30 September 2013. The sites excluded from the scope are Opposite is a list of operating sites included under the reporting scope not significant. of the Sustainability Report. For more information about the projects visit our website: www.salini-impregilo.com. Environmental and social data in the previous point are included as per consolidation methods used for the Consolidated Financial Statements2. They also include data related to sub-contractors, where available. 1 New performance indicators provided for by the GRI-G4 Guidelines are reported only for 2013. 2 Except fatalities, which are reported in full. 3 Levan-Dames (Albania), Jenikan-Salyand (Azerbaijan), Cagliari-Capo Boi (Italy), Bujagali Hydro Power (Uganda), Transalp Tunnel (Switzerland), Gucci building (Switzerland). G4–22 63 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini Impregilo Group Country Project name Area of expertise Company Algeria Algeriers inter-city collector Dams, hydroelectric plants and Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Our commitment hydraulic works Belarus M5 Minsk-Gomel road upgrading* Motorways and airports Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Chile Angostura Dams, hydroelectric plants and Empresa Constructora Angostura to excellence hydraulic works Ltda Chile Santiago de Chile underground Railways and undergrounds Empresa Constructora Metro 6 Limitada Colombia Ruta del Sol Motorways and airports Constructora Ariguani S.a.s Colombia El Quimbo Dams, hydroelectric plants and Consorcio Impregilo – OHL Our commitment hydraulic works Colombia Sogamoso Dams, hydroelectric plants and Grupo ICT II S.a.s to shared growth hydraulic works Denmark CMT Copenhagen (Cityringen)* Railways and undergrounds Copenhagen Metro Team Arab Emirates Dubai 881 3A* Motorways and airports Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Arab Emirates Dubai parallel roads R881 2C* Motorways and airports Salini S.p.A. Arab Emirates Step Deep Tunnel Sewer Contract Dams, hydroelectric plants and Impregilo S.p.A. Our commitment to people care T-02/03 hydraulic works Ethiopia Gibe III Project* Dams, hydroelectric plants and Salini S.p.A. hydraulic works Ethiopia Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam Dams, hydroelectric plants and Salini S.p.A. (GERD)* hydraulic works Georgia Kutaisi bypass* Motorways and airports JV Todini Costruzioni Generali Our commitment S.p.A./Takenada Engineering Construction Ltd. to environmental Georgia Samtredia Motorways and airports JV Todini Costruzioni Generali stewardship S.p.A./ Takenada Engineering Construction Ltd. Georgia Zestaponi Motorways and airports JV Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A./ Takenada Engineering Future Construction Ltd. Greece Stavros Niarchos Cultural Center Civil and industrial buildings Impregilo-Terna SNFCC Joint Venture commitments Italy A4 third lane extension Motorways and airports La Quado S.c.a.r.l. Italy Salerno-Reggio di Calabria Motorways and airports Salerno-Reggio Calabria S.c.p.a. motorways Lots 5–6 (Lot 5) Reggio Calabria – Scilla S.c.p.a. (Lot 6) Appendix Italy Variante di Valico* Motorways and airports Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Italy COCIV (High speed/High capacity Milano – Genova) Railways and undergrounds Consorzio Cociv 7 Italy 36 Milan motorways connection Motorways and airports Impregilo S.p.A. Italy Metro B1 (Rome underground)* Railways and undergrounds Metro B1 S.c.a.r.l. Third-party Italy Metro M4 (Milan underground) Railways and undergrounds Metro Blu S.c. a r.l. Italy Pedemontana Lombarda Motorways and airports Pedelombarda S.c.p.a. assurance report motorways – Lot 1 Kazakhstan South-West Roads projects Motorways and airports Salini S.p.A. (lots 1–5) (lots 1-5and 9–14)* Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. (lots 9–14) Malaysia Ulu Jelai Hydroelectric project* Dams, hydroelectric plants and Salini Malaysia SDN hydraulic works * Projects already reported in the 2012 sustainability report of Salini Costruttori G4–17 G4–18 64 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 Country Project name Area of expertise Company Nigeria Adyan Waterworks Phase II Dams, hydroelectric plants and Salini Nigeria Ltd. hydraulic works Nigeria District 1* Motorways and airports Salini Nigeria Ltd. Nigeria Gurara Dam* Dams, hydroelectric plants and Salini Nigeria Ltd. hydraulic works Nigeria Idu Industrial Area* Motorways and airports Salini Nigeria Ltd. Nigeria Inner Southern Expressway (ISEX)* Motorways and airports Salini Nigeria Ltd. Nigeria Millennium Tower – Cultural Centre* Civil and industrial buildings Salini Nigeria Ltd. Nigeria Ogoni – Anoni – Opobo Road Motorways and airports Rivigo J.V. (Nigeria) Ltd Nigeria Suleja* Motorways and airports Salini Nigeria Ltd. Panama Extension of the Panama Canal Dams, hydroelectric plants and Grupo Unidos Por El Canal S.A. (third sets of locks) hydraulic works Poland A1 Torun – Strykow motorways Motorways and airports JV Salini Polska/Salini-Impregilo SpA/Kobylarnia SA Qatar Abu Hamour hydraulic project Dams, hydroelectric plants and Impregilo S.p.A. hydraulic works Romania Orastie – Sibiu motorways Motorways and airports Impregilo S.p.A. Sierra Leone Hydro Bumbuna* Dams, hydroelectric plants and Salini S.p.A. hydraulic works Sierra Leone Rehabilitation of urban roads in Motorways and airports Salini S.p.A. Makeni, Bo, Kenema and Magburaka* South Africa Ingula pumped storage scheme Dams, hydroelectric plants and CMC – Mavundla – Impregilo J.V. hydraulic works Tunisia Oued Zarga – Boussalem Motorways and airports Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Tunisia Sfax – Gabes* Motorways and airports Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Turkey Köseköy – Gebze section of high Railways and undergrounds JV Salini Impregilo/Kolin Insaat speed rail project* Turizm sanayi ve Ticaret A.S./G.C.F. Generale Costruzioni Ferroviarie S.p.A. Ukraine M03 Kiev – Karkiv Motorways and airports Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Ukraine M06 Road Contract 1–2* Motorways and airports JV Todini Costruzioni Generali SpA/ AkkordIndustry Corporation OJSC/ Salini Costruttori S.p.A. USA Gerald Desmond Bridge Motorways and airports Shimmick – FCC-IGL S.p.A. J.V. USA San Francisco Central Subway Railways and undergrounds Barnard Impregilo Healy J.V. USA Vegas Tunnel – Lake Mead Dams, hydroelectric plants and Vegas Tunnel Constructors hydraulic works Venezuela Chaguaramas railways Railways and undergrounds Impregilo S.p.A. Venezuela San Juan de Los Morros railways Railways and undergrounds Impregilo S.p.A. Venezuela OIV Tocoma Dams, hydroelectric plants and Consorcio OIV-TOCOMA hydraulic works Venezuela Puerto Cabello – Contuy Railways and undergrounds Impregilo S.p.A. Ferrocarriles railways and stations Zimbabwe Mukorsi Dam* Dams, hydroelectric plants and Salini S.p.A. hydraulic works * Projects already reported in the 2012 sustainability report of Salini Costruttori 65 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini Impregilo Group Calculation methods –– HSE management costs including internal personnel dedicated to Data and information included in the Report are taken from the running HSE management systems, external consultancy and training costs. Our commitment information systems used for the general management and accounting of the Group’s operations, as well as from a specific sustainability Ratio of salary of men to women to excellence reporting system established in accordance with the GRI requirements. Some data and information come from public sources. Data on the relationship between women’s and men’s salaries is calculated as the ratio between the average annual gross salary of Reported data is calculated in an accurate manner and, where women and men, by each employment category. In turn, the average specified, by means of estimates. The methodologies applied to annual gross salary of each employment category is calculated as the determine the main indicators are shown below. ratio between the total annual gross salaries paid and the number of employees placed in that category. Data relates only to the Company Our commitment Safety indicators headquarters, where the number of women is significant. to shared growth Safety indicators are calculated in accordance with the ‘ILO Code of Practice on Recording and Notification of Occupational Accidents and Materials used Diseases’ as provided for by the GRI Guidelines. Where warehouse data systems cannot measure materials Rates reported are expressed as the number of injuries occurred (IR) consumption by weight (because such data are available in number of and the related lost days (LDR) for each 100 employees. pieces, volume, etc), estimates based on weight have been used. Our commitment In particular, the Injury rate (IR) reported in this report takes into account Energy used to people care all work-related injuries (and fatalities) that may have affected Calculations on internal and external (i.e. sub-contractors’) employees temporarily or permanently, such that they are unfit to carry consumption of direct energy are based on factors provided by the out their regular job for any day/shift following the occurrence of an Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (2006 IPCC Guidelines for injury. Minor injuries are not included. National Greenhouse Gas Inventories) to convert weight of gasoline, Lost day rate (LDR) in this report takes into account the total number diesel, kerosene and natural gas to gigajoules, while consumption of of the days that could not be worked as a consequence of injuries with indirect energy is based on the internationally recognised factor of Our commitment temporary disability (fatalities and permanent disability not included). 0.0036 to convert kWh of electricity to gigajoules. to environmental stewardship Lost days are calculated from the day after the occurrence of an accident and include the number of calendar days until the injured Water withdrawal, discharge and reuse person can return to work. For specific calculation formulas, see Water not withdrawn from aqueducts, bought from other sources (i.e. the glossary. via tanks) or measured by counter (included those discharged and reused) is estimated on the working hours of the draining pumps used Commuting injuries are not included in the calculation of the safety and the capacity of these pumps. Future indicators. Any accidents occurring to independent contractors (e.g. consultants) are included in employee injury rates. Injuries occurring Wastewater is estimated as a percentage of total water withdrawn, at the Company headquarters and at other offices are not considered depending on the specific use of the water (production or domestic). commitments as material because they do not relate to construction activities. Rainwater, although collected and stored, is not reported because it is For this reason these injuries are not included in the safety indicators. not considered material. The Group does not use wastewater from other organisations. HSE expenses Health, Safety and the Environment expenses reported (G4-EN31) Greenhouse gas emissions Appendix refer to: –– Health and Safety protection expenses including personal protective equipment, safety installations (e.g. firefighting equipment, Calculation of the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions is based on: –– The emission factors provided by the Intergovernmental Panel on 7 Climate Change (2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse grounding), emergency response equipment and services (e.g. Gas Inventories) for the consumption of direct energy; rescue team, rescue equipment, ambulances, first aid, etc.), Third-party provisional structures (e.g. supply and erection of scaffoldings, –– The emission factors provided by the International Energy Agency accesses, etc.) and H&S monitoring activities (e.g. laboratories, (CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion, 2012 edition, 2010 data) for assurance report instruments, measurements, etc.); the consumption of indirect energy; –– Environmental protection expenses including environmental plants –– The emission factors provided by IPCC (Fourth Assessment Report (e.g. wastewater treatment plants), environmental emergency AR4 100yr) to convert CH4 and N2O in CO2 equivalent; equipment (e.g. spills kit, absorbent materials, anti-spillover systems, –– The emission factors provided by the UK Department for etc.) and services (e.g. those provided by third parties through Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (2011 Guidelines to Defra/ framework agreements), waste management, environmental DECC’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting) for the restoration and remediation, monitoring activities (e.g. laboratories, shipment of goods. instruments, measurements, etc.); 66 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 Waste Injury Rate (IR) Data on waste production is gathered in accordance with the Index to assess the frequency of occurrence of accidents that result in Construction Waste Measurement Protocol issued by ENCORD casualties with loss of workdays or death of an employee. It is (European Network of Construction Companies for Research and calculated using the formula: Development) in May 2013. (no. LTI + no. FTL) x 200,000 IR = Within EU operations, disposal methods have been determined Total worked man-hours according to the classification provided by law of each waste category. where: Outside the EU, methods have been determined according to the specific contracts stipulated with external waste contractors. LTI = total number of accidents with temporary incapacity FTL = total number of fatalities For more information To discover more about our approach to sustainability or to suggest 200,000 = 50 working weeks per 40 hours per 100 employees how we can improve our sustainability reporting, please email: sustainability@salini-impregilo.com. Integrated management system Component of the management system of an organisation, including the organisational structure, planning of activities, responsibilities, 7.3 Glossary practices, procedures, processes and resources used to develop and implement its quality, environmental, health and safety policy and Aggregate manage its related aspects. Category of raw granular mineral particles used in construction; they may be natural, artificial or recycled materials previously used in ISO 14001 standard construction. Construction aggregates are used primarily as Voluntary international standard that allows organisations to implement components of composite materials such as cement, bituminous mix, an effective Environmental Management System, providing a coating, etc. framework for the analysis of significant environmental risks, and for managing and mitigating impacts. The system ensures compliance Emergency and evacuation plan with applicable environmental legislation and continuous improvement of performance. Operational tool by which studied and planned steps are taken for proper management of incidents, whether fire, injuries, gas leaks, spills of hazardous substances or other calamitous event that determines ISO 9001 standard the need to abandon the structure (e.g. earthquakes, floods, etc.), to Voluntary international standard that sets out the principles and criteria allow a safe and organised exodus to all occupants of buildings and for deployment and implementation of effective Quality Management operating sites. Systems, which demonstrate the organisation’s ability to provide products and services that meet the requirements of law, clients and Governance the organisation itself. Set of rules, at any level (such as laws and regulations) that govern the management of the Company. Corporate governance also includes Local the relationships among the various players involved (the stakeholders, The term is used in the Report with the following meanings: who hold interests in the Company) and the objectives for which the –– Communities living near project locations and the surrounding Company is managed. The main players are shareholders, the environment; management and the Board of Directors. –– Employees, suppliers, contractors and sub-contractors based in the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) same country of the project; International initiative established in 1997 under a UNEP (United –– Legislation applicable to the specific context of the project (e.g. Nations Programme for the Environment) project with the common national, regional). goal of achieving greater transparency, corporate responsibility and sustainable development. 67 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 About the Salini Impregilo Group Lost Day Rate (LDR) Stakeholder Index to assess the severity of accidents in terms of days lost as a The term of stakeholder identifies those ‘actors having an interest’ in Our commitment consequence of injuries with temporary incapacity of workers. It is relation to an economic initiative, be it a company or project. Relevant calculated as follows: stakeholders include: customers, suppliers, lenders (banks and to excellence shareholders) and employees, but also external interest groups, such gT x 200,000 LDR = as residents of neighbouring areas or local interest groups. Total worked man-hours where: Sustainable development gT = total days of temporary incapacity (LWD) Development that meets present needs without compromising the Our commitment needs of future generations. The term ‘sustainable development’ 200,000 = 50 working weeks per 40 hours per 100 employees appeared for the first time in 1987 in a UN document, known as the to shared growth Brundtland Report, named by the then Norwegian Prime Minister Gro OHSAS 18001 standard Harlem Brundtland and President of the UN Commission on International voluntary standard, which sets out the principles and Environment and Development. criteria for implementing a system for managing health and safety at work, to demonstrate the organisation’s commitment to the analysis, Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) evaluation, management and control of risks faced by workers, to Our commitment Technology used for the excavation of tunnels, which enables the improve workplace safety. complete mechanisation of the excavation process, including finishing to people care of tunnels and installation of safety structures. The use of TBMs Risk assessment enables a large increase in excavation speed, compared with the Overall documented assessment of all the risks to which the Group is speed achieved by using the traditional Drilling and Blasting (D&B) exposed in conducting its business. This assessment aims to identify method (excavation with the use of explosives). the most appropriate measures of prevention and protection and to develop the Group organisation, management and control systems. Our commitment Risk assessment document to environmental Document drafted by the employer and related to the evaluation of any stewardship risks for the safety and health of workers, including those for groups of workers exposed to special risks such as work-related stress and pregnancy, as well as those connected to gender, age, ethnicity and type of contract. Future Roller-Compacted Concrete (RCC) Technology adopted for the construction of dams, combining a high commitments rate of concreting production with significant economic benefits. This technology takes advantage of the low cement content typical of the RCC method, which provides effective optimisation in terms of transportation, placing and compaction. Safety operational plan Appendix Document drafted by the employer before starting operations in a site and containing the countermeasures to be taken during the activities in 7 order to safeguard the physical safety of workers. Significant locations of operation Countries with revenue equal or greater than 5% of the total annual Third-party revenue of the Group. assurance report 68 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 69 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 Third party 8 assurance report 8 Third-party Appendix Future Our commitment Our commitment Our commitment Our commitment About the Salini assurance report commitments to environmental to people care to shared growth to excellence Impregilo Group stewardship 70 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 71 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 8 Third-party Appendix Future Our commitment Our commitment Our commitment Our commitment About the Salini assurance report commitments to environmental to people care to shared growth to excellence Impregilo Group stewardship 72 Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2013 Our sincere thanks to all those that contributed to the realization of this year’s report as well as those portrayed in it, particularly little Aisha Zelda featured in chapter 4. Salini Impregilo SpA Via della Dataria 22 Via dei Missaglia, 97 00187 Rome 20142 Milan Italy Italy T: +39 06 67761 T: +39 02 44422111 F: +39 06 6776288 F: +39 02 44422293 info@salini-impregilo.com www.salini-impregilo.com
