Sustainability Report 2012 2 Water, Clarity and constant movement, movement towards perfection. Water travels and is transformed in quest for harmony. In its infinite journey, it symbolizes health, clarity, renewal. Unrelenting progress, life, change and evolution. It runs to fill all voids, adapts to changing needs. Warm and tender when in need, hard and restrictive when you don’t play by the rules. Ultimately, water gives you the invaluable gift of trust, plenty and freedom. INTRALOT chooses water as the theme of its 20-year Sustainability report, to symbolize our path of perseverance towards excellence, as unique people, as a family and as a company. Let the journey begin. 3 Contents 006 Message from the Chairman 008 Message from the CEO 010 Our Profile 012 1.1 INTRALOT at a Glance 012 1.2 Vision, Mission and Values 013 1.3 Worldwide Presence 013 1.4 Portfolio of Products & Services 018 1.5 Shareholding Structure 019 1.6 The INTRALOT Group 019 1.7 Financial Performance 024 1.8 Participation in Lottery and Gaming Associations 025 1.9 Corporate Social Responsibility Memberships 025 1.10 Participation in Trade Associations 025 1.11 Awards and Distinctions 027 1.12 The International Prospects of the Gaming Sector and Social Responsibility 028 Sustainability in the INTRALOT Group 030 2.1 Policy Developments 032 2.2 Strategy & Overview 034 2.3 Contribution to Local Communities 042 2.4 Stakeholder Materiality Assessment 048 Corporate Governance & Compliance 052 3.1 The Board of Directors 054 3.2 Board Committees 055 3.3 Risk Management 057 3.4 Product Responsibility and Our Customers 058 3.5 Our Suppliers 061 3.6 Corporate Compliance 4 066 Responsible Gaming Program 068 4.1 Strategy & Overview 070 4.2 Responsible Gaming Research 073 4.3 Responsible Gaming Technology 075 4.4 Research Collaborations 076 4.5 Employee Training on Responsible Gaming 080 4.6 Marketing & Advertising Standards 080 4.7 Market Research & Evaluation 082 4.8 Player Education and Treatment Referrals 086 Our People 088 5.1 Human Resources Facts & Figures 089 5.2 Equal Opportunities and Diversity 090 5.3 Human and Labour Rights 091 5.4 Internal Communication 091 5.5 Collective Bargaining Agreements 091 5.6 Employee Performance Evaluation 092 5.7 ι-game 092 5.8 Benefits Policy 093 5.9 Training and Development 095 5.10 Occupational Health and Safety 096 Our Planet 098 6.1 Product Contribution to Sustainability 100 6.2 Materials, Waste Management and Recycling 102 6.3 Energy Conservation and Natural Resources 103 6.4 Transportations 104 6.5 Awareness Raising Actions 104 6.6 Biodiversity 106 Appendix I Key Performance Data Table 108 Appendix II List of Tables 110 Appendix III About the Report 5 Message from the Chairman 6 Drawing from its corporate strategy of sustainable leadership, INTRALOT’s corporate social responsibility strategy is to create shared value for all its stakeholders, through the generation of resources for the common good, through research and technological innovation, and through the transfer of knowledge and expertise to the local communities in the countries where the company operates. The creation of shared value requires a focus on sustainability activities that engage local communities and relevant stakeholders. As a leader in the gaming industry, one of the most vibrant sectors of the global market whose revenues are used towards various social causes, INTRALOT has developed an extensive program of corporate social responsibility including coordinated actions that advance education, social welfare, human development and the protection of cultural heritage. The past 20 years have been years of inspiration, innovation, and responsible growth for INTRALOT. A protagonist of the gaming sector’s history worldwide, INTRALOT continues to offer to a traditional industry a new dynamic, making it today one of the most robust sectors of the global economy. Socrates P. Kokkalis Chairman, INTRALOT Group 7 Message from the CEO 8 The gaming sector today poses substantial opportunities, arising from the liberalization of gaming markets and the rapidly evolving interactive market, as well as new challenges, concerning player protection and responsible gaming. Safe and responsible gaming is a natural key element of INTRALOT’s strategy of sustainable leadership. Gaming generates economic resources that are vital for the achievement of good causes and for social progress. Our company’s state of the art technology and operational expertise enable responsible gaming practices on behalf of our customers, embedding them in daily operations and product solutions and communicating best practices to all stakeholders. Our company’s international expansion has also made social responsibility towards local communities another of our priorities. In this effort, we have established partnerships with other private and public stakeholders that advance sustainable economic growth and global citizenship. We have also focused our efforts on the active support of interdisciplinary research in the gaming sector, a sector which presents great potential for disruptive innovation and cross-sector synergies that can result in quality of life improvements and prosperity. This year we are also pleased to lead in the adoption the new G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative, released in May of 2013, which attests to INTRALOT’s enduring commitment to social responsibility leadership and to the principles of the UN Global Compact, through a deeper engagement together with its stakeholders in the development of a prosperous as well as sustainable future. Constantinos G. Antonopoulos CEO, INTRALOT Group 9 Our Profile “In its infinite journey, it symbolizes health, clarity, renewal.” 10 1.1 INTRALOT at a glance INTRALOT, a to become leaders in the global economy. The public listed selection was based on criteria such as the company’s company, is the business model, its growth record, leadership in their leading supplier of industry and outstanding executive management. integrated gaming and transaction processing systems, innovative The Company continues to make remarkable game content, sports betting management and progress, with the same passion for the interactive gaming services to state-licensed gaming accomplishment of its key targets: dedication to its organizations worldwide. It is the leading vendor in customers’ satisfaction, continuous detection of new the gaming sector, with presence in 56 countries and trends and adjustment of the design and development jurisdictions, with 68 subsidiaries and at the same of pioneering and result-oriented solutions so as to time a licensed lottery operator in 17 jurisdictions. respond to market demands. Within its 20 years of operation, INTRALOT has achieved impressive global expansion and has become a leader of the gaming sector, a “onestop-shop” offering fully integrated, secure, and efficient solutions for every aspect of any gaming and entertainment business, through retail networks as well as via the Internet and mobile telephony. INTRALOT is the leading partner for those organizations that want to offer a Universal Gaming Experience to their players. Employing a workforce of over 5,500, INTRALOT has firmly established its presence in all 5 continents. Its revenues for 2012 reached €1.4 billion. INTRALOT possesses a wide range of products and services, extended know-how and experience in sports betting games, lotteries, numerical games, instants, interactive gaming, iTV, racing, and video 1.2 Vision, Mission lottery as well as cutting-edge technology, which and Values give it the competitive edge to contribute directly to the efficiency, profitability and growth of its customers. Its operational experience and knowhow combined with its technological competency INTRALOT’s vision is to retain our leading position and self-sufficiency has turned INTRALOT into the in the gaming industry and consistently offer world’s leading fixed-odds betting operator, handling increased value to our customers, shareholders and the world’s largest retail Sports Book compiling and employees. covering bets in excess of €4.5 billion annually. INTRALOT’s mission is to provide state-of-theRecognizing INTRALOT’s outstanding performance, art integrated systems, transaction processing, the Global Growth Companies Community of the game content and value added services to gaming World Economic Forum ranked it among the TOP 125 organizations and non-lottery businesses worldwide, companies worldwide. These “New Champions” are ensuring their secure, reliable and profitable businesses that have demonstrated a clear potential operation. 12 Our Core Values, the keystones of our corporate culture, have earned us the trust and confidence of 1.3 Worldwide Presence employees and customers alike: INTRALOT has been awarded contracts for a wide • Passion for achieving challenging goals; range of products (systems, terminals, alternative • Commitment to developing product solutions with distribution channels, VLTs, etc.) and gaming forefront responsible gaming technologies and to applications (lotteries, instant lotteries, fixed odds offering services that advance responsible gaming betting, etc.) in all five continents. practices and promote a safe and responsible gaming environment; • Commitment to customer satisfaction, continuous improvement and growth; • Flexibility to design and develop innovative and effective solutions that meet specific market requirements and customer needs; Portfolio of Products 1.4 • Excellence across the entire range of our business & Services activities; • Integrity and Responsibility towards our customers, shareholders and employees, and adherence to the For the past 20 years, INTRALOT has provided social role of state regulated lotteries. Lotteries around the world with gaming and transaction processing systems and the full Table 1 Worldwide Presence 13 spectrum of related services, and has offered their where it has presence (see section 2.2). customers fun, compelling and responsible gaming The company thus has the experience of a choices, while generating significant cash flows for successful operator coupled with expertise in the the Lotteries and contributions to their beneficiaries. latest technological developments in the lottery sector. Approaching the gaming business from an INTRALOT’s expertise originally perfected in Lottery operator’s point of view has made INTRALOT the operations has been applied to betting markets leading company in its sector, providing advanced around the world to make INTRALOT the world’s organizational and operational solutions. number one sports retail bookmaker. The bettingspecific know-how and operational experience, and the development of cutting edge betting-oriented Product Innovation technologies, have brought INTRALOT to this position of undisputable leadership. In today’s online world, innovation is no longer driven Capitalizing on its experience as an operator, by the gaming supplier but rather it is driven by the INTRALOT has succeeded in unifying its operational consumer. As a consequence, gaming companies services and its technology, now being the only onemust be responsive to the entire set of end-user’s stop-shop gaming solution provider in the market. experiences and expectations. New gaming models are emerging, combining the worlds of virtual INTRALOT customers worldwide frequently attest to economies and social gaming with the existing the exceptional level of quality of services offered. i-Gaming models. The various contracts that INTRALOT closed in different game jurisdictions can be grouped (in At INTRALOT, innovation is systematically approached terms of complexity, liability and risk) as follows: as a business process, using ingrained customerdriven and open innovation strategies together with •Technology supplier and provider of support technologies that facilitate universal interoperability. services; This has resulted in distinguishing INTRALOT in the •Management contracts; market and producing such novelties as: •Commercial operator/licensee. •INTRALOT’s ‘Universal Gaming Experience’, namely Table 2 INTRALOT Contracts Breakdown 2012 INTRALOT’s player-centric infrastructure roadmap for gaming operators. By enabling players to make use of their deposited funds to play whenever and wherever they want, the ‘Universal Gaming Experience’ extends the reach of gaming operators from traditional retail networks into emerging and dynamic player interaction points. •INTRALOT’s ‘omnichannel’ approach to multichannel use of marketing e-gaming operations. •Real-time intelligence to automatically detect opportunities and optimize processes. • NEFOS, INTRALOT’s Cloud for ‘gaming as a service’. INTRALOT is both a partner of licensed gaming A secure, highly-available cloud solution for landoperators, providing a full range of products and based, mobile, and online gaming, NEFOS provides services, and a licensed gaming operator in its own gaming operators with the technological scalability, right, operating in several countries around the operational flexibility and resource optimization to world. meet their demanding business goals across all The strategic focus of the company’s sustainability gaming channels. program is defined depending on these different contract roles in the countries and jurisdictions Staying ahead of sector trends, INTRALOT’s newest 14 Universal Gaming Suite series of products and services meets and exceeds consumer preferences Table 3 INTRALOT New Products 2012 by offering the player a Universal Gaming Experience Gablet Multifunctional, cashless and paperless in a secure and responsible integrated gaming tablet offering Lottery Triple Play services: Games, environment. Information and Advertisement. The most important differentiator of the Universal GameStream Suite Visual Entertainment gaming Gaming Experience’ security and responsible content across all channels, inclusive of retail, gaming framework is its human-centric nature. desktop, and mobile. Player behavior can be tracked and analyzed so that eventual addiction trends, potential participation of Gamez-on Platform An open social gaming minors or even fraudulent attempts are identified, ecosystem for user-generated game development in accordance with the security and responsible and community game playing. Gamez-on facilitates gaming standards of the World Lottery Association the rapid development of game concepts into open (WLA). peer-to-peer game projects that can run over multiple hardware platforms through the provision of libraries and collaborative development tools. Gamez-on is an In 2012 INTRALOT added several innovative products ongoing R&D initiative between INTRALOT Interactive to its portfolio, which are enablers of the Universal and partner organizations. Gaming Experience. i-Flex A sports betting platform that unifies efficiently the interactive and retail betting business, while Gaming Technology and Equipment maintaining strict control of the risk management process. LOTOS™ O/S (Open System) is INTRALOT’s i-GEM Player Tracking monitoring system The technologically advanced, innovative and system can be applied to 3rd party self service video comprehensive Gaming & Transaction Processing game terminals providing a unified monitoring and Platform. It enables the management and player tracking environment, and offering multiple administration of all types of games, systems, responsible gaming features. terminals & services through a unified platform. Lazyland Social gaming suite with flexible gaming architecture and seamless access and integration Designed to exceed even the most demanding with a wide variety of gaming products. requirements, LOTOS™ O/S is an all-inclusive, fully integrated solution to the ever increasing and LOTOSTM Horizon IRD / Duo3D / Content Publisher diverse technical and commercial needs of Gaming These three new LOTOSTM Horizon products include Operators and Transaction Processing Organizations two new media players for the Horizon multimedia alike. platform, and a content publisher automatically targeting videos/images to multiple different display Being secure, that is protecting game integrity or devices, in a “create once – publish many” manner. player privacy, means being socially responsible while responsible gaming requires the existence Tap n’ Play A new family of games that enables of security properties (e.g. effective player lotteries to bridge the distance between land and identification) in order to be efficient. mobile gaming by NFC (Near Field Communication) technology and incorporating it in lottery gaming. INTRALOT deploys technologies towards ensuring TV-enabled Real and Virtual Races A dynamic security and responsible gaming, independently collection of Live, Virtual and Pre-recorded Race of the channel or the game. For example, identity betting products. management is embedded in the newly launched Unified Player Management platform in order to ensure efficient protection of the players’ privacy and of transactions. The integrity of Universal Gaming 15 Experience components is managed centrally, made games to address specific needs, following a being preventive and correlating multiple events for structured approach to new game development and identifying foul play. games’ portfolio. Built in-house, field-proven to support all types of games, and highly parametrical, reliable and secure, LOTOS™ O/S introduces Gaming operators into a new Retail Network world of innovation and unleashes their potential. Open architecture, modular design, feature-rich A lottery shop is a place of fun and entertainment applications and entertaining content are only the for players and INTRALOT has the knowledge to basis for this impressive ground-breaking platform. create it. Research shows that players are loyal to a point of sale that is near places visited in their INTRALOT’s terminals enable the lottery daily routine. Proximity therefore appears to be the organizations to boost their retailer performance, most satisfactory element during a POS selection. while ensuring that their investment will continue Furthermore, there are players who prefer to play in to serve their future business needs and help create a specific place due to habitual reasons or because new opportunities throughout each terminal’s life they trust the owner and the service offered. cycle. INTRALOT’s terminals and peripherals provide retailers of all sizes solutions that can improve INTRALOT leverages this knowledge and know-how efficiency, increase sales and reduce costs. to blend brand building with retail identity programs and consistent merchandising actions in full respect of responsible gaming principles. Further, the Gaming Content & Services company actively educates agents and players alike about the games and the odds of winning, about responsible gaming policies and about system With over 500 different games across operations functions and other services available in order and customer contracts, 300 lottery games offered to ensure a healthy, safe and enjoyable gaming in 80,000 POS (Point of Sales) around the world, experience. an average of 30 gaming concepts tested per year, about 25 new games launched yearly and a high level of game customization, INTRALOT develops tailor16 Interactive Gaming leading the way in the interactive gaming market. A modern, dynamic and innovative company equipped INTRALOT Interactive (I2) is the leading partner with industry knowhow and the very best in technical for those organizations that want to compete in and human assets, can offer the ultimate interactive a regulated interactive competitive environment, experience. offering a Unified Player Experience to players. Customers take advantage of the most robust, Lotteries that have established brands and retail efficient and versatile Gaming Platform in the networks are now eager to enter the new era industry that seamlessly combines the Retail, Mobile of e-Gaming. INTRALOT Interactive offers to and Home Users, connecting innovative Gaming them a complete and layered strategy to reduce Verticals and offering unparalleled business support operational complexity while increasing customer to the organization for optimal customer experience. value. INTRALOT Interactive delivers the latest in innovation in all segments of the e-Gaming industry, A member of the INTRALOT Group of companies, ranging from traditional lottery products to sports it capitalizes on the Group’s global footprint and betting products, bingo, poker and skill games, the extensive and renowned customer base, to through various channels, like internet, mobile and collect and advance best practices that provide the interactive TV. cornerstone of continued success with product and services design always at the industry forefront. Customers can enjoy multi-channel & multi-product platforms, making a wide range of gaming products INTRALOT Interactive consolidates the Internet sports betting, casino, live casino, fixed odds assets of the Group and focuses both on providing games, bingo, poker, lottery games available out of its pioneering technology to Lotteries and State the same platform on retail, desktop, mobile, tablet, Organizations around the world, and on seeking or gablet devices. new licensing opportunities for operating in a highly regulated environment where responsible gaming has become one of the most important Sports Betting Management considerations. INTRALOT Interactive strategy is focused on the Through operational experience and know-how following 3 foundation markets: combined with technological competency and selfsufficiency, INTRALOT has become one of the world’s • WLA members and government controlled leading Fixed-Odds Betting operators. organizations. INTRALOT Interactive offers to them the latest technology and services for competing in Betting Company was established in 1998 in the highly demanding, Internet-enabled market, as response to growing demand for Fixed-Odds Betting regulation initiatives evolve; by national lotteries and regulators around the world. • Government-licensed operations, on e-gaming channels enabled by new media (i.e. Internet, Mobile, The company provides operational support services IPTV); for the organization and risk-free management of Fixed-Odds Betting to a variety of state lotteries • R&D initiatives, so that a new generation and licensed operators worldwide. It offers a of technology and services will take players’ combination of efficient organizational and high experiences to new heights, while providing unique standards operational support services required player management, operation efficiency and for the launching of successful betting games, from business analytics that will manage operations in planning through implementation. the most effective and productive way. The range of services offered includes product The company has an extended portfolio of services customization, program and odds compilation, risk in Technology, Operations and Marketing and is management, content management and training. 17 Gaming Solutions INTRALOT offers the most innovative technology on Gaming Solutions: Enhanced Management System – iGEM, Integrated Workflow Platform for the Regulator Operations, Plug and Play Hardware Infrastructure Solutions – iCOR and Telecommunications Network Solutions. The Company is committed to excellence in Project Implementation, which entails five important stages: Project Planning & Management; Solution Design; Implementation & Integration; Roll Out & Quality Assurance; and Performance Monitoring & Fine Tuning. INTRALOT also offers Operational Services that from large jackpot generating games on the world’s include Day to Day System Operation & Monitoring, largest Horse Racing pools to exciting games on Help Desk, Field Services, Gaming Equipment Greyhound Racing and Virtual events. Testing Services, Sales Points Network Setup and Pari-Mutuel Betting Operators can rely on Management & Business Continuity Services. INTRALOT’s technology and experience in parimutuel betting operations for running their on-track betting, OTB and remote betting for both their local Racing and commingling racing offering. Fixed-Odds Betting Operators can select among the best international Racing and Virtual events INTRALOT has set up a unique offering by providing a powered by INTRALOT’s proven Fixed-Odds betting fully Managed Service to licensed gaming operators technology and with the added value of its expert that want to introduce or enhance their betting risk management services. offering with Horse racing, Greyhound racing and Racetracks looking to increase their revenue Virtual gaming. streams and diversify their offering by adding casino games can benefit from INTRALOT’s range of related The company combines its proven technology, solutions including VLT and Casino technology and prime racing content from leading providers and services. its operational expertise to enable lotteries, betting operators or racetracks to launch or enhance their race betting portfolio. It can promptly integrate any data feeds into its systems, coupled with any peripherals required (from Terminals to Display Systems), and add supporting services (from Racing TV production to daily operations) to offer uninterrupted, high performance and multichannel 1.5 Shareholding Structure support of Fixed-Odds and Pari-Mutuel Betting on Horse racing, Greyhound racing and Virtual games. INTRALOT S.A. – “Integrated Lottery Systems INTRALOT’s latest product for Racing, Racing for and Gaming Services”, with the distinct acronym Lotteries, is an innovative gaming approach for both “INTRALOT” is a business corporation established in virtual and real races. compliance with the Laws of the Hellenic Republic and whose shares are traded in the Athens Stock Lottery operators can generate additional revenue Exchange. INTRALOT’s headquarters are based in streams by introducing new games based on Racing, Athens – Greece, at 64 Kifissias Ave. & 3 Premetis 18 Str., GR-151 25 Maroussi. Thus, as of year’s end, INTRALOT’s share participates in the following stock market indices: The share capital of the Company amounted at year’s end to forty seven million six hundred eighty • Athex Composite Share Price Index (GD); eight thousand five hundred sixteen euro and thirty • Athex Composite Index Total Return Index SAGD; cents (€47,688,516.30) divided by one hundred • FTSE/Athex Travel – Leisure (DTA); fifty eight million nine hundred sixty one thousand • FTSE/Χ.Α. – FTSE/Athex Market Index (FTSEA); seven hundred twenty one (158.961.721) nominal • FTSE/Χ.Α. Mid Cap (FTSEM); shares at thirty cents (€0.30) each. All Company • FTSE/ATHEX Liquid Mid Index (FTSEL); shares are admitted to the Athens Stock Exchange • FTSE/ATHEX Global Traders Index; for negotiation, in the Main Market category, under • FTSE/ATHEX Global Traders Index Plus. the “Travel & Leisure Gambling Sector”. Company shares are commonly registered shares with a voting right. The shareholding structure of INTRALOT on 31.12.2012 was the following: 1.6 The INTRALOT Group Table 4 INTRALOT Shareholding Structure INTRALOT has adopted a modern structure and an effective management scheme to ensure prompt decision-making, fast realization of projects, guaranteed company growth and the best possible service to our customers. On 31 December 2012, the INTRALOT Group was as presented in Table 5. In October 2012, the Athens Stock Exchange and 1.7 Financial Performance FTSE announced the creation of a new index series to enable the monitoring of the market performance of the listed companies that have highly globalised Financial Results activity either in exports or through production abroad. INTRALOT Group’s Consolidated Revenues for 2012 increased by 14.3% reaching €1.374 billion, compared These indices record and highlight in the globalized to FY2011. EBITDA (Earnings before Interest, Tax, investment community the transnational character Depreciation and Amortization) posted an increase of the Greek companies which is constantly of 15.4% reaching €177.5m. EBT increased by 2.4% strengthened. reaching €58.4m. EAT-am (Earnings After Taxes and after minorities) were shaped at €6.1m from €17.7m The creation of the new index series intends to in 2011. Cash Flow from Operations increased by establish a new approach in gaining international 39% in the FY2012 period reaching €114m. In 2012, attention and generating investment products. revenues of the parent company increased by 6.0%, Stocks’ selection is based on the percentage of their to €139.6m. EBITDA increased by 13.0% to €21.9m total revenues deriving from activities abroad, either and Earnings after Taxes (EAT) increased by 85.5%, export or production. The new indices were launched to €3.0m. in December 2012. 19 Table 5 The INTRALOT Group I. Full consolidation Domicile Total Participation % INTRALOT S.A. Maroussi, Attica BETTING COMPANY S.A. Maroussi, Attica 100% BETTING CYPRUS LTD Nicosia, Cyprus 100% INTRALOT DE CHILE S.A. Santiago, Chile 99,99% INTRALOT DE PERU SAC Lima, Peru 99,98% INTRALOT INC Atlanta, USA 85% INTRALOT BETTING OPERATIONS (CYPRUS) LTD Nicosia, Cyprus 54,95% ROYAL HIGHGATE LTD Paralimni, Cyprus 35,08% POLLOT Sp.Zoo Warsaw, Poland 100% ΜALTCO LOTTERIES LTD Valetta, Malta 73% ΙΝTRALOT HOLDINGS INTERNATIONAL LTD Nicosia, Cyprus 100% LOTROM S.A. Bucharest, Romania 60% YUGOLOT LTD Belgrade, Serbia & Montenegro 100% BILOT EOOD Sofia, Bulgaria 100% EUROFOOTBALL LTD Sofia, Bulgaria 49% EUROFOOTBALL PRINT LTD Sofia, Bulgaria 49% INTRALOT INTERNATIONAL LTD Nicosia, Cyprus 100% INTRALOT OPERATIONS LTD Nicosia, Cyprus 100% INTRALOT BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT LTD Nicosia, Cyprus 100% INTRALOT TECHNOLOGIES LTD Nicosia, Cyprus 100% INTELTEK INTERNET AS Istanbul, Turkey 45% LOTERIA MOLDOVEI S.A. Chisinau, Moldova 80,75% TOTOLOTEK SA Warsaw, Poland 92,89% WHITE EAGLE INVESTMENTS LTD Hertfordshire, United Kingdom 100% BETA RIAL Sp.Zoo Warsaw, Poland 100% UNICLIC LTD Nicosia, Cyprus 50% DOWA LTD Nicosia, Cyprus 30% INTRALOT NEW ZEALAND LTD Wellington, New Zealand 100% ΙNTRALOT EGYPT LTD Nicosia, Cyprus 88,24% E.C.E.S. SAE Cairo, Egypt 90,03% INTRALOT OOO Moscow, Russia 100% POLDIN LTD Warsaw, Poland 100% INTRALOT ASIA PACIFIC LTD Hong Kong, China 100% INTRALOT AUSTRALIA PTY LTD Melbourne, Australia 100% INTRALOT LUXEMBOURG S.A. Luxemburg, Luxemburg 100% INTRALOT ITALIA S.p.A. Rome, Italia 90% SERVICIOS TRANSDATA S.A. Lima, Peru 100% INTRALOT IBERIA SAU Madrid, Spain 100% INTRALOT IBERIA HOLDINGS S.A. Madrid, Spain 100% TECNO ACCION S.A. Buenos Aires, Argentina 50,01% GAMING SOLUTIONS INTERNATIONAL SAC Lima, Peru 100% GAMING SOLUTIONS INTERNATIONAL LTD Bogota, Colombia 100% INTRALOT BEIJING Co LTD Beijing , China 100% NAFIROL S.A. Montevideo, Uruguay 100% INTRALOT ARGENTINA S.A. Buenos Aires, Argentina 100% LEBANESE GAMES S.A.L Lebanon 99,99% VENETA SERVIZI S.R.L. Mogliano Veneto, Italia 90% INTRALOT SOUTH KOREA Seoul, S. Korea 100% INTRALOT FINANCE UK PLC London, United Kingdom 100% ATROPOS S.A. Maroussi, Athens 100% SLOVENSKE LOTERIE A.S. Bratislava, Slovakia 51% TORSYS S.R.O. Bratislava, Slovakia 51% 20 TACTUS S.R.O. Bratislava, Slovakia 51% INTRALOT DO BRAZIL LTDA Sao Paolo, Brazil 80% OLTP LTDA Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 80% INTRALOT MINAS GERAIS LTDA Minas Gerais, Brazil 79,98% INTRALOT INTERACTIVE S.A. Maroussi, Athens 75% INTRALOT JAMAICA LTD Kingston, Jamaica 100% INTRALOT GUATEMALA S.A. Guatemala City, Guatemala 100% LOTERIAS Y APUESTAS DE GUATEMALA S.A. Guatemala City, Guatemala 51% INTRALOT ST. LUCIA LTD Castries, St. Lucia 100% INTRALOT DOMINICANA S.A. St. Dominicus 100% INTRALOT LATIN AMERICA INC Miami, USA 100% INTRALOT NEDERLAND B.V. Amsterdam, Nederland 100% NIKANTRO HOLDINGS Co LTD Nicosia, Cyprus 100% INTRALOT INTERACTIVE USA LLC Atlanta, USA 85% JACKPOT S.p.A Rome, Italy 100% INTRALOT MAROC S.A. Casablanca, Morocco 99,83% INTRALOT TURKEY A.S. Istanbul, Turkey 99,99% INTRALOT CARIBBEAN VENTURES LTD Castries, St. Lucia 50,05% SUPREME VENTURES LTD Kingston, Jamaica 24,97% AZERINTELTEK AS Baku, Azerbaijan 22,95% INTRALOT SURINAME LTD Paramaribo, Suriname 100% DC09 LLC Wilmington, USA 41,65% NETMAN SRL Bucharest, Romania 100% INTRALOT DE MEXICO LTD Mexico City, Mexico 99,8% INTRALOT FRANCE S.A.S Paris, France 100% INTRALOT HONG KONG HOLDINGS LTD Hong Kong, China 100% INTRALOT DISTRIBUTION OOO Moscow, Russia 100% INTRALOT CZECH S.R.O. Prague, Czech Republic 100% CARIBBEAN VLT SERVICES LTD Castries, St. Lucia 50,001% INTRALOT GAMING SERVICES PTY Melbourne, Australia 100% INTRALOT LOTTERIES LTD Nicosia, Cyprus 100% INTRALOT GERMANY GMBH Monaco, Germany 100% INTRALOT GAMING MACHINES S.p.A Rome, Italy 100% INTRALOT BETTING OPERATIONS RUSSIA LTD Nicosia, Cyprus 100% KELICOM HOLDINGS CO LTD Nicosia, Cyprus 100% DINET ZAO Moscow, Russia 100% PROMARTA OOO Moscow, Russia 100% FAVORITE BOOKMAKERS OFFICE OOO Moscow, Russia 100% INTRALOT HOLDINGS LUXEMBOURG SA Luxembourg 100% DEEPSTACK CASINO LLC Atlanta, USA 85% INTRALOT INVESTMENTS LTD Nicosia, Cyprus 100% GAIN ADVANCE GROUP LTD Hong Kong, China 100% KETMS HOLDINGS CO LTD Seoul, S. Korea 100% II. Equity method Domicile Total Participation % BILYONER INTERAKTIF HIZMELTER AS Istanbul, Turkey 25% LOTRICH INFORMATION Co LTD Taipei, Taiwan 40% INTRALOT SOUTH AFRICA LTD Johannesburg, South Africa 45% GIDANI LTD Johannesburg, South Africa 8,10% KELICOM HOLDINGS CO LTD Nicosia, Cyprus 33% DINET ZAO Moscow, Russia 33% PROMARTA OOO Moscow, Russia 33% FAVORIT BOOKMAKERS OFFICE OOO Moscow, Russia 24,75% NANUM LOTTO CO LTD Seoul, S. Korea 29% PRECIOUS SUCCESS LTD GROUP Hong Kong, China 49% 21 Table 6 Financial results Financial Results (in thousand €) 2010 2011 2012 Revenues 1.154.046 1.240.778 1.404.083 Sales (PL) 1.115.721 1.202.354 1.374.021 Other Income (PL) 26.288 28.452 18.602 Finance Income (CF) 12.037 9.972 11.460 Operating costs 894.769 979.946 1.106.423 Employee wages & benefits 98.261 104.965 113.436 Payments to providers of funds 76.549 44.206 53.929 Dividends paid (CF) 53.280 16.755 20.320 Interest paid (CF) 23.269 27.451 33.609 Payments to government bodies 23.904 22.358 23.602 Taxes paid (CF) 23.904 22.358 23.602 Table 7 Key Economic Indicators Key Economic Indicators (in thousand €) 2010 2011 2012 TOTAL ASSETS 1.097.531 1.086.162 1.114.807 INVESTED CAPITAL* 867.404 882.245 899.462 REVENUES 1.115.721 1.202.354 1.374.021 OPERATING INCOME (EBITDA) 152.662 153.806 177.536 EARNINGS BEFORE TAXES & MINORITIES 80.690 57.038 58.422 EARNINGS AFTER TAXES & MINORITIES 36.626 17.701 6.116 *Equity plus Debt The detailed INTRALOT Annual Report 2012 is available at the Company’s website www.intralot.com. Social Product INTRALOT Group The lotteries that the INTRALOT Group operates or supplies, manages and supports in the framework of contracts in jurisdictions worldwide, raised on a combined basis in 2012 approximately €4.3 billion for good causes. In the year 2012, INTRALOT generated €107 million in social product in Greece, where corporate headquarters are located. The company’s accumulated social product in Greece since 2007 reaches €720 million. The INTRALOT Group generated €646 million in 2012 and its accumulated product since the year 2007 to date reaches €3.2 billion. Of the €646 million generated in 2012, €139.602 million were payments to governments, €113.436 million were employee wages & benefits, €53.929 million were payments to providers of funds, €185.682 was the social product of suppliers, €60.800 were sales fees and €92.806 million were corporate reinvestment. 22 Table 8 INTRALOT Group Social Product 2007 2012 Includes: Salaries, social security, contributions to pension funds, BoD Remunerations, corporate profits tax, other taxes and fees, finance charges, social product of suppliers, etc. Table 9 INTRALOT Social Product Greece 2007 2012 Includes: Salaries, social security, contributions to pension funds, BoD Remunerations, corporate profits tax, other taxes and fees, finance charges, social product of suppliers, etc. Table 10 INTRALOT Group Social Product 2012 Breakdown 23 Participation in Lottery & 1.8 Gaming Associations INTRALOT actively participates in the global gaming community and contributes decisively to the future development of the industry. The company is a member of all major international gaming associations, including: • WLA (World Lottery Association) – The World Lottery Association (WLA) is a global professional association of state lottery and gaming organizations from more than 80 countries in 6 continents. Its main objective is to advance the interests of state-authorized lotteries, to uphold the highest ethical principles, as well as to support its members in achieving their vision for their own communities. INTRALOT is a Platinum Contributor to WLA since 1999; • EL (European Lotteries and Toto Association) – The European Lotteries Association (EL) is an association of member representatives of the European Lotteries and the International Gaming Industry. EL’s objective is to promote effective communication between members, the European and international gaming industry, the institutions of the European Union and European Governments, as well as to provide members with precise information and sound support. Further, EL provides a forum for the exchange of technical and educational experience and information among members, and for cooperation with the WLA and other Regional Associations for Lottery and Sport Betting companies. INTRALOT is a Premium Partner of EL since 1993; • NASPL (North American Association of State and Provincial Lotteries) – NASPL has grown into an active association representing 52 lottery organizations. The organization’s main aim is to assemble and disseminate information and benefits of state and provincial lottery organizations through education and communications, and publicly advocate where appropriate the positions of the Association on matters of general policy. INTRALOT is an Associate Member of NASPL since 2001; • CIBELAE (Corporación Iberoamericana de Loterías y Apuestas del Estado) CIBELAE is an international organization which represents lotteries from the South America Region and the Iberian Peninsula. The Organization promotes diverse activities, studies and research on issues relevant to the improvement, modernization and optimization of the operations of its members, having as its main goal to ensure the broadest cooperation and mutual learning among them and well as facilitate joint efforts for the design of common strategies and policies. INTRALOT is an Associate Member of CIBELAE since 2003; • APLA (Asia Pacific Lottery Association) APLA is the Asia Pacific Lottery Association, representing 25 lotteries from 10 countries in the Asia Pacific region. APLA is a forum aiming to cultivate and strengthen communications as well as to leverage the exchange of information and experience within the worldwide lottery industry. INTRALOT is an Associate Member of APLA since 2004; • GSA (Gaming Standards Association) The Gaming Standards Association (GSA) is an international trade association that creates benefits for gaming manufacturers, suppliers, operators and regulators. It facilitates the identification, definition, development, promotion, and implementation of open standards to enable innovation, education, and communication for the benefit of the entire industry. INTRALOT is a Gold Member of GSA since 2004; • AGEM (Association of Gaming Equipment Manufacturers) AGEM is an international trade association representing manufacturers of electronic gaming devices, systems, and components for the gaming industry. The Association works to further the interests of gaming equipment manufacturers throughout the world. It acts upon issues relating to education, trade show representation, regulation, manufacturing 24 and licensing standards, and promotes the expansion of responsible gaming for the benefit of its members and the industry. INTRALOT is a Gold Member of AGEM since 2010. Corporate Social and Industry; 1.9 • The Hellenic-Australian Business Council; Responsibility Memberships • The Hellenic-Chinese Chamber. INTRALOT is a member of the United Nations “Global Compact Network” for Corporate Social Responsibility. INTRALOT is also a member of the Hellenic Network 1.11 Awards and Distinctions of Corporate Social Responsibility which is a National Partner Organization of CSR Europe. The network promotes the adoption of business practices in line with the concepts of social responsibility and EBEN GR: Gold Business Ethics Excellence (BEE) cohesion. 2012 Closely engaged with the business community and relevant stakeholders on issues of common interest, INTRALOT was distinguished with the Gold – BEE Certified Award for its Business Ethics Excellence by the Greek Chapter of EBEN (European Business Ethics Network) in the sectors of Business Analysis, Regulations & Communications in internal auditing and Performance Assessment following Participation in Trade 1.10 a comprehensive assessment process. INTRALOT Associations has been rewarded by EBEN GR for its commitment and consistency to operate under the principles of integrity, reliability and business ethics for the last INTRALOT is an active member of the following five (5) consecutive years. associations: The European Business Ethics Network EBEN, • The Federation of Greek Industries (SEV); founded in 1987, is a cross-national network • The American-Hellenic Chamber of Commerce; dedicated to the promotion of business ethics, • The Hellenic-American Business Council; broadly defined, in academia, business, public sector • Greek-Latin American Business Council; and civil society. • Greek-Israeli Chamber of Commerce; • Greek-Serbian Business Council; EFQM: 5 Stars Distinction • The Hellenic-Dutch Association; • The Greek-Turkish Business Council of the Federation of Greek Industries; INTRALOT Systems Technical Division received the • The Greek-Russian Business Council of the “Recognised for Excellence in Europe 5 Stars” Federation of Greek Industries; distinction, valid for the time period 2011-2012, from • The Hellenic-Romanian Chamber of Commerce the European Foundation for Quality Management 25 Table 11 products and is recognized by the Central Bank of EBEN Business Ethics and Excellence Model Greece as an External Credit Assessment Institution (ECAI) and by the European Central Bank as an Accepted Ration Tool Source. Corporate Superbrands Greece: Corporate Superbrand 2012 INTRALOT received the prestigious award “Corporate Superbrand 2012”. INTRALOT’s brand was rewarded for the top reputation it has established in its sector and in the market as a whole offering perceived advantages to its customers. (EFQM), adding one more star to its current performance of excellence. This distinction is the Money Awards: Best Company in the International result of a structured evaluation procedure held by Market Award 2012 EFQM. Upon submission of a detailed assessment report by INTRALOT, the EFQM evaluation procedure included interviews with top management and ΙΝTRALOT was distinguished among the listed employee focus groups. companies on the Athens Stock Exchange with the “Best Company in the International Market Award”, in the context of the Money Conferences forum of European Commission: INTRALOT distinguished 2012. in the 2012 EU Industrial Research & Development Investment Scoreboard’ Money Awards: Internationalization Award and Business Innovation Award 2012 The INTRALOT Group has again been distinguished for its significant investments in R&D and was included in the 2012 EU Industrial Research & INTRALOT received an award for its international Development Investment Scoreboard’ prepared expansion as well as an award for business innovation, and published by the European Commission. This in the context of the Euromoney conference 2012. distinction is recognition of INTRALOT’s commitment to sustainable leadership in innovation and technological development as well as the company’s Hellenic Management Association: HR Excellence strong investments in in-house R&D. Award 2012 ICAP Group: True Leader 2012 INTRALOT was distinguished with the “HR Excellence Award 2012“ for its innovation in HR management. The platform “INTRALOT Global Live Network“ INTRALOT Group was distinguished as a “True Leader was chosen as the most innovative and creative 2012” by ICAP Group, being recognized for its robust practice in the field of Human Resources, bringing financial performance during 2011. INTRALOT was together all INTRALOT employees worldwide and one of the 50 Companies that met four quantitative thus enhancing the Group’s corporate culture. The evaluation criteria set by ICAP: Profitability, Human awards are organized by the Hellenic Management Resources Evolution, Credit Rating, and Sector Association and the Greek Institute of Human Position. Resource Management. The ICAP Group offers a wide range of services and 26 Eurofootball, Bulgaria Annual Responsible Business Award 2012 In 2012, Eurofootball, the leading sports betting operator in Bulgaria, received a special award for its “Overall CSR policy” in the SME (Small and Medium Enterprise) award category on the 10th Responsible Business Awards 2012 of the Bulgarian Business Leaders Forum (BBLF). A record number of eighty-five corporate social responsibility projects of forty-nine companies in Bulgaria competed in the 2012 Responsible Business Awards. Table 12 Eurofootball received this award for its Win & Cumulative Number of National & International Awards Help CSR program, a series of sixteen social responsibility initiatives in the area of sports, health, cultural and social engagement, organized and implemented in collaboration with corporate stakeholders, the Bulgarian Charities Aid Foundation, the Workshops for Civic Initiatives Foundation and the Sirak Foundation. Public Relations Campaign Award 2012 In 2012, Eurofootball won third place in the category “PR Campaign” in the annual competition of Bulgarian Association of PR agencies, for its CSR program Win & Help. INTRALOT de Peru, Peru Great Place to Work in Latin America 2012 liberalization is progressing at a steady pace while in Greece significant reforms are ongoing. Among the INTRALOT de Peru was among the “Top 50 Workplaces countries that also considering the regulation of their in Latin America,” in the 2011 survey of the leading internet gaming market are: Portugal, Netherlands, institution Great Place to Work, a global human Sweden and Hungary. resources consulting, research and training firm specializing in organizational trust. The Great Place These conditions pose substantial opportunities to Work® Model is built on 25 years of research and for further growth arising from the liberalization data collected through its Trust Index© Employee of gaming markets and particularly from the Survey, which is taken by over 10 million employees rapidly evolving Internet market, from the lottery annually worldwide. privatizations as well as from the legalization of lottery games. They also pose added challenges regarding the prevention of problem gambling and the enactment of a regulatory framework that safeguards the principles and practices of responsible gaming both in traditional and new interactive channels. International Prospects of 1.12 the Gaming Sector and Social INTRALOT is closely monitoring the sector‘s Responsibility developments so as to selectively participate in projects with higher growth potential in respect for The prevalence of an unstable economic environment the principles and safeguards of responsible gaming. in 2012 has led to significant policy developments in the gaming sector. In Europe, the gaming market 27 Sustainability in the INTRALOT Group “The invaluable gift of trust, plenty and freedom.” 28 2.1 Policy Developments In the aftermath of the European Union’s new CSR Rio 20+ The World We Want: Article 46 Strategy 2011-2014, there were several significant policy developments in 2012 affecting corporate We acknowledge that the implementation sustainability. According to the new strategy, to of sustainable development will depend on fully meet their social responsibility, enterprises active engagement of both the public and private sectors. should have in place a process to integrate social, We recognize that the active participation environmental, and ethical concerns into their core of the private sector can contribute to the corporate strategy, in close collaboration with their achievement of sustainable development, stakeholders. including through the important tool of public-private partnerships. The aim of the strategy is both to enhance positive We support national regulatory and impacts of business operations on society – for policy frameworks that enable business example through the innovation of new products and industry to advance sustainable and services that are beneficial to society and to development initiatives taking into account the enterprises themselves – and to minimize and the importance of corporate social prevent negative impacts. Among other actions, the responsibility. new strategy foresees the enhancement of market We call on the private sector to engage in rewards for CSR efforts, including leveraging EU responsible business practices, such as policies in the fields of consumption, investment those promoted by the UN Global Compact. and public procurement in order to promote market reward for responsible business conduct. Policy Developments in 2012 and Sustainability Rio 20+ The World We Want: Article 47 Trends We acknowledge the importance of corporate sustainability reporting and Rio 20+ encourage companies, where appropriate, especially publicly listed and large companies, to Twenty years after the Earth Summit, in the UN consider World Summit on Sustainable Development Rio integrating sustainability information into 20+, countries renewed their political commitment their reporting cycle. to sustainable development, agreed to establish We encourage industry, a set of sustainable development goals (SDGs), interested governments as well as relevant and established a high-level political forum on stakeholders with the support of the UN sustainable development. system, as appropriate, to develop models for best The summit’s outcome document, The World We practice and facilitate action for the Want, sets social responsibility, environmental integration of sustainability reporting, taking sustainability, and technological innovation criteria, into account the experiences of already toward the attainment of sustainable development existing frameworks, and paying particular goals. The outcome documents lays down a strategy attention to the needs of developing countries, including for capacity generally focused on infrastructure development, building. environmental protection, renewable energies, competitiveness and the green economy, and the modernization of public and financial management. 30 The outcome document calls for a wide range of actions, such as promoting corporate sustainability reporting measures; taking steps to go beyond gross domestic product to assess the well-being of a country; developing a strategy for sustainable development financing; and adopting a framework for tackling sustainable consumption and production. The document also furthers measures for improving gender equity; recognizing the importance of voluntary commitments on sustainable development; and stressing the need to engage civil society and incorporate science into policy. Sustainability-Adjusted Global Competitiveness Index (GCI) In 2012, The World Economic Forum released the Sustainability-Adjusted Global Competitiveness Index (GCI). This new measure aims to assess the “the set of institutions, policies and factors that make a nation remain productive over the longer term while ensuring social and environmental sustainability”. The index measures not only the propensity to prosper and grow, but also integrates the notion of “quality growth”, taking into account environmental stewardship and social sustainability. The structure of the index follows in the table below. Sustainability Competitiveness Index (SCI) The SCI framework builds on the GCI and includes all the indicators included in the GCI framework. A preliminary version of the SCI framework contains five main components: Human capital, Market conditions, Technology and innovation, Policy environment and enabling conditions, and Physical environment. Each component in turn comprises a number of categories (or ‘pillars’). The preliminary thinking and output of the project is presented in a special chapter in The Global Competitiveness Report 20112012. Source: World Economic Forum (2012) The Global Competitiveness Report 2012-2013. Table 13 – CSR & Sustainability: Upcoming Policy Developments EC Proposal for a Directive on Non-financial Disclosures for Large Upcoming Policy Companies – 16 April 2013 Developments On 16 April 2013, before the release of this report, the EC announced • GRI G4 Guidelines, to be a proposal for a EU Directive concerning non-financial disclosures. The launched in May 2013. new proposal concerns large companies with more than 500 employees across Europe, whether they are on the stock market or not. According to • Further implementation of the proposal, companies will be required to publish annual information the EU’s new CSR strategy on what they do in the area of environmental protection, social protection 2011-2014. and in matters related to employee diversity, not just diversity in regard to gender but also diversity in regard to employee professional backgrounds. • Upcoming EU legislation concerning non-financial disclosures by large companies. 31 European CSR awards 2.2 Strategy & Overview As part of the goal to enhance market rewards for CSR efforts, the first ever pan-European Award Scheme to inspire CSR excellence in multiIn the last four years CSR trends in Greece have stakeholder projects was successfully launched in changed and diverge from the trends observed 2012. Funded by the European Commission, co-led globally. In Greece, the increase in the percentage by CSR Europe and Business in the Community and of businesses that are engaging in active CSR due to supported by Alliance Boots, the consortium of 29 motives of cost management, as opposed to brand National CSR organisations joined forces to deliver loyalty or investor relations, indicates that the Greek the European CSR Award Scheme for Partnership, business community is reacting to an unfavorable Innovation and Impact. economic environment but also that it is starting to Table 14 The Drivers towards More Ethical Business Practices – Greece (%) Table 15 The Drivers towards More Ethical Business Practices – World (%) Source: Grant Thornton International Ltd. (2011) International Business Report 2011. 32 recognize the impact that CSR can have on the financial and commercial success. The enduring context of economic recession in Greece has made cost management and government pressure the leading drivers of CSR engagement. Being ever committed to conducting its business in a sustainable manner and to demonstrating responsible leadership, INTRALOT views corporate governance and social responsibility as critical to business excellence and success, safeguarding the interests of our employees, customers, partners, shareholders, and the many communities around the globe where we operate. Drawing from its corporate strategy of sustainable leadership, INTRALOT’s corporate social responsibility strategy is to create shared value for all its stakeholders. In today’s changeable economic environment, INTRALOT believes that it is imperative for businesses, community organizations and other stakeholders to jointly contribute to advancing education, technology, R&D and infrastructure that will ensure sustainable economic growth and prosperity. The creation of shared value requires a focus on sustainability activities that engage the communities where we operate and relevant stakeholders rather than a focus on activities that dilute resources, have little lasting impact, and do not advance INTRALOT’s strategic objectives. As a commercial operator, INTRALOT seeks to contribute to the development of local communities, and to promote policies and best practices of responsible gaming through player education, marketing and advertising communications, and treatment referrals. As a global technology supplier, INTRALOT also has an enduring commitment to research, either in-house or in collaboration with relevant stakeholders, in fields that can foster product and services innovation enabling safe and responsible gaming, the development of human capital, entrepreneurship, and added competitiveness. Yearly CSR Activity Plans of the INTRALOT Group are preceded by a survey of the needs of the local communities where it has presence. Once these needs are mapped, the activities are chosen according to the following decision criteria: • the strategic and operational impact of the initiative; • the long term Impact on the local community; • the extent to which the activities utilize corporate competencies and resources; • brand differentiation; • the alignment between social responsibility and corporate strategies. Table 16Sustainability in INTRALOT 33 Following from the strategy of creation of shared procedures aim to offer its staff a stable and favorable value, INTRALOT CSR Program has defined five working environment that maximizes the talent of essential areas: company professionals, motivates them to excel in their functions, and supports their professional and 1. Contribution to Local Communities personal development The INTRALOT Group contributes to the local 5. Sustainability of our planet communities where it operates through the transfer of technology and know-how and through INTRALOT has developed a company-wide system the employment, the occupational safety and the that monitors its environmental performance and specialized training of its local workforce and sales regularly engages or facilitates green initiatives that network. Further, the company contributes to the are relevant to its operations and have an impact on enhancement of the quality of life and community local communities. development through social programs that aim at advancing education and human capital; supporting The sections that follow describe the company’s social welfare and human development; and corporate program of contribution to local preserving cultural heritage. communities. Corporate governance, responsible gaming, social responsibility towards its employees, 2. Corporate Governance & Compliance and the sustainability of our planet are addressed in separate chapters of this report. INTRALOT complies with the regulatory framework of each and all jurisdictions where it has presence as well as with relevant corporate or industry standards. Furthermore, the company abides by the strictest ethics standards in its relations with both internal and external stakeholders. It has adopted a Contribution to Local set of rules and standard procedures in a Code of 2.3 Corporate Governance, which ensures the integrity, Communities security and professionalism of businesses practices and conduct. In the local community, INTRALOT operates in full 3. Responsible Gaming Policy and Program respect to the local context of the countries that host its operations and abiding by all local laws and INTRALOT has adopted Responsible Gaming as gaming regulatory framework. a key element of its Corporate Responsibility strategy. INTRALOT is committed to addressing INTRALOT’s program of contribution to local the social, economic and environmental impacts communities, INTRALOT-We care a Lot, is an of its operations, and to being a responsible leader integrated and targeted CSR program that seeks to of the gaming sector, according to the principle of create partnerships with relevant stakeholders and fair competition and in compliance with the legal be a substantive contributor to the local communities and the regulatory framework of the sector. As a where it operates through the transfer of technology supplier of gaming products and services, INTRALOT and know-how and through the employment, the has developed the enabling technologies and the occupational safety and the specialized training of operational know-how required to implement its local workforce and sales network. industry best-practice Responsible Gaming strategy and program tailored to the needs of customers and/ Further, it contributes to the enhancement of the or players in any jurisdiction globally; quality of life and community development through social responsibility initiatives that aim at advancing 4. Social Responsibility towards our Employees education and human capital; supporting social welfare and human development; and preserving INTRALOT corporate employee policies and cultural heritage. 34 Table 17INTRALOT We Care a Lot INTRALOT Group Contribution to Local Communities 2012 • INTRALOT Australia sponsorship program 2012 included the provision of economic support to the following organizations: Lottery Agents Association of Victoria (LAAV); Australian Newsagents’ Federation (ANF); Victorian Association for Australia Newsagents (VANA). • INTRALOT Australia was a Sponsor, Exhibitor and Speaker at the 2012 Clubs + Hotels Australia Conference and Exhibition held in June in Melbourne. • In the framework of Eurofootball Scholarship program 2012, a Bulgaria total of 13 scholarships for students and orphan children were awarded. Contribution to Local Communities • INTRALOT co-founded and annually supports the Centre for Research and Higher Education Athens Information Technology (AIT). Education and Human Capital • Support to the publication of the book “The Hellenism of Morocco.” • Support of the Fulbright Foundation. • Award Sponsor of the Graduate Scholarship Program of the University of Piraeus. Greece • INTRALOT was a Gold sponsor of the 1st International Gaming Forum, held in April 2012 in Greece. • INTRALOT sponsored the 18th Economia National Student Competition, organized by the Economia Business Tank with the aim to advance the relationship between innovative research and entrepreneurship. The theme of the year 2012 competition was Technology, Innovation and Social Change. • Sponsorship of Niki Awards 2012, held in Athens, Greece, which distinguishes prominent Greeks, or personalities of Greek descent, who are internationally recognized for their contribution to science and technology and for inspiring a new generation of scientists to follow in their footsteps.. • INTRALOT de Peru Match Fund – the company matches the donations made by its employees to United Way Peru (UWP) towards the advancement of education. Peru • The Corporate volunteering program 2012 of INTRALOT de Peru included the completion of infrastructure improvements in the schools Pronoei Jesús Nazareno AAHH Dos CrucesPamplona Alta – San Juan de Miraflores. • Donation of educational and teaching support materials to 35 Peruvian public schools. Peru • Fund raiser campaign and distribution of school supplies for disadvantaged children. Education and Human Capital South Africa • Financial and in-kind support to Adopt-A-School Foundation • INTRALOT, Inc. participated in several fund raisers for the public schools, colleges and daycares in the local communities where its offices are located. These contributions go toward helping supplement various educational areas that are often not funded or under funded by the school systems. USA • Support to the civil rights cause of the Washington DC Urban League, a major interracial, nonpartisan, nonprofit social services and civil rights organization with headquarters in the United States District of Columbia. Contribution to Local Communities • Sponsorship to the University of DC’s Annual Gala. The proceeds from the Gala support University programs, student scholarships and need-based tuition. • Donation to the Koala Foundation/Children’s Care Centre Australia Foundation, supporting clinical care, research and providing resources to families of patients of the Children’s Cancer Centres. • INTRALOT de Brasil Toy Drive 2012 – Employees of INTRALOT Social Welfare and Human Development Brazil de Brasil volunteered to collect toys to be donated to disadvantaged children of Minas Gerais, an initiative of the food industry association of the state of Minas Gerais ABRASEL MG. • Donation to Médecins sans Frontières. • Annual Blood Drive, which registered a 10% donor increase. • Support to Make a Wish Foundation. • Support to SOS Children’s Villages. Greece • Support to the Nikaia Athens Diocese of the Orthodox Church of Greece. • Donation to Transparency International Greece. • INTRALOT Italia supported the Telethon Foundation by participating at the annual fund raising initiative Walk of Life, Italy which aims to raise funds toward the advancement of scientific research in the fight against genetic diseases. The Telethon Institute of Genetics and Medicine (TIGEM) was founded in 36 1994 by the Telethon Foundation, one of Italy’s major nonprofit organizations, to promote the advancement of research aimed at the diagnosis, prevention and cure of human genetic diseases. • INTRALOT Italia supported a research project of the Department of Experimental Medicine and Biochemical Sciences of the University of Rome – Tor Vergata. The project is headed by Dr. Roberto Testi, Professor of Immunology and Italy Director of the Laboratory of Signal Trasduction and focuses on therapeutic methods of Friedreich’s Ataxia, a genetic disease associated with accelerated cell death. • INTRALOT Italia supported the Telethon Foundation by organizing a fundraising initiative at its point of sales whereby players had the opportunity either to make a donation to Contribution to Local Communities Telethon directly or to donate a portion of their winnings to the Social Welfare and Human Development foundation. • Supreme Ventures Limited (SVL) makes annual contributions Jamaica to the Culture, Health, Arts, Sports and Education (CHASE) Fund set up by the Government of Jamaica. • Donation of MALTCO Lotteries Ltd. to the National Lotteries Good Causes Fund. The fund was created under the Lotteries and Other Games Act, 2001 Section 50 (7) in order to enable the social, cultural, educational, sport, philanthropic or religious activity of various agencies, organizations or individuals. Malta • Contribution to L-ISTRINA, Malta’s major charity event, organised by The Malta Community Chest Fund under the patronage of the President of Malta. • Annual corporate employee Blood Drive. • Donation of electric equipment for a laundry center for the use of children hosted by IBANIF, the National Family Welfare Institution of the Peruvian Ministry of Women and Vulnerable Populations (MIMP), responsible for the care, education and support of abandoned children and children at risk. • INTRALOT de Peru participated in United Way Peru’s Calentando Corazones (Warming Hearts) program, aimed at Peru offering in-kind goods to disadvantaged communities affected by the extreme weather conditions of the 2012 winter season in Peru. The communities targeted included Apurimac, Ayacucho and Ventanilla. • Joint organization with UWP of a Christmas Kermesse for 750 school children of disadvantaged communities. 37 • Organization of a Christmas Kermesse for children of Peruvian local municipal security forces Serenazgo • Donation to Child Cardiology organization Fundación Cardio Infantil in the framework of the fundraiser lottery campaign Cambia la Sonrisa de un Niño Azul aiming to finance child heart surgery Peru • Sponsorship of paediatric surgery of disadvantaged children in need • Donation to Huancayo Charity, which provides food and shelter to members of disadvantaged communities • Donation to Jaén Charity, which provides food and shelter to members of disadvantaged communities Contribution to Local Communities • Support to Atlanta Cancer Center – Each year Intralot Inc. Social Welfare and Human Development makes in-kind donations to the Atlanta Cancer Center toward helping the children of cancer patients. The company also participates in the fundraisers hosted by the center. • Appalachian Scottish Rite Children’s Hospital –Each year a donation is made to the hospital, towards a fund that helps Appalachian parents meet the cost of their sick children. The Appalachian area of the US is among the most impoverished of the country. • Samaritan’s Purse/Operation Christmas Child – Each year in the fall, Intralot, Inc. contributes toward packing and shipping gift (shoe) boxes to children in countries that are less fortunate. • Operations Smiles – Intralot, Inc. has provided monetary donations to this nationwide organization whose primary aim is USA to help children who are born with a cleft lip or cleft palate. • Habitat for Humanity Intralot has partnered with Habitat for Humanity by helping its social mission either financially or through employee volunteering in the charity’s programs. • Breast Cancer Prevention/Susan B. Koman Breast Cancer Research Employees of various Intralot locations throughout the Unites States, participate in the Breast Cancer Prevention Walks and the Susan B. Koman Breast Cancer Walks that are held annually to raise money for breast cancer awareness, screenings and research on preventing the disease. Intralot makes monetary contributions, often supplementing donations made by the employee teams represented. • Support to FOPDC-Fraternal Order of Police of the District of Columbia • Support to DC Fire Fighters 38 • Support to the Avon Walk for Breast Cancer, held in USA Washington DC, USA. • INTRALOT de Brasil, in collaboration with APAEAssociation of Parents and Friends of Exceptional Children and SERVASBrazil Voluntary Social Service Assistance of Minas Gerais, was a supporter of the 20th Special Olympics in Brazil, which gathered 2500 special athletes in Maringá, in the state of Paraná-Brazil. • INTRALOT de Brasil was a sponsor of the gastronomy festival Encontro Gastrô 2012, held in the city of Belo Horizonte, Brazil. • In the framework of its CSR Programme Win and Help, Eurofootball launched “Sports Talents,” an initiative that seeks to enable the practice of sports by all youths, financing the cost Bulgaria of sports competitions and/or sports equipment of 18 young athletes aged 16 to 25 years old, including athletes with various disabilities. Sports and Culture Contribution to Local Communities • Support to Race Horse Owner’s Association of Greece • Participation of INTRALOT team in the Classical Athens Marathon, on behalf of Médecins sans Frontières, an international, independent, medical humanitarian organisation that delivers emergency aid to people affected by armed conflict, epidemics, natural disasters and exclusion from Greece healthcare. • Sponsorship to the 11th African Cultural Festival, held in May 2012 in Athens, Greece. • INTRALOT has added a new book title to its list of publications, the historic album Tyche – Lotteries and Games of Chance through Time. • Sponsorship of the Malta Football Association U*BET F.A. Malta Trophy. • INTRALOT de Peru was the awards’ sponsor of the INABIFNational Family Welfare Institution 2012 Marathon. Peru • INTRALOT de Peru was the awards’ sponsor of the 2012 Soccer League for children with special needs. Social Responsibility • INTRALOT de Brasil launched a program of training in the English language for all employees whereby it funds 50% or, in Brazil the case of employees whose functions require English, 100% of its cost. Toward Employees • Eurofootball organized an employee training program on Bulgaria the updated version of LOTOS™/OS, including a module on its advanced responsible gaming functionalities. 39 • In June 2012 Eurofootball moved its headquarters to new modern Bulgaria and central location, improving the working conditions of corporate staff. • Expanded use of the Corporate Global Live Network by INTRALOT, to support the professional development and knowledge sharing among employees. • Organization of the 2nd edition of ι-game, a yearly corporate innovation competition for employees, who may submit their ideas Greece under the categories Technology, Cost Optimization, Products & Services, Customer and Quality & Process improvements, in order to compete for a monetary award. • Organisation of annual Christmas party, with entertainment and gifts for the children of INTRALOT S.A. employees. Contribution to Local Communities Social Responsibility Towards Employees • Full/partial sponsorships are awarded to corporate employees at selected universities with which the company has celebrated partnership agreements. • INTRALOT de Peru offers professional training to company staff according to employee functions and corporate needs. The training is either conducted in-house or is offered by third party organizations and sponsored by the company. • INTRALOT de Peru offers free legal advice on family, civil and criminal law matters to its staff. To date the service has been used by 50 employees. • English classes are offered to corporate employees at a 50% Peru discounted rate, under the condition that the employee successfully completes the program and obtains a minimum GPA of 70/100. • Free training on MS Excel is offered to corporate employees, under the condition that the employee successfully completes the program and obtains a minimum GPA of 70/100. • Free Cataract Surgery Campaign – INTRALOT de Peru has established a partnership with the Cataract Surgery Association whereby it covers the post-surgical therapy of employees that are cataract patients • As of 2011, INTRALOT de Peru makes available free psychological counseling to all employees. • INTRALOT, Inc. has launched the Employee of the Month program, which aims to recognize outstanding employees who USA show exemplary individual achievement, contribution, and performance in their jobs and other related duties. 40 41 The program supports a series of activities in Stakeholder Materiality three main areas: education; social welfare; and 2.4 Assessment sports & culture. In the year 2012 the initiatives in this program area were many, both at the level of the parent company and in its subsidiaries across INTRALOT actively seeks the involvement of decisionthe globe. Table 17 presents the most significant, makers and other relevant social groups in the according to the structure outlined above. identification of issues, concerns, and appropriate strategies promoting responsible gaming practices and incorporates their views into company products and practices. Table 18 – Main Targets Greece 2013 INTRALOT is committed to regularly engage with • New GLN Training program on Responsible the relevant stakeholders formally and informally Gaming best practices. and include this in its reporting mechanisms. • Program of Reinforcement of relationship Engagement shall cover issues that are material between the academic research community to the stakeholders and the individual member. In and business community. the breadth of stakeholders that are being invited • Program of Promotion of Innovation and INTRALOT shall be inclusive. Entrepreneurship: GameLot is a collaborative project with the gaming cluster of the Corallia This engagement provides an opportunity for Clusters Initiative, on the development of tools stakeholders to voice relevant concerns or / platforms / games in the cognitive area of questions. INTRALOT integrates the results of interactive games. stakeholder engagement into its strategic-decision• Further development of the Gamez-on making processes and shall feedback to the relevant gaming platform, in collaboration with AIT stakeholder(s) on the outcomes from engagement processes. The table that follows depicts the main company stakeholders and respective common interest issues. Table 19 INTRALOT Group Stakeholder Mapping Sustainability Program Area Priority Stakeholders Other Stakeholders Contribution to the Local Communities Local Communities Retailers Employees Shareholders & Investors Interest Groups Regulatory Authorities Governance and Compliance Customers Shareholders & Investors Suppliers and Business Partners Customers Employees Regulatory authorities Responsible Gaming Retailers Suppliers & Business Partners Employees Responsibility towards Employees Local Communities Regulatory authorities Customers Environmental Sustainability Local Communities Interest Groups Suppliers 42 Table 20 – Stakeholder Communication Channels and Issues Stakeholder groups Communication Means Key topics and concerns Shareholders & • Annual Reports • Financial information on Investors • Special section at the company’s internet performance and sustainability portal for use by shareholders and investors • Information about the impact of • Presentations for Investors CSR activities on performance and • Road shows sustainable growth • Press releases • To offer a knowledge data bank for supporting informed investment decisions Employees • Personal communication through • Competitive salary respective managers • Employment security • Internet portal in three (3) languages: • Training English, Spanish and Chinese • Employees Health & Safety • Intranet/iSpace internal internet portal • Personal growth and development • Meetings • Career advancement • Corporate and social events • Ethical and socially responsible • Employee satisfaction surveys relationship Customers • Official written communication (RFP, • Added value products & services contract, project documentation) • Win-Win long term B2B • Formal meetings relationships • Video conferencing • Transfer of technology • Customer satisfaction surveys applications for added efficiency • Press releases of public administration of state • Newsletters customers • Informal personal communication • Training and advisory services • Corporate News in Social Media (Facebook, on socially responsible gaming Twitter, LinkedIn, Google+, INTRALOT Blog, products and practices INTRALOT YouTube) • Wealth generation and market growth Competitors • Official communications through specific • Technology trends channels and networking platforms • Market share competition organized by lottery and gaming associations • Constructive cooperation on specific projects Interest Groups • Official communications through specific • Market and Technology Trends channels • Constructive cooperation on specific projects 43 Stakeholder groups Communication Means Key topics and concerns Suppliers • Official written communication • Ongoing assessment of needs and • Formal meetings product and product development • Informal personal communication • Win-win long term B2B relationships Local Communities • Press Releases • Environmental friendly operations • Public surveys • Job creation • CSR reporting • Support of local businesses which • Corporate News in Social Media will supply products and services (Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Google+, • Ethical conduct INTRALOT Blog, INTRALOT YouTube) • Awareness campaigns, outreach and education on responsible gaming practices • Corporate citizenship initiatives Media • Press releases • Promote a positive corporate • Interviews image by informing about: • Articles in specialized print and new products & services e-media demonstration of products • Corporate Website, including a new projects around the world Multimedia Resources Center awards & distinctions • Advertising financial data • Participation in Exhibitions industry trends • Speeches and Participations in coverage and dissemination of Conferences/Seminars of the Lottery CSR activities Industry • Corporate News in Social Media (Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Google+, INTRALOT Blog, INTRALOT YouTube) Regulatory Authorities • Official communications with • Compliance with rules, competent authorities in compliance regulations, and local legislation to the applicable rules and • Safeguard Sustainable Growth regulations Prevention of Illegal Gambling • Wealth generation, economic responsibility and partnerships toward social goals • Responsible Gaming • Taxation issues 44 Partnership INTRALOT-Hellenic Network for CSR In 2012, INTRALOT was invited by Hellenic Network Hellenic Network for CSR for CSR (HNCSR) to volunteer in the participation Five (5) Task Forces for EU Strategy Implementation of a task force for disseminating information and educating the Greek business community about the • Transparency and new European strategy for CSR and Europe 2020 Independance targets. The Hellenic Network for CSR is a Greek • Communication INTRALOT national partner of CSR Europe and is, since 2008, • Volunteerism a coordinator of the UN Global Compact Network in Greece whose goal is to promote of principles and • SMEs values of corporate social responsibility near Greek • Collaboration businesses and society at large, ensuring a balance Stakeholder between profitability and sustainable development. Partnerships The HNCSR has defined five (5) task forces and INTRALOT has volunteered in the Communications task force, as part of its efforts to strengthen collaborative partnerships with relevant stakeholders. This collaboration consists of three (3) major roles: • Co-definition of strategy and action plan toward the dissemination of the new EU CSR strategy in the media; • Project consulting; • Media outreach. SEV Entrepreneurship Initiative 2012 In 2012, the Hellenic Federation of Enterprises (SEV) announced a new initiative toward the support to entrepreneurship in Greece. The initiative focuses on strengthening the cooperation between universities and the business community by advising students, young graduates and/or researchers who seek coaching in their research and business ideas before proceeding to develop these into a business plan and effective business practice. The services offered to new entrepreneurs include: • Hosting; • Mentoring; • Consulting; • Training. INTRALOT has volunteered to participate in the entrepreneurship initiative by offering prospective entrepreneurs mentorship services. Go International Program In 2012, INTRALOT was one of the 750 companies, from 17 countries, that participated in the Business 45 Delegations and fora organized in the framework of Go International, an Economic Cooperation Programme that aims to enhance the export orientation of the Greek business sector through multilateral trade in the wider region of Central, Southeastern Europe & the Eastern Mediterranean. A platform where Greek export-oriented entrepreneurs can meet with the international business community and potential clients, Go International has so far given the opportunity and provided the framework for more than 4,000 B2B meetings of 250 Greek exporting companies to promote Greek exports, including 20 high-tech research centers, with 500 foreign importing and distribution companies from 16 countries. It is worth noting that many entrepreneurs have been repeatedly participating in the delegations, which indicates that their previous experience has been positive and they consider it a valuable international networking tool. Go International is a joint effort of: • Eurobank; • Panhellenic Exporters’ Association; • Greek International Business Association; • Exporters’ Association of Crete; • Hellenic Federation of Enterprises (SEV). Social Media The world of social media has evolved from being a means of social networking to becoming a vital business tool for organizations of all sizes and sectors. Today social media are easy, fast, and free way to enlarge the customer base, develop new alternative channels of communication with stakeholders, engage audiences, get customer feedback, market products and services, and build brand loyalty. As of 2011, INTRALOT’s new social media channels (Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Google+, INTRALOT Blog, YouTube) have enabled the company to identify needs in local communities, to pool resources toward the implementation of social projects and to quickly adapt and improve multiple communications and marketing practices. Table 21 – Society Satisfaction Index Society Satisfaction Index INTRALOT is committed to assessing the impact of its presence in the local community and integrate the needs of these communities in company policy and business practices. INTRALOT’s Technical Support Department carries out a Society Satisfaction Survey. The survey aims to assess the disruption of INTRALOT business operations within the local community, not the effect that company products have on its consumers. The survey has consistently revealed high levels of satisfaction in the local community. The Society Satisfaction Index was measured to be 84% overall. Local businesses showed slightly higher satisfaction rates as compared to residents. 46 Corporate Social Responsibility Self-Assessment Based on the EBEN GR Business Ethics Excellence (BEE) Model and its social model criteria, INTRALOT performs a corporate social responsibility self-assessment. The EBEN GR BEE Model self-assessments are performed over and above the assessments conduct by INTRALOT for the purposes of quality management certification by the European Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM). The self-assessment is conducted by expert certified personnel. Table 22 – CSR Self-Assessment 47 Corporate Governance & Compliance “Clarity and constant movement, movement towards perfection.” 48 Enterprises, and the best practices applicable to Member States of the European Union. In accordance with Law 3873/2010, the code is also the reference framework on which the annual management report and Board of Directors statements of corporate governance therein are based. INTRALOT Group operations and management Policy Developments in 2012 procedures are subject to international laws and regulations as well as to the governmental oversight and the regulatory framework of each jurisdiction Revision of the Greek Code of Corporate Governance where it operates. Year 2012 was marked by some important As a listed company, INTRALOT SA fully complies developments for the future of corporate compliance. with the provisions of Greek law, including Laws Most noteworthy is the revision of the Code of 2190/1920, 3016/2002, 3693/2008, 3873/2010 and Corporate Governance of SEV/ESED, which have 3884/2010. Furthermore, the company abides by launched a stakeholder consultation process toward the strictest ethics standards in its relations with approval in 2013 and effective implementation of the both internal and external stakeholders. It has revised code foreseen in the fiscal year 2014. adopted a set of rules and standard procedures in a Code of Corporate Governance, which ensures Creation of the Hellenic Corporate Governance the integrity, security and professionalism of Council (HCGC) businesses practices and conduct. Posted on the Company’s website www.intralot.com, INTRALOT’s In 2012, the Hellenic Exchanges (HELEX) and the Code of Corporate Governance incorporates and Hellenic Federation of Enterprises (SEV) established applies the best international practices for listed the Hellenic Corporate Governance Council (HCGC), companies of the Hellenic Federation of Enterprises to serve as a national body for corporate governance (SEV) and the Principles of Corporate Governance of in Greece. In an effort to create the conditions that OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and will increase sustained competitiveness of Greek Development) countries. corporations and enhance credibility of the Greek market, the purpose of the Hellenic Corporate The main goals of the Code of Corporate Governance Governance Council (HCGC) is: are: • to ensure the Greek Corporate Governance Code 1. To adopt best corporate governance practices created by the Hellenic Federation of Entreprises under the guidance of the members of the Board of in March 2011 is well understood, accepted and Directors to this purpose; endorsed by Greek companies and to warrant the continued relevance and implementation of the Code 2. To improve information sharing with both private over time; and institutional shareholders; • to monitor and enforce compliance with the Greek Corporate Governance Code, according to the 3. To effectively comply with the requirements of the principle “Comply or Explain”. newly established Law 3873/2010 that incorporates the European Parliament Directive 2006/46/EC into EC Action Plan on European Company Law and the Greek legal framework. Corporate Governance A modern legal framework for more engaged shareholders and sustainable The Code abides by the principles of OECD Corporate companies Governance, as published in 2004, the standards laid down in the 2011 Greek Code of Corporate Governance Building on the 2011 Green Paper on the EU corporate for listed companies of the Hellenic Federation of governance framework, in December of 2012 the 50 European Commission issued an action plan outlining the initiatives that it intends to take in order to create a modern and efficient set of rules on company law and corporate governance for European undertakings, investors and employees. The goal of the Action Plan and the measures foreseen therein is to build the trust of citizens in the European single market and to contribute to the competitiveness and sustainability of European business. The initiatives, which will be both legislative and non-legislative, follow three main lines: • Enhancing transparency between companies and investors • Encouraging long-term shareholder engagement • Improving the framework for cross-border operation of companies In addition, the Action Plan also launches a process of codification of most company law directives. Table 23 – Corporate Governance & Compliance: Upcoming Policy Developments INTRALOT Corporate Governance Targets 2013-2014 • The Hellenic Corporate Governance Council Revision of the Code of Corporate Governance (HCGC) is to conduct a corporate consultation and conclude the revision of the Hellenic Code INTRALOT has set as one of its corporate governance of Corporate Governance of companies listed targets to revise the Group’s Code of Corporate in the Athens Stock Exchange. Governance, so as incorporate the principles and best • Non-legislative EU Initiative with Proposals practices of the Greek Corporate Governance Code, for the implementation of the 2012 EC Action leading in the adoption of the standards of excellence Plan on Corporate Governance and guidelines defined therein. for the improvement of the quality of corporate governance disclosures. Sustainability Committee • Proposal by the Hellenic Capital Markets Commission for the revision of corporate INTRALOT will establish a Sustainability Committee, governance rules and disclosures. with responsibility for the design and management of its corporate sustainability program. The Sustainability committee will be a steering committee under the mandate and supervision of the Group CEO and will convene quarterly. The sustainability committee will have decision-making competence on: • Sustainability strategy, policy design and the formulation of the annual corporate sustainability program, addressing the economic, social and environmental impact of corporate operations; • Implementation of the annual sustainability program (timelines, budget, success indicators, risk assessment); • The assessment of sustainability policies and program, in light of corporate strategy as well as their economic, social and environmental impact. Table 24 INTRALOT Corporate Governance Targets 2013-2014 • Revision of the Code of Corporate Governance • Establishment of a Sustainability Committee 51 3.1 The Board of Directors The Company is managed by a Board of Directors, consisting of a minimum of seven (7) to eleven (11) members elected by the annual General Meeting of shareholders, which also determines the term of their service. A legal entity may also be elected to the Board. The members of the Board of Directors are elected by shareholders for a five-year term which is automatically extended until the first annual General Assembly following the end of their term and is not permitted to exceed six years but does not preclude their re-election. The replacement of all members of the Board in one General Meeting is avoided, and the succession of members of the Board of Directors is conducted gradually. The General Meeting may also elect alternate members of the Board, with the aim of replacing members of the Board who have resigned, deceased or retired. The names of the members of the Board of Directors submitted for election or re-election are accompanied by sufficient biographical details and the view of the Board on the independence of the proposed Board members, in accordance with the independence criteria set out in the Law and with any other relevant information to enable shareholders to make an informed decision. The Board of Directors may elect the Chairman, the Vice-Chairman and one or two Chief Executive Officers among its members. The Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors is not required to be an executive member of the Board of Directors. Table 25 – The Board of Directors Non Name Position Executive Independent Executive Socrates P. Kokkalis Chairman  Constantinos G. Antonopoulos Vice Chairman & CEO  Andreas V. Papoulias Member  Fotis Th. Mavroudis Member  Dimitrios Ch. Klonis Member  Dimitrios K. Chatzigrigoriadis Member   Anastasios M. Tsoufis Member   Sotirios N. Filos Member   Petros K. Souretis Member  The role and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution by non-executive Board members to the work of the Board and ensures constructive relations between executive and non-executive members. The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board. He is responsible for setting the agenda of the meetings (without limiting the right of the deputy of the Chairman or two of its members, as stipulated in the Articles of Incorporation of the Company, to convene a meeting of the Board of Directors). He is also responsible for ensuring the organization of activities performed by the Board, and effectively conducting Board meetings. 52 The Chairman, or the Vice-Chairman, is also within the year prior to the responsible for: appointment a material business relationship • ensuring that the members of the Board are with the Company or its informed on all corporate governance issues in a subsidiaries, particularly timely manner; as a major client, • ensuring effective communication with all supplier or consultant shareholders; of the Company, or as • safeguarding the fair and equitable treatment of a partner, shareholder all shareholder interests. or board member, or as a senior executive of an entity having such The non-executive and independent members of the a relationship with BoD the Company or its subsidiaries; The Board of Directors is comprised of a majority • has been the external auditor of the Company or of non-executive members (including at least two its subsidiaries or has been a partner or employee independent non-executive members). of a firm that provides external auditing services to the Company or its subsidiaries within the previous The independent non-executive members are three (3) years; exempt from conflicts of interest with the Company, and from close ties with management, with majority • has (as stipulated in Law 3016/2002) a second shareholders or with the Company. For the duration degree kinship with, or is the spouse of, a nonof their term, the independent non-executive independent Board member, senior executive, members are not allowed to hold more than 0,5% advisor or significant shareholder of the Company or of the share capital of the Company or to maintain its subsidiaries; a dependent relationship with the Company or with persons affiliated with the Company. • controls directly, or indirectly through related parties, more than 0,5% of the voting rights of the The independent members are elected by the Company or represents a significant shareholder of General Meeting. The Board of Directors must the Company or its subsidiaries. determine whether the candidate fulfils the independence criteria before he/she is elected by the General Meeting of Shareholders. In determining Assessment of the members of the BoD the independence of both candidates and current members, the Board of Directors considers that a relation of dependence exists when the member: For the members of the BOD there is no documented assessment procedure in place at present but their • is (as stipulated in Law 3016/2002) or has been an competences, qualifications and expertise are employee, senior executive or Chairman of the Board taken fully into consideration during the annual of Directors of the Company or its subsidiaries within general assemblies. Further, their availability for the previous three (3) years; the fulfillment of their duties and the existence and nature of additional positions in other listed • receives or has received during the 12 month companies is also taken into account. prior to his appointment any compensation from the Company other than board membership fees In addition to assessing the BoD via the Agenda of approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders of the shareholders’ Annual General Meeting, the BoD the Company; monitors and reexamines the implementation of its decisions on a yearly basis. • has (as stipulated in Law 3016/2002) or has had 53 Respecting minority shareholders’ rights 3.2 Board Committees Following the request of any shareholder, which is submitted to the company at least five (5) days The following are INTRALOT’s Board Committees: before the General Meeting, the Board of Directors is obliged to provide the information specifically Table 26 – Committees of the Board of Directors requested regarding the affairs of the company at the General Meeting, to the extent that such information is useful for enabling a realistic assessment of the items on the agenda. Also, following the request of shareholders representing one twentieth (1/20) of the paid up share capital, the Board of Directors is obliged to report the sums paid to each member of the Board of Directors or to the directors of the company in the previous two years at the Annual General Meeting, as well as report all other benefits paid to these persons as a result of any contract between these and the company for any other reason. In all of the above cases, the Board of Directors may refuse to disclose information with due cause, which is duly recorded in the minutes of the General Meeting. Following the request of shareholders representing one fifth (1/5) of the paid up share capital, which is submitted to the company at least five (5) days Audit and Compliance Committee before the General Meeting, the Board of Directors is obliged to provide information regarding company affairs and the financial standing of the company to The Audit and Compliance Committee is a the General Meeting. In all of the above cases, the committee of the Board of Directors established Board of Directors may refuse to provide information with the aim of assisting the Board in its supervisory with due cause, which is also duly recorded in the responsibilities with regards to matters such as minutes of the General Meeting. financial reporting and information, the compliance of the Company and its subsidiaries to the legislative At the request of shareholders representing 1/20 of and regulatory operational framework, and audit the paid up share capital, decisions on any item of system procedures. It also exercises supervision the agenda of a General Meeting are made by rollover the auditing operation. call vote. The Financial Committee, which is responsible for Shareholders representing one fifth (1/5) of the paid the financial management of the Company, is a subup share capital have the right to request that the committee of the Audit and Compliance Committee. Court of First Instance with jurisdiction over the area of the company’s registered offices, audit the Being listed on the stock exchange, the company Company, provided that the course of the company is subject to legislation on corporate governance, indicates that the management of company affairs according to which it is required to have an Internal is not being exercised in an appropriate and prudent Audit Service. The Internal Audit Service carries out manner. audits on all corporate units, i.e., administrative, financial and technical. To investigate potential cases of lack of transparency 54 or corruption is an integral part of the Internal situations that would reasonably be expected to give Inspection and when such cases are identified rise to a conflict of interest, i.e., when an employee’s safety measures are proposed to the company. The private interest conflicts, or appears to conflict, with implementation of these measures is monitored on the interests of INTRALOT as a whole. All INTRALOT an annual basis. employees are fully informed about the nature and risks of such conflicts of interest and the different forms that they may take through the company’s Remuneration Committee Code of Conduct (available at the company’s internal portal), which they are required to familiarize themselves with. The Board of Directors assigns the responsibility of determining the employee remuneration policy of When they suspect that they may have a conflict of the Company to the Remuneration Committee. The interest, or something that others could reasonably Remuneration Committee recommends levels of perceive as a conflict of interest, they are required remuneration of executives, managers and senior to report it to their Supervisor or Director, who then executives to the Board of Directors and concurrently works with the employee to determine whether it regulates matters associated with the overall there is a conflict of interest and, if so, how best to remuneration policy of the Company. address it. The compensation of the members of the Board of Directors and of upper management is not tied to financial results nor to specific economic, social or environmental objectives set and/or achieved by the company but are naturally related to general overall company performance and to sustainability. 3.3 Risk Management Management Committee The principles of corporate governance affect the way corporate goals are set and achieved, how monitoring systems and risk assessment The Management Committee examines all significant procedures are adopted, and how transparency is Company matters, formulates proposals and decides assured and the Group’s competitiveness promoted. how to address them. The Management Committee is also essential for inter-company communication, the coordination of the departments’ projects and Financial Risks the support of the Chief Executive Officer in both an informative and advisory capacity. It identifies critical operational issues, designs the development strategy The Company regularly makes an assessment and of the Company and advances the implementation of identification of risks in line with its strategic and major projects and objectives. business planning and always takes into account the conditions of the market and the industry, political More information regarding the main responsibilities developments, changes in technology, and macroof the Managerial and Supervisory Bodies are economic indicators. The activities of the company posted on the Company’s website: www.intralot.com are monitored via a highly detailed budget, which (Investor relations / Corporate Governance). is assigned to each business unit and each market and is adapted on a regular basis taking into account external factors and changes. Conflict of interest Moreover, the management has designed and implements ongoing monitoring targets to guarantee INTRALOT requires that employees disclose any that the Internal Inspection System is effective. The 55 Internal Audit System provides Management with a specialized assessment of the inspection mechanisms that are in place in the company, and makes suggestions for their improvement where necessary. Certain areas are considered to be high risk for financial fraud and are thus monitored with the appropriate anti-corruption policies and measures. Protection against such fraud is assisted through the use of a code of conduct, detailed work regulations, clearly defined duties and responsibilities, procedure monitoring and authorization limits. All relevant measures and activities are subject to internal inspection, the results of which are presented to the management board. Moreover, all employees are required to be fully familiar with these procedures. As INTRALOT continually develops, compiles and owns certain confidential information (including trade secret information and customer and supplier information) that has great value for its business, employees are required to treat this kind of information confidentially and to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of such information. Employees are required to protect INTRALOT’s confidential information and to use it only for appropriate, authorised purposes, and not to disclose confidential information to any person who is not an employee of INTRALOT unless they are authorized to do so. Moreover, all employees are required to protect INTRALOT’s assets and ensure they are used efficiently, i.e. for legitimate business purposes only. They are prohibited from soliciting or conducting outside business during paid working time or from using INTRALOT’s funds or assets for personal gain or for any unlawful or improper purpose. All employees are obliged to deal fairly with fellow employees and with INTRALOT’s customers, suppliers, competitors and other third parties and to not take unfair advantage of anyone through manipulation, abuse of privileged information, misrepresentation or any other unfair dealing practice. They are prohibited from using corporate gifts or entertainment as forms of compensation and may give or receive gifts and entertainment to or from customers and suppliers only if the gift or entertainment cannot be viewed as an inducement to, or reward for, any particular business decision. All gifts and entertainment expenses are properly accounted for on expense reports. INTRALOT has developed a framework for monitoring information systems and has a specific procedure for protection against any problems in the system through an approved Business Continuity programme. Moreover, specific access rights to all information systems by all employees have been defined, depending on the employee’s position and role within the company. The company also keeps an entry log. With regards to the safety measures related to the production of financial statements and reports, the company uses internationally recognized tools and methodologies, such as: • segregation of duties on all levels from top management down to lower executive levels; • streamlined account monitoring, guidelines and definitions for producing reports across all departments and company subsidiaries; • safety measures for protecting the company’s assets, supplies and storage, and cash, including crosschecking with account books; • a chart of authorities that defines the authorization limits of various executives for various financial and legal transactions. 56 Occupational risk management Potential risks in this area are identified and controlled in accordance with Greek legislation and European and international codes of practice. The company’s facilities are subject to written occupational risk assessment, which also contain the measures that need to be taken for removing, minimizing and controlling risk. These assessments are revised when the work environment and work conditions are modified and are made known to all employees so that each may be familiar with any risks involved and the steps that need to be taken in order to deal with them. Corporate regulations and standards As part of its ongoing risk assessment procedures, INTRALOT adopts and implements international standards, codes and best practices that are aligned with its strategic goals. These include United Nations’ Global Compact principles and international standards ISO 9001, and ISO 27001. Scheduled firstand thirdparty audits are carried out in order to guarantee compliance with these standards and principles and to minimize potential risk. Product Responsibility and 3.4 Table 27– INTRALOT SA Corporate Governance Self-Assessment Our Customers INTRALOT’s valued customers and business partners are essential to the Company’s success. INTRALOT treats its customers and business partners with fairness and respect at all times. As such, the company is committed to always deal fairly, to compete ethically and to ensure the highest possible level of customer satisfaction. Product Quality & Quality Management INTRALOT has been certified according to ISO 9001: 2008. The Company conducts business in line with its ISO 9001 Quality Manual, which sets the framework for INTRALOT’s Quality Management System, Extract from the Code of Conduct: presents the corporate philosophy and fundamental Relationships with Customers principles, and makes reference to documented Our business success depends upon our ability to procedures describing in detail company processes foster lasting customer relationships. INTRALOT is and functions. committed to dealing with clients fairly, responsibly, honestly and with integrity. The Company works closely with its suppliers and In conducting business, INTRALOT strives to achieve the highest standards of business ethics and subcontractors, in order to communicate and share sustainable excellence. We have an obligation to in the company’s quality policy and requirements. our employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, Quality control audits are conducted by senior quality society representatives and other interested parties engineers to help them improve the quality of the with whom we interact, to be honest, fair and forthright in all our business activities. delivered products or services. 57 Product Safety 3.5 Our Suppliers INTRALOT is committed to delivering safe, quality INTRALOT’s suppliers are a significant stakeholder products to its customers. All gaming terminals group with which the company collaborates closely supplied to a market comply with the highest safety and systematically. INTRALOT recognizes its regulations laid down for the specific market. suppliers as significant partners in its business Each terminal is labeled so that the regulation of activities. The framework of the partnership with compliance is clearly identified (CE, FCC, C-Tick). INTRALOT’s suppliers is defined by INTRALOT’s values and principles and by the relevant legislation Safety compliance is taken into consideration and international codes and standards. from the initial stage of design of the product. To test and certify product compliance INTRALOT Extract from the Code of Conduct: Relationships works with internationally accredited safety with Suppliers science organisations, such as the Underwriters Laboratories. INTRALOT deals fairly and honestly with its suppliers. This means that its relationships with suppliers are based on price, quality, service and reputation. Purchase agreements In addition to the gaming terminals, INTRALOT should be documented and should clearly identify the develops and provides gaming software to Lottery services or products to be provided, the unit price, the operators. The company verifies the credibility and method and terms of payment, and the applicable rate or integrity of the games, and ensures that they are fee. The amount of payment must be commensurate with the services or products provided. Employees dealing with fair, secure, and can be operated properly. Thus, the suppliers should use impartial judgment. Specifically, no games are designed to meet the relevant standards, employee should accept or solicit any personal benefit from which are widely accepted and used by gaming a supplier or potential supplier that might compromise his regulatory agencies. The gaming products are or her objective assessment of the supplier’s products, quality and prices. certified by independent inspection and certification laboratories, such as the Gaming Laboratories International. INTRALOT strives to deliver products of the highest Service Complaint Procedure quality, with high endurance in all operational fields. To this end, the company has set procurement processes which ensure the selection of the most As per the requirements of ISO 20000, INTRALOT qualified vendors and service providers for all the has established a Service Complaint Procedure materials and services used. INTRALOT suppliers are for external complaints. The procedure aims to quality certified and their performance is frequently provide an operational framework for dealing with a evaluated. These practices have contributed to the customer complaint. excellent track record of INTRALOT products around the globe and have earned the company several All complaints are recorded and must be solved in a awards from distinguished organizations. timely manner. The complaint process is subject of periodic review in order to check for patterns in the INTRALOT contributes to the welfare of the type, nature and handling of the complaint and make economies where its suppliers of goods and services adjustments accordingly. are based. In 2012, payments to suppliers of the INTRALOT Group amounted to €342.100 thousand What constitutes a complaint and the process (excluding agent commissions). whereby it will be managed and resolved is agreed upon between INTRALOT and the customer. The In the year 2012, INTRALOT SA counted 950 suppliers Service Complaint Procedure is also leveraged as a from diverse countries in all 5 continents. In 2012, source of service improvement. total suppliers of the INTRALOT Group amounted to 6811 worldwide, in 46 countries. The suppliers were 58 grouped into the 5 main categories: General Products & Services; Marketing & Advertising; Transportation & Distribution; Hardware & Software; and Consumables, as follows in Table 28. Table 28 INTRALOT Group Supplier Breakdown 2012 Of the 6811 suppliers, 4137 were based in Europe & the Middle East regions. The geographic breakdown of the suppliers of the INTRALOT group follows in Table 29. Table 29 INTRALOT Group Supplier Breakdown by Region 2012 59 Supplier Selection & Management highest standard of quality services and products from technology suppliers and subcontractors that are world leaders in their fields. In the process of procurement of goods and services, INTRALOT strictly follows a policy of nonBoth the selection of suppliers and the process of discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, sexual supplier assessment, which the company conducts orientation, gender identity, religion, disability, age, on an annual basis, are subject to the following main genetic information, veteran status, ancestry, or criteria: national or ethnic origin. • financial cost; The company enforces the principle of equal • quality specifications; opportunity to all potential suppliers and strives to • supplier labour policies & practices; maintain a diverse portfolio of suppliers, in terms • supplier human rights record; of country of legal establishment, company size, or • supplier policy towards the rights of indigenous human resources profile. Neither INTRALOT SA nor peoples; its subsidiaries give preferential treatment to local • the impacts of supplier products or services on suppliers or adopt policies towards such goal. environmental sustainability; • time to delivery. As an ISO 9001 certified company, INTRALOT business processes follow standardized procedures In addition, INTRALOT advances the development throughout the entire product chain. The company of local communities through the adoption of a had adopted a written policy for procurements minimum 50% local supplier quota, in so far as with step-by-step procedures, supplier requisites, the quality criteria of supplier selection are not and documentation, which ensure fairness and compromised. The proportion of local suppliers of compliance with quality assurance standards. the INTRALOT Group follows. Furthermore, INTRALOT procurements processes are subject to regular auditing. Table 30 – Local Suppliers INTRALOT Group, %* 2012 LOWEST 2012 AVERAGE 2012 HIGHEST The majority of INTRALOT suppliers has received 62.03% 88.36% 99.65% quality certifications from competent national and international organizations and is also listed in Basic Range Middle Range Top Range national stock exchanges, consequently abiding (50%-67%) (68%-85%) (86%-100%) by the regulatory framework defined by these *Estimation based on over 50% of subsidiaries. exchanges. A significant number of contracts with suppliers within the European Union area follow EU regulations and the process, requisites, and The countries with the highest rate of utilization eligibility rules of public tender. of local suppliers include, in alphabetical order: Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Bulgaria, China, Czech There are no incidents of human rights violations by Republic, Dominican Republic, Germany, Italy, Malta, the suppliers of the INTRALOT Group, as both the Moldova, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Group as its suppliers abide by a non-discrimination Poland, Russia, and Slovakia. policy, respect the rights of indigenous people in applicable jurisdictions, and do not utilize child labor Finally, the choice of suppliers is also subject to the or forced or compulsory labor. specific constraints and ad-hoc parameters defined The flexibility to design and develop innovative in contracts with customers. and effective solutions that meet specific market requirements and customer needs has given INTRALOT gives special attention to, and values stable INTRALOT competitive advantage and contributed and effective relationships with, its partners and to the effort towards expanding operations in the subcontractors. The Department of Procurements five continents. In order to maintain this flexibility to collaborates with INTRALOT’s Technical Support design innovative solutions, INTRALOT requires the Department (TSD) in the evaluation of partnerships 60 with suppliers. While the Department of Contracts and Procurements evaluates supplier partnerships from a business and financial standpoint, TSD evaluates the technical requirements of supplier partnerships. TSD subjects all supplier products to scrutiny prior to their incorporation in the development process and ensures that the application software being developed under contractual obligations is integrated with reliable components and all quality requirements are being met. INTRALOT has adopted a quality management system (QMS) that supports the effective management of partnerships by ensuring consistent quality standards and keeping regular contact with suppliers, exchanging feedback and implementing product or service improvements. INTRALOT’s QMS is based on an open-channel of communication between the Department of Contracts and Procurements and the Technical Support Department through the company’s intranet portal, where input on subcontractor performance is shared. This input also serves as the basis for recommendations for new or ongoing partnerships. 3.6 Corporate Compliance Certifications Lottery gaming is an activity of primarily societal nature. The provision of secure and fair lottery games to citizens is a matter of social responsibility. INTRALOT has established a state-of-the-art framework for the governance of enterprise business processes that binds its customer and operations focused strategy to the Group Strategy of INTRALOT, as follows. INTRALOT Shareholder’s Trust, driven by: • Competitive advantage through the provision of differentiated products and services with embedded security, which, in turn, drives customer acquisition and retention. • Brand name protection and increase of reputation by creating a corporate image which respects information protection. • Legal compliance through the implementation of the appropriate operational governance framework imposed by national and international legislation (e.g. Privacy Act, Security of E-transactions, Anti-Money-Laundering). INTRALOT Customer’s Trust, ensuring: • Integrity of operations, service availability, protection of the confidentiality of customer information. • That the appropriate framework for the governance of enterprise business processes is in place for ensuring operational excellence. • Player trust also contributing in increasing sales by attracting players. • Contractual compliance. Intellectual Property Protection, through effective information security governance and patenting 61 framework. INTRALOT Critical Information Protection, from unauthorized disclosure and from manipulation or loss. INTRALOT employee and partner trust, through the establishment of a privacy friendly environment and ensuring accountability is in place. 62 Acknowledging the importance of security for the company’s success, INTRALOT is the first international vendor in the gaming sector that has been certified according to the World Lottery Association (WLA) Security Control Standard in 2008. Moreover, the Company has been certified with the ISO 27001:2005 for its Information Security Management System (ISMS) since 2007. The scope of the double WLA SCS and ISO 27001 certification covers INTRALOT Headquarters, the operations at the Greek National Lottery, OPAP SA, and the Greek Horse Racing Organisation, ODIE SA, as well as INTRALOT Nederlands BV for the operation of the Lottery System of Staatsloterij and De Lotto. INTRALOT has also been certified according to ISO 9001 since 2002. INTRALOT is also the first international vendor in the gaming sector to achieve ISO 20000 certification on Information Technology Service Management. INTRALOT’s service management system covers the provision of managed IT Services, such as integrated gaming and transaction processing systems & services and interactive gaming services, as provided to licensed lottery, gaming and casino organizations and entities worldwide. Finally, in 2012 INTRALOT de Peru was awarded WLA RG certification level 2. All INTRALOT certifications are governed by the COBIT 5 framework that the company introduced in order to ensure a holistic approach that covers its business processes end-to-end and in alignment with its business strategy. INTRALOT is the first international vendor to receive the Gaming Standards Association (GSA) Point to Point SOAP/HTTPS Transport and Security Specification and one of the two companies that have been certified internationally according to the GSA Game to System (G2S) Message Protocol standard, both of them for its VLT Monitoring system, i-GEM. As per its WLA SCS and ISO 27001 Information Security Management System (ISMS), INTRALOT abides by the above principles and ensures that a continual security improvement framework is in place for the design, development, implementation, testing and support of state-of-the-art gaming systems. All systems provided ensure a trustful and socially responsible lottery experience. INTRALOT’s International Information Security Management System (ISMS) has been updated in 2012 following the recent changes in international standards as well as towards serving the emerging business needs of the INTRALOT Group. The key changes target at achieving improved security through simplicity. Furthermore, a special internal website has been created for the information of all corporate employees on the current policy framework and practices. Training on Security Policies and Practices All INTRALOT employees are required to complete corporate employee induction training upon recruitment. This training includes a module in the main security policies and best practices as well as an overview of the Information Security Management System (ISMS). In addition, employees are required to follow security training updates on an annual basis. The training is offered to the entire Group through the Global Live Network and made available in the company’s ι-space intranet portal. 63 Table 31 Certifications & Compliance with Corporate or Industry Rules and Standards Highlights from INTRALOT Group • Responsible Gambling Code of Conduct as a Category 2 Public Lotteries License holder in Victoria Australia • Responsible Conduct of Gaming Code as a Foreign Games Permit holder to operate lotteries in Tasmania • ISO 20000 Certification on Information Technology Service Management (awarded June 2013) • INTRALOT Code of Corporate Governance Greece • ISO 27001:2005 for its Information Security Management System (ISMS), as of 2007 • WLA Security Control Standard, as of 2008 • ISO 9001, as of 2002 • COBIT 5 (introduced early 2013) • Updating of the Code of Ethics included in the organization Model Legislative Decree Italy no. 231/2011 addressed to both employees and suppliers • INTRALOT de Peru was awarded World Lottery Association (WLA) Responsible Gaming Peru Certification Level 2 Protection of the Integrity of Sports Eyes-On In December 2011 INTRALOT introduced Eyes-On, a novel Fraud Detection System for Lotteries and Betting Companies, in order to assist its clients in detecting and promptly reacting to possible external and internal fraud scenarios. The system is a result of extensive Research and Development carried out in the dedicated Information Security Labs (ISL) of INTRALOT. ISL focuses on the analysis of fraud issues in the specific environment of lotteries and betting companies and conducts research and development projects in order to provide innovative and truly cutting-edge solutions. Eyes-On uses innovative and efficient techniques for detecting fraud in games of chance that are either terminal-based or on the Internet. The functionalities and benefits of Eyes-On are briefly described in Table 32: Table 32 Eyes-On Fraud Detection System Functionalities Benefits • Abnormal Behavior Detection (ABD) • Open interoperable architecture, making • Decision Support System (DSS) Eyes-On suitable for the Lottery or Betting • Games Data Mapping platform of any vendor • Capability to handle hundreds of millions of transactions per day and produce realtime Fraud Detection and Prevention results • User friendly graphical interface, Extensive International Knowledge base of prioritized Fraud Detection scenarios, categorized in internal and external Fraud Cases 64 iFLEX Agreement with the International Olympic Committee & International Sports Monitoring INTRALOT, the world’s leading gaming technology vendor and betting operator, developed and Betting Company, a subsidiary of INTRALOT Group, implemented a state-of-the-art, innovative, robust has signed a cooperation agreement with the and high performance sports and non-sports betting International Olympic Committee (IOC) and the solution that meets the growing demands of the International Sports Monitoring (ISM) showing its gaming industry and enables the expansion of sales commitment to actively participate in initiatives that and services across all alternative sales channels. aim to protect and maintain the integrity of sports. Betting Company will provide ISM and IOC with iFlex provides complete sports betting management betting related information to assist ISM to monitor through extended functionalities to define betting activities related to the Olympic Games and competition, games, odds, handicaps, etc. It enables to assist the IOC to act in case of suspicious betting risk management and accelerates decision making activities on the Games. The company’s involvement through real-time monitoring of betting trends and in the Permanent Global Sports Betting Monitoring potential liabilities. System of IOC contributes to the early detection and prevention of any attempted match-fixing. iFlex supports the impressive development of betting operations in all jurisdictions deployed and has Agreement with FIFA’s Early Warning System been developed based on our long range exposure in regulated monopolistic and competitive markets The INTRALOT Group has signed a cooperation and combines front line productivity with powerful agreement with FIFA’s subsidiary, Early Warning performance, data integrity and overall security. System GmbH (EWS), for protecting the integrity of football. Through the agreement, INTRALOT has iFlex is an integrated, all-inclusive, solution for the become a member of FIFA’s global network and management of betting activities. It is designed promptly informs EWS about betting patterns which to provide the complete management of sports could indicate possible manipulation of football betting games, both at the operations level, matches or other sport events, in jurisdictions where through its extended functionalities for definition the company offers its services. Any information of competitions, games, odds, handicaps, etc., and received from operations shall undergo scrutiny at the risk management and decision making level, by EWS, that in turn provides information on which through the real-time monitoring of betting trends events are under its surveillance. and potential liabilities. Inteltek and the Turkish Football Federation INTRALOT’s rich global experience as a technology supplier and provider of support services, provider As per their 2008 agreement, INTRALOT’s subsidiary of facilities management services, commercial Inteltek and the Turkish Football Federation have operator and Licensee/concessionaire has launched a partnership in order to share information materialized in the functional characteristics, about the unethical activities in the Turkish Football capabilities and flexibility of the innovative iFlex. Leagues. The goal of the initiative is the protection Thus, it supports a wide range of functionalities in of the integrity of sports and the ethical values of a state of the art and user-friendly environment that the Turkish football. Inteltek supports Turkey’s cover the whole value chain of commercial betting, National Sports Lottery Spor Toto and the Turkish from sophisticated tools for odds compilation to Football Federation in protecting the transparency advanced front-end applications. of the Turkish Football Championship through the establishment of a regular open channel of communication for reporting any instances of Partnerships for the Protection of the Integrity of unusual betting activity to Spor Toto and the Turkish Sports Football Federation, which takes action to prevent potential cases of distorted match results. 65 Responsible Gaming Program “Hard and restrictive when you don’t play by the rules.” 66 Overview of Policy fundamental principles of the EU Treaty and the 4.1 financing systems of public interest activities. Developments & Strategy In 2012, the persistence of the overall recessionary international environment and emerging trends Forthcoming WLA Responsible Gaming Certification in the gaming sector, such as the multiplication for Vendors and integration of gaming channels and products, has tightened competition in the gaming market. Furthermore, the regulated liberalization of the As a long-standing and active member of the sector’s online gaming sector is progressing at a steady pace. Lottery Associations WLA and the EL, INTRALOT is In this process, special attention is being devoted committed to these organizations’ principles and to issues such as responsible gaming policies and standards for Responsible Gaming, as demonstrated practices, security, and the protection of the integrity by the integration of the WLA Responsible Gaming of sports. Principles and the EL Responsible Gaming Framework in INTRALOT’s core business values and practices in all global operations. Further, EC Communication “Towards a comprehensive in 2012 INTRALOT has been invited and currently European framework on online gambling” participates in the consultation initiated by the WLA near stakeholders toward the design of the new WLA Responsible Gaming certification for vendors. Other On 23 October 2012, the European Commission participating companies include GTECH, Scientific adopted the Communication “Towards a Games and Pollard Banknote. comprehensive European framework on online gambling”. Based on an in-depth public consultation, Forthcoming WLA Responsible Gaming Certification for this Communication sets out an action plan which vendors – Sector Participants in the Consultation process is seeking to enhance clarity throughout the EU • INTRALOT for the benefit of national authorities, operators, • GTECH consumers and related industry, such as payment • Scientific Games service or media service providers. The following • Pollard Banknote five action areas are prioritized, so as to address the challenges faced at EU and the national levels: Recognizing the socially sensitive issues inherent • compliance of national regulatory frameworks to the gaming industry, responsible gaming is with EU law; natural key element of INTRALOT’s corporate social • enhancing administrative cooperation and efficient responsibility strategy as it furthers both issues of enforcement; compliance and the creation of value. INTRALOT is • protecting consumers and citizens, minors, and committed to conducting its business in a sustainable vulnerable groups; manner by addressing the social, economic and • preventing fraud and money laundering; environmental impacts of its operations, and to being • safeguarding the integrity of sports and preventing a responsible leader of the gaming sector, according match-fixing. to the principle of fair competition and in compliance with the legal and the regulatory framework of the The Communication is accompanied by a staff sector. working paper “Online gambling in the Internal Market”. The staff working paper is structured along The company has set clear and measurable the five priority areas identified, substantiating the objectives as part of its global Responsible Gaming issues and shortcomings as well as the mix of actions Strategy and pursues them regardless of its role being proposed to strengthen the impetus to tackle in a given jurisdiction, as either a B2B supplier or shared challenges. In addition, this document delves as a B2C operator. These strategies have evolved into the definition, the market for online gambling from years of experience in the Lottery and Gaming services, the regulatory situation in Europe, the industry and are an integral part of the company’s 68 strategy to develop a sustainable business, with due Table 33 Responsible Gaming Program Areas diligence, integrity and propriety. Research The company has the enabling technologies and INTRALOT conducts its own in-house research, has initiated the operational know-how required to develop stable partnerships with strategic stakeholders, including and implement a tailored industry best-practice academics, researchers and industry representatives, Responsible Gaming strategy and program in any facilitates the research efforts of organizations involved jurisdiction globally. The company ensures that in the study of problem gambling, and communicates research results, including from independent sources, players have the choice of well-designed games in a in order to contribute to understanding and treating secure and supportive environment, and implements problem gambling. Further, research is incorporated strategies for preventing underage, illegal and into its lottery products in a systematic and regular problem gambling, and minimizing any potential manner and is offered to customers under the framework of management/consulting services, thus supporting undesirable impact on society. Further, INTRALOT INTRALOT customers’ own responsible gaming policies raises awareness about responsible gaming policies and practices. and best practices near stakeholders. Employee Training As a lottery operator in several jurisdictions and/ INTRALOT has developed a program of employee training or as a supplier of games and gaming services to on responsible gaming issues targeted to the needs of lotteries, INTRALOT best practices include: different company departments. Furthermore, as a vendor it supports its customers in their employee training efforts. • Compliance with all Laws and Regulations; Retailer Program • Implementation of best practices; • Ensuring that the interests of players and As a vendor, INTRALOT supports the effective vulnerable groups are protected; implementation of the principles and practices of Responsible Gambling by lotteries’ retailers and their staff. • Continually develop appropriate practices and In the jurisdictions where it holds a license as a lottery processes by taking into account information and operator, the subsidiary runs awareness campaigns, research conducted; training programs, and outreach activities on responsible • Continually develop a better understanding of the gaming practices in its retailer network. social impact of gaming; Game Design • Promote implementation of Responsible Gaming Practices both in our internal activities and externally Game design is one of the most fundamental elements with our customer’s activities; of an integrated program of responsible gaming. INTRALOT is committed to the regular use of a social • Provide and educate the public with accurate and impact assessment using a structured assessment tool balanced information to enable informed choices to examine the relevant risk factors prior to the launch of regarding gaming activities; a new type of product or service, so as to minimize any • Continuously improve, and report on, responsible potential risks to a fair and safe gaming experience. gaming activities annually. Remote Gaming Channels INTRALOT implements a responsible gaming In most markets today, gaming on interactive channels program according to the principles and framework requires strict control measures that are critical to safeguard responsible gaming practices. Upcoming of the WLA and the compliance program of the market regulation of internet gaming in the European European Lotteries, in the following areas: Union foresees the application of very strict rules for Responsible Gaming. INTRALOT’s interactive channels have necessary safeguards to protect the players. INTRALOT is committed to arranging a periodic independent review of Remote Gaming Channel Platforms in respect of their adequacy from a Responsible Gaming perspective and to communicating its results to relevant stakeholders. 69 Table 33 Responsible Gaming Program Areas 4.2 Responsible Gaming Research Advertising and Marketing Innovation is a pivotal element of INTRALOT’s business INTRALOT has adopted advertising and marketing code strategy and the driving force behind its growth and which ensures that advertising and sales promotion current position as a technology leader. INTRALOT activities do not encourage underage or problem play and do not provide the player with misleading information produces in-house research, facilitates research such as a false impression about the odds of winning. of relevance to the gaming industry and actively Marketing materials, including game leaflets, print or seeks research partnerships focused on innovation digital advertisements, and information kits include responsible gaming messages and the company’s or innovation-driven new products and services’ marketing practices follow a strict ethics code as well as improvements. Capitalizing on its twenty years of responsible gaming principles. Research and Development (R&D) and operational experience in lotteries, INTRALOT has gained deep Treatment Referral knowledge of the underlying technologies, as well INTRALOT is actively engaged with problem gambling as an excellent grasp of the business elements of organizations, treatment centers and/or health Lottery and Gaming Organizations. professionals to ensure players a safe and healthy gaming experience. Several of INTRALOT’s lottery customers have developed collaborations with specialized organisations A key focus of in-house R&D is Responsible Gaming. dealing with gambling addiction and problem gambling In addition to being an ethical and a regulatory therapy. In jurisdictions where the company is a licensed requirement, responsible gaming is a business lottery operator it has developed counseling and imperative for companies in the gambling sector as treatment referral collaborations as well as established telephone help lines. As a supplier, INTRALOT promotes it has acquired a central role at the international, regular information about the availability of help lines and in particular at the European level, gaining and treatments referrals near its customers and retailer importance in the eyes of society as well as industry networks, according to contractual terms. stakeholders. In parallel, this trend has also Player Education led to deeper commitments to compliance with certain practices/standards and to the promotion INTRALOT has designed a line of information materials of responsible gaming principles in the context of that include information on the odds of winning aiming Corporate Social Responsibility. to allow players to assess the risks and benefits of playing, and that educate players on relevant rules and regulations, alert players about the dangers and Companies are now required to implement specific negative impact of excessive gambling on the personal, protection measures and procedures and comply family, and social levels, and disseminate information with applicable legal and regulatory responsible on where to get help in cases of problem play, so as to enable players to make informed and conscious choices. gaming frameworks. Thus, they demand high standards from their suppliers and stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement and their systems must have added flexibility and parameterization, to ensure easy adaptation to INTRALOT actively seeks the involvement of decisionmakers and other relevant social groups in the different operating environments. identification of issues, concerns, and appropriate strategies promoting responsible gaming practices and INTRALOT is committed to engage-in, initiate, incorporates their views into company products and communicate research or studies, including from practices. independent sources, in order to contribute to the Reporting, Measurement & Certification understanding of problem gambling, create new technologies that prevent problem gambling, or INTRALOT reports to stakeholders and the public at improve gaming practices so as to enable responsible large on its responsible gaming policies and programs. It reports on its three-year program and best practices gaming. The company incorporates research results and their evaluation, as well as on future targets and into its products or business practices and works improvements. with appropriate stakeholders to disseminate information about responsible gaming and problem gambling, through active participation in seminars and conferences globally. 70 Table 34 – INTRALOT Responsible Gaming Program 2012 & Targets Program Area Activities 2012 Targets 2013-2015 • Development of collaborative project GameLot • Conclusion of in-house research project for the with the gaming innovation cluster of the development of a player card tool for tracking Corallia Clusters initiative. The purpose of player behavior. GameLot is the development of tools/platforms/ • Continuation of research project GameLot with games in the cognitive area of interactive the gaming innovation cluster of the Corallia games. Clusters Initiative. • Ongoing collaboration with Hohenheim • Continuation of collaboration with Hohenheim Research University’s Research Center on Gambling. University’s Research Center on Gambling. • Launch of joint research project Gamez-on • Continuation of joint research project Gamez-on with AIT, which aims to the creation of an open, with AIT. collaborative gaming ecosystem empowering individuals and third parties to play, create and share new games and game ideas at all gaming verticals. • Ongoing employee training run by INTRALOT’s • INTRALOT’s Learning Center to launch a new Employee Learning Center in collaboration with the training program on Responsible Gaming policies Training Department of Human Resources. and best practices. • Provide operator training reinforcement for Call Center personnel and new media players. • In-house research toward the development of • Pilot implementation of the social impact tool. Game Design a social impact tool for assessing the impact of new gaming products. • Commitment to a periodic independent • Continuation of research collaboration with AIT. review of Responsible gaming functionalities of Remote Remote Gaming Channel Platforms. Gaming • Research collaboration with AIT on the Channels development of a new gaming platform with forefront responsible gaming functionalities. • Leverage corporate website and social media • Include reference to RG policies and best Stakeholder for dissemination of information on corporate practices in corporate annual report. Engagement RG programs and best practices. In 2012, INTRALOT has again been included in the ‘EU Industrial Research & Development Investment Scoreboard’ prepared and published by the European Commission, for its significant capital investment in R&D. The inclusion in the scoreboard ratifies INTRALOT’s continuous commitment to invest in R&D, which is an integral part of its core corporate philosophy and a powerful source of growth. INTRALOT has been investing an average of 10% of its technology sales in R&D providing the lottery industry with innovative and pioneering technological solutions. INTRALOT has established R&D facilities in Europe, Asia and the US. In-house Research INTRALOT technical R&D efforts focus on the following areas: • Responsible gaming technologies; • Gaming concept design/development; • Retailer terminal design; • Data communications; 71 • Data mining; • Central Systems infrastructure; • Software Development; • New sales channels; • Content Delivery and Interactive Multimedia; • Value-added services; • Alternative & Electronic payment methods. INTRALOT has formulated a systematic R&D strategy and methodology, which is presented in the following diagram: Table 35 – INTRALOT R&D Strategy and Methodology INTRALOT’s branches and subsidiaries consistently provide feedback from local markets and lottery operations and it is then up to the system experts to identify operational challenges, marketing experts to assess market trends and customer preferences, and senior management to provide the overall strategic perspective given the regulatory environment. This feedback is of fundamental importance to the corporate R&D value chain because it enables the continuous development of customer-oriented solutions. INTRALOT R&D has either resulted in the development of technology tools that have a direct positive impact on the advancement of responsible gaming or resulted in product or system innovations that are socially 72 responsible because they reinforce security and LOTOS™ O/S player protection. INTRALOT is exploring Icon Digital Imaging technology for document reading by enhancing the LOTOS™ O/S (Open System) is INTRALOT’s eyeLOT and Photon products with more features technologically advanced, innovative and that are socially responsible and offer added user comprehensive Gaming & Transaction Processing convenience. Furthermore, in the area of mobile Platform. It enables the management and applications, INTRALOT is researching new features administration of all types of games, systems, and functionalities utilizing the latest NFC technology terminals & services through a unified platform. for gaming participation, mobile payments and innovative promotions and marketing activities. Designed to exceed even the most demanding INTRALOT research has resulted in the development requirements, LOTOS™ O/S is the all-inclusive, of innovative technologies and system functionalities fully integrated solution to the ever increasing and that support responsible gaming, which are diverse technical and commercial needs of Gaming described in the next section. Operators and Transaction Processing Organizations alike. INTRALOT’s LOTOS™ Operating System & integrated terminals support and enable responsible gaming by monitoring registered players’ behavior, applying gambling limits, sending warning messages, Responsible Gaming 4.3 educating about gambling risks and displaying video Technology or multimedia animations that convey messages about responsible gaming. As a vendor and supplier of gaming equipment, product portfolios and management services, The responsible gaming functions of INTRALOT’s INTRALOT’s main tool for implementing its LOTOS™ system result from the various applications/ Responsible Gaming Program is technology. project components, such as the gaming system, the data warehouse, the portal, the main transmission Technology can be used to deter the participation of system and mostly the player’s card, which indeed children and of players with pathological behavior can work together to provide added responsible (problem gamblers) in gaming and to generally gaming capabilities to a gaming system. A brief list prevent excessive gambling. Further, technology can of functions follows in table 36. support a healthy gaming environment, both in landbased and in interactive/alternative channels, so as INTRALOT’s system is easily adaptable to alternative to enable players to make informed gaming choices. gaming channels and regulatory frameworks. Indeed, the solutions of INTRALOT can contribute significantly Finally, technology can ensure a fair and safe gaming to operator’s efforts toward obtaining responsible experience by preventing the incidence of fraud. gaming certification from organizations like the World Lotteries Association (WLA) and European INTRALOT technologies and the functionalities of Lotteries (EL) and also from other specialized its IT system are based on industry best practices certification agencies. To illustrate, Lottery and are tailored to the operational needs of our Lotterywest Australia, a customer of INTRALOT that customers, actively supporting their efforts and has established its LOTOS™ O/S, and INTRALOT de responsible gaming strategies. Moreover, INTRALOT Peru have been awarded certification from the WLA has the necessary expertise to further develop its (WLA Responsible Gaming Certification Level 2), and customer’s responsible gaming strategies under so has the Lottery LOTTO Hamburg GmbH Germany the framework of management consulting services, (WLA Responsible Gaming Certification Level 4). which it offers customers upon their request. 73 Table 36 – INTRALOT Responsible Gaming: warn the player. Messages are composed based System Functions on experimented communication methods, thus • Age verification and verification of other data, such as avoiding the possibility that the player will perceive home address and personal Tax Identification Number the messages in a negative way. This is a proactive (TIN), either via online interface of the system with a third approach to effectively protect the players. party or offline by authorized personnel and standardized procedures. In addition the system supports the full interface • Player warnings based on player patterns of gaming with external services and agencies, such as with behavior. the State Authority for the Protection of Personal Data for notification purposes, and with an external • Set financial limits (by operators and by players) for different time periods (e.g. daily, weekly or monthly). database for purposes of real time verification of personal information. • Data analysis and reporting. • Monitoring player behavior. LOTOS™ Horizon • Customization of gaming. • Internet and interactive channels (e.g., definition One of the most effective means of communication of player limits, self-exclusion mechanisms and disconnection from the system, access to gaming history, with the player is advertising/targeted messaging. display of messages on responsible gambling, etc.). The LOTOS™ Horizon multimedia platform allows for the determination of messages centrally and for • Implementation of self-assessment tests for players sending them to the Points of Sale. Messages are who are concerned about their gaming behavior. transmitted to displays inside points of sale. The • Agent education and training. central management of messaging allows for full control over content as well as for customization • Player education and training. to an agency or group of agencies. Messages can also be rotated so as to achieve maximum player impact. The system allows for sending messages LOTOS™ Club at predetermined dates and times and for their repetition. The system LOTOS™ Club has built-in functions that The installed LOTOS™ Horizon display equipment support responsible gaming. The system provides allows the gaming organizations to manage and a comprehensive range of tools and services that display advertisement spots using video streaming create a closely monitored playing environment, or multimedia animations, which are a pleasant way helping the lottery to implement Responsible to pass on responsible gaming messages. Gaming policies. Videos can also be displayed continuously on digital The management support system of LOTOS™ signage screens as well as on self-service terminal Club allows the administrator to perform in-depth screens. Their frequency, distribution agencies analysis and to identify areas of potential risk and rotating time are parametrically defined in the and assess the need for some action. In addition, LOTOS™ Horizon platform. through interoperability with other systems, such as with LOTOS™ Data Warehouse, Eyes-On, and so Video Carousels on, the system provides additional functions such as dynamic search on raw data and Abnormal Behavior A video carousel is a sequence of video spots Detection, based on given fraud scenarios, as well as displayed in alternation, one after another, according changes in player behavior, as shown by historical to the corresponding playlist. Depending on the data (i.e., financial transactions, losses, frequency design of the content, the video is presented full of play, etc.). When such an event is detected, screen or in a part of the screen, together with other the system can display/send a message (email, information and content material. The reproduction pop-up, etc.) that will inform and simultaneously 74 of the video is either done by playing local files or its multidisciplinary approach to gaming research, by video streaming. The videos, such as responsible boasting a 25-member Scientific Board with diverse gaming promotional spots, can be combined with the scientific background and expertise. display of sweepstake results, advisory messages «Play Responsibly» or other promotional activities. In 2012, the Hohenheim Research Center on Gambling initiated two projects. The first concerns the statistical analysis of the socio-economic Animation Lottery Draws correlates of gambling devices and self-service Animation Lottery draws are draws displayed over betting machines in the German market. The second a video background specifically designed for the concerns risk management in fixed-odds betting. draw and determining the flow of the presentation. However, such animations can also present videos promoting responsible gambling practices or Corallia Gaming Cluster advertising commercials. INTRALOT actively supports efforts to kick-start Multimedia Messaging technology entrepreneurship in the gaming sector. This kind of content refers to important messages In late 2010 INTRALOT announced its newest that should not be displayed only in text but where partnership with the Corallia Clusters Initiative. more attractive multimedia formats, such as video, Corallia is a non-profit organization created with animations, graphics and sound, are preferable. seed money from the Greek government and the European Union whose goal is to be a facilitator of innovation. Corallia’s mission is to develop dynamic, technologyoriented innovation clusters in Greece and offer a framework of institutional support and a venue for 4.4 Research Collaborations cooperation among the highly-skilled human capital of the gaming industry. Corallia’s initiative seeks to pool venture capital sources, support start-ups with legal and property rights issues and coach Hohenheim University Research Center on Gambling entrepreneurs by advising them in business planning. Corallia will cluster groups of complementary startups so as to foster interaction that will breed new Promoting the notion of responsible gambling, ideas and products. INTRALOT supports as of 2008 the Hohenheim University Center on Gambling, which conducts Among other achievements, Corallia has launched research on the various economic and social aspects a cluster of gaming sector start-ups. In the next of betting games and their impact on player behavior, years, INTRALOT and Corallia will work toward the habits and lifestyle. The Gambling Research Center development of this Gaming Innovation Cluster. was established in December 2004 and is the only academic gambling research centre in Germany. It is In September 2012, within the Gaming Innovation dedicated to research in the subject areas of regulatory Cluster, INTRALOT Interactive has submitted a and consumer policy, consumer behavior, public and proposal to the General Secretariat of Research and private law, finance and tax, applied mathematics, Technology, Operational Programs of the Ministry of statistics and econometrics, communication and Education and Religious Affairs, Culture and Sports of marketing sciences, and theories of gaming. While Hellenic Republic under the RFP invitation ‘Creation gambling research centres in other countries focus of innovative clusters A GREEK PRODUCT, ONE mainly on either the psychological or the legal MARKET: THE PLANET; Pilot Operational Phase’. aspects of gambling, the Gambling Research Centre The submitted proposal has been evaluated and at the University of Hohenheim stands out due to approved by the Directorate for Support Research 75 Programs, Department A, of the General Secretariat for Research and Technology, Operational Programs, in February 2013. The proposal mentioned above, includes a collaborative project named ‘GameLot’. The purpose of GameLot is the development of tools / platforms / games in the cognitive area of interactive games and specifically in the creation of games on the basis of a random number generator (RNG). INTRALOT Interactive will lead the collaborative project GameLot acting as coordinator, technology provider and partner in the holding and promoting of the GameLot products / results in the international markets. INTRALOT Interactive will also have an active role in planning and setting standards of games, utilizing its international knowledge of the global games industry. Athens Information Technology INTRALOT co-founded, annually supports, and has a partnership with Athens Information Technology (AIT), a graduate Center of Excellence for Research and Education specialized in the fields of Information Technology and Management. Research projects conducted or ongoing with AIT focus on the areas of Pattern Recognition and Computer Vision, Content and Gaming Technologies and Information Security technologies, among others. In particular, INTRALOT Interactive is developing a research project with AIT toward the development of a gaming platform with forefront Responsible Gaming functionalities. In 2012, Intralot has launched an important joint research project with AIT called Gamez-on, which aims to the creation of an open, collaborative gaming ecosystem empowering individuals and third parties to play, create and share new games and game ideas at all gaming verticals. Employee Training on 4.5 Responsible Gaming INTRALOT’s corporate culture highly values learning, since education and training contribute to the professional and personal development of the Company’s staff. INTRALOT has established a department dedicated specifically to training – the Learning Center. The Learning Center works closely with the Organization & Human Resources Department for the provision of skills development and the advancement of knowledge for all INTRALOT personnel – at corporate headquarters and at our Subsidiaries worldwide. As a leader of the gaming industry, INTRALOT has a full-fledged commitment to responsible gaming principles and practices. The supply of responsible gaming products and services depends to a great extent on the Company’s most strategic resource, its workforce. INTRALOT corporate training policy on responsible gaming is to educate and to enable its employees to uphold the highest standards and to follow best practices in order to ensure a fair and safe gaming experience to players and protect them, as well as society in turn, from adverse consequences of gaming. INTRALOT training seeks to integrate responsible gaming principles and practices throughout the different stages of the supply chain. 76 The high-quality training provided is developed Induction to Responsible Gaming in-house by content developers of the Learning Center, who work closely with INTRALOT subjectmatter across different departments, including with Upon recruitment, all new INTRALOT employees INTRALOT’s Responsible Gaming Executive. undergo an Induction Program. Among other, the Induction Program includes a specific module on The responsible gaming training program is the important topic of Responsible Gaming which is designed, implemented, evaluated, and continuously intended to: improved by the training experts of the Learning Center and has steadily grown and matured into an • Educate/ Raise awareness of our employees on integrated training framework. More specifically, responsible gaming principles and policies; the program is two-fold and has a modular structure, which adds to its flexibility and its responsiveness to • Communicate the significance of responsible specific organizational needs. gaming for the competitive advantage of the Company’s core business; Firstly, on a corporate level, responsible gaming awareness training is provided to all employees • Provide examples of responsible gaming practices as part of their Induction Program. Secondly, of INTRALOT. job-specific training on responsible gaming best practices and technology is also provided to specific The following table presents an overview of the groups, as relevant to their particular role. Induction to Responsible Gaming module: The training program on responsible gaming policies Table 38 – INTRALOT Induction to Responsible Gaming and practices is comprised of the following modules, Induction to Responsible Gaming described hereafter: To introduce employees to responsible Objective gaming principles and policies Table 37 – INTRALOT Responsible Gaming: Employee Training All new employees (permanent, temporary, Audience contract staff) Employee Training Responsible Gaming • Responsible gaming definitions (e.g. problem gaming, vulnerable groups); Corporate Induction to Responsible Gaming: Components of a responsible gaming Level All new INTRALOT employees program (e.g. research, game design, training, advertising etc); RG Technology Updates: • International gaming organizations that Topics abide by and promote responsible gaming ΙNTRALOT Senior Technical Management (e.g. WLA, EL etc); Best RG Practices for Marketing Personnel • Secure, safe and reliable operating environment; RG Awareness & Best Practices for Retailer • Examples of INTRALOT responsible JobTrainers (Train-the-Trainer) gaming practices. Specific Level RG Awareness & Best Practices Timeline Once a month, based on new recruitments for Business & Support Personnel (Commercial/Management, Call Center) Evaluation Questionnaire at the end of the training Other modules, as per job role, per product offering ( back-end/front-end training) RG Technology Updates for INTRALOT Senior Technical Management As a world leading gaming vendor and operator committed to the principles of responsible gaming, 77 it is important for INTRALOT to always be up-to-date Table 40 – Training on Best RG Practices on all gaming-related technology developments. for Marketing Personnel To this effect, sessions on the latest developments Best RG Practices for Marketing Personnel in responsible gaming technology are periodically To ensure that best responsible gaming scheduled for the Senior Technical Management Objective practices on marketing operations are of INTRALOT. The information provided is kept in implemented, as locally applicable. a special collaborative site on the corporate portal and is easily accessible to the designated INTRALOT Marketing personnel of INTRALOT Audience subsidiaries and/or Customers employees. Table 39 – INTRALOT RG Technology Updates Training • Responsible Gaming campaigns, including the design and provision of informational Responsible Gaming Technology Updates material to retailers, such as brochures/ leaflets on game rules, playing/prize To keep abreast of technology developments Objective claiming procedures, results posters, on responsible gaming complaint resolution process etc.; • Results & prizes Helpline; Audience Senior Technical Management • Protection of winners’ privacy; Topics • Responsible gaming signage; • Security of personal data; • Responsible Advertising (accurately • Age verification systems; representing odds of winning, no direct Topics • Self-exclusion systems, deposit limits, advertising to vulnerable groups, etc.); time limits; • Treatment Referral; • Reality Checks, etc. • Code of Practice; Timeline • Incentive schemes for incorporating RG Annually principles. Timeline As required per jurisdiction Evaluation Feedback questionnaires Best RG Practices for Marketing Personnel Table 41 RG Awareness & Best Practices Training for Retailer Trainers An important component of an effective responsible RG Awareness & Best Practices Training for Retailer Trainers gaming program has to do with marketing operations. In jurisdictions where INTRALOT undertakes the Provide Retailer Trainers with the ability to marketing of products, the local marketing staff Objective effectively raise the awareness of retailers of INTRALOT is trained by our Marketing experts on responsible gaming and on how to convey to them best RG practices from headquarters on how to conduct marketing operations based on best responsible gaming Audience Retailer Trainers practices, as applicable to the local jurisdiction. • Credibility of Lottery, of gaming technology & of gaming procedures (e.g. draws); • Retailers code of practice (do’s & don’ts); RG Awareness & Best Practices for Retailer Trainers • Assisting players to make informed (Train-the-Trainer) decisions; • System functionalities and technology for Topics tracking player behaviour and detecting problem gambling; INTRALOT places special emphasis on its Train-the• Applying cross-selling & up-selling Trainer programs intended for Retailer Trainers and techniques responsibly; more specifically on how the participants can raise • Offering information on treatment referral (where available). awareness of retailers on responsible gaming and on how RG practices and procedures can be incorporated Timeline As required per jurisdiction into the retailers’ daily sales operations. Presentations by Trainers; Assessed on assimilation of content and on ability to Evaluation effectively convey acquired knowledge on responsible gaming. 78 RG Awareness & Best Practices for Business & a module on responsible gaming awareness is also Support Personnel (Commercial/Management, Call included in their training. Center) Finally, it should also be noted that apart from the modules listed above and that relate directly The topics included in this training module are the to responsible gaming, INTRALOT also provides same as those included in the module above, but differ its employees with other training sessions that only in the learning objectives (which are based on can be associated with responsible gaming, such the intended audience), the depth of the knowledge as annual training on INTRALOT’s Information provided and the evaluation method. For example, Security Management System (ISMS), which is in in those sessions where the intended audience is accordance with WLA standards and emphasizes the Business Users (primarily Commercial/Management importance of information confidentiality, integrity personnel) the objective is to train them on the and availability. same RG topics that retailer trainers are trained on but without the requirement to demonstrate their knowledge through presentations. Similarly, Service Training Delivery Methods Personnel (e.g. Call Center) is also trained on the same topics but their training evaluation method is based on how to convey their knowledge to retailers The primary delivery method of the responsible over the phone. Also, in this case, there is much less gaming training program is instructor-led training emphasis on the ‘sales’ approach and more on the (ILT), held in suitably equipped physical classrooms. other topics. With the exception of the module intended for the Marketing personnel, which is conducted by highlyqualified Marketing specialists, all other training Other Training Modules modules are conducted by experienced, certified trainers of the Learning Center. Since INTRALOT is both a vendor and an operator that In addition, a variety of e-learning methods are offers a complete range of gaming services, it also also used, including asynchronous training – i.e. provides a complete range of training modules to e-courses on INTRALOT’s e-learning platform and meet all training requirements. These requirements synchronous training – i.e. live, virtual classroom differ per product offering. For example, where training sessions. The Induction to Responsible internet gaming is implemented, front-end/back-end Gaming module is an example of an RG training training is provided to different job roles respectively. module created in-house as an asynchronous e-learning course, which is readily available An example of this is the provision of back-end (anytime/anyplace) to all INTRALOT employees training to Application Operators on the responsible around the world. gaming controls of INTRALOT’s B-On platform, which is comprised of a comprehensive suite of tools and services that create a closely supervised gaming Evaluation of Employee Training Programs on environment, assisting the operator to enforce the Responsible Gaming policies. The back office management system also enables the operator to perform in-depth analyses and determine where a potential risk may lie and if Depending on the learning objectives of each action needs to be taken. This is both a proactive and module, presentation, discussion, questions and a reactive approach to protecting the player. On the answers, role plays, case studies and other training other hand, training on Internet Player Functionality methods are employed aiming at the elicitation of (front-end training) is provided in those projects information regarding the knowledge and skills, where INTRALOT has created the portals. In such where applicable, are attained by the trainees from case, apart from the functionality training provided to each training course. Moreover, in accordance Business Users and Service/Call Center personnel, with best international quality assurance practices 79 and standards, a detailed course evaluation is conducted at the end of each training module. The 4.7 Market Research & Evaluation course evaluation form provided to the participants includes multiple choice and open-ended questions INTRALOT’s market research experts possess the regarding the course (e.g. information usefulness, professional knowledge to unlock customer insights. points that need improvement etc.). The Training The research tactics range from usage & attitudes, Evaluation Forms are submitted by the trainees on an segmentation and tracking studies, to retail field anonymous basis. The trainers also provide feedback researches and data collection, utilizing all available concerning the training sessions. All results are then methods up to online terminal applications. processed by the Learning Center and a composite Training Evaluation Report is prepared. The data is INTRALOT is a member of ESOMAR and abides also kept in the training database which is regularly by ESOMAR’s Code & Guidelines for conducting audited, in accordance with all certifications the market research, including research on customer Learning Center complies with. satisfaction and mystery shopping. ESOMAR is the essential organisation for encouraging, advancing The principal aim of the training evaluation process is and elevating market research worldwide. Since to utilize the input provided so as to ascertain where 1948 ESOMAR’s aim has been to promote the value the training was effective or where extra training of market and opinion research in effective decisionmay be required so as to bring about the desired making. ESOMAR facilitates an on-going dialogue result – employees who are aware of and adhere to with its 4,900 members, in over 130 countries, responsible gaming practices. through the promotion of a comprehensive programme of industry specific and thematic Table 42 – Responsible Gaming Training Target 2013 conferences, publications and best practice guidelines. ESOMAR also provides ethical guidance New Training on Responsible Gaming 2013 and actively promotes self-regulation, in partnership • Goal: to raise awareness of responsible gaming on with a number of associations across the globe. employees, customers, and Players and support the All ESOMAR members, as well as their company efforts toward certification of subsidiaries. contact details, are listed in the ESOMAR Members • Means: will use Global Live Network • Format: multiple choice competitive quiz with a symbolic search function. Members agree to abide by the ICC/ prize to top-graders ESOMAR International Code on Market and Social Research, which has been jointly drafted by ESOMAR and the International Chamber of Commerce and is endorsed by the major national and international professional bodies around the world. Marketing & Player satisfaction is an ongoing process, whose 4.6 Advertising Standards success largely depends on the effective translation of the latest trends into the right products and services. INTRALOT continuously deepens its Responsible gaming is embedded in the products, understanding of the player by analysing their tools and systems offered by INTRALOT to its actual behaviour, captured in the tens of millions of customers. In addition to having the technology that player-initiated transactions the company enables supports it, the company’s marketing and advertising globally. The level of players’ satisfaction is further campaigns in all jurisdictions where it has a presence monitored on a regular basis through market abide by responsible gaming principles and actively research commissioned and conducted in terms of promote best practices. The main standards and the aforementioned research parameters and the practices follow in table 43. data collected in over 30,000 questionnaires across all continents are processed so as to exceed player expectations for a fair, healthy and safe gambling experience. 80 Table 43 – Marketing & Advertising Standards INTRALOT shall not directly advertise near vulnerable groups (in respect of age, social status, or gambling habits) or encourage underage or problem gambling. INTRALOT ensures that advertising and sales promotion activities accurately portray winning as a matter of pure chance and include clear information on the odds of winning and nature of prizes (cash, annuities, etc.). INTRALOT complies with relevant voluntary and/or mandatory codes relating to the provision of its services in various jurisdictions. INTRALOT develops and conducts targeted media and social campaigns throughout the fiscal year in all jurisdictions where it operates to enhance public awareness of problem gaming issues and services. INTRALOT advertising and marketing materials contain responsible gaming messaging. Responsible gaming materials and information about how a problem gambler may obtain help are readily visible in high-traffic areas at the Points of Sale, at locations where the Lottery products are sold. INTRALOT displays a Play Responsibly message on lottery tickets, lottery press releases, and lottery advertising. The warning for players less than 18 years of age is displayed on all printed play materials and coupons. Additional Play Responsibly messages are displayed when jackpot-related products reach high levels. INTRALOT interactive gaming uses a built-in system of age verification during registration and if the age of the applicant is below 18, his/her registration is not accepted. INTRALOT provides relevant training to sales agents before they are allowed to sell products to the public. Advertising and marketing materials: • Do not encourage people to play beyond their means. • Do not imply the certainty of financial reward or alleviation of personal and financial difficulties through gambling. • Do not encourage play as a means of recovering past financial losses. • Do not imply that a chance of winning increases the longer one plays. • Do not suggest that skill can influence the outcome. • Do not promote gambling as an alternative to work or everyday responsibilities. • Do not encourage gambling as a solution to financial problems. • Do not promote the consumption of alcohol while playing games. • Do not offer unreasonable loyalty incentives linking further winnings to further gambling. • Do not discriminate or encourage discrimination on the basis of ethnicity, nationality, religion, gender or age. • Do not include or suggest violence, sexually exploitative themes or illegal behaviour. • Do not cooperate with or support links to credit facilities that offer immediate credit for the purpose of gambling. • Do not feature individuals who are, or appear to be, minors. • Do not advertise lottery games in educational newspapers. • Are not based on themes, use language, or contain cartoon figures, symbols, role models, and/or celebrity endorsers, intended to appeal to minors. • Do not contain claims or representations that gaming activity will guarantee an individual’s social, financial, or personal success. • Do not portray individuals who are intoxicated, who are compelled to gamble, who have lost control of their faculties, or who have become separated from reality. • Do not suggest in any way that excessive, irresponsible or illegal gaming is an amusing or acceptable behaviour. • Do not target vulnerable or disadvantaged groups. • Do not appear at venues where attendance is primarily expected to be by minors. • Do not appear in media directed primarily to minors or in broadcast programs where most of the audience is reasonably expected to be minors. • Do not appear on billboards or other outdoor displays that are directly adjacent to schools or other primarily youth-oriented locations. 81 Specifically for electronic channels, where player include measures and actions aimed primarily identification and gaming profiles can be leveraged at the prevention and at offering education and to enforce warning and preventing mechanisms, a information to various groups of players based on dedicated monitoring process triggers personalized their classification into low-, mediumand high-risk messages informing players about potentially categories. Furthermore, the company believes that excessive and problematic gaming behavior. the treatment of players who develop symptoms of Following are some of the responsible gaming addictive gambling behavior must be undertaken monitoring activities: by experts in the provision of health services to addicted gamblers. INTRALOT cooperates with 1. Mystery Shopping such bodies in several of the jurisdictions where it operates, disseminates information about their work Mystery shopping researches are conducted regularly and refers any problem gambling incidents to these to test compliance of the network to Responsible organizations. Gaming guidelines. Sales inspectors visit agents to ensure that they are complying with the conditions of Several of INTRALOT’s lottery customers have their license and their obligations. Specifically, their developed collaborations with specialized goal is to determine whether the Point of Sale staff: organizations dealing with gambling addiction and problem gambling therapy, e.g. Greece’s • Sells tickets to or pays prizes to people under 18 OPAP collaboration with KETHEA in the operation years of age. Alleged players that look younger than of a special support telephone line available to their age but are above the age limit make shop players. As a supplier, INTRALOT promotes regular visits to examine compliance on requesting ID when information about the availability of this support line in doubt; near retailers. • Is not adequately trained to sell tickets; • Pays on winning tickets that are obviously In jurisdictions where the company is a lottery counterfeit; operator it has developed treatment referral • Sells tickets or pays prizes to self-excluded collaborations, such as in the case of INTRALOT USA players. with the Montana Council on Problem Gambling, and INTRALOT Italia with the Helpline initiative. Any retail outlet where any of the issues described above have occurred may have its authorization to sell products removed. 2. Investigation INTRALOT takes all reasonable measures to ensure retailers do not sell lottery games to minors. In the case someone suspects that an illegal transaction is taking place, a tip-off number is made widely available at Points of Sale that enables agents to report improper conduct. Reports of misconduct trigger investigation and remedial action. Player Education and 4.8 Treatment Referrals INTRALOT strategies for responsible gaming, which it develops in bidding processes and contracts, 82 Table 44 – Best Responsible Gaming Practices of the INTRALOT GROUP 2012 Program Area Country Initiatives Treatment referral Peru • INTRALOT de Peru has started negotiations toward a partnership agreement with CEDRO-Information and Education Center for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, to provide assistance to consumers exhibiting symptoms of gambling addiction. CEDRO is a Peruvian, private non-profit organization that was founded in 1986. As per the agreement, INTRALOT de Peru provides its customers relevant information about gambling addiction and the treatment offered by CEDRO. Further, the company’s web site and all print materials include information about problem gambling and CEDRO help lines. Stakeholder Australia • Member of the Gambling Industry Group (GIG) in Tasmania. Engagement Remote Gaming Croatia • RG Training Module included at the end of Internet Player Channels Functionality training course for Lottery Personnel of Hrvatska Lutrija. Player Education Australia • Player information-Through its Retail Service Officers (RSOs), and Protection INTRALOT Australia ensures that all information material is made available to the player from retail outlets, helping players identify problem gaming. These materials include information about problem gambling services, lottery rules, and the laws relating to the sale of products to minors. Furthermore, complaint resolution forms are available at all POS. • Signage-Relevant advertising content is displayed on screens and an age warning concerning players under 18 is displayed in all Points of Sale while the responsible gaming message “Think smart. Play smart” is included in all printed material and coupons and across all pages of the Internet gaming site. Turkey • Prevention of underage play through prohibition to play the Iddaa game to those under 18 (as of 2004). Retailer Program Australia • Retailer Training-All retailers are trained on the responsible gaming policies of the Victorian state and on the strategy followed by INTRALOT Australia. The retailer training program includes, but is not limited to, information on the prevention of the sale of lottery products to minors, responsible gambling and available services for problem gambling. • The Point of Sale EnvironmentINTRALOT Australia’s Code of Practice Our Pledge to You is displayed at all retail outlets. This Code provides details of the retailer’s responsibilities, including sales to minors, gambling help services, and prohibition on credit purchases. Furthermore, retailers are provided with INTRALOT Australia’s responsible gambling pamphlet “Think Smart. Play Smart.” This information is also included in the company’s retail procedures manual. • Prizes and prize pay-outs: a restriction on the payment of winnings is followed such that retailers do not pay prizes over a certain amount while retailers are not allowed to cash cheques for prizes. Further, for all games where the option to select a bet value is offered, special care has been taken by not offering high stake of participation so as not to drive players into excessive gaming. 83 Table 44 – Best Responsible Gaming Practices of the INTRALOT GROUP 2012 Program Area Country Initiatives Retailer Program Malta • Under-age sign prominently displayed. • Regular visits of Maltco’s inspectors to POS to ensure compliance with underage rules. • Monitoring of U*BET bets toward the prevention and control of problem gambling. • Sales Agent Training Programme-the training ensures that all agents and their representatives are made aware of the gaming regulations dictated by the Lottery and Gaming Authority (LGA), as well as offering guidelines on how to enforce responsible gaming policy in their retail environments. Russia • Retailer Training Program on RG practices and advertising code of conduct. Employee Training Peru • INTRALOT de Peru has established a training program for its employees and sales agents seeking to further a responsible gaming environment and culture. Advertising Italy • INTRALOT Italia launched the Gioconsapevole advertising & Marketing campaign, seeking to promote the Gioconsapevole initiative of the Communications Italian Gaming Regulatory Authority (AAMS) to prevent and reduce gaming-related addictions. The advertising campaign was run at nationally, through print and broadcast media, and at local level, through print materials placed in all INTRALOT POS. South Africa • The age warning and the play responsibly signs are displayed in all GIDANI printed materials and coupons. Stickers of these signs are displayed at all retailer shops while the TV commercials of the Lottery and the games always display the two signs at their ending scene. The internet site of the South African National Lottery also includes relevant signage in all pages. • GIDANI has also prepared three Codes of Practice, namely, Participants, Sales and Advertising Codes of Practice, adhering to the main principle of protection of players’ rights. These are readily available at POS and can also be downloaded from GIDANI’s internet site. As a preventive measure, if a retailer permits a player under 18 years old to play the National Lottery’s games, he/she receives a warning, after which if the action still continues the contract with the dealer is ended. Turkey • The age warning concerning underage players is displayed in all INTELTEK printed materials and coupons, a sticker display at retailer shops and warning tag on the opening of the virtual agent’s Internet page exist. • Each coupon has a maximum playing limit, set at 2500YTL. • While playing the games via the Internet, INTELTEK also developed a system that checks the age from the National Identity Number entered during the registration phase. If the player is younger than 18, his/her registration is not accepted. Treatment Referral Italy • INTRALOT Italia launched the “Gioconsapevole” initiative, a practical measure to prevent and reduce gaming-related addictions. INTRALOT Italia and the Italian Organization for the Treatment of Compulsive Disorders (S.I.I.Pa.C) have launched a free telephone 84 Table 44 – Best Responsible Gaming Practices of the INTRALOT GROUP 2012 Program Area Country Initiatives Treatment Referral Italy line to assist players who are affected by pathological gaming behaviour. INTRALOT Italia has been promoting the activation of the free phone line (800.589.372) since 2010. Skilled operators provide players with potential risk of gambling addiction for the support of players with useful information and health service referrals. USA • INTRALOT USA is a supporter of the Montana Council on problem Gambling, a non-profit agency dedicated to alleviating gamingrelated social and personal distress. 85 Our People “Unrelenting progress, life, change and evolution.” 86 INTRALOT’s human resources are the company’s resource practices in its subsidiaries all over the most important competitive advantage. INTRALOT’s globe. Our efforts are showcased by INTRALOT de goal is to recruit qualified and talented professionals Peru, INTRALOT’s subsidiary in Peru, which was voted and to offer its staff a stable and favorable working among the “Top 50 Workplaces in Latin America,” environment that maximizes the talent of company in the 2011 survey of the leading institution “Great professionals, motivates them to excel in their Place to Work.” In December of 2011 INTRALOT de functions, and supports their professional and Peru was also voted “Best Workplace” in Peru and personal development. Toward this end, the Company was awarded a special prize for being the company has established, and continuously develops, policies with the most impressive growth rate in the country. and procedures as far as recruitment, training and development is concerned, has developed an integral employee performance review system, and has built a well structured and fair compensation and benefits policy. A people-centered approach to management, Human Resources 5.1 whereby vital managerial, technical and Facts & Figures administrative positions are carefully assigned to match personnel’s diverse abilities and talent, is key INTRALOT operates all over the globe, offering for an organization to operate on its full potential employment opportunities in an excellent working and succeed in its mission. Furthermore, to succeed environment and providing its people with prospects in the gaming industry a company must garner not for professional development and personal growth. only business, technology and commercial skills, The distribution of employees across different but also have a deep understanding of the social and regions and by age segment follows: cultural environment of the different markets where it operates. Table 46 Evolution of Employee Breakdown by Region INTRALOT GROUP Total Workforce INTRALOT’s human resources strategy focuses Region 2010 2011 2012 on building long-term, mutually-beneficial relationships with its employees. A stable and Europe 2472 2671 2598 secure working environment has positively impacted The Americas 2636 2550 2489 the motivation and performance of the company’s Middle East & Africa 179 213 224 personnel and, in turn, company growth. Asia & Oceania 93 78 230 Table 45 INTRALOT Employee Loyalty Total Staff 5380 5512 5541 Table 47 2012 Employee Breakdown by Region In order to create a collaborative and rewarding environment where new ideas can flourish and employees can develop, INTRALOT has built upon excellent work conditions and top-quality human 88 Table 48 2012 Age Distribution of Employees (%)* prevent any conflict of interest or other inappropriate Up to 30 From 31-40 From 41-50 Over 50 activity, and to foster a spirit of honesty and integrity Age 31% 39% 21% 9% not only among employees but also in relation to *Data based on 70% of INTRALOT staff. stakeholders, business partners and all other third parties. All INTRALOT employees, directors and INTRALOT has devoted considerable time and officers are required to comply with this Code of resources to strengthening the means and the Conduct at all times. infrastructure supporting its employee global mobility program. Every employee is given the INTRALOT has also adopted an Internal Guide of opportunity to develop personally and professionally Employment Policies & Procedures, ratified by by having the experience of working in one of our the Hellenic Ministry of Employment and Social subsidiaries. In this way, we transfer knowledge Protection through the ministerial decision no. 792 from the headquarters to the subsidiaries and vice of May 17, 2005. versa. Extract from the Code of Conduct: “Equal Employment Table 49 Workforce Turnover INTRALOT (%) Opportunity and Harassment Policies” 2010 2011 2012 Workforce turnover INTRALOT is committed to a policy of equal employment 3.7% 2.5% 4.1% opportunity for all employees and candidates in accordance with the appropriate employment laws. INTRALOT is against child labour. The procedures for hiring and evaluating candidates and employees are based Table 50 – INTRALOT Human Resources Targets on their respective qualifications, skills and performance. Human Resources Targets Additionally, both as a matter of law and as a matter of common decency, each employee of INTRALOT is • To focus on employees’ contribution to INTRALOT entitled to pursue his or her employment free of unlawful innovation excellence, by enhancing the ι-game contest in discrimination and harassment with regards to sex, order to make it better reflect and conform to the corporate race, color, nationality, ancestry, citizenship, sexual human resources strategy. orientation, religion, age, physical or mental disability, medical condition or marital status. Accordingly, unlawful • To invest in the personalized training of its employees so discrimination or harassment of any employee by a as to further the goal to build a solid and exhaustive set of co-worker or by a member of management will not be skills and knowledge. tolerated. Reporting discrimination and harassment is necessary for INTRALOT to maintain a respectful and egalitarian work environment. According to corporate policy every employee is encouraged to report, to his/her supervisor and to the Human Resources Department, any event which he/she considers to be discriminating. No incident Equal Opportunities 5.2 referring to discrimination has been reported or and Diversity noted up to end of December 2012. Data on workforce distribution follows: INTRALOT sources its human capital from the local and international markets, in an effort to establish a diverse workforce comprising local and international managerial expertise with a deep understanding of lottery systems and business functions. ΙNTRALOT is an Equal Opportunity Employer and implements a strict policy against any form of harassment in the workplace, as described in the company’s Code of Conduct. The purpose of the Company’s Code of Conduct is to help maintain the respect of laws, rules and regulations, to help 89 Table 51 – Evolution of Workforce Distribution by Gender and Functions Total Workforce INTRALOT Group (%)* 2010 2011 2012 Men 37% 35.2% 37% Women 63% 64.8% 63% Employment category (%)* Level 2010 2012 2012 General Management 3% 2.9% 3.43% Finance & Administrative 9.5% 9.7% 9.65% Sales & Marketing 9% 8.9% 10.86% Technical & Operations 78.5% 78.5% 76.06% Gender Diversity in Management 2012 (%)* General Management Male 87% Female 13% *Data based on 70% of INTRALOT staff. 5.3 Human and Labour Rights INTRALOT is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since 2009, a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. INTRALOT is against child labour and forced or compulsory labour. INTRALOT observes the relevant labour legislation which includes the prohibition of child labor, forced labor set by the International Labour Organization (ILO), and the provisions related to human rights and working conditions in compliance with agreement and rules of employment. The safety and security of all employees is of vital importance for INTRALOT. In order to maintain a safe work environment, INTRALOT does not tolerate violence or threats of violence in, or related to, the workplace. The company respects labour rights and the rights of unions, and it imposes no constraints to employees’ rights, or to the exercise of their right to freedom of association and participation in professional unions. There is a Workers’ Union, to whom employees may communicate all issues, which are taken directly to company management. 90 Collective Bargaining 5.4 Internal Communication 5.5 Agreements Effective internal communication in INTRALOT All INTRALOT’s personnel (100%) are covered by the promotes employees’ collaboration creating a Local National Collective Labor Agreement, where functional environment. For this reason, the company applicable. The following table depicts the Company’s maintains an open door policy facilitating the human resources in relation to their employment information flow with all employees. The company category and type of employment agreement. has a grievance mechanism that employees may use to voice complaints, report incidents, and raise Table 53 – Human Resources by Type of Employment issues that impact or can potentially impact any Human Resources – Labor Agreements (%) aspect of corporate performance. Employment type of agreement 2012 Long-term 87.55% An indicative list of regular means of communication Fixed-term 12.45% follows: Full-time 100% Part-time 0% • Personal communication through respective managers or department heads; • Intranet/ispace internal internet portal; • INTRALOT Global Live Network; • Regular meetings; Employee Performance • Corporate and social events; 5.6 Evaluation • Employee satisfaction surveys; • Induction courses; • Internet portal in three (3) languages English, Spanish and Chinese. INTRALOT conducts an Employee Talent Management & Performance Evaluation Review Table 52 – Average Monthly Number during December of each year for the preceding of Distinct Portal Users July to June period. The primary purpose of the Employee Performance Evaluation Review is to assist personnel in professional development and in achieving corporate goals. Through the review, key elements in the employee’s behavior are identified that assist in making suggestions for improvement and highlight maximum performance aspects. The performance evaluation consists of three modules with different weights: 1. Skills, including job duties, attitude and managerial skills; 2. Commitment to principles; 3. Evaluation of contribution to projects. The evaluation performance is conducted for all employees (100%) and is linked to the reward strategy, determining the distribution of salary increases and defining the needs for further training development and personal improvement. 91 5.7 ι-game 5.8 Benefits Policy In March 2011 INTRALOT INTRALOT‘s Benefits Policy has been established in initiated a contest, entitled the framework of social policies for its employees as ι-game, aiming to encourage well as their families. The purpose of these benefits employees to identify is: issues for improvement or corporate needs and come up with innovative ideas • To increase the long-term prosperity of the to address them. The employee competition’s goal employees of the Company; is to distinguish ideas based on their innovation and • To attract new employees, while retaining existing creativity. personnel; • To increase productivity; Year 2012 was the second year of the contest. The • To enhance job satisfaction. participating employees submitted ideas on the following five (5) categories: Technology, Cost The benefits concern permanent employees (longoptimization, Products & Services, Customer, and term employment agreements). An indicative list of Quality & Process Improvements. The submission INTRALOT benefits follows: period ended on 15/10/2012 and the overarching motto of the respective communication campaign Table 54 – INTRALOT Employee Benefits 2012 was: “You have to learn the rules of the game. And > Private Medical & Life Insurance then you have to play better than anyone else.” > Stock Options > Company Cars & Gas Card Applications were examined by an evaluation > Parking committee composed of top management executives, EMPLOYEE > Mobile Phone or Mobile Allowance BENEFITS* > Blackberry according to the following criteria: > Free Home Internet Connection > Corporate Laptop • Innovative and creative character of the idea; > Low Interest Company Loans • Cost and added value for the company; > Extensive Training • Compliance with quality and information security > Special Corporate Discounts: standards; Mobile Services, Dental treatment, • Compliance with corporate principles. Restaurants, Cleaning Services, and FRINGE Athletic Centers. BENEFITS > Memberships in Professional Out of all the participations in the 2012 ι-game Associations contest, three (3) corporate employee ideas, Racing > Christmas & Easter Appreciation Poker of Mr. Vangelis Kaloudis, Gamification of Mr. Gifts Vassilis Kavvadias and Smart Player App of Mr. > Blood Bank Vassilis Makris, received a corporate award. > Medical Insurance for Family Members The 2011 ι-game contest winning idea, NFC FAMILY > Annual Kids Party BENEFITS > Scholarships at BA/BS level and Technology (Near Field Communications Technology) MA/MSc level led to INTRALOT’s 2012 pioneering solution, > Gift Vouchers for Newborns “Tap’n’Play”, the next big step toward a paperless lottery (presented in section 1.4 of this report). *According to the level of their position. 92 5.9 Training and Development INTRALOT’s corporate culture highly values learning, since education and training contribute both to the professional and personal development of each employee and to Company growth overall. The Company offers a multitude of learning programs aimed at effectively meeting the learning requirements of all our employees worldwide. As a result, the learning cycle is continually in motion while our people actively contribute to the Company’s prosperity. The Company’s yearly training plan takes into consideration organizational needs and aligns them with the professional and individual needs of the staff, resulting in a rich portfolio of programs offered via varied training methodologies. The Organization and Human Resources Department works closely with INTRALOT’s Learning Center, a specialized department dedicated specifically to training, for the provision of personnel development and the advancement of knowledge for all INTRALOT personnel. Among the services provided is training on gamingindustry topics, on INTRALOT-specific topics (e.g. products and services) and on business, technology and professional development skills. The high-quality courses offered are either developed in-house by the Learning Center’s skilled content developers, in collaboration with INTRALOT’s subject-matter experts, or selected from among the best-of-breed in the market. A comprehensive Induction Program, offered to all employees upon recruitment, aims at giving valuable insights into the competitive advantages of the Company’s core business and at facilitating the adjustment of new employees to INTRALOT’s working environment. Moreover, employees hired for specific positions, also attend a two-week orientation program conducted by senior executives. Finally the Program also includes training on corporate responsible gaming policies and practices and on INTRALOT’s WLA certified Information Security Management System training (ISMS). Following the Corporate Induction, intensive job-specific training is provided to each employee, involving both theoretical and on-the-job training. A ‘mentoring’ technique is also applied so as to best bring about the desired result. INTRALOT’s Training Program is comprised of numerous and widely-varied training courses and activities, indicatively listed below: • As a leading provider of state-of-the-art integrated gaming systems, INTRALOT provides its people specialized in-house business training (e.g. Sales & Marketing for Gaming Sector, Gaming Business Overview, Responsible Gaming Practices, Training Skills for Retailer Trainers) and cutting-edge technology training focusing on new technologies; • The Company’s worldwide presence makes acquiring proficient knowledge of foreign languages an imperative (i.e. Spanish, English, Romanian, and Italian). Consequently, a series of foreign language lessons are endorsed and offered by qualified teachers; • Since our company has realized the challenges and opportunities that Social Media can offer in many business aspects such as Marketing and Communication, we have included in the yearly training plan courses pertaining to the referred topic; • As a listed Company with subsidiaries and business offices around the globe, INTRALOT highly supports financial training. For this purpose, many employees from both Headquarters and Subsidiaries’ financial divisions attend relevant open seminars and tax related training (e.g. International Financial Reporting Standards, Transfer Pricing and ACCA F9 Financial Management, ACCA F8 AUDIT & ASSURANCE); 93 • Apart from functional employee skills required by each job description, soft skills are equally important and can determine professional success or failure. In association with the Athens Information Technology Center of Excellence for Research and Education (AIT), the Company has implemented soft skills training (e.g. negotiations, communication, and presentation skills). INTRALOT’s collaboration with AIT also includes a number of scholarships for Bachelor and Master’s degree programs, awarded to our employees following an evaluation procedure by the Admissions Committee. Furthermore, in association with Harvard Kennedy School, AIT organizes Harvard Executive Education programs that INTRALOT employees participate in. The Art and Science of Negotiation and the Public Leaders in Southeast Europe programs, held regularly at AIT, prepare Company executives for new levels of leadership in their careers and include training on crisis management, bargaining and strategic management; • Employee affiliation in international organizations (e.g. Project Management Institute-PMI, International Institute of Business Analysis-IIBA, American Society for Quality-ASQ) as well as professional certifications and the acquisition of diplomas (Project Management Professional-PMP, Cisco, Oracle, JAVA and Red Hat certifications) are highly encouraged and create a competitive advantage for INTRALOT, both at the corporate and the professional development levels. To this effect, INTRALOT also offers a reputable project management training program, in collaboration with the Project Management Institute, which aims to sharpen and enrich the skills of the Company’s project managers; • INTRALOT keeps its employees up-to-date on the latest developments in our sector by enabling them to participate in gaming and technology-related conferences, including conferences organized by Lottery and Gaming Associations. Apart from instructor-led classroom training, a variety of e-learning methods are used to effectively train our personnel. These e-learning methods include asynchronous training on INTRALOT’s Corporate e-learning platform as well as synchronous training live, virtual training sessions. All training sessions are conducted in accordance with best industry training practices and all training services are subject to ISO 9001, ISO 27001 / WLA SCS and EFQM certifications. Global Live Network The departments of Organization and Human Resources and the Learning Center organize monthly webcasts via INTRALOT’s Corporate Global Live Network. Their aim is to enhance corporate communication and the sharing of corporate knowledge across all of INTRALOT’s operations around the globe. From January to December 2012 eighteen (18) webcasts of different topics were organized. All webcasts were presented by INTRALOT Executives from various HQ Divisions/Departments of the Company and from INTRALOT Subsidiaries worldwide. Indicative curriculum of the Global Live Network were topics on new products and games, innovative technologies, and new generation services, in which almost 600 INTRALOT employees participated and interacted globally during 2012. Training Indices 2012 The training data that follow concern year 2012 training programs organized by INTRALOT S.A. for employees of INTRALOT S.A. headquarters and/or employees of selected Subsidiaries. It does not include training programs organized by INTRALOT subsidiaries locally. 94 Table 55 – INTRALOT S.A. Training Indices 2012 Classroom Training Indices 2011-2012 Training indices 2011 2012 Number of training programs carried out 106 182 Number of hours devoted to employee training 6610 7.951,5 Number of training days 212 506 Number of participations 534 797 E-Learning Training indices 2011-2012 Training indices 2011 2011 2012 2012 total total Total number of e-learning courses Asynchronous: 26 Asynchronous: 16 Synchronous: 18 Synchronous: 18 44 34 Number of hours devoted to employee training Asynchronous: 813.24 Asynchronous: 798 Synchronous: 515,5 Synchronous: 991 1.328,74 1.789 Number of participations Asynchronous: 383 Asynchronous: 774 Synchronous: 329 Synchronous: 584 712 1.358 Occupational Health evaluate workplaces, offer advice, make suggestions 5.10 on preventive measures and resolve any problems and Safety that may arise. INTRALOT is committed to complying with all Upon signing their contract, all employees are relevant health and safety laws and to conducting informed about the Internal Guide of Employment business in a manner that protects the safety of its Policies & Procedures, which the Company submitted employees. Health and safety are integral parts of by law for ratification by the Ministry for Employment a broader environment and workforce sustainability and Social Protection, and are requested to comply strategy that reduces the risk of harm to employees with the regulations on employee conduct stipulated and helps them remain healthy and productive. All therein. employees are required to comply with all applicable health and safety laws, regulations and policies The company puts continuous effort on improving relevant to their jobs. its performance on Occupational Health and Safety issues and on preventing incidents. According to The Company encourages training programs and official corporate data zero (0) accidents have been certification on First Aid held by the Red Cross for reported to date. small groups of employees, in order for each premise Table 56INTRALOT S.A. Training Effectiveness to have its own trained First Aid Team. The Company also trains selected representatives from all premises on the Evacuation Policy and Procedures and conducts Evacuation Drills. In this way, INTRALOT’s employees remain informed and prepared for any emergency. Both training courses are conducted by INTRALOT’s Learning Centre. INTRALOT uses the services of an external prevention agency for health and safety, whose specialized safety engineers and occupational physicians 95 Our Planet “Water travels and is transformed in quest for harmony.” 96 Due to the nature of the services it offers, INTRALOT all the stages of the WEEE management, which is among the companies that have a low impact includes collection, transport, temporary storage on the environment. Nevertheless, it has adopted and processing of WEEE. an eco-friendly policy, operating with total respect INTRALOT’s environmental management system for sensitive environmental issues at all stages applies several of the standards and requirements of the product chain. INTRALOT is committed to of ISO 14001. These are described in the section that producing energy efficient and durable products, to follows. increasing the use of recyclable materials, and to designing products with no restricted substances. Furthermore, INTRALOT requires its suppliers to comply with the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS) 2002/95/EC and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE) 2002/96/ Product Contribution EC, so as to ensure their compliance with corporate 6.1 environmental policy. to Sustainability Environmental management protection principles Although the company operates in a low-impact are incorporated into work culture, while production sector in terms of environmental company suppliers and associates fully comply consequences, its products embrace eco-efficiency with specifications aimed at conserving natural from the design through to production, operation resources. In their daily activities, employees have and de-commission stages. The manufacturing of adopted energy conservation practices and adhere gaming terminals complies with the RoHS Directive to the company’s recycling program. (Restriction of Hazardous Substances). INTRALOT implements policies for protecting the Using 3D design techniques and simulation environment in line with the current legislation and software products, the company aims to minimize terms relating to the environmental and operational the prototype re-design stage, thereby reducing licensing of its activities. To this effect, the company expenses and materials with an important impact has implemented various monitoring systems on the environment. according to the requirements of competent authorities and takes into consideration relevant INTRALOT is eco-sensitive through: environmental impact assessments. • The development of Interactive Services allowing Extract from the Code of Conduct: Environment the remote participation of the player without the INTRALOT is committed to being an environmentally need of physical transportation, thus saving fuel and accountable corporate citizen. Employees should strive reducing the environmental impact of the gaming to conserve resources and reduce waste and emissions service offered; through recycling and other energy conservation measures. • The development and introduction of smaller sized terminals with less plastic and metallic materials, INTRALOT is a member of the Hellenic Recovery such as Genion; Recycling Corporation (HE.R.R.Co), which has listed the company on their registry of companies that • The Reduction of paper consumption by using have recycled materials in 2012. Furthermore, in digital solutions, including LOTOS™ Horizon for compliance with Law 2939/2001 and Presidential content/information delivery to the retailer, Icon Decree 117/2004, the company is also a member Digital Imaging Technology, Stylot, Gablet, and selfof Appliances Recycling S.A., the official collective service terminals; system for the operation of the Alternative Management of the Waste of Electrical and • Our company develops ways for game participation Electronic Equipment (WEEE) in Greece. The role of in a total paperless environment, where neither the company is to organize, control and coordinate coupons nor tickets will be needed. In this respective, 98 we have introduced and promoted the Coronis gaming in land-based retail. Slim, light and stylish, MP self-service terminal, as well as the Gablet with an impressive 22” multi-touch screen, it offers multifunctional player device for retailer shops, that intuitive touch/gesture based navigation to eyeallow the player to enter his bets without the use of catching, high-definition gaming content. Gablet paper coupons; is the first device in the Lottery industry offering Lottery Triple Play services: Games, Information and • Delivery of information, such as jackpots, Advertisement. Gablet empowers players to view results, betting event programs and odds, to digital live content while playing primary and side games. signage displays inside the retailer shops, through Cashless and Paperless, Gablet supports registered INTRALOT’s LOTOS™ Horizon multimedia platform, and anonymous players and paves the way to a allows the players to have access to constantly Universal Gaming Experience. updated information, without the need for printing; • The Reduction of power consumption by using lowLOTOS™ Horizon IRD, LOTOS™ Horizon Duo3D power electronic circuits and processors; • Furthermore, in all our products we are gradually Following the introduction of the LOTOS™ Horizon introducing external power supplies that comply Multimedia Controller (LHMC) in 2010, in 2012 with Commission Regulation (EC) No 278/2009 of INTRALOT introduced two more media players for 6 April 2009, implementing Directive 2005/32/EC the LOTOS™ Horizon multimedia platform: LOTOS™ of the European Parliament regarding ecodesign Horizon IRD and LOTOS™ Horizon Duo3D, which requirements for external power supplies; both support full high-definition content, multi-zone and multi-layer graphics, high quality sound and IP • Most of the gaming terminals are designed fan-less connectivity for direct connection to the LOTOS™ and are shut down automatically during prolonged Horizon central system. LOTOS™ Horizon IRD also periods of terminal inactivity. Like all mechanical supports content delivery over satellite. LOTOS™ systems, fans are subject to failure, so a fan-less Horizon Duo3D supports display in dual independent product is preferred due to higher reliability; screens. Also it includes large permanent storage (up to 1Tbyte), and can be used as a local server • The Extended Mean Time between Failures and for multiple media players inside the retailer shop, long life-time of terminals; providing local content management. • The adoption of the use of camera technology in our terminals replacing the page scanners, which LOTOS™ Horizon Content Publisher leads to the use of fewer materials and parts; • The gradual replacement of conventional monitors, LOTOS™ Horizon Content Publisher, is a new addition which use CCFL (Cold cathode fluorescent lamp) in the LOTOS™ Horizon management environment, technology, with LED monitors. LED monitors are meant for automatically targeting videos/images to energy-efficient, using 30 to 50 percent less power multiple different display devices, in a “create once than conventional monitors. Furthermore, unlike – publish many” philosophy, while retaining unified CCFLs, LED monitors contain no mercury, halogen look and feel. or lead, which makes them safe for the environment when recycling. Paperless Gablet INTRALOT is the first company in the lottery sector to incorporate INTRALOT’s novel multifunctional the Paperless concept to the lottery tablet, Gablet, reinvents interactive business and allow its customers 99 to enjoy its numerous advantages. Paperless is an Genion Terminal environment where both paper play slips and paper tickets are eliminated. Genion is INTRALOT’s newest INTRALOT leads this Lottery business change by innovation, a multifunctional, providing the relevant technology and streamlining flexible and very small terminal that the wagering processes. The key ingredient is the provides a powerful space saving use of smart phones which players utilize for both solution for small agencies or retail filling-in of electronic play slips as well as receiving shops while utilizing less plastic the electronic ticket to an email account, yet and metallic materials. Developed preserving anonymity. Lotteries may enter paperless in INTRALOT’s labs, Genion is built environment in steps or go straight to paperless. around a new generation processor with embedded hardware, accelerated graphics that ensures high processing power and full display capabilities. It has Paperless Lottery Benefits a friendly sized full color TFT touch-screen interface • Reduces costs, increasing revenues for good causes that supports user’s Interaction. In addition, in spite • Speeds up the selling process of its compact size, it can carry a selection of card • Attracts younger demographics readers and a 2D barcode reader. Its digital play slip • Introduces an interactive way of playing within the retail environment reader enables paperless play. Further, thanks to • Reduces the environmental footprint its online wired and wireless connectivity options, Genion allows seamless integration within the agency environment including a variety of peripherals such as printers, scanners, and customer displays. NEFOS INTRALOT Cloud INTRALOT has introduced “NEFOS INTRALOT Cloud”, Materials, Waste Management a business-innovating 6.2 technology solution for landand Recycling based, mobile and online gaming. NEFOS is a secure, INTRALOT’s operations are mainly services-oriented standalone, highly-available cloud solution that rather than manufacturing operations. Thus, the provides gaming operators with technological impact of INTRALOT on the natural environment is scalability, operational flexibility and resource negligible. Nevertheless, INTRALOT has adopted optimization through economies of scale, enabling policies toward environmental protection and has them to meet their demanding business goals adopted practices in order to further minimize its across all gaming channels, along with improved environmental footprint, such as the efficient use of time-to-market efficiency and reduced costs. With natural resources and energy. NEFOS, INTRALOT undertakes the administration of the provided services, while the gaming operator The main materials that the Company utilizes for its easily and accurately monitors and measures operational needs are: cloud service use and performance. A Solution that integrates international best practices & standards • Paper; on Information security for cloud computing & for • Toners; the gaming sector, NEFOS has significant positive • Electrical & electronic supplies; impact on INTRALOT’s environmental footprint, • Aluminum cans; through both energy and carbon dioxide savings. • Batteries. INTRALOT is sensitive towards waste management 100 issues that result from its operations. Waste is not INTRALOT is a member of the Hellenic Recovery sent to landfills but rather it is collected carefully and Recycling Corporation (HE.R.R.Co), which has listed sent to a licensed recycling partner, which handles the company on their registry of companies that have waste disposal in an appropriate and environmentally recycled materials in 2012. friendly manner. INTRALOT fully complies with the requirements of Toners RoHS regulations concerning hazardous waste. As per safety regulations and corporate policy, all INTRALOT recycles toners used for printing technical and maintenance requirements of petrol systematically. After collecting a significant number tanks used for central heating of corporate premises of empty toners, INTRALOT forwards them to a are regularly met and, as a consequence, the risk of specialized partner firm, which processes them a fuel spill is nil. There is no record to date of spills to produce new toners. In 2012, the percentage of (oil, waste and, in general, fuels). recycled toners increased to 88%. INTRALOT’s expenditures and investment on Table 58 – INTRALOT Toners Recycling environmental protection cover the following: Toners recycling (units) 2010 2011 2012 Purchased 1115 840 930 • Costs related to the processing and to Shipping Recycled 946 716 815 & Handling of electric and electronic equipment Recycled (%) 84,8 85,2 88 towards recycling facilities; • Costs related to the processing and to Shipping & Handling of toners towards recycling facilities; • Annual cost of membership in the Hellenic Recovery Recycling Corporation (HE.R.R.Co) and in the Appliances Recycling S.A. Paper Paper is collected into special recycle bins placed on each floor of all company buildings. Specialized Batteries and other materials personnel are responsible for paper handling and regular shipping to a partner recycling company. In 2012, paper recycling has remained stable at 75% of In order to minimize negative impact on the total paper procurement. The data concerning paper environment, INTRALOT collects batteries and recycling follows. aluminum cans and forwards them for recycling. The quantities that were recycled in the period between 2010 and 2012 are as follows: Table 57 INTRALOT Paper Recycling Table 59 – INTRALOT Other Materials Recycling Paper recycling 2010 2011 2012 Other materials recycling 2010 2011 2012 Paper procurement (Kg) 3.600 9.600 9.800 Batteries (Kg) 27 498* 93 Aluminium can (Kg) 69 82 105 Recycling % 65% 75% 75% Electrical & Electronic 71 102 n/a** Filing % 25% 20% 20% Equipment (pieces) Sent via mail to others % 10% 5% 5% *450 kg were car batteries. **Electric and electronic equipment gathered was negligible and pieces were under the minimum required for collection and recycling. They were warehoused instead and will be sent for recycling in 2013. 101 rate and have a longer life span. The LED replacement Energy Conservation and 6.3 programme started at the beginning of 2010 in the Natural Resources company’s headquarters in Maroussi, and by the end of 2012 implementation reached 70%; INTRALOT is committed to operating its business • All employees have been issued specific guidelines in a responsible manner and in ways that do on switching off (not stand by) all the electronic not jeopardize the environment or deplete the equipment (PCs, Photocopiers, monitors, etc.) world’s limited natural resources. Toward energy before leaving corporate premises. conservation practices and the improvement of building efficiency, the company has taken actions, INTRALOT is committed to continuously researching including: innovative products or tools that will enable it to operate more efficiently, waste less and reduce • Installation of inverter-type air conditioning (lower negative ecological impact across the entire power consumption); spectrum of its operations. • Systematic maintenance of air conditioning (summer-winter, filter cleaning or replacement); As operation requirements, electricity and petrol are • Use of non-Freon technology; consumed wisely and efficiently. A high priority on • Gradual replacement of light bulbs to LED (x10 the Company’s agenda, INTRALOT promotes energy energy conservation); conscientious behavior near all employees. The total • Motion sensor light switches in communal areas. yearly electricity and petrol consumption as of 2010 follows: INTRALOT has also redistributed its human resources Table 60 – INTRALOT Energy Consumption to a reduced number of buildings, an initiative that Electricity consumption 2010 2011 2012 has resulted in diminished energy consumption and (KWh) a reduced impact of both traffic and pollution. Maroussi Building 1.315.200 1.086.400 1.080.800 Metamorfosi Building 1.933.200 1.932.000 2.059.200 Furthermore, INTRALOT product design follows the Total 3.248.400 3.018.400 3.140.000 following best practices: • Avoid the use of hazardous materials (such as Pb, Table 61 – INTRALOT Consumption of Heating Fuel Cr, etc.), in compliance with RoHS regulations; Petrol consumption 2010 2011 2012 • Design low power electronic circuits; (heating) (lt) • Take advantage of power management techniques Maroussi Building 36.000 30.000 22.100 (such as fan-less, screen savers, automatic shut Metamorfosi Building* n/a n/a n/a down when idle); Total 36.000 30.000 22.100 • Implement high reliability and long life product *Metamorfosi facilities do not use fuel oil for heating purposes. Central air conditioning provides heating to building premises. design (Icon Technology, MTBF 25yrs); • Design self-service terminals that drastically reduce the use of paper coupons and tickets. The target set for year 2012 concerning a 2% reduction of consumption of heating fuel was reached and In 2012, INTRALOT took a series of measures in largely surpassed, as the company achieved a low order to minimize and use effectively electric energy. consumption level of 22.100lt, down from 30.000lt in Indicative actions include: 2011. • The expansion of the Building Management System – BMS energy saving system installed in corporate Green House Gas Emissions premises in Metamorfosi; • Progress in the implementation of the LED Because of direct (heating petrol) and indirect replacement programme, according to which (electricity) energy consumption, green house gas incandescent lamps are replaced by new technology emissions are released. INTRALOT undertakes LED lamps, which enable a x10 energy conservation several measures in order to minimize its 102 environmental footprint by reducing energy Table 63 – INTRALOT Water Consumption consumption and green house gas emissions. Water Consumption (m3) 2010* 2011 2012 Maroussi main building 1.415 3.193 3.425 As seen in the table below, INTRALOT’s measures for Metamorfosi main building 1.141 1.495 1.354 efficient use of energy have resulted in a reduction of Metamorfosi common area 1.166 1.689 1.470 Green House gas emissions. Total 3.722 6.377 6.249 *Consumption period: 16/11/2009 – 25/11/2010 Table 62 – INTRALOT Green House Gas Emissions Green House Gas 2010 2011 2012* Emissions (in tons CO2) Due to electricity 2,520.8 2,342.3 2,436.7 consumption (indirect emissions) 6.4 Transportation Due to petrol 111.5 93 57.6 consumption (direct Transportation is a significant cause of atmospheric emissions) pollution (CO2 and other emissions) while also Total 2,632.3 2,435.3 2,494.3 depleting fossil fuel reserves. To estimate CO2 * According to the methodology of the annual Climate Change Emissions Inventory of Greece (2013), submitted by the Hellenic Ministry of Environment, emissions from airline business travel the Energy and Climate Change to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, under the Convention and the Kyoto protocol for greenhouse employees’ flights have been divided into long, and other gases for the years 1990-2011. medium and short haul flights. The corresponding emission factors – in kg CO2/passenger-mile – are 0.185, 0.229 and 0.277 (US Environmental Protection Agency, EPA430-R-08-006). In 2012 the CO2 emissions from airline business travel were 767,127 kg CO2 whereas in 2011 these emissions were 912,889 kg CO2. This represents a 16% reduction in CO2 emissions. The corresponding reduction in travelled air miles is 14.6%. Table 64 – INTRALOT CO2 Emissions from Air Travel (kg) 2011 2012 CO2 Emissions Air Travel Reduction Reduction 912,889 767,127 16% 14.6% In 2012, total carbon dioxide emissions (direct and INTRALOT has taken the following initiatives with indirect) reached 2,494.3 tons, stemming for the regards to transportation in order to achieve a most part from indirect emissions. significant reduction in the Company’s environmental impact: Water • Use of teleconferencing for training to reduce the number and frequency of air travel; • Establishing our facilities in locations where the Drinking water reserves are a global issue and a access by public transportation is convenient; significant concern in the area of Greece, as a result • Minimize unnecessary travel; of the impact of climate change. • Extensive use of e-learning to minimize the use of transport for training purposes. INTRALOT is sensitive to the value of water and its relative scarcity in the Mediterranean region and therefore strives to reduce water consumption, where feasible. 103 6.5 Awareness Raising Actions 6.6 Biodiversity For the 4th consecutive year, INTRALOT actively INTRALOT’s facilities are not located inside protected participated in Earth Hour 2012, a global endeavor natural areas or in areas of high biodiversity of WWF World Wildlife Fund to protect the climate. presence (RAMSAR, NATURA). As a result, there is This event constitutes a practical and symbolic no direct impact towards the environment from the measure against climate change. Company’s operations. INTRALOT and subsidiaries and affiliates on all 5 continents participated by switching off the lights on their premises, both in offices and in production units, for one hour. In addition to corporate-level participation, INTRALOT encouraged its partners and clients and all its employees, including their families and friends, to join the initiative. In line with the European Commission’s objectives set forth since the European Year of Volunteering landmark in 2011, to challenge 400 million Europeans to engage in volunteer work and actively contribute to the achievement of the Europe 2020 goals , INTRALOT continues to support the efforts of its Corporate Volunteer Group. Further, in 2012 INTRALOT supported the development efforts of corporate volunteers toward disseminating their activities in the electronic platform GREEN SITE and toward sharing the initiatives of other volunteer groups and enlisting new supporters through this platform. As of 2005, the INTRALOT Corporate Volunteer Group actively engages in various social causes and outreaches near stakeholders and the wider public on matters of environmental protection. The Volunteer Group has created GREEN SITE, an electronic platform that supports their mission and publicizes their activities. To date, these activities include: • Blood donation, in cooperation with the Athens hospital Aghia Sofia; • Volunteer contribution to reforestation programs; • Aluminium and battery recycling programs; • Participation in sports events that raise funds for social causes; • Extended access to information and electronic platform and facilitating employee engagement; • Sharing and disseminating information about the activities of other stakeholders near all employees. 104 Table 65 – INTRALOT Group Selected Environmental Table 66 – INTRALOT Environmental Targets Sustainability Activities 2012 Country Activities 2012 Environmental Targets • Energy Consumption: • Reutilization of paper: the Marketing > Complete the replacement of light bulbs to LED (x10 department of Intralot de Brasil collects energy consumption); scratch paper to later transform it into > 2% Reduction of heating fuel consumption. Brazil notebooks for employee use. • Minimization of unnecessary travel. • Intralot de Brasil collects used batteries • The design of a supplier questionnaire on environmental and forwards them to the official collector standards to be required from all new suppliers. authority for recycling. • Further development of the corporate platform Global Live Network, designed to share corporate knowledge • Launched in 2010, Eurofootball across all subsidiaries and to minimize air travel. Bulgaria successfully implemented its 2012 paper and other waste recycling program. • Introduction of Horizon digital solutions and new game products that minimize paper and/or electricity consumption. • Access to the corporate employee volunteer group portal GREEN SITE has been opened to all employees, who can now access the content as well as offer their own article contributions to the portal. • Reduction of the corporate environmental footprint with a reduction in employee travel, replaced by the increased utilization of the new Live Global Corporate Network. • INTRALOT participated in the “EARTH Greece HOUR 2012,” the single, largest, symbolic mass participation global energy-saving initiative against climate change. • INTRALOT supported ARKTOUROS, a nongovernmental, non-profit environmental organization whose mission is the protection of wild life. • Aiming to encourage the sustainability efforts of stakeholders, INTRALOT supported the match donations by selected suppliers, on behalf of INTRALOT and equivalent to corporate discounts offered to INTRALOT, to the environmental organization for wild life and nature CALLISTO. • MALTCO launched a new waste management program in 2012, whereby paper and other waste products of the Malta company’s headquarter premises are collected separately and sent to recycling facilities. • The paper recycling program Recícla, Cumple tu papel! is a collaborative initiative of INTRALOT de Peru with Fundación para el Desarrollo Solidario (FUNDADES-Foundation Peru for Social Solidarity) and Aldeas Infantiles S.O.S Peru (SOS Children Villages Peru) that furthers environmental sustainability and generates funds to finance scholarships and food banks for disadvantaged children. 105 Appendix I KEY PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE 106 Key Performance Data INTRALOT Group Economy 2010 2011 2012 Sales (in thousand €) 1.115.721 1.202.354 1.374.021 Other income (in thousand €) 26.288 28.452 18.602 Finance income (in thousand €) 12.037 9.972 11.460 Total Revenue (in thousand €) 1.154.046 1.240.778 1.404.083 Operating costs (in thousand €) 894.769 979.946 1.106.423 Payments to providers of funds (in thousand €) 76.549 44.206 53.929 Dividends paid (in thousand €) 53.280 16.755 20.320 Interest paid (in thousand €) 23.269 27.451 33.609 Operating income (in thousand €) 152.662 153.806 177.536 Earnings before taxes and minorities (in thousand €) 80.690 57.038 58.422 Earnings after taxes and minorities (in thousand €) 36.626 17.701 6.116 Payments to government bodies (taxes paid) 23.904 22.358 23.602 (in thousand €) Total assets (in thousand €) 1.097.531 1.086.162 1.114.807 Invested capital (Equity plus Debt) (in thousand €) 867.404 882.245 899.462 Marketplace 2010 2011 2012 Payments to suppliers (Consolidated P&L and Capex)* (in 323.305 279.139 342.100 thousand €) Employees 2010 2011 2012 Total employees 5380 5512 5541 Workforce turnover (%) 3.7 2.5 4.1 Employee wages and benefits (in thousand €) 98.261 104.965 113.436 Environment 2010 2011 2012 Total water consumption (m3) 3.722 6.377 6.249 Petrol consumption for heating (lt) 36.000 30.000 22.100 Paper recycling (% of purchased) 65 75 75 Toners recycling (% of purchased) 84.8 85.2 88 *Excludes agents’ commissions Appendix II LIST OF TABLES 108 Table 1 Worldwide Presence Table 2 INTRALOT Contracts Breakdown 2012 Table 3 INTRALOT New Products 2012 Table 4 INTRALOT Shareholding Structure Table 5 The INTRALOT Group Table 6 Financial Results Table 7 Key Economic Indicators Table 8 INTRALOT Group Social Product 2007-2012 Table 9 INTRALOT Social Product Greece 2007-2012 Table 10 INTRALOT Group Social Product 2012 Breakdown Table 11 EBEN Business Ethics and Excellence Model Table 12 Cumulative Number of National & International Awards Table 13 CSR & Sustainability: Upcoming Policy Developments 2013 Table 14 The Drivers towards More Ethical Business Practices – Greece (%) Table 15 The Drivers towards More Ethical Business Practices – World (%) Table 16 Sustainability in INTRALOT Table 17 INTRALOT We Care a Lot INTRALOT Group Contribution to Local Communities 2012 Table 18 Main Targets Greece 2013 Table 19 INTRALOT Group Stakeholder Mapping Table 20 Stakeholder Communication Channels and Issues Table 21 Society Satisfaction Index Table 22 CSR Self-Assessment Table 23 Corporate Governance & Compliance: Upcoming Policy Developments 2013 Table 24 INTRALOT Corporate Governance Targets 2013-2014 Table 25 The Board of Directors Table 26 Committees of the Board of Directors Table 27 INTRALOT SA Corporate Governance Self-Assessment Table 28 INTRALOT Group Supplier Breakdown 2012 Table 29 INTRALOT Group Supplier Breakdown by Region 2012 Table 30 Local Suppliers INTRALOT Group, % Table 31 Certifications & Compliance with Corporate or Industry Rules and Standards Table 32 Eyes-On Fraud Detection System Table 33 Responsible Gaming Program Areas Table 34 INTRALOT Responsible Gaming Program 2012 & Targets Table 35 INTRALOT R&D Strategy and Methodology Table 36 INTRALOT Responsible Gaming: System Functions Table 37 INTRALOT Responsible Gaming: Employee Training Table 38 INTRALOT Induction to Responsible Gaming Table 39 INTRALOT RG Technology Updates Training Table 40 Training on Best RG Practices for Marketing Personnel Table 41 RG Awareness & Best Practices Training for Retailer Trainers Table 42 Responsible Gaming Training Target 2013 Table 43 Marketing & Advertising Standards Table 44 Best Responsible Gaming Practices of the INTRALOT GROUP 2012 Table 45 INTRALOT Employee Loyalty Table 46 Evolution of Employee Breakdown by Region Table 47 2012 Employee Breakdown by Region Table 48 2012 Age Distribution of Employees (%)* Table 49 Workforce Turnover INTRALOT (%) Table 50 INTRALOT Human Resources Targets Table 51 Evolution of Workforce Distribution by Gender and Functions Table 52 Average Monthly Number of Distinct Portal Users Table 53 Human Resources by Type of Employment Table 54 INTRALOT Employee Benefits 2012 Table 55 INTRALOT S.A. Training Indices 2012 Table 56 INTRALOT S.A. Training Effectiveness Table 57 INTRALOT Paper Recycling Table 58 INTRALOT Toners Recycling Table 59 INTRALOT Other Materials Recycling Table 60 INTRALOT Energy Consumption Table 61 INTRALOT Consumption of Heating Fuel Table 62 INTRALOT Green House Gas Emissions Table 63 INTRALOT Water Consumption Table 64 INTRALOT CO2 Emissions from Air Travel (kg) Table 65 INTRALOT Group Selected Environmental Sustainability Activities 2012 Table 66 INTRALOT Environmental Targets 109 Appendix III ABOUT THE REPORT 110 Report Content & Boundaries our sustainable development reports on those issues that are most important to our external and internal The ‘’Sustainability Report 2012’’ is INTRALOT’s stakeholders. Our process was developed in line with second corporate social responsibility report. This the GRI guidance on materiality and completeness. Report contains, mainly, information related to our It involves identifying issues affecting our business social and environmental actions and practices. and its stakeholders over the next three years, and prioritising those issues considering internal and Further information regarding financial, product or external perspectives. services information may be found at our site, www. intralot.com. We gather information and opinion from a wide range of stakeholders, including institutional Sustainability Context & Stakeholder Inclusiveness investors, employees, suppliers, society, regulatory authorities, business partners, stockholders, NGOs The scope of this Report is to depict the impact of and the media. From this, we assess the impact that the business activities of INTRALOT on the economy, sustainable development issues have externally, the environment and society, in order to inform the in terms of society and the environment, and our institutional investors, the employees, the suppliers, compliance with policies and commitments. We the society, the regulatory authorities, the business also consider how important the issue is for our partners, the stockholders, as well as those who stakeholders when they’re making judgments about are interested in Corporate Responsibility and our sustainable development performance. Sustainable Development issues. Next we evaluate how important an issue is internally We actively seek the engagement of relevant social to our business. We look at its potential impact on our groups, both informally through focus groups and financial performance, our brand and reputation, our formally via opinion surveys, in the identification of stakeholder relationships, our production and ability issues, policies and appropriate strategies promoting to meet our customers’ needs, and the possible responsible gaming practices and incorporating ramifications from non-compliance. their views into our products and services. All material aspects (management approach As a signatory of the United Nations Global Contact, disclosures & indicators), sufficient to reflect INTRALOT is committed to the implementation and significant economic, environmental and social dissemination of its principles. The GRI G4 guidelines impacts, are presented analytically in this Appendix. have provided a sound basis for the selection of the material issues to be presented in this report Balance & Comparability so as to meet its purpose of offering an effective communication tool (COP) with our stakeholders. This Report covers INTRALOT Group activities worldwide, including its subsidiaries, but not joint Materiality & Completeness ventures, suppliers or any other third party related to the Company. The expectations of stakeholders During the preparation of the Report, we took as well as the importance of specific issues to the into account the dialogue with our stakeholders, Company were taken into consideration in order to conclusions drawn from survey research conducted determine which issues should be included in the in local communities and near our customers, Report. suppliers and employees, requests for disclosure This Report covers the complete range of Economic, from financial analysts and the wider public as well Environmental and Social issues that stem from the as observations made by inspection and auditing Company’s activity, without limiting the scope and bodies. With this approach, the Group will endeavor boundary of the report. to continue to implement activities under its Our commitment to the guidelines of GRI and UNGC commitment to Sustainable Development. support the presentation of information in a manner that enables the reader to identify changes in policies Materiality assessments are used to help us focus and performance. 111 Stakeholders, using this report can easily compare Comments, enquiries or suggestions can be sent to: information reported on economic, environmental and social performance against Group’s past INTRALOT S.A. performance (previous report) and, to the degree Department of Communications possible, against the performance of the sector. Attn: Accuracy & Clarity Ms. Persa Kartsoli Head of Corporate and Public Relations Qualitative responses to economic, environmental Ms. Chryssa Amanatidou and social issues (Disclosures on Management Senior Manager of Public Relations & CSR Approach) and detailed quantitative measurements (Indicators) assure the accuracy of the provided 64 Kifissias Ave. & 3 Premetis Str. information. GR-151 25 Athens, Greece The report’s organisation has aimed to facilitate the Tel: (+30) 210 615 6000 Fax: (+30) 210 615 6093 reader in accessing information. Graphics and tables E-mail: amanatidou@intralot.com help to make information in the report accessible and understandable. UNGC Principles & GRI Index Timeliness & Reliability INTRALOT has adopted and incorporated the principles of the United Nations Global Compact in The information, facts and data in this report refer its business operations and works to disseminate to the period between January and December 2012. and promote these principles near its stakeholders. Sustainability reporting has been set by the company As the UNGC expands its reach, national and local to an annual cycle. networks play an important role, rooting the initiative The data and information presented in this Report are in different cultural contexts. INTRALOT is a signatory collected on the basis of monitoring procedures of of the UNGC since 2009 and is an active participant the Company, as well as on the basis of informational in the national network for social responsibility databases of various systems. In some areas, through its membership since 2004 in the Hellenic where unedited non-primary data are presented, Network for Corporate Social Responsibility, a the information follows the calculation/estimation national partner organization of CSR Europe. method using the relevant GRI guidelines, indicated in the text. INTRALOT’s commitment to sustainable development is a result of the Group’s business principles and External Assurance strategy, and is visible in its policies and corporate culture. The Group and its employees commit to the For this sustainability report, INTRALOT has not constant care for the environment, the creation of a assigned verification to a third party. However, healthy and safe workplace and the advancement of INTRALOT recognizes the significance, usefulness socially responsible behavior. and added value that an external verification of the Report’s data can offer, and will for this reason In the above context, this report also covers the consider the external verification service for a next requirements of the ‘’Communication on Progress’’ edition. (active level) report, presenting the integration of the principles of the UNGC in the strategy, activities and Contact programs that the Group supports and participates in. Feedback from stakeholders is of great significance Table 1 lists the UNGC principles & GRI indicators, to our Group. respectively, and makes corresponding references to the relevant sections of the Report. INTRALOT welcomes any question, enquiry, clarification or proposal for improvement of its This Report is based on the 1st edition of the GRI sustainability reporting. guidelines G4. 112 This Sustainability Report has been prepared in order to satisfy the requirements of GRI G4 guidelines, Core Option. The Core Option provides the background against which INTRALOT communicates the impacts of its economic, environmental and social and governance performance. Tables 2.1 & 2.2 present the General and the Specific Standard Disclosures (DMAs & Indicators) with the corresponding references to the relevant section of this report and/or links addressing the respective aspects. Table 1: Cross reference table of UNGC Principles, GRI Indicators and the relevant sections of this Report UNGC principles Relevant GRI indicators Relevant sections of this Report HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the EC5, LA4, LA6 – 9; LA13 – 14, 1.8, 1.9, 1.10, 3.1, 4.4, 5.1, protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. HR1 – 9, SO5, PR1-2, PR8 5.2, 5.3, 5.5, 5.10 Principle 2 – Businesses should make sure that they are HR1 – 9, SO5 1.8, 1.9, 1.10, 4.4, 5.2, 5.3 not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOR Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold the freedom of LA4 – 5, HR1 – 3, HR5, SO5 1.8, 1.9, 1.10, 4.4, 5.2, 5.5 association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of HR1 – 3, HR7, SO5 1.8, 1.9, 1.10, 4.4, 5.3 all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the effective HR1 – 3, HR6, SO5 1.8, 1.9, 1.10, 4.4, 5.3 abolition of child labor. Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of EC7, LA2, LA13 – 14, HR1 – 1.8, 1.9, 1.10, 3.1, 4.4, 5.1, discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 4, SO5 5.2 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary EC2, EN18, EN26, EN30, SO5 1.8, 1.9, 1.10, 4.4, 6.1, 6.4, approach to environmental challenges. 6.5 Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake initiatives to EN1 – 30, SO5, PR3 – 4 1.8, 1.9, 1.10, 4.4, 6, 6.1, promote greater environmental responsibility. 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5 Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage the EN2, EN 5 – 7, EN 10, EN 18, 1.8, 1.9, 1.10, 4.4, 6.1, 6.4, development and diffusion of environmentally friendly EN 26 – 27, EN30, SO5 6.5 technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption SO2 – 6 1.8, 1.9, 1.10, 4.4 in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Note: Further information concerning the GRI indicators in the 2nd column is provided in tables 2.1 and 2.2. 113 TABLE 2.1: GRI G4, General Standard Disclosures Comments, Links Report’s Section GRI Index Strategy & Analysis G41 Provide a statement from the most senior • Message from the Chairman decision-maker of the organization (such • Message from the CEO as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. Organizational Profile G43 Report the name of the organization INTRALOT SOCIÉTÉ ANONYME INTEGRATED LOTTERY SYSTEMS AND SERVICES G44 Report the primary brands, products, and • 1.4 services • 3.4 G45 Report the location of the organization’s INTRALOT S.A. headquarters 64 Kifissias Ave. & 3 Premetis Str. GR-151 25 Athens, Greece Tel: (+30) 210 615 6000 Fax: (+30) 210 610 6800 www.intralot.com G46 Report the number of countries where the • 1.3, table 1 organization operates, and names of countries • 1.6 where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G47 Report the nature of ownership and legal form • 1.5, table 4 G48 Report the markets served • 1.1 • 1.3 • 1.4 G49 Report the scale of the organization • 1.1 • 1.5 • 1.7 • 5.1, tables 46-47 • Appendix I G410 Report the total number of employees by • 5.1, tables 46-49 employment contract and gender. • 5.2, table 51 Report the total number of permanent • 5.5, table 53 employees by employment type and gender. There are no seasonal variations. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G411 Report the percentage of total employees • 5.5 covered by collective bargaining agreements G412 Describe the organization’s supply chain • 3.5 G413 Report any significant changes during the • 1.5 (changes in shareholding reporting period regarding the organization’s structure, table 4) size, structure, ownership, its supply chain, • 1.6 (changes in table 5 etc regarding Group’s composition) 114 TABLE 2.1: GRI G4, General Standard Disclosures Comments, Links Report’s Section GRI Index G414 Report whether and how the precautionary • 3.3 approach or principle is addressed by the • 3.6 (the regular audits through a organization certification scheme constitute a precautionary approach) • The public opinion surveys (tables 21-22), the employees’ satisfaction surveys (section 5, table 45), the risk assessment (section 3.3), the market surveys (section 4.7) confirm the proactive approach. G415 List externally developed economic, • 3.4 environmental and social charters, principles, • 3.6 or other initiatives to which the organization •6 subscribes or which it endorses • Appendix III (GRI, UNGC) G416 List memberships of associations (such • 1.8 as industry associations) and national or • 1.9 international advocacy organizations in which • 1.10 the organization: Holds a position on the • 4.1 governance body, Participates in projects or • 4.4 committees, Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues, Views membership as strategic. Identified Material Aspects & Boundaries G417 a. List all entities included in the • 1.6 (table 5) organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. b. Report whether any entity included in This report covers all entities as the organization’s consolidated financial per point (a.) above. statements or equivalent documents is not covered by this report. G418 a. Explain the process for defining the report • Appendix III content and the Aspect Boundaries. Report Content & Aspect b. Explain how the organization has Boundaries implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content G419 List all the material Aspects identified in the • Appendix III process for defining report content • Table 2.2 G420 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect • Appendix III Boundary within the organization • Report Content & Aspect Boundaries G421 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect • Appendix III Boundary outside the organization • Report Content & Aspect Boundaries G422 Report the effect of any restatements of No restatements of information information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements G423 Report significant changes from previous No significant changes apart from reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect the introduction of GRI G4 instead Boundaries of G3. 115 TABLE 2.1: GRI G4, General Standard Disclosures Comments, Links Report’s Section GRI Index Stakeholder Engagement G424 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged • 2.2 by the organization • 2.3 • 2.4 G425 Report the basis for identification and • 2.4 selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. G426 Report the organization’s approach to • 2.2 stakeholder engagement • 2.3 • 2.4 • 4.1 G427 Report key topics and concerns that have been • 2.2 raised through stakeholder engagement, and • 2.3 how the organization has responded to those • 4.1 key topics and concerns • 4.8 Report Profile G428 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar Jan – Dec 2012 year) for information provided G429 Date of most recent previous report (if any). December 2012, concerning year 2011. G430 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Annual G431 Provide the contact point for questions Ms. Monica Carlos regarding the report or its contents Department of Communications INTRALOT S.A. 64 Kifissias Ave. & 3 Premetis Str. GR-151 25 Athens, Greece Tel: (+30) 210 615 6000 Fax: (+30) 210 615 6093 E-mail: carlos@intralot.com G432 a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the • Core Option organization has chosen. • Appendix III, tables 2.1 & 2.2 b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen • No external assurance as it is a option voluntary adoption of G4 c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. G433 Report the organization’s policy and current INTRALOT recognizes the practice with regard to seeking external significance, usefulness and assurance for the report. added value that an external assurance can offer. Governance G434 Report the governance structure of the To be established •3 organization, including committees of the in 2013-2014, • 3.1 highest governance body. INTRALOT’s • 3.2 Sustainability Committee will have decision-making competence on policy 116 TABLE 2.1: GRI G4, General Standard Disclosures Comments, Links Report’s Section GRI Index design and the implementation of sustainability programs that address the economic, social and environmental impact of corporate operations. Ethics & Integrity G456 Describe the organization’s values, principles, INTRALOT is • 1.2 standards and norms of behavior such as committed to • 1.11 codes of conduct and codes of ethics. operate under •3 the principles • Code of Corporate Governance of integrity, available at: http://www.intralot. reliability and com/sites/default business ethics. /files/ΚΕΔ%20(ENG).pdf (English Further, the version) company has adopted a code http://www.intralot.com/sites/ of corporate default governance as /files/ΚΕΔ%20(GR).pdf (Greek well as other version) codes of conduct and trains all employees on the rules and corporate best practices through induction training, conducted upon recruitment. INTRALOT has been distinguished by the Greek Chapter of the European Business Ethics Network for 5 consecutive years. 117 TABLE 2.2: GRI G4, DMAs and Specific Standard Disclosures (Indicators) GRI Index DMAs Comments, Links Report’s Section DMA Economic Economic Performance INTRALOT has adopted a corporate strategy • 1.7 of sustainable leadership. After the successful • 1.12 completion of its expansion plans, business • 2.2 operations focus on innovation, the advancement of existing projects and opportunities arising from developments in selected markets, so as to deliver added value to our shareholders and to create shared value for all stakeholders. G4-EC1 Direct economic value In the year 2012, INTRALOT generated €107 • 1.7 (tables 6-10) generated and distributed million in social product in Greece, where • Appendix I corporate headquarters are located. The INTRALOT Group generated €646 million in 2012. The lotteries that the INTRALOT Group operates or supplies, manages and supports in the framework of contracts in jurisdictions worldwide, raised on a combined basis in 2012 approximately €4.3 billion for good causes. G4-EC3 Coverage of the Defined contribution plan in accordance with organization’s defined relevant legislation of local jurisdiction. benefit plan obligations G4-EC4 Financial assistance No direct financial support from the State. received from government Market Presence INTRALOT’s responsible operations around the • 2.3 globe contribute to the development of local • 3.6 human capital and employment, to infrastructure • 4.4 development, to the transfer of knowledge and technological know-how to local communities in areas related to its operations. International operations set standards of compliance in local jurisdictions, and generate government wealth used toward social goals. G4-EC5 Ratios of standard At all significant locations of operation, the entry entry level wage by level wage is higher than the local minimum gender compared to wage. local minimum wage at significant locations of There is no differentiation between genders as operation INTRALOT implements a strict policy against any form of discrimination. Indirect Economic The impact of INTRALOT corporate activities Impacts on local economic output of gaming or gaming related businesses, on local income levels, and on employment is positive. G4-EC7 Development and • 2.3 impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 118 TABLE 2.2: GRI G4, DMAs and Specific Standard Disclosures (Indicators) GRI Index DMAs Comments, Links Report’s Section Procurement Practices As an ISO 9001 certified company, INTRALOT business processes follow standardized procedures throughout the entire product chain, and the company enforces these same quality requirements, non-discrimination principles, and the respect for human rights near its suppliers. G4-EC9 Proportion of spending INTRALOT advances the development of local • 3.5 on local suppliers at communities through the adoption of a minimum significant locations of 50% rate of use of local suppliers, where the operation quality criteria of supplier selection are not compromised. DMA Environmental Materials INTRALOT’s products follow forefront environmental specifications and embrace eco-efficiency from design through production, operation and de-commission stages. G4-EN1 Materials used by weight • 6.2 or volume Energy INTRALOT seeks to minimize its environmental footprint through adopted policies including its energy saving program in all facilities. G4-EN3 Energy consumption 6.3, tables 60-61 within the organization G4-EN6 Reduction of energy • 6.1 consumption • 6.4 • 6.5 Water INTRALOT is sensitive to the value of water and its • 6.3 relative scarcity in the Mediterranean region and therefore strives to reduce water consumption. G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by The only source is water utilities. • 6.3 (table 63) source G4-EN9 Water sources No such significantly affected water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Biodiversity The company does not have a separate policy on • 6.6 biodiversity because the issue is immaterial to the company, as its operation sites are far away from protected areas and ecosystems and there are no impacts from its operations. Emissions • 6.3, 6.4 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas • 6.3 (table 62) (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Energy indirect • 6.3 (table 62) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse • 6.1 gas (GHG) emissions • 6.4 • 6.5 119 TABLE 2.2: GRI G4, DMAs and Specific Standard Disclosures (Indicators) GRI Index DMAs Comments, Links Report’s Section Effluents and Waste INTRALOT has adopted a policy of regular recycling of waste and equipment. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by Waste disposal method follows the Greek • 6.2 type and disposal method legislative framework. G4-EN24 Total number and volume No significant spills. of significant spills Products and Services INTRALOT products embrace eco-efficiency from • 6.1 design through production, operation and decommission stages. G4-EN27 Extent of impact • 6.1 mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services Compliance INTRALOT’s procedures fully comply with national and international environmental regulations and standards. The company has adopted an ecofriendly policy, operating with total respect for sensitive environmental issues at all stages of the product chain. INTRALOT is committed to producing energy efficient and durable products, to increasing the use of recyclable materials, and to designing products with no restricted substances. INTRALOT’s gaming equipment complies with the RoHS Directive (Restriction of Hazardous Substances). Further, the company requires its suppliers to comply with the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS) 2002/95/EC and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE) 2002/96/ EC, so as to ensure their compliance with corporate environmental policy. G4-EN29 Monetary value of No relevant fines or sanctions. significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport INTRALOT has established a travel web tracking • 6.4 system that aims to reduce emissions levels resulting from transportation needs. G4-EN30 Significant environmental INTRALOT largely utilizes local suppliers for • 6.4 impacts of transporting the manufacturing of gaming equipment, where products and other goods product quality is not compromised. As a result, and materials for the the environmental impact of the transportation organization’s operations, of products and other goods and materials is and transporting minimized. members of the workforce With regards to workforce transportation, a 14.6% air travel reduction and 16% CO2 emissions reduction has been achieved. 120 TABLE 2.2: GRI G4, DMAs and Specific Standard Disclosures (Indicators) GRI Index DMAs Comments, Links Report’s Section Overall Due to the nature of the services it offers, INTRALOT is among the companies that have a low impact on the environment. INTRALOT’s products follow forefront environmental specifications and its operations worldwide comply with best practices in the sector. G4-EN31 Total environmental INTRALOT’s expenditures and investment on • 6.2 protection expenditures environmental protection cover the following: and investments by type • Costs related to the processing and to Shipping & Handling of electric and electronic equipment towards recycling facilities; • Costs related to the processing and to Shipping & Handling of toners towards recycling facilities; • Annual cost of membership in the Hellenic Recovery Recycling Corporation (HE.R.R.Co) and in the Appliances Recycling S.A.. Supplier Environmental The selection of suppliers is subject, among • 3.5 Assessment others, to quality specifications, including the environmental effects of the products or services offered. G4-EN32 Percentage of new INTRALOT will design a supplier questionnaire on suppliers that were environmental standards to be required from all screened using new suppliers. environmental criteria Environmental Grievance Environmental grievances as well as voluntary • 3.4 Mechanisms proposals for minimizing the environmental • 5.3 impact of operations can be submitted to • 5.4 corporate management through the open door labor practice mechanism in place near department heads. The company has also established an external Service Complaint Procedure, according to ISO 20000 requirements. G4-EN34 Number of grievances To date, there is no report of environmental about environmental grievances. impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms DMA Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment INTRALOT’s human resources policy is to recruit qualified and talented professionals and to offer its staff a stable and favorable working environment that maximizes the talent of company professionals, motivates them to excel in their functions, and supports their professional and personal development. 121 TABLE 2.2: GRI G4, DMAs and Specific Standard Disclosures (Indicators) GRI Index DMAs Comments, Links Report’s Section G4-LA1 Total number and rates of • 5.1 new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full• 5.8 time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation Labor/Management The company strategy is to follow best practices Relations in labor relations and shape compensation and benefits policy towards improving employee loyalty and motivation while achieving operational goals. G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods The company abides by relevant legislation regarding operational applicable. changes, including whether these are specified in collective Agreements Occupational H & S INTRALOT is committed to complying with all relevant health and safety laws and to conducting business in a manner that protects the safety of its employees. Health and safety are integral parts of a broader environment and workforce sustainability strategy that reduces the risk of harm to employees and helps them remain healthy and productive. To date, there is no record of work-related injuries or occupational diseases. G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates • 5.10 of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high There are no workers with incidence or high risk incidence or high risk of of incidence of occupational diseases. diseases related to their occupation Within health services offered onsite to employees, qualified health professional offer advice on first-aid procedures, seasonal diseases and prevention, as well as health and safety guidelines. This information is also posted regularly in announcement boards/ internal website or sent to employees electronically. 122 TABLE 2.2: GRI G4, DMAs and Specific Standard Disclosures (Indicators) GRI Index DMAs Comments, Links Report’s Section Training and Education INTRALOT’s corporate culture highly values • 4.5 learning, since education and training contribute • 5.9 to the professional and personal development of employees and ensure operational efficiencies and growth for the company. INTRALOT has established a department dedicated specifically to training the Learning Center, which cooperates with the human resources department toward skills development and the advancement of knowledge for all INTRALOT personnel. The company also adopts a policy of web training over IP that facilitates information-sharing and access to training to subsidiaries worldwide. G4-LA9 Average hours of training • 4.5 per year per employee by • 5.9 gender, and by employee category G4-LA10 Programs for skills • 4.5 management and lifelong • 5.9 learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees • 5.6 receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category Diversity and Equal ΙNTRALOT is an Equal Opportunity Employer and Opportunity implements a strict policy against any form of discrimination or harassment in the workplace, as described in the Company’s Code of Conduct. INTRALOT strictly follows a policy of nondiscrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, disability, age, genetic information, veteran status, ancestry, or national or ethnic origin. G4-LA12 Composition of • 3.1, table 25 governance bodies and • 5.1 breakdown of employees • 5.2 per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 123 TABLE 2.2: GRI G4, DMAs and Specific Standard Disclosures (Indicators) GRI Index DMAs Comments, Links Report’s Section Equal Remuneration for ΙNTRALOT is an Equal Opportunity Employer and Women and Men implements a strict policy against any form of discrimination. G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and • 5.2 remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation Supplier Assessment for Corporate labor policies and practices are • 3.5 Labor Practices enforced near company suppliers. Further, they are used as a supplier selection criterion. G4-LA14 Percentage of new 100% • 3.5 suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria G4-LA15 Significant actual and No negative impacts recorded • 3.5 potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken Labor Practices The company has adopted an open door policy • 5.2 Grievance Mechanisms and has an employee grievance mechanism in • 5.3 place near respective managers or department heads. G4-LA16 Number of grievances No grievances were reported to date. about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms DMA Human Rights Investment INTRALOT business practices worldwide conform to universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, as set by the United Nations and the International Labor Organization, and abide by the legislative framework of every jurisdiction where it operates. G4-HR2 Total hours of employee All corporate staff is informed about the • 5.9 training on human rights company’s code of conduct and labor relations policies or procedures policies, through a mandatory induction training concerning aspects of program, conducted by INTRALOT’s Learning human rights that are Center. relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Non-discrimination ΙNTRALOT is an Equal Opportunity Employer and implements a strict policy against any form of discrimination. As per the adopted corporate code of conduct, the company is against and does not use child labour, forced labour or compulsory labour, respects human rights as well as labor rights and is an 124 TABLE 2.2: GRI G4, DMAs and Specific Standard Disclosures (Indicators) GRI Index DMAs Comments, Links Report’s Section equal opportunity employer. Further, INTRALOT has a policy of intolerance toward any form of discrimination or harassment in the workplace and offers all employees a safe and meritocratic working environment, nurturing professional development and the work life balance. G4-HR3 Total number of incidents The Human Resources Department monitors • 5.2 of discrimination and such phenomena and acts accordingly. corrective actions taken No incidents reported to date. Freedom of Association There is a Workers’ Union, to whom employees and Collective Bargaining may communicate all work-related issues, which are taken directly to company management. G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers Immaterial aspect – There are no operations • 5.5 identified in which or suppliers whose workers’ rights to exercise • 5.3 the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining freedom of association mat be violated or at significant risk. and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Child Labor INTRALOT is against child labour and forced or compulsory labour. INTRALOT observes the relevant labour legislation which includes the prohibition of child labor, forced labor set by the International Labour Organization (ILO), and the provisions related to human rights and working conditions in compliance with agreement and rules of employment. G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers INTRALOT does not select suppliers who utilize • 3.5 identified as having child labour or pose significant risk for incidents • 5.3 significant risk for of child labor. incidents of child labor, and measures taken to The Human Resources Department, the contribute to the effective Department of Contracts and & Procurements abolition of child labor and the Subsidiaries department monitor such phenomena in cooperation with employee representatives. No reported incidents to date. Forced or Compulsory INTRALOT is against forced or compulsory • 5.3 Labor labour. INTRALOT observes the relevant labour legislation which includes the prohibition of child labor, forced labor set by the International Labour Organization (ILO), and the provisions related to human rights and working conditions in compliance with agreement and rules of employment. G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers INTRALOT does not utilize suppliers who utilize • 3.5 identified as having forced or compulsory labour or pose significant • 5.3 significant risk for risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor. incidents of forced or 125 TABLE 2.2: GRI G4, DMAs and Specific Standard Disclosures (Indicators) GRI Index DMAs Comments, Links Report’s Section compulsory labor, and The Human Resources Department, the measures to contribute Department of Contracts and & Procurements to the elimination of monitor such phenomena in cooperation with all forms of forced or employee representatives. No reported incidents compulsory labor to date. Security Practices The security and the physical and moral integrity of INTRALOT employees and management is fundamental for an effective workplace. INTRALOT has developed and implemented a set of Corporate security procedures so as to minimize security breaches. G4-HR7 Percentage of security INTRALOT Management develops workplace personnel trained security policies and training programs to in the organization’s familiarize employees with the ways to maintain a human rights policies or safe workplace. procedures that are relevant to operations INTRALOT also contracts security services and requires private security providers to train their workforce on the company’s security policies and procedures. Indigenous Rights INTRALOT abides by relevant legislative framework of the local jurisdictions where it operates. G4-HR8 Total number of incidents No incidents reported. of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken Assessment INTRALOT regularly identifies, predicts and responds to the potential human rights impacts of its business operations worldwide. The Human resources Department applies a due diligence process to human rights assessment. G4-HR9 Total number and INTRALOT will design a questionnaire on human percentage of operations rights standards to be required from significant that have been subject to locations of operation. human rights reviews or impact assessments Supplier Human Rights The Department of Contracts and Procurements Assessment applies a due diligence process to Human Rights assessment as part of the supplier selections and evaluation process. G4-HR11 Significant actual and No actual or potentially negative human rights • 3.5 potential negative human impacts have been reported to date. • 5.3 rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Human Rights Grievance INTRALOT has a grievance mechanism that Mechanisms employees may use to voice complaints, report incidents, and raise issues that impact or can potentially impact any aspect of corporate performance. 126 TABLE 2.2: GRI G4, DMAs and Specific Standard Disclosures (Indicators) GRI Index DMAs Comments, Links Report’s Section G4-HR12 Number of grievances There is no report of human rights grievances. about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Mechanisms DMA Society Local Communities INTRALOT is committed to conducting its • 2.2 business in a sustainable manner by addressing the social, economic and environmental impacts of its operations, and to being a responsible leader of the gaming sector, according to the principle of fair competition and in compliance with the legal and the regulatory framework of the sector. The company actively seeks to be a substantive contributor to the local communities where it operates through the transfer of technology and know-how and through the employment and specialized training of its local workforce. Further, it contributes to the enhancement of the quality of life and the development of its workforce and of local communities through social programs that aim at advancing education and human capital; supporting social welfare and human development; and preserving cultural heritage. G4-SO1 Percentage of operations • 2.2 with implemented local • 2.3 community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Anti-corruption INTRALOT is committed to conducting our • 1.8 business in compliance with the highest ethical • 1.9 standards and all applicable laws. • 1.10 • 1.11 • Code of Corporate Governance, available at: http://www.intralot. com/sites/default /files/ΚΕΔ%20(ENG).pdf (English version) http://www.intralot.com/ sites/default /files/ΚΕΔ%20(GR).pdf (Greek version) G4-SO3 Total number and All business units are controlled for risks percentage of operations associated with corruption, following standard assessed for risks related internal auditing procedure. The procedure is to corruption and the consistent with the Group’s Code of Conduct. 127 TABLE 2.2: GRI G4, DMAs and Specific Standard Disclosures (Indicators) GRI Index DMAs Comments, Links Report’s Section significant risks identified No relevant report or complaint in 2012. G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of No actions planned in 2012 (apart from relevant corruption and actions training) to address incidents of corruption as taken there are no reported incidents. However, there is provision for administrative and legal measures in accordance with Internal Regulations. Regular audits are planned by the relevant auditing departments. Public Policy INTRALOT believes that in the current changeable economic environment, it is imperative for businesses, community organizations and other stakeholders to jointly contribute to advancing education, technology, R&D and infrastructure that will ensure sustainable economic growth and prosperity. G4-SO6 Total value of political No such contributions contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary Anti-competitive Behavior INTRALOT operations conform to the principle of fair competition and comply with competition laws and regulations preventing anti-competitive or market distorting practices. G4-SO7 Total number of legal none actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance INTRALOT Group operations and management procedures are subject to international laws and regulations as well as to the governmental oversight and regulatory framework of each jurisdiction where it operates. G4-SO8 Monetary value of No incidents significant fines and total of non-compliance and no fines or sanctions number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations Supplier Assessment for INTRALOT business processes follow Impacts on Society standardized procedures throughout the entire product chain. INTRALOT has adopted a quality management system (QMS) that supports the effective management of partnerships by ensuring consistent quality standards and keeping regular contact with suppliers, exchanging feedback and implementing product or service improvements. INTRALOT’s QMS is based on an open-channel of communication between the Department of Contracts and Procurements and the Technical Support Department through the company’s intranet 128 TABLE 2.2: GRI G4, DMAs and Specific Standard Disclosures (Indicators) GRI Index DMAs Comments, Links Report’s Section portal, where input on subcontractor performance is shared. This input also serves as the basis for recommendations for new or continuing partnerships. G4-SO9 Percentage of new • 3.5 suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society G4-SO10 Significant actual and None reported potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken Grievance Mechanisms INTRALOT has a grievance mechanism that • 3.4 for Impacts on Society employees may use to voice complaints, report • 5.3 incidents, and raise issues that impact or can potentially impact any aspect of corporate performance. Further, as per the requirements of ISO 20000, INTRALOT has established a Service Complaint Procedure for external complaints. G4-SO11 Number of grievances None reported. about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms DMA Product Responsibility Customer Health and INTRALOT is committed to delivering safe, quality Safety products and services to our customers. The Company’s quality management system adopts an integrated approach and monitors the health and safety requirements of its products throughout their entire lifecycle. The company has also established an external Service Complaint Procedure, according to ISO 20000 requirements for IT service management G4-PR2 Total number of incidents No incidents of non-compliance. of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and Service INTRALOT adopts and works closely with • 4.6 Labeling its suppliers and subcontractors in order to communicate and share in the company’s quality policy and requirements. Quality control audits are conducted by senior quality engineers to 129 TABLE 2.2: GRI G4, DMAs and Specific Standard Disclosures (Indicators) GRI Index DMAs Comments, Links Report’s Section assist the company in continuous improvements in the quality of delivered products or services. G4-PR4 Total number of incidents No incidents of non-compliance. of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys • 3.4 measuring customer • 4.3 satisfaction • 4.8 Marketing INTRALOT marketing communications in all Communications jurisdictions where it has a presence abide by responsible gaming principles and actively promote best practices. The company further conducts market research across all countries where it has presence, including usage & attitude surveys, segmentation and tracking studies, retail field, and online researches. Intralot is a member of ESOMAR and abides by ESOMAR’s Code & Guidelines for market research. G4-PR7 Total number of incidents No incidents. There is full compliance with • 4.1 of non-compliance with relevant rules & codes of conduct (including on • 4.6 regulations and voluntary unfair competition and consumer protection). codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer Privacy INTRALOT products and IT tools and systems offer customers a healthy and safe gaming environment. Player registration and other data monitoring systems follow strict security standards and comply with relevant legislation on the protection of personal data. G4-PR8 Total number of No complaints. substantiated complaints Records of personal customer data fully comply regarding breaches of with relevant legislation and are fully harmonized customer privacy and with national & EU law losses of customer data Compliance INTRALOT has established a state-of-the-art framework for the governance of enterprise business processes that abides by the relevant national and international legislation (e.g. Privacy Act, Security of E-transactions, Anti-Money130 Laundering). TABLE 2.2: GRI G4, DMAs and Specific Standard Disclosures (Indicators) GRI Index DMAs Comments, Links Report’s Section G4-PR9 Monetary value of No such fines significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 131 Glossary GRI The international organization Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) has developed a framework of sustainability indicators in order to standardize sustainability reports that organizations publish. GRI aims at making sustainability reports a useful tool and a standardized procedure, just like a financial report. The GRI framework includes company economic, environmental and social performance indicators (www.globalreporting.org). Sustainability Sustainability or Sustainable Development is defined as the manner in which an Organization operates to the extent that it meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs (the Rio Declaration on the Environment and Development, United Nations Organization, 1992). Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Corporate Social Responsibility is a concept whereby companies integrate voluntary social and environmental concerns into their business operations and relationships with stakeholders, and understand that responsible behavior leads to sustainable business success (Green Paper on Corporate Social Responsibility, European Commission, 2001). 132 Abbreviations ACCA Association of Chartered Certified Accountants AGEM Association of Gaming Equipment Manufacturers AIT Athens Information Technology APLA Asia Pacific Lottery Association B2B Business to Business CCFL Cold Cathode Fluorescent Lamp CIBELAE Corporación Iberoamericana de Loterías y Apuestas del Estado (Iberian-American Gambling Association) CO2 Carbon Dioxide Cr Chromium CSR Corporate Social Responsibility DMA Disclosures on Management Approach EBEN European Business Ethics Network EFQM European Foundation for Quality Management ESOMAR European Society for Opinion and Marketing Research EL European Lotteries and Toto Association FTSE Financial Times and London Stock Exchange GCI Global Competitiveness Index GHG Greenhouse Gas GSA Gaming Standards Association ISO International Organization for Standardization HE.R.R.Co. Hellenic recovery Recycling Corporation HR Human Resources Kwh Kilo Watt per Hour LED Light-Emitting Diode MTBF Mean Time between Failures M³ Cubic Meters NASPL North American Association of State and Provincial Lotteries NFC Near Field Communication OTB Off-Track Betting Pb Lead PC Personal Computer POS Point of Sale RFP Request for Proposal RG Responsible Gaming RoHS Restriction of Hazardous Substances SA8000 Social Accountability 8000 (A Social Accountability Standard) S.A. Société Anonyme SCI Sustainability Competitiveness Index TSD Technical Support Division VLT Video Lottery Terminal WLA World Lottery Association 133 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Report 2012 Feedback Form Your opinion helps us improve We invite you to share your opinion with us and help us to improve INTRALOT’s Sustainability Report, by submitting your answers to the following questionnaire: Which stakeholder group do you belong to? Employee Stakeholder / Investor Customer Supplier Local Community NGO Media Other: What is your overall impression of the Report? Very Good Good Average Bad Coverage of basic issues regarding the Company’s operations Completeness of quantitative data Completeness of qualitative data Graphics and illustration Balance between sections What is your opinion regarding the following sections of the Report? Very Good Good Average Bad Company Profile Sustainability in INTRALOT Group Corporate governance and Compliance Responsible Gaming Our People Our Planet Are there any sections that need to be extended? Do you have any comments or suggestions that you would like to make? 134 Personal Details (optional): Full Name: Company/organization: Address: Tel./Fax: E-mail address: Please return this form to: INTRALOT S.A. Department of Communications 64 Kifissias Ave. & 3 Premetis Str. GR-15125 Athens, Greece Fax: (+30) 210 615 6093 Report evaluation information will be statistically processed solely toward improving the report. All personal data are treated as confidential and are protected as defined by law. 135
