Driving sustainability Sustainability Report 2012 siemens.com/answers Key performance indicators Key sustainability indicators FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 Economic Revenue generated by the Environmental Portfolio (in billions of €) 1 33.2 30.2 27.7 in % of total revenue 42 41 40 Ratio of R&D expenses to revenue (in %) 5.4 5.3 5.2 Environment Accumulated annual customer reduction in carbon dioxide emissions generated by elements from the Environmental Portfolio (in millions of metric tons) 1 332 257 213 Improvement in environmental performance – energy efficiency relative to the baseline year (FY 2010) 1 8% 4% – Improvement in environmental performance – waste relative to the baseline year (FY 2010) 1 6% 10% – Reduction of waste for disposal relative to the baseline year (FY 2010) 1 4% (3)% – Improvement in environmental performance – CO2 emissions relative to the baseline year (FY 2010) 1 12% 5% – Number of suppliers who have completed a self-assessment as part of our energy efficiency program EEP4S 1 916 32 – Employees and society Total employees, continuing operations (in thousands) 370 359 335 Total employees, continuing and discontinued operations (in thousands) 410 402 405 Employee fluctuation rate (in %) 3, 4 10.7 12.9 12.9 Proportion of women (as a percentage of employees in management positions) 3 15.3 14.6 13.7 Expenditure on continuing education (in millions of €) 3, 5 283 251 225 Expenditure per employee on continuing education (in €) 3, 4 693 608 560 External sustainability audits with Siemens suppliers 1 357 284 203 Fatal accidents (Siemens) 1, 6 4 3 4 Rankings Points in Dow Jones Sustainability Index 92 90 87 Points in Global 500 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index 98 97 98 1 Continuing operations. 2 Pilot phase. 3 Continuing and discontinued operations. 4 Employee fluctuation rate is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary departures to the total number of Siemens employees for a fiscal year. 5 Travel expenses not included. 6 The figures do not include commuting accidents. Title photo – São Paulo is currently dominated by soccer. In the Pargue do Ibirapuera, one of the city’s landmarks, the children are already preparing for the soccer World Cup next year. With its financial commitment for the “Jogos Limpos” initiative set up by the Instituto Ethos, Siemens is helping to ensure fair competitive conditions for the infrastructure projects as well. 2 www.siemens.com/sr/integrit y-initiative Contents 2 Key performance indicators 4 Foreword Strategy 7 Siemens – a strong partner for sustainability 8 Our Environmental Portfolio: an important pillar of our business success 9 Innovations are our lifeblood 9 Sustainability as a guiding principle 10 Sustainability creates business opportunities 10 Sustainability needs to be firmly anchored 11 The challenges remain but we are on the right course Examples of sustainable business 14 Responsibility How can an international company contribute to the sustainable development of our planet? ­Managing Board member Barbara Kux provides answers in an interview PAGE 14 20 Growth With its innovative products and solutions, Siemens is helping its customers tap new business opportunities, improve their ­ecological performance and, not least, grow in a profitable and sustainable way. PAGE 20 30 Efficiency Efficiency is one of the key ­elements to sustainable development. The Siemens Multix Select DR, our entry-level digital radio­ graphy system, is a good example of this. PAGE 30 Facts and figures 40 Reporting method 42 Innovation 44 Customers and portfolio 46 Compliance 48 Employees 52 Occupational health and safety management 54 Environmental protection and products 61 Suppliers 64 Corporate citizenship 66 Independent assurance report 68 United Nations Global Compact 70 United Nations Water Mandate 71 Global Reporting Initiative 72 Notes and forward-looking statements 74 Information resources 3 Foreword Driving sustainability – An aim, a responsibility and an opportunity 4 Dear readers, we have only one planet to live on. Yet ­humanity is already consuming the equivalent of the ­natural resources of 1.5 planets. And the impact on the ­environment, the climate and society is unmistakable. That’s why we must act today to ensure that future generations inherit a world worth living in. The children from São Paulo featured on the front cover of this report are already part of this future. They represent our stakeholders of tomorrow – our customers, partners, investors and employees. And they also represent the wide variety of requirements to be met as societies around the world join the quest for a sustainable future. At Siemens, we’re preparing for this future with an overarching strategy that has sustainability as its guiding principle. Sustainability is more than just a buzzword: It derives from ways of thinking and acting which were developed 300 years ago and affect many areas of our life today. The concept of sustainability also had an impact on our company’s founder. Werner von Siemens recognized early on that sustainability had great potential for an innovative company and that the principles of good business – that is, efficiency and growth on the one hand, and responsibility for society and the environment, on the other – were not mutually exclusive but mutually reinforcing. This understanding of sustainability as a business opportunity that drives economic, environmental and social progress has dominated our strategy and activities for 165 years. And our Company’s structure reflects this focus. Sustainability is addressed at the Managing Board level and is firmly anchored in our organization. In 2009, we launched a comprehensive Sustainability Program and established the Sustainability Board, which comprises high-ranking representatives from throughout the Company, as well as the Sustainability Advisory Board, which consists of leading external experts. We’re fully committed to the goals of the Global Compact and the CEO Water Mandate of the United Nations. And we actively cooperate with organizations such as the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, the Global Reporting Initiative, the World Economic Forum and the World Resources Institute. External assessments conducted in fiscal 2012 also attest that we’re on the right track. In the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, we were named the world’s most sustainable industrial company – not only capturing the No. 1 spot for diversified industrials for the fifth time in a row but also, for the first time, leading the industrial goods and services category which includes all nine different industries. We also again improved our score in the Carbon Disclosure Project, achieving an excellent result, with 98 out of 100 points. The action we’ve taken is impressive, and the facts speak for themselves – in terms of business and environmental performance alike. In fiscal 2012, we generated €33.2 billion with the products and solutions in our Environmental Portfolio while enabling our customers to cut their CO2 emissions by 332 million tons. We also took an important step forward in the area of healthcare, where we’re working with customers and partners to improve healthcare worldwide. In 2012, over 890 million people worldwide benefited from our medical imaging technologies, such as our Multix Select DR digital radiography system. The following pages show how we’re driving sustainability with respect to our business, the environment and society. Focusing on selected everyday activities at our company, we invite you to take a look at how we’re demonstrating accountability while driving efficiency and growth – in other words, how we’re contributing to sustainable development. The report depicts how we’re pushing efficiency in the development and production of one of our products while also increasing its customer benefit, and how we’re enhancing the sustainability of our customers’ businesses with our products and solutions. Find out about the challenges confronting Siemens worldwide and how we’re tackling them to achieve our goals – to the benefit of the environment, society and our Company. See for yourselves how we’re tackling these challenges. Peter Löscher Barbara Kux CEO of Siemens AG Member of the Managing Board of Siemens AG and Chief Sustainability Officer 5 Sustainability as a strategic principle 300 years after the idea of sustainability was first put forward, it is still on the agenda for all of us. Sustainable practices are required more than ever before. Throughout the world, governments, societies and businesses are being confronted by ­economic, ecological and social challenges that need ­specific answers and rapid action. As a globally operating technology company, Siemens is aware of its responsibility and is taking it seriously. For the sake of future generations, we want to act responsibly and make economic, ecological and social progress. That’s how we see sustainability and how we are acting. When Hans Carl von Carlowitz pleaded for respectful, >> The world’s current population will increase by careful and “sustainable use” of nature 300 years ago one-third by 2050, and most people will be living in Sylvicultura Oeconomica, his book on forestry, he in countries currently classed as emerging market originated a term that has left its mark on present economies. All in all, 85% of humankind will be thoughts and deeds: sustainability. Now, 300 years ­living there in roughly 40 years’ time and just 15% later, the challenges we face differ from those in the will be born in today ’s industrialized economies. 18th century, yet in many respects they are the same. They are all united by, among other things, a Sustainability remains on the agenda and sustain­desire for healthcare in line with their needs (see able practices are more necessary than ever before also “Our sustainable healthcare strategy” on ­because the world’s resources are finite and must be page 39 ). used in an efficient and sustainable manner. >> This associated with the natural striving for a higher quality of life in these countries, which involves “Our civilization is a long way away from sustainable economic growth and increased consumption of practices,” is the blunt opinion of Björn Stigson, energy and other resources. This applies in particuwho was president of the World Business Council for lar to the urban agglomerations in which some 70% Sustainable Development until 2012. Since it was of the world’s population – about six billion people founded in 1995, few other institutions have been so – will be living by the middle of this century. engaged in sustainable business conduct. Mr. Stig>> And researchers are pointing to another alarming son, member of the Siemens Sustainability Advisory aspect: the Earth has warmed by 0.7° Celsius and Board, does not simply leave it at that but calls for this is largely due to CO2 emissions by human-reaction (see his statement on page 12 ): “The situalated activities. And there is no sign of a reversal of tion is getting more alarming from year to year. The this trend yet. On the contrary, the Intergovernworld’s population is growing and, accordingly, mental Panel on Climate Change is reckoning with the consumption of resources is also rising. In addia further rise in global warming of 1.1 to 6.4° tion, people are still largely dependent on non-­ ­Celsius for the 21st century – with corresponding renewable resources such as fossil fuels. The negaconsequences for people and the environment. tive impact on the climate is evident.” His estimations match ours from years of observing megatrends. The impact of all this on our planet is revealed in They are outlined below and cover the spheres in ­investigations by the Global Footprint Network (see which governments, societies and businesses need graph on the right-hand page), which compares to take action. ­economic d ­ evelopment and the associated yearning 6 for better living conditions in developing and emergExamples of business opportunities created by sustainability ing countries with their ecological footprint. The conclusion is that emerging countries, on their way Our contribution to better ­ living conditions, must take a different to sustainable development course than today ’s industrialized economies. They must not ­repeat the development process that charPage 14 acterized traditional industrialization and placed treResponsibility mendous burdens on the environment. On the conSiemens takes its responsibility ­seriously and contributes to the sustrary, they must organize their development to tainable development of our planet. In her interview, Managing Board maximize resource efficiency. And industrialized member Barbara Kux talks about Page 20 economies need to help them and, at the same time, recent developments and perspectives for the future. Growth reduce their ecological footprint drastically. With its innovative products, solutions and services, Siemens is helping its customers tap new The good news is that we can do something about business opportunities, improve their ecological performance this – as countries, societies and businesses. Action and, not least, grow in a profitable and sustainable way. can be taken in many areas, as a look at climate Page 30 change and its causes clearly shows. We already have Efficiency a variety of solutions to reduce CO2 emissions noticeEfficiency is one of the keys to sustainable developably – on both the producer and consumer side. ment. The Siemens Multix Select DR, our entry-level digital radiography system, is a good example of this. ­According to the International Energy Agency, the global energy market will grow by 2.8% per annum www.siemens.com/sustainabilit y-report up to 2030, and the proportion of renewable energy production will grow at the same time but, at 60%, fossil fuels will continue to make up the bulk. That is Indicators for sustainable development why resource efficiency is essential for energy producers and consumers alike. We only have one planet Ecological Footprint Siemens – a strong partner (number of Earths required) for sustainability 6 5 When it comes to sustainability, Siemens is a strong 4 partner as our products, solutions and services are We are already using helping to slash the consumption of energy and 3 ­other resources on both the producer and consumer 2 1.5 Planets side. Our employees develop technologies and man1 ufacture products that save electricity and reduce Goal emissions in regular, everyday use and that make 0 manufacturing processes and operations less re0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 source-intensive. Specifically, these are technologies Quality of life Source: Global Footprint Network (Human Development Index) and products  Africa Europe Asia-Pacific Latin America North America >> that efficiently generate electricity from both fossil fuels and renewable energy sources, We only have one planet to live on. That’s why sustainable practices are >> that transport electricity efficiently, such as highnot just desirable but essential. But how can we make progress in this voltage direct-current (HVDC) transmission links area? What indicators are there? And how can we create transparent ­criteria as a basis for practices? The Global Footprint Network, a forum and smart grids, and of leading experts, has been looking into these questions for years and >> that use energy and resources efficiently, such has come up with some important findings in its Human Development as intelligent building technologies, innovative ­Initiative. A look at two internationally recognized indicators, the Human ­infrastructure and mobility solutions, IT technoloDevelopment Index and the Ecological Footprint, clearly shows that we gies tailored to industrial production as well as will have a future worth living only if we manage to create good living ­efficient medical engineering products that clearly ­conditions for everyone without destroying the foundations of our own lives. As a globally operating technology Company, we want to make reduce stress for patients, cut operating costs our contribution to this with our products, solutions and expertise – that for hospitals and private practices, and improve is our task and duty. ­access to healthcare. www.siemens.com/sr/hdi www.footprintnetwork.org 7 Siemens Environmental Portfolio: revenue and ecological benefit These products and solutions are part of our EnvironActive in sustainability mental Portfolio, which generated revenue of €33.2 billion in the year under review. That is some 42% of our total consolidated revenue, up roughly 10% yearon-year on a comparable basis. If you add the revenue of €3.9 billion generated by OSRAM with its environmental portfolio in the same period, it becomes �33.2 billion (42%) � 78.3 billion apparent we are already quite advanced on the path Revenue from the Environmental Portfolio Total revenue in fiscal 2012 towards our target of €40 billion revenues with products and solutions from the Environmental Portfolio New York City by the end of fiscal 2014, a goal which was set in fisBerlin Hong Kong Tokyo cal 2010 on the basis of the portfolio structure at the London Jakarta São Paulo time. The portfolio divestments that already have been implemented and planned in the meantime, Moscow Melbourne cannot, however, be compensated purely with our own businesses by that time. Our Environmental ­Portfolio: 332 million tons CO2 savings due to the Siemens Environmental Portfolio. That is equivalent to the annual CO2 emissions of these nine cities together. an important pillar of our business success We are one of the leading green companies in the Siemens is one of the world’s largest suppliers of green technologies. world and a pioneer in sustainable infrastructure Roughly 42% of the Company ’s revenue already comes from our Environ­solutions, and we want to remain so. Our Environmental Portfolio, totaling €33.2 billion in fiscal 2012 alone. Green tech­ mental Portfolio contributes substantially to real susnologies have been among Siemens’ growth drivers since 2008 without tainability, for the benefit of future generations and interruption. And that’s not all. With the products, solutions and services from our Environmental Portfolio, we are helping our customers boost for the protection and preservation of our natural their energy efficiency while considerably reducing their carbon dioxide environment. This is backed up by facts: emissions. In the year under review, this saved about 332 million tons of CO2, which is equivalent to the emissions of the cities shown here. >> Over two-thirds of the solutions in our Environmental Portfolio relate to energy efficiency. For www.siemens.com/environmental-portfolio example, our industrial motors in conjunction ­ with variable-speed technology can reduce energy Siemens Environmental Portfolio: breakdown by elements consumption by up to 70%. And whereas the average efficiency rating of combined cycle power Our contribution to environmenplants is just 50% at present and that of the intal and climate protection 1 stalled power plants in most countries of the world is much lower, our highly efficient CCPPs achieve an efficiency rating of more than 60%. 70% Energy-efficient products and solutions >> Furthermore, the wind energy business contributes Examples: some €5 billion to the revenue generated with our > Combined cycle power plants (CCPP) Environmental Portfolio. For example, our gearless > Smart building technologies six-megawatt wind turbines are in demand throughout the world. Our customer and partner 22% DONG Energy has already ordered 300 of them for its wind farms off the coast of Great Britain (see Renewable energies �33.2 Examples: billion page 22 ). With a rotor blade of up to 75 ­meters – > Wind turbines the largest single-cast fiberglass component in the > Smart grid applications world – a single wind turbine of this size can generate enough electricity to power 6,000 house8% holds. Environmental technologies Examples: The important thing here is that both the ecological > Air pollution control technologies > Charging stations for electric vehicles and the economic sustainability of our business activities is ensured. However, in large parts of our wa1 Distribution based on qualification process ter and solar energy business, this was no longer the case. We therefore decided to divest ourselves of www.siemens.com/sr/envionmental-portfolio-elements 8 these two business fields, especially in view of the products and solutions, aiming to reduce the confact that they made up less than 5% of the revenue sumption of resources, give customers more benefits generated with our Environmental Portfolio. and, all in all, improve the living conditions of people throughout the world. A look back at the 165-year Chemical water treatment requires expertise primarhistory of our Company clearly shows that innovaily in the area of process engineering and therefore tions have always been, are and will always remain offers few synergies with our other business activithe lifeblood of Siemens; they are the expression of ties. As far as water business is concerned, we will responsible and thus sustainable practices aimed at therefore be concentrating on our core competencies the future. in the field of automation technology in the future. The general conditions in the area of solar thermal Our innovations impact many areas of life such energy have changed significantly in a very short as transportation, industry and healthcare. ­Today, time, for example due to the drastic price collapse of people around the world rely on trains, metros and photovoltaic modules and extremely aggressive comlight-rail systems from Siemens to provide them petition from the Far East. In terms of renewable enwith safe, ecofriendly transport to and from their ergies, we are therefore focusing on the attractive homes and places of work. In industry, our product markets of wind energy and hydropower. lifecycle management (PLM) software makes it ­ possible to ­ develop, simulate and test products The Environmental Portfolio remains an important in the virtual world and to model entire production pillar of our business success as it addresses espeprocesses (see page 26 ). And in hospitals, our cially dynamic markets. According to statistics pub­innovative liver ­fibrosis test ­enables doctors to exlished by the German Ministry for the Environment, amine patients ­suffering from chronic liver disease the worldwide market for green technologies is curwithout having to conduct t­ ime-consuming, potenrently worth about €2 trillion per year. And experts tially dangerous biopsies. The ­significance of our predict that its volume will double by the year 2020. sustainable energy supply technologies has already We want to participate in that, and see further been pointed out. growth potential for us. This is why we are keeping our expenditure on Alongside the economic aspect, the ecological di­research and development at a high level and can look mension of our Environmental Portfolio also shows at our successes with pleasure. Our R&D employees the significance of growth in this field. Our environare now reporting more than twice as many invenmental technologies enabled customers to reduce tions as in 2001. In fiscal 2012, we filed 8,900 invenCO2 emissions by 332 megatons worldwide in the tion reports – some 5% more than a year earlier. Durpast fiscal year alone (see graph on the left-hand ing the same period, we even increased the number of page). If you take the associated resource savings our patent first filings by about 7% to 4,600, m­ aking into account, the ecological and economic benefits Siemens once again a leader in the worldwide patent become even more apparent. statistics and No. 1 in Europe (see also page 43 ). Our current technology portfolio already covers 32% of the savings potential identified for 2030 in a study Sustainability by the management consulting firm McKinsey; and as a guiding principle that is throughout the value chain – from energy producer to end consumer. We are contributing to greatAll this shows that sustainability is a guiding princier resource efficiency and climate protection not only ple at our Company and the goal of sustainable value in respect of our customers but also our suppliers. creation remains a key element of our strategy. Two Our Energy Efficiency Program for Suppliers (EEP4S) years ago we established the strategic framework for is a good ­example of this (see page 63 ). It helps this in the shape of One Siemens. With this target our suppliers reduce their consumption of energy system for sustainable value creation and capital-­ and other r­ esources. In this regard we draw upon the efficient growth at our Company, we have pointed knowledge and expertise that we have gained from the way ahead. our ­Environmental Portfolio and our own environmental program. Its strategic directions – “Focus on innovation-driven growth markets”, “Get closer to our customers” and “Use the power of Siemens” – set the milestones Innovations are our lifeblood which will be reached in specific focus areas. We are continuing to push the boundaries. Our scien>> The products and solutions in our Environmental tists and engineers are working worldwide on new Portfolio and the innovative power of Siemens play 9 a central role in contributing to environmental and sustainable development of our planet. You can find ­climate protection while also strengthening our out how that exactly works, which successes we’ve standing in these innovation-driven growth markets. achieved, which challenges lie ahead and, last but >> A close customer relationship based on trust and a not least, which steps will be necessary in the future competitive, globally balanced and localized netin our interview with Barbara Kux. As Chief Sustainwork of suppliers supports us in getting closer to ability Officer, she has been responsible for sustainour customers all over the world. ability on the Managing Board since 2008, has pro>> Excellent employees are one of Siemens‘ vital moted the topic through numerous initiatives, and strengths as they play a key role in our success and has visibly highlighted its significance within the are the true power of Siemens. Leveraging the Company. power of Siemens also means strict adherence to clear principles of integrity – something we also Then we invite you to get to know four Siemens expect of our partners and suppliers.  customers from our Energy, Healthcare, ­ ­ Industry and Infrastructure & Cities Sectors. We show you The important thing is the basic idea behind it: our how our innovative products, solutions and services broad understanding of sustainability and what we are helping our customers tap new business demand of ourselves – in the economic, ecological ­opportunities, improve their ecological performance and social arenas. What it boils down to is that we and, not least, grow in a profitable and sustainable want to achieve sustainable value creation; improve manner. with our innovative products, solutions and services the environmental performance of our customers, After that, our travels take us to China, which will suppliers and partners; pursue our own internal envicontinue to be a significant growth market for the ronment goals; and establish appropriate measures future. Here we demonstrate that efficiency is an at the Company. We are looking for the best employimportant, and perhaps the most important, key ­ ees, enable them to gain qualifications and offer to sustainable development. Using a medical techthem opportunities to develop. And last but not nology example – the Siemens Multix Select DR, our least, we are engaged socially in the framework of entry-level digital ­radiography system – we show our corporate citizenship activities. how efficiency can be boosted throughout all phases of its lifecycle: from development to production to its We are aware that decisions will not always be free of use by ­customers. You can learn more about all three conflicting targets and try to make them transparent topics by reading pages 14-39 . and as optimal as possible. Siemens is aiming for responsible use of natural resources, targeted investments in viable technologies that promise profitable Sustainability needs growth and offer our customers a competitive edge, to be firmly anchored and corporate ethics that extend beyond compliance with the law and focus on integrity. The importance Siemens attaches to the topic of ­sustainability is also evident in the way it is firmly We are convinced that, with this approach, we are anchored in the Company ’s culture. In contrast to conducting business in a sustainable manner while many of our competitors, we have made it a matter building the basis for a successful future for our for the Managing Board and have set up an appropriCompany. ate support organization. A cross-departmental and cross-functional committee, the Siemens Sustainability Board, defines the guidelines for our sustainSustainability creates business ability activities. As our central body for sustainabiliopportunities ty, it convenes regularly to set priorities for the main issues for Siemens and its stakeholders, define the In the sense used above, sustainability also means strategic focus of our sustainability activities, and business opportunities that we want to exploit con­ approve appropriate measures and initiatives. Its sistently. This report illustrates this point with three work is guided by the principle of materiality (see specific examples. graphic on the right-hand page). High-ranking representatives of the Sectors, all relevant specialist func“Walk the talk ” – that is the central pillar of Siemens’ tions and our Regional Companies provide the necessustainability program. The overriding aim of our sary expertise and decision-making authority. In ­activities is to make concrete contributions to the addition, the Siemens Sustainability Advisory Board, 10 a committee of leading international experts, conSiemens materiality matrix 2013 tributes ­vision from an external, independent standpoint ­(refer to the statement by Björn Stigson on Guided by materiality page 12 ). It supplements and aggregates, at the top level, the information and knowledge that we ac> Demographic change quire in the course of our varied engagement in the > Urbanization main national and international sustainability orgaMegatrends > Climate change nizations. Siemens has, for example, been taking > Globalization part in the Global Compact since 2003 and has thus committed itself to comply with the social and ecological standards set out in the United Nations’ declaration. On top of that, we work together with the Importance for our stakeholders most important organizations in this field, such as > Internal resource > Innovation the World Business Council for Sustainable Developefficiency > Sustainability in ment, the United Nations Environment Programme, > Integrity the supply chain the Global Reporting Initiative, the World Economic > Resource ­productivity Forum and the World Resources Institute. We also > Environmental play an active role in various sustainability initiaPortfolio tives. > Resource security > Employee recruiting & In order to carry out these tasks successfully and retention meet our objectives, in 2009 we set up the C ­ orporate Sustainability Office directly beneath the Managing Board to support the two boards ­mentioned above, control our work in the various sustainability organizations and coordinate company-wide programs > Corp. citizenship > Diversity > Localization and measures. > Health & safety > Employee of the value chain > Human rights ­satisfaction As the composition of the Sustainability Board shows, > Affordable & personalized we see sustainability as a Company-wide task that healthcare requires clear structures and close cooperation ­ ­between various units within the Company. The classical silo mentality wouldn’t get us anywhere. We will Importance for Siemens (for sustainable business success) come up with concepts and solutions that help us to achieve our corporate goals only when the various specialist functions within the Company – ranging > Sustainable company strategy from Innovation to Corporate Citizenship (see the > Stakeholder engagement corresponding sections on pages 42-65 ) – act toProcesses > Risk management gether and mesh closely with our business activities > Reporting/Key performance indicators and also conduct a solution-oriented dialog with our external stakeholders. We regularly identify sustainability topics based on their importance for Siemens and our stakeholders, and prioritize them on the principle of The challenges remain but we are materiality. In our materiality matrix we highlight key sustainability issues on the right course and their significance for our stakeholders and Siemens. The prioritization shows the action areas identified in the survey as the key levers for sustainable business success, on which we will also continue to focus in Sustainability is on the agenda more than ever bethe future. In the current fiscal year we consulted some 40 experts from fore. The challenges that we have described are huge science, industry, politics, non-governmental organizations and consulbut, as a globally operating technology Company, tancies as part of a process that closely integrates analyses of general Siemens already has the products, solutions, inno­ developments, our orientation to megatrends, and intensive dialog with vative strength and technological expertise to make our stakeholders. Internal working groups combined the outcomes of this dialog with assessments from the Company’s specialist functions, a big contribution to sustainability. and the results were then discussed with our Sustainability Board and the Siemens Sustainability Advisory Board, a high-level panel of independent We are facing up to our responsibility in a transparent experts. The outcome: our 2013 – 2014 materiality matrix. and committed manner in order to meet our goals. www.siemens.com/sr/materialit y-matrix 11 Guest article by Björn Stigson, member of the Siemens Sustainability Advisory Boards Pioneers like Siemens are contributing to the sustainable development of our planet Efficient and climate-neutral solutions are needed What has to be done? Politicians need to see reason, society must change its views and pressure has to be brought to bear and, in particular, the world requires products and solutions that are energy-efficient and climate-neutral and thus ecofriendly. Technical innovation and pioneering efforts are and remain the most important drivers for a change to an energyefficient, climate-neutral economy. Even ambitious climate protection goals can be achieved if ­creative engineers devise solutions allowing electricity to be produced in the future from renewable sources in a way that can compete with fossil fuels such as coal, oil and gas. Solutions like these will play a key role in shaping living conditions in the decades ahead. And the good news is that things are happening. In 2011, a record amount of money was invested worldwide in renewable sources of energy. The United Nations Environment ­Programme calculated that $257 billion (about Björn Stigson was president of the World Business Council €205 billion) flowed into the green energy segment, 17% up for Sustainable Development from 1995 to 2012. This year on year. ­institution has dealt intensively with sustainable business conduct ever since it was founded and is an important As far as business is concerned, this means that companies ­discussion forum for sustainability-oriented companies developing, manufacturing and selling such products and like Siemens. Among other things, the former top man­solutions will have opportunities for growth and profit. And ager now puts his longstanding experience into advisory the world’s leading companies have recognized this. A green bodies for governments and international organizations. race has started to find the leading supplier of resource-effiIn addition, he has been a member of the Siemens Suscient, climate-neutral products and solutions. tainability Advisory Board since 2009 and provides us with advice and assistance. Siemens is setting standards I am convinced that only those businesses will succeed in The world is facing big challenges the long term that focus their development efforts on such Those who, like myself, have been dealing intensively with products and solutions, who set up corresponding innovation sustainable development and appropriate strategies for years ­processes and who define sustainability as one of the guiding in various committees know that our civilization is unfortuprinciple of their company strategy and act in line with it. nately a long way away from sustainable practices and that Siemens is making very good progress here and is setting stanthe situation is getting more serious from year to year. The dards with the innovative, resource-conserving and climateworld’s population is growing and the consumption of re­sources neutral products and solutions in its Environmental Portfolio. that this entails is increasing accordingly. And another fact Savings of 332 million tons of C02 among its customers in is that people are still largely dependent on ­non-renewable the past ­fiscal year alone show how sustainable practices can resources such as fossil fuels. have a tangible effect. That Siemens already generates 42% of its total revenue with its Environmental Portfolio proves The negative impact on the climate is evident. A look at the that economy and ecology do not need to clash with each countries currently classed as emerging market economies other. As this report shows, Siemens is also successful in other makes this clear: By the middle of this century only 15% of the fields of sustainability. The fact that sustainability is anchored world’s population will be living in industrialized economies. in the Company ’s organizational structure in the special way it Conversely, this means that the current emerging countries is has, in my opinion, contributed to this. will be home to more than three-fourths of the world’s population. And they will all be united by one set of wishes – to comIt is pioneers like Siemens – with its technological expertise, bat poverty, to achieve better living conditions and, last but innovative strength and implementation skills – that make a not least, to create prosperity. But that has its price; the conbig contribution to the sustainable development of our planet. sumption of energy and other resources will rise even further. Siemens needs to follow on from this and keep going in the That might sound alarming but it is the reality. The facts speak direction in which it has set off. I am looking forward to confor themselves. We cannot carry on as before. It is time to think tinuing my collaboration with Siemens and reserve the right again because there is no alternative to sustainable practices. to remain difficult in the future whenever necessary. www.siemens.com/sustainabilit y 12 External awards that we received during the year External awards for our commitment to sustainability ­under review show yet again that we’re on the right track. In terms of sustainability, the renowned Dow We are on the right track Jones Sustainability Index ranked us best in class. We have been best in class in our own category repeatedly over the years but, for the very first time, that Dow Jones Carbon title was also awarded to us across nine categories: Sustainability Disclosure Supersector Leader as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index calls it. This assessment is based on a set of Index Project criteria covering economic, ecological and social First place Outstanding result ­dimensions on the one hand and general and sector(92 of 100 points) (98 of 100 points) specific aspects on the other hand. 1,500 companies Best in class – In the Global 500 Carbon Industrial Goods Disclosure Leadership Index are included in the assessment process. And the and Services for the fifth time in a row ­ important Carbon Disclosure Project also ranks Siemens as one of the leading companies, with a score of 98 points out of 100. This organization, which was founded in London in the year 2000, aims to make companies’ emission reporting more transparent. This gives businesses a significant incentive Siemens is on the right track with its sustainability activities. This is demto review their climate policy and reduce their CO2 onstrated by the many awards we received in the year under review. We emissions. are particularly proud of our performance in the renowned Dow Jones ­Sustainability Index. Siemens has ranked highly for 13 years now, but in the year under review the Company won two awards: best in class both in These awards give us great pleasure. They are both Industrial Goods and Services and in Diversified Industrials. In addition, the an ­acknowledgement and a reminder: an acknowlrespected Carbon Disclosure Project included us in its Global 500 Carbon edgement because they show we are on the right Disclosure Leadership Index for the fifth time in a row. track and should stick to it unwaveringly, and a rewww.siemens.com/sustainabilit y minder to keep going in this direction even in the face of a difficult macroeconomic situation. Only by growing sustainably, developing innovative and resource-efficient products and solutions, and being a trustful partner to support our customers in their activities can we contribute to social progress and quality of life around the world. And that is what is needed to continue implementing in the ­future a corporate strategy that raises sustainability to one of its guiding principles. Keep us company in achieving our goals – with commitment and constructive criticism. After all, sustainability is something that concerns us all. We are looking to continuing our ­dialog with you. www.siemens.com/sr/sustainabilit y-strategy 13 Responsibility Acting sustainably, creating new business opportunities. Making a concrete contribution to sustainable development and seizing business opportunities – that is the standard and the goal we have set for our activities. You can find out how that works, which successes we’ve achieved, which challenges lie ahead and, last but not least, which steps will be necessary in the future in our interview with Barbara Kux. As a member of the Managing Board and Chief Sustainability Officer, she has been responsible for sustainability on the Managing Board since 2008, ­promoting the topic with a comprehensive program and ­visibly highlighting its significance within the Company. ABOVE – Barbara Kux, member of the Managing Board and Chief Sustainability Officer at Siemens AG, reviews Siemens’ successes in promoting sustainability in all areas of the Company. 14 Why is sustainability important for enterIn November 2008, the Supervisory Board Barbara Kux, member of the Managing Board of Siemens AG prises? appointed you to the Managing Board and Chief Sustainability Officer Barbara Kux : Sustainability has always been and as the first Chief Sustainability Officrucial to enterprises’ long-term success. cer in the Company ’s history. What was “The good news is that And it is possible only by simultaneously the situation like to begin with? 70% of the potential achieving environmental, economic and Barbara Kux : When I started, Siemens had social objectives on an equal basis. Susjust gone through the difficult compliance to reduce global greentainability is gaining significantly in imphase and the economic crisis was dictathouse gas emissions portance. After all, we are already consuming our operational activities. We first by 2030 can already be ing the natural resources of 1.5 Earths. ­focused on optimizing the supply chain This will be exacerbated by the fact that, so as to be able to make as high and sustapped using the techniaccording to the latest forecasts, the world’s tainable a contribution to Siemens’ earncal solutions available population will grow from 7 to 9 ­billion. ings as possible. To achieve this, I, togethtoday.” The rising living standard of the middle er with our teams, initiated the necessary class in emerging countries is also contrib­ objectives, programs and structures in uting to the increase in resource consumpJanuary 2009. One other issue I focused on tion. Then there is urbanization: More and was sustainability. Siemens had three more people live in conurbations. So that strengths on which to build in this regard: we can cover our food, water and energy First, the Company had already defined an needs in the future, we have to do more Environmental Portfolio with clear criteria. with less. Resource productivity will beSecond, there had always been a raft of come a key factor. The good news is that sustainability activities at Siemens, but 70% of the potential to reduce global they had not been coordinated or pooled greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 can alin an all-embracing way. Third, thinking ready be tapped using the technical soluand acting in terms of sustainability had tions available today. been a guiding principle of Werner von Siemens and, since the Company was To what extent does sustainability confounded in the 19th century, has been part tribute to social development? Can you of its and its employees’ DNA. explain Siemens’ role in that? Barbara Kux : As a supplier of infrastructure, How did you proceed? Siemens helps society make progress with Barbara Kux : The objective in the first stage its innovative products and solutions. The was to create a diagnosis and an inventory “Strategy” section of this report gives more of all existing technologies and to deterdetails of our differentiated offering for mine where greenhouse gas emissions industrialized nations and emerging and could be reduced. To do that, we applied developing countries. Moreover, we toan established method known as the CO2 ABOVE – Our state-of-the-art combined cycle gether with other companies and instituabatement curve to our Siemens technolopower plants make a major contribution to protions are committed to fair competition gies. The result was astonishing: Our existtecting the environment and climate: A power in many markets worldwide. In close cooring technologies at the time offered the plant equipped with a 570-MW 8000H gas ­turbine can reduce CO2 emissions by 700,000 dination with other players, we aim to potential to cut global greenhouse gas tons a year compared with the average for all strengthen social and economic integrity emissions by 37% – a realization that was plants worldwide. by means of well-defined projects. We also not only impressive but also represented a conduct an intensive dialog on other immajor competitive advantage. This comportant fields for society, such as in implepetitive advantage determined what the menting the energy transition in Germany core element of our strategy would be: to or developing new approaches to increase systematically leverage and build on the resource and energy efficiency in Europe. business opportunity that sustainability We also support educational projects such offered us. We defined a Sustainability as the roll-out of Germany ’s very success­Program with the clear goal of increasing ful dual training system in other regions of our business opportunities and competithe world. After all, everyone involved tive advantages. The program is based on gains from combining practice and theory three pillars. The first pillar is to leverage in vocational training. Finally, we sponsor sustainability as a business opportunity to concrete projects for the benefit of society a greater extent. The second is to act as a in the shape of our corporate citizenship role model for sustainability, both interactivities, for example through the Siemens nally for our employees and externally in Stiftung. working with our partners. The third pillar 15 Growth, page 20 Responsibility  Efficiency, page 30 is to form alliances in order to promote mental Portfolio successfully as a major sustainability. The latter was borne of business factor. Every Sector now plays its the realization that no company can effecbit in increasing revenue with environtively drive sustainability on its own. Our mental technologies. In fiscal 2009, we objective was initially to forge a sustainreported revenue of €19 billion from our ability network, including important stakeEnvironmental Portfolio; in 2012, that figholders like the World Business Council ure had climbed to €33.2 billion. The Envifor Sustainable Development, the Global ronmental Portfolio now accounts for 42% Reporting Initiative or the World Resources of our total revenue. In the past fiscal year, Institute. In the years that followed, we we also posted sales growth of three persystematically built up and expanded such cent above that for Siemens as a whole. a network. Thanks to Siemens technology, our cusOnce the program had been defined, the tomers were able to cut CO2 emissions by next step was to create the structures re332 million tons in 2012. That is equal to quired for implementing it. We set up the more than 40% of Germany ’s total annual Sustainability Board, in which all Sectors carbon dioxide emissions in calendar year and functions that contribute to Siemens’ 2010. We are also applying these findings sustainability strategy are represented by in our own value chain; more than 100 of high-ranking members. The Sustainability our own factories have already completed Board, which is geared toward Siemens’ energy efficiency programs. At our SwitchBarbara Kux, business, is the forum where all of the gear Factory at Nonnendammallee in Bermember of the Managing Board of Siemens AG Company ’s sustainability activities are delin, we have been able to cut energy costs and Chief Sustainability Officer fined and pooled, which controls their by around €280,000 a year with invest“We’ve managed to fully implementation and ensures they are imments totaling some €1.5 million. We aim plemented efficiently. We also established to achieve the LEED standard in erecting all achieve all the important a Sustainability Office, which acts as a new Siemens office buildings. We’ve alsustainability goals.” source of knowledge and catalyst for susready accomplished that, for example, in tainability. It is responsible for implementVienna, Shanghai, in London with »The ing the sustainability strategy and coordiCrystal« and in Zurich, and the Company’s nating the company-wide programs and new headquarters in Munich will set a new measures. It also reports on the progress standard in this regard. In addition, we apmade in achieving sustainability. In addiply our Energy Efficiency Program throughtion, we appointed persons in the Sectors out our value chain, and around 1,000 of and Regions with responsibility for impleour suppliers are already benefiting from it. menting the Sustainability Program. Moreover, sustainability is now a source of Finally, a third body was formed to act in a motivation and inspiration for many emconsultative capacity: the Siemens Susployees. That is also demonstrated by the tainability Advisory Board. Eight internagreat response to the contest that gave our tional leaders from science and industry employees worldwide the chance to voice sit on it and advise Siemens as it moves their personal understanding of sustaintoward becoming a leading company in ability in their work environment in a short the field of sustainability. To make our video clip. progress and successes in sustainability clearly measurable, we defined 20 perforOur achievements have also been honored mance indicators for the main success facoutside the Company. Siemens is entors for the first time. Adoption of the Sustrenched as a sustainable company in the tainability Program by the Managing Board public awareness. That is proven by compaved the way for Siemens to leverage mendations from the most prestigious exsustainability as a business opportunity ternal rankings, such as the Dow Jones and competitive advantage. Sustainability Index. In 2012, this index ranked us as the world’s most sustainable What have you achieved thus far? company in the Industrial Goods & SerBarbara Kux : We’ve managed to fully achieve vices supersector for the first time in the all the important sustainability goals. Company ’s history. Siemens again capWe’ve been able to position our Environtured one of the top positions in the Car16 Siemens Integrity Initiative Living integrity In December 2009, Siemens launched the global Siemens Integrity Initiative with a budget of US$100 million. It promotes organizations and projects that fight corruption and fraud through collective action, education and training. In the first round, we selected 31 organizations and projects and we support them with a total of US$37.7 million. Of this, US$3.11 million went to the Instituto Ethos and its »Jogos ­Limpos« project. Detailed information about this can be found in the annual report of the Integrity Initiative 2012. The Siemens Integrity Initiative is part of a World ­Bank-­Siemens AG comprehensive settlement reached on July 2, 2009. www.siemens.com/sr/integrit y-initiative Employees and management culture Encouraging employees €283 million in total Expenditure on continuing education in fiscal 2012 €693 per employee We’re mastering the major challenges or our time, continuously breaking new ground and making technology history. But these achievements are possible only because we have outstanding employees who – through their expertise, abilities and dedication – have made our Company the global powerhouse that it is today. That’s why lifelong learning, ­continuous personal development and the fostering of ­diversity and employee commitment are the foundations of our employee and management culture. In the year under review, total expenditure on continuing education ABOVE – Charlotte is one of the most cutting-edge and expenditure per employee on continuing education production sites at Siemens: In the past years we were therefore increased once again. have not only expanded the plant in compliance with the latest environmental standards and now produce www.siemens.com/sr/employees the most efficient Siemens gas turbines there, but we also live up to our social obligations. In one of the structurally weak regions of the U.S., we have created many new jobs and introduced the German model of the dual training system. 17 Growth, page 20 Responsibility  Efficiency, page 30 Right – The Siemens Sustainability Advisory Board is made up of leading international representatives from science and industry. From left to right: Jeremy Oppenheim, Jennifer Morgan (World Resources Institute), Iqbal Survé (Sekunjalo), Barbara Kux (Siemens AG), Björn Stigson (Stigson and Partners), Tim Flannery (Australian Climate Commission) and Levin Zhu (China International Capital Corporation Limited). Not in the photo: Ernst A. Brugger (BHP – Brugger and Partners) and Jamshed Irani (Tata Sons). Siemens Sustainability Program Acting sustainably, creating new business opportunities Business opportunities Walk the talk Stakeholder engagement – Grow the Siemens Environmental Portfolio – Ensure resource efficiency, health and – Drive value-creating projects with leading – Enhance sustainability in Business Units/­ safety along the value chain global institutions Segments through initiatives – Steer sustainability and compliance via – Engage in constructive dialog with relevant – Increase focus on social contribution of ­effective management systems stakeholders ­business activities – Engage leadership and employees globally – Lead strategic discussions with the Siemens – Push innovation in sustainable products – Implement a strategic, impact-oriented ­Sustainability Advisory Board and business models ­citizenship approach – Foster fair market conditions via Collective Action Sustainability – a guiding principle Our values: responsible, excellent and innovative The goals and activities of the Siemens Sustainability Program are focused body consisting of eight independent individuals from science and industry on the three fields “Business opportunities, “Walk the talk” and “Stakeholder who represent a variety of disciplines and who hail from different continents. engagement.” To gain objective perspectives on our sustainability challenges The board meets at least twice a year and enriches and advances our Sustainand performance, we formed the Siemens Sustainability Advisory Board, a ability Program through expert advice and concrete activities. www.siemens.com/sr/sustainabilit y-program 18 bon Disclosure Project 2012 and also won What challenges do you see down the the German Sustainability Award in 2011. road in relation to sustainability? Siemens’ positive external image as a susBarbara Kux : The risks from climate change tainable company is also a major incentive and its impact on the environment are for both current and potential employees, growing steadily. According to a recent since sustainability plays an increasingly study by MunichRe, for example, weatherimportant role in choosing an ideal related damage in North America in­ employer. We define sustainability for creased by 350% between 1980 and 2010. ­employees mainly through the topics of We’ve seen particularly devastating consetraining and continuing education, health quences as a result of natural disasters in management, ergonomics and use of the the past years, such as Hurricane Sandy in diversity of talents. In short: Sustainability the U.S., the tsunami in Thailand and Fuis now perceived at Siemens as a business kushima in Japan. How can we tackle opportunity and competitive advantage, them? First, it goes without saying that we and plays a major rote in motivating our should use all the available technological teams. means to reduce CO2 systematically. We have enormous potential here and are noHow do you continuously adapt the prowhere near using it to the full. Second, gram to current challenges? supply chains should be made as stable Barbara Kux : In 2009, I established the and “green” as possible so that such inciSiemens Sustainability Advisory Board I dents do not result in substantial losses mentioned earlier, with the goal of reguin business for the company. That’s larly reviewing our strategy, programs and why we assess the risks at our Business Barbara Kux, structure and adapting them to everUnits very precisely and develop and immember of the Managing Board of Siemens AG changing challenges. I was able to win plement appropriate strategies. This apand Chief Sustainability Officer top-flight leaders from all over the world proach has proven its worth: neither “Our aim is to play a and from a variety of disciplines to sit on ­Fukushima, the flooding in Thailand nor the board, such as Tim Flannery, Chief Sandy resulted in our production lines leading role in the field Commissioner of the Australian Climate ­being stopped or deliveries disrupted. of sustainability on a Commission, Jennifer Morgan, Director of the Climate and Energy Program of Where does sustainability at Siemens go permanent basis.” the World Resources Institute, and Björn from here? Stigson, the longstanding President of Barbara Kux : Our aim is to play a leading the World Business Council for Sustainable role in the field of sustainability on a perDevelopment. The Sustainability Advisory manent basis. Over the past years, we Board offers an independent look at our have systematically and comprehensively sustainability activities from the outside built up the topic of sustainability at and provokes us to keep on reviewing and Siemens. The strategy, structure, prooptimizing our strategy and positioning. grams and processes have been estabWe meet twice a year for an intensive lished and have proven themselves. ­ exchange of ideas. The Advisory Board ­Sustainability is a core element of our corcontributes to a lively debate on strategic porate strategy. We’re firmly convinced issues. The body is also tasked with keepthat sustainability is – and will remain – ing us up-to-date on the latest trends and an important driver for the Company, developments. its employees and its stakeholders. 19 Growth, page 20 Responsibility  Efficiency, page 30 Growth Sustainable business conduct – seizing opportunities Sustainable practices and economic common sense are by no means ­conflicting concepts. On the contrary: Especially for innovation-driven companies like Siemens, sustainable practices offer great potential that we aim to exploit consistently – for our customers, the environment and, not least, for our own business success. To give you an idea of what this means in concrete terms, the ­following pages include four examples of customers from our Energy, Healthcare, Industry and Infrastructure & Cities Sectors. Discover how Siemens products, ­solutions and services can help you create new busi­­ness opportunities, improve your ecological performance and, not least, grow in a profitable and sustainable way. 20 6,000 100,000 DONG Energy and Siemens Siloam Hospitals Group and Siemens “We are trailblazers in wind energy” “Our patients are the focus of our work” Clean electricity for 6,000 households from every turbine – that is The Siloam Hospitals Group is introducing high-quality and affordable the incredible performance offered by Siemens’ new 6-megawatt healthcare in Indonesia. Nina Supit trusts in Siemens’ expertise, which wind turbines off the coast of Great Britain. Dong Energy, one of is available to her around the clock thanks to our remote diagnostics the leading power companies in northern Europe, has placed its system. In 2012, we connected the 100,000th medical device to the trust in our wind turbines. Christina Grumstrup Sørensen talks Siemens remote service ­system SRS. about the partnership with Siemens and her goals for the future. Customer statemenT HEALTHCARE, page 25 Customer statemenT ENERGY, page 22 26% +/– INOSIM and Siemens Enel and Siemens “Both customer and partner” “SIESTORAGE stabilizes our power grid” The software company INOSIM has been working closely with Siemens Supplying renewable energies is a real challenge for power for many years and adapts our product lifecycle management (PLM) ­companies like Enel, since load and voltage fluctuations need ­software to the specific needs of its customers in the biological and to be compensated to ensure a stable supply. This is where chemical industry. Peter Balling describes how intelligent software Siemens’ modular energy storage system SIESTORAGE comes solutions can already reduce costs significantly in the planning phase, in. Paola Petroni talks about his experience with a joint test. for example by 26% in the case of one of his customers. Customer statemenT INFRASTRUCTURE & CITIES, page 29 Customer statemenT INDUSTRY, page 26 21 Responsibility, page 14 Growth Efficiency, page 30 left – Christina Grumstrup Sørensen is a ­Senior Vice President, head of ­Pipeline and Projects, and member of the DONG Energy Wind Power Executive Committee. DONG Energy and Siemens “We are trailblazers in wind energy” We have been cooperating trustfully with Siemens for years. Both companies see themselves as pioneers in the field of wind as a renewable energy source. One milestone in this cooperation was back in 1991 when the world's first-ever offshore wind farm went into operation off Vindeby, Denmark. Developments have been rapid since then: A single modern wind turbine from Siemens will now generate more electrical power than our entire wind farm at Vindeby with eleven turbines. What began over 20 years ago is still the case – DONG Energy is a pioneer when it comes to using the latest wind turbines. At the beginning of 2013, we added two SWT-6.0-120 turbines, The Gunfleet Sands III test field is each with a capacity of 6 megawatts (MW), to our wind farm at Gunfleet Sands off the part of Gunfleet Sands ­Offshore ­British coast. We are using them to gain experience for the next big step in our cooperation. In Wind Power Plant and is located 2012 we signed a master agreement with Siemens for the supply of 300 even more powerful roughly 8.5 km off the coast of SWT-6.0-154 wind turbines. Delivering a total output of 1,800 MW, these turbines are ­scheduled Essex. The wind farm ­consists of two operational sections – Gunfleet to be installed off the British coast beginning in 2014. When it comes to projects of this scale, Sands I and II – with 48 wind turbiour long-term experience really pays dividends. So far, DONG Energy has installed over 600 nes (model ­SWT-3.6-107) in total, Siemens wind turbines in twelve offshore wind projects. In doing so, we have mastered huge each producing 3.6 megawatts technical and organizational challenges and built up great trust in each other. We share (MW) and featuring a rotor diameSiemens’ enthusiasm and passion for improving the production of electricity from wind, and ter of 107 meters. They were are looking forward to cooperating on the next offshore projects. ­connected to the power grid in 2010 and, with a total capacity of 172 MW, deliver enough electricity Siemens’ pioneering efforts are very important for us in transforming our business to a green for about 125,000 British profile. DONG Energy is in an ideal position to extend its market lead in the project managehouseholds. ment, installation and operation of offshore wind farms. We have set ourselves the ambitious target of quadrupling our capacity, growing from today’s figure of 1.7 gigawatts (GW) to 6.5 GW by 2020. In order for offshore wind power to realize its full potential, however, it must become cheaper, and our goal is a price of less than €100 per megawatt hour (MWh). This is equivalent to a cost reduction of around 40% compared to current off-take prices in the UK. But we can achieve this target only when all parties work towards a common goal. It requires transparent and cooperative planning on the part of the government plus full support from the industry across the entire value chain. Only then will we be able to deliver on both counts: utilizing wind energy to the greatest possible extent and bringing down energy costs on a long-term basis. 22 Siemens perspective The future of offshore wind energy has begun The installation of the first two 6-megawatt wind turbines in the Gunfleet Sands III offshore test field marks an important ­milestone for Siemens. Siemens is in the vanguard in offshore wind turbine technology and has also played a p ­ ioneering role in the challenging area of offshore installation of wind turbines. The goal of all these endeavors is to further reduce the cost of wind energy and so enable wind power to compete with traditional energy sources. A380 – 79.8 meters Clean electricity for 6,000 households 75 m Our 6-megawatt turbine generates 25 million kilowatt hours of clean electricity per year at offshore sites. This is sufficient to supply 6,000 households. Longest rotor blades in operation Our gearless SWT-6.0-154 offshore wind turbine is equipped with the longest rotor blades in the world. ­Measuring 75 meters, these blades are nearly as long as the wingspan of an Airbus A380. Compact design cuts costs With a nacelle weighing around 200 tons in all, our 6-megawatt machines are the lightest wind turbines in their class. Robust design coupled with low weight – an important contribution to cost efficiency. SWT-6.0-154 www.siemens.com/sr/wind 23 Responsibility, page 14 Growth Efficiency, page 30 Siemens Remote Service Our service with value added information 24 hours a day, 365 days Server at Erlangen Informed round the clock We know how your device is doing. Our service experts monitor your ­system round the clock and detect in good time when repair or mainteErlangen, Germany nance work should be carried out. That creates security, cuts costs and means you can devote more time to the essentials. Jakarta, Indonesia More than service Our service extends far beyond just ­maintenance: Our experts evaluate your data and help you leverage your potential to the full by enabling you to use your ­Siemens product more efficiently, ­improve its utilization and cut running costs. We call that service with value ­added – for you and your patients. MAMMOMAT in Jakarta 100,000 th product connected to the Siemens ­ Remote Service In 2012, the MAMMOMAT Inspiration in Jakarta was the 100,000th medical ­device to be connected to our remote diagnostics system SRS. Since 1985, countless customers all over the world have relied on our IT-aided service and reaped its benefits: maximum system availability, higher productivity and ­lower total cost of ownership. www.siemens.com/sr/srs 24 right – Nina Supit is Head of the ­Radiology Department at the Siloam Hospitals Kebon Jeruk in Jakarta, ­Indonesia. The ten hospitals of the ­expanding Siloam Hospitals Group treat more than 1 million patients ­every year. Siloam Hospitals Group and Siemens “Our patients are the focus of our work” As a hospital group in Indonesia, we have one key goal: To give more and more people access to high-quality, yet affordable healthcare. I want to do my bit to ensure that in my capacity as radiologist at the Siloam Hospitals Kebon Jeruk. The most successful way to beat cancer is still to detect it as soon as possible, which means the chances of curing it are the greatest and ­patients are spared a lot of physical and mental suffering. We therefore make high demands of our mammography system for the early detection of breast cancer. We need precise images in the very highest resolution so as to be able to make reliable diagnoses and avoid repeating scans as far as possible. We need short processing times and rapid results so that we can examine as many patients as possible using one device. And we need maximum technical reliability without stoppages and downtimes so that we can ­dependably calculate the costs per examination. The Siemens MAMMOMAT The Siemens MAMMOMAT Inspiration has impressed us in all these respects. There was also a I­nspiration is a digital mammo­ further important argument for the product: the possibility of remote maintenance with graphy ­platform. The device for Siemens Remote Service. Online monitoring has already proven its worth in relation to other early detection of breast cancer Siemens imaging systems at our hospital. Our devices constantly dispatch real-time data to the unites ease of use and great ­functionality with an outstanding service center in Erlangen. If the experts there detect anomalies, they inform the Siemens design. service office in Jakarta and its technicians rectify the problem before any disruptions or even outages of our devices can occur. For instance, prompt replacement of a fan can prevent the microprocessors overheating and failing. Siemens has not only supplied us with a new radiography system, but is also responsible for In 2012, the digital mammo­­­graphy ensuring it can be used efficiently. By being connected to the Siemens Remote Service we can system in Jakarta became the rely on our MAMMOMAT Inspiration to deliver maximum availability. Service intervals and 100,000th system to be connected maintenance work are planned systematically as and when needed. A further advantage: to the Siemens Remote Service ­Siemens can use our operating data to derive suggestions on how we can make our processes infrastructure. even more efficient. 25 Responsibility, page 14 Growth Efficiency, page 30 INOSIM and Siemens “Both customer and partner” Software and services for the process industry are our specialty. As a medium-sized IT company at home in Germany, we help our customers enhance their processes across the entire p ­ roduct engineering and manufacturing process. To do this, we build on the proven expertise and worldwide experience of Siemens. We have been working closely with Siemens as a p ­ artner since 2003, and add value to their tried-and-tested product lifecycle management (PLM) software to meet the specific needs of our customers in the biological and chemical industry. What does this entail? In the past, the development of new process and production concepts was extremely costly and time-consuming – and there was often no way of knowing in advance Tecnomatix is a part of the Siemens if the path chosen would lead to the desired goal. In a nutshell; enormous development effort, portfolio for the “digital factory.” high investment, uncertain results. And this is where the modern simulation software that The portfolio comprises leading we help develop comes in. The software enables manufacturing processes and the associated solutions for planning and validatproduction systems to be simulated, tested, and optimized during the development phase long ing manufacturing and production before production goes live. Companies are thus protected against unpleasant surprises. processes. The software virtually Even in the planning phase, realistic forecasts can be made with regard to costs, schedules, interconnects all manufacturing domains – from process and quantities, energy consumption, or the impact of malfunctions and maintenance activities. ­production planning through Consequently, the process industry is able to realize huge savings potential. the ­simulation of manufacturing ­processes to the optimization of Siemens has proven this with its Tecnomatix Plant Simulation solution for the simulation of entire factory layouts. production facilities. We wanted to achieve similar savings for our customers in the biological and chemical industry and therefore tailored the Siemens software to meet the specific needs of this sector. For example, our customers can now enjoy the best of both worlds: Specific INOSIM simulations of highly complex biotechnological and chemical manufacturing processes INOSIM simulates, analyzes, and can be seamlessly linked with industrial production plant simulations developed by Siemens. enhances manufacturing processes in the process industry. Based on the Siemens Tecnomatix Plant The significance of links of this kind can be illustrated by bitop AG, one of our customers. The ­Simulation software, INOSIM softcompany produces Ectoin, a natural substance used above all in skincare and sunscreen prodware solutions permit the realistic ucts. It used to be manufactured in a process that was very harmful to the environment. Using simulation of manufacturing our simulation software, we were able to try out various alternatives and identify ways of ­processes in the chemical, biotechproducing the substance in a much more effective and environmentally friendly way. The outnology, pharmaceutical, and life come was that bitop reduced its production costs by 26% and simultaneously boosted the ­science sectors. The INOSIM ­customer list includes nearly all quantity produced by a hefty 27%. And the environment also benefits: Wastewater was reduced key enterprises in the chemical by 38% and salt and energy consumption each fell by 17%. industry. We want to build on this success. In the future, we want our IT solutions to make an even greater contribution to energy efficiency and higher productivity, and therefore sustainability. The close partnership with Siemens and our active participation in research and development collaborations in the areas of biosimulation, energy efficiency, and modularized factories ­provide us with the necessary platform. right – Peter Balling is founder and managing director of ­INOSIM Software GmbH and ­INSOSIM Consulting GmbH. 26 Siemens perspective Siemens speeds processes across the entire ­product engineering and manufacturing process Today, industrial manufacturing faces enormous challenges: Rapidly changing circumstances, shorter innovation cycles, and fiercer competition call for intelligent responses – across the entire product engineering and manufacturing process, from planning through manufacturing to services. This is why leading manufacturers put their trust in digital production solutions by Siemens. These solutions enable companies to respond faster to current needs, to boost productivity, and to lower costs and resource consumption. 26% reduction in production costs Customer benefits The concrete benefits offered by PLM software to customers can be illustrated by bitop AG. By deploying our Tecnomatix software solution, INOSIM helped its 27% customer lower production costs by 26% and boost production by 27%. increase in production Support Planning Supply Design Production Simulation Quality Tooling Manufacturing planning Assembly Enhanced processes Our PLM software enables manufacturing processes and the associated production systems to be simulated, Efficient production tested, and optimized during the development phase Tecnomatix covers the entire manufacturing cycle, from long before production goes live. Our contribution to the initial concept and detailed planning to the start of ­process optimization ­production. Knowledge management functions allow the existing knowledge to be collected and reused. www.siemens.com/sr/plm 27 Responsibility, page 14 Growth Efficiency, page 30 Siemens Energy Storage (SIESTORAGE) Solution for a reliable and sustainable energy supply of the future SIESTORAGE is one of our solutions for the reliable and sustainable energy supply of tomorrow, catering to the integration of renewable energy sources, self-sufficient and ecofriendly microgrids, and providing dependable reserves for industry, buildings and infrastructure systems. The SIESTORAGE modular energy storage system combines cutting-edge power electronics for grid applications with lithium-ion batteries. Its modular design enables performance and capacity to be adapted to the actual power requirements at any given time, thus ensuring high availability and reliability. Integration of renewable Microgrids energy sources Power grids are facing major challenges due to the ­fluctuations SIESTORAGE guarantees a continuous, reliable and caused by the growing integration ­of ­renewable energy sources. ­ecofriendly supply of power to self-sufficient regional SIESTORAGE is able to ­compensate for these fluctuations and energy systems – also known as microgrids. thus relieve the load on the grid. A modular design to cater to any requirements Thanks to its modular design, SIESTORAGE can grow with the requirements of its customers from just a few kilowatt-hours right up to 1 megawatt-hour per container. Capacities of several megawatt-hours can be achieved by connecting several containers in parallel. With a performance of 1 MVA, the system used in Italy can temporarily store 500 kilowatt-hours of electricity. That’s about the average daily power ­consumption of 50 households. Less need for grid extensions Growing energy demands and the increasing use of Peak load renewable energy sources lead to the need for ­additional management grid capacities. The use of SIESTORAGE permits more In industry, peak loads frequently lead to high a ­ dditional ­efficient utilization of existing grids, and frequently costs for the affected company. SIESTORAGE helps industrial reduces the necessity for expensive grid extensions. companies compensate for peak loads and so avoid any higher purchasing charges from their energy suppliers. www.siemens.com/sr/siestorage 28 Enel and Siemens “SIESTORAGE helps to ­stabilize our power grid” As one of the largest power companies in Europe, we make large investments towards incorEnel is a multinational group based porating renewable energy sources into power grids. Our goal is to help renewable energies in Italy, a leading integrated player achieve a speedy breakthrough. In doing so, we are confronted with serious challenges. Bein the power and gas markets of Europe and Latin America, operating cause they are incorporating an increasing number of distributed and primarily renewable enin 40 countries across four continents. ergy sources, the grids must be able to compensate for the strong fluctuations in output from It oversees power generation from these sources. To enable us to maintain a stable supply of power despite such fluctuations, we 98 GW of net installed capacity rely on technical expertise from Siemens. and distributes electricity and gas through a network spanning around Since February 2012, we have been carrying out joint testing of the newly developed 1.9 million km to serve 61 million customers. ­SIESTORAGE energy storage system in the Molise region of Italy. The system helps us compensate for load and voltage fluctuations in the grid which occur when power is generated from The Network and Infrastructure renewable energy sources. Several parameters impact the production of electricity using reDivision encompasses the largest newable energy: Production fluctuates with the seasons of the year, varies between night and Italian distribution system operator with more than 32 million customday, and is also directly affected by local weather conditions. When clouds drift over photovolers, and manages more than taic power plants, for example, a voltage slump occurs for a few s­ econds. This leads to brief 1,100,000 km of electric lines; this fluctuations in the power grid. If these are not compensated for, sensitive devices such as Division is continuously striving conveyor belts or power tools could be automatically shut down. Fluctuation of this kind can for innovations in electricity grids even lead to a complete blackout. and is currently one of the leading companies for smart grids with more than ten years of experience, Using the SIESTORAGE energy storage system, based on lithium-ion batteries, we are able to starting from the first large-scale compensate for these fluctuations in the power grid within milliseconds. The system can deployment of smart meters for ­operate as an additional source of power and is also able to handle any generation peaks. As more than 32 million customers in there is no need to adjust controls at large power plants, this increases both the efficiency and 2001. quality of the grid. Compact and space-saving, housed in a normal shipping container, the SIESTORAGE system we employ stores 500 kilowatt-hours of electricity. That’s about the ­average daily power consumption of 50 households. We are extremely pleased with the results of the tests we have carried out up to now. The Siemens product has been able to deal with fluctuations in power generation as well as the variations in load caused by electric vehicle charging stations. The SIESTORAGE solution therefore promises to be an excellent way of avoiding fluctuations in power grids. The transmitted power remains constant and the grid is subjected to an even load over the course of the day. Given comparably high grid stability, grids with integrated SIESTORAGE energy storage can be operated with significantly lower reserve capacities than grids without this storage option. By enabling us to maintain a reliable supply and increase our efficiency, Siemens solutions help us accelerate the further adoption of climate-neutral power generation from renewable sources. Above – Paola Petroni is Head of Network Technologies at the Network and Infrastructure Division of Enel S.p.A., Italy’s largest ­power company. 29 Responsibility, page 14 Growth Efficiency, page 30 Efficiency SMART products for the whole world Above – All components of our digital ­X-ray system 30 are thoroughly inspected and tested at our lab in ­Shanghai. This is the only way that helps to ensure ­high-quality Siemens ­products both for the entry level segment and the high-end segment. Siemens’ Multix Select DR 1 is a digital X-ray system that is specifically targeted at price-sensitive markets with strong growth. It enables physicians in emerging countries to make accurate diagnoses fast and at comparatively low cost. This new system exemplifies how we focus our technologies on the needs of specific markets while contributing to sustainable development. China, India, Brazil, Turkey and other populous counTo this end, Siemens is developing new products for the tries have experienced a remarkable economic upturn entry-level segment that are simple, maintenancein the years gone by. More and more people are defriendly, affordable, reliable and timely-to-market – in a manding better, affordable healthcare in parallel with nutshell SMART. this rise in prosperity. This opens up great opportunities for Siemens to supply more hospiDigital X-ray technology for everyone The demand for entry-level tals with imaging systems – not We identified especially good market opportunities for a medical technology in just in such places but all over the SMART digital X-ray system. This technology has been emerging countries is rising world. In developed countries our confined to high-end price ranges to date. We can now strongly. cutting-edge technologies have put offer this fast, precise and eco-friendly technology at a us in leading market positions, but price roughly one third lower than for comparable previin emerging countries there is more ous products. This makes the Multix Select DR attractive demand for particularly inexpensive, reliable X-ray sysfor customers who, for reasons of cost, have so far only tems with basic functionality. Siemens wants both to used analog radiography systems with photochemically establish itself as a long-term market leader in this developed X-ray films. This includes small and mediumstrongly growing market and extend its portfolio in insized hospitals in emerging countries and even smaller dustrial nations, thus giving even more people access to hospitals and physicians in private practice in industrial medical care. countries. This digital system has an outstanding price/ performance ratio, is easy to use and is suitable for SMART new development nearly all clinical applications in radiography. We began to develop a new X-ray system for up-andcoming markets in 2009 as part of our Company-wide It is a mistake to think that only high-end products inSMART initiative. The idea behind this is to generate corporate a lot of innovativeness. At least just as much further growth in emerging countries with low-cost creativity and skill are needed when it comes to develproducts and solutions aimed at local customer needs. oping and manufacturing products for the entry-level 1 The products / features (here mentioned) are not commercially available in all countries. Due to regulatory reasons their future availability cannot be guaranteed. Please contact your local Siemens organization for further details. Siemens Multix Select DR Efficient at all levels Efficiency is what we expect from all our products in every phase of their lifecycle: from targeted development through resource-saving production to perfect application by the customer. Siemens’ Multix Select DR digital X-ray system is an excellent example: Designed to meet the needs of new markets International networking Development Local operations in growing markets Efficiency Lean processes Production Less water, electricity and CO2 Global logistics by ship Direct local and remote findings possible Fast diagnoses due to digital imaging Application Much better ecological footprint www.siemens.com/sr/multixselectdr 31  Responsibility, page 14 Growth, page 20 Efficiency segment. Siemens has built up this special expertise Driving down costs over the years on the basis of customer proximity. For The developers paid great attention to maximum reliexample, our Imaging Systems unit has also had a base ability in day-to-day clinical situations and consequently in Shanghai for a good 20 years now. During this period to an especially high level of technical quality. Siemens we have expanded our operations in China’s industrial had already acquired a good Siemens Shanghai Medical Equipment (SSME) 1,000 metropolis into one of our most important locations in reputation as a highly reliable the world and now develop and produce imaging sysvendor in this field in the past. employees tems there for the burgeoning sales markets in the AsiaThe importance of this in Pacific region. Our local engineers in Shanghai collaboemerging country markets, in 350 of the 1,000 employees at Siemens Shangrate closely with their colleagues in Germany, Spain and particular, becomes apparent hai Medical Equipment are engaged in developIndia. when you consider the specific ment. Milestones of this company, which opened in 1992, include the development and profiles of use: in China, for exlaunch of the SOMATOM Spirit, SOMATOM Development with market proximity ample, it is not rare for over 200 Emotion and SMATOM Perspective (three CT Following good experiences with other products in prepatients to be examined in a scanners) and various X-ray systems such as vious years it was a logical step to put Shanghai in day over several shifts. Unthe Multix and Luminos Family. In 2012 we laid charge of our new X-ray system for entry-level markets. planned downtime of a system the foundation stone for another production Development and product/project management activifor just one day would therefore hall with floor space of 32,000 square meters. ties are carried out there practically under the same have a considerable impact on a The opening is scheduled for 2013. roof as production. Our Chinese colleagues faced some radiology station’s schedule. www.siemens.com/sr/ssme major challenges. The new system had to be cheap to That’s why high reliability is so produce. There were also tight cost constraints for important for users. But that is ­research and development. At the same time it was only possible with high-grade necessary to meet stricter requirements for environcomponents – a statement applicable equally to highmental protection. And, in global collaboration beend and entry-level products from Siemens. tween Siemens locations, we wanted to create a product with chances of worldwide sales. We need such components when it comes to minimizing costs for the Multix Select DR. The Development, From Erlangen in Germany, Siemens supported the dePurchasing and Production units in Shanghai therefore velopers in Shanghai with targeted training. Colleagues worked hand in hand to come up with new technical in Goa, India, contributed their expertise to the design solutions. In doing so, they searched for, examined and of mechanical subsystems and the X-ray table and also trained new suppliers in the region who are inexpenconstructed the first prototype. Our engineers from sive and comply with Siemens’ high quality and sustain­Getafe in Spain provided the digital imaging software. ability standards. This gave rise to an excellent cost situWe make the generators and X-ray tubes ourselves in ation without having to compromise the functionality China, while procuring other components, such as X-ray and reliability of an X-ray system bearing the Siemens tables, mechanical parts and X-ray detectors, from brand. ­selected suppliers in China and the U.S. This global ­cooperation pays off; it lets us bundle the great comTo keep production costs as low as possible, we cover petence of various units, reinforce the transfer of all applications with just one mobile, flat detector. Comknowledge within the Company and set standards – for parable X-ray systems often have multiple detectors, for the benefit of our customers as the following aspect instance separate ones for patients who are standing or shows. The Multix Select DR is based on the proven lying down. In contrast, the universal flat detector of syngo FLC user interface, which is already being used the Multix Select DR is mobile and can be positioned successfully by over 100,000 customers throughout simply and flexibly to take different images of patients. the world. The upshot is that all Siemens radiography, The X-ray detector has a very robust design to ensure fluoroscopy and urology systems are operated accordthat faults will not occur even when it is used intening to the same principle, allowing users who have sively. Regarding cost for users, Siemens’ engineers in ­familiarized themselves with the Multix Select DR to Shanghai have also optimized the Multix Select DR in switch to other systems without difficulty. terms of the space it requires. The system will fit into 32 Above – Meng Xi Zhang (left), our product manager for the ­Multix Select DR, discusses possible solutions with a colleague to meet new customer requirements. Right – Developers and product managers at Siemens in ­Shanghai regularly take part in online conferences with their colleagues – here from Goa (India) and Getafe (Spain).  Meng Xi Zhang, product manager at Siemens Shanghai “ Our Multix Select DR is ideal when it comes to adopting digital radiography. It is inexpensive, supports almost all radiographic applications and – like all our products – is extremely reliable.” 33  Responsibility, page 14 Growth, page 20 Efficiency Above – On site in Shanghai: the individual ­components are picked for shipment and ­preassembled by our technicians. 34 quite small rooms because the generator, which is water. A building services automation system from about the size of a refrigerator, has been cleverly inteSiemens itself will help to control overall energy congrated in the base of the X-ray table. sumption. With the new production hall we intent to cut carbon dioxide emissions by 350 tons a year comOutstanding Siemens quality pared to a LEED standard reference building. Certificaat attractive ­conditions tion in accordance with the LEED standard is planned. It was not only during development of the Multix Select DR that Siemens in Shanghai faced this challenge but Climate-friendly logistics also in the course of production and logistics. All proNotwithstanding its lean production in Shanghai, cesses were scrutinized and it turned out that many of Siemens cannot serve all markets with the Multix Select them could be optimized with new solutions that added DR from there because some countries promote domestic economic and ecological value. production of medical equipment. We have taken this into account in our production Our new production hall in Lean production concept and, for example, also New processes have improved the time-consuming and assemble the X-ray system at Shanghai will emit much less costly X-ray tests at the end of production. As a result of Joinville in the state of Santa carbon dioxide into the envithis restructuring, the plant in Shanghai can now use Catarina, Brazil. From there we ronment than the existing the expensive equipment for twice as many X-ray tests. supply the other markets throughhalls and will also reduce the At the same time we managed to reduce the duration out South America. We supply the cost of electricity and water. of the overall test cycle by 20%. That’s what we underAsia-Pacific and E ­ urope regions stand by “lean” production. from our central production site in Shanghai, China, and from Currently we are expanding our plant in Shanghai by a our distribution depot in Forchheim, Germany. The sysnew production hall with floor space of 32,000 square tems are transported from Shanghai to Germany and meters – partly with a view to the Multix Select DR. Our Brazil by ship, which is much cheaper and more climateplans are guided by efficiency considerations: the new friendly than by air. At all three locations the systems building is intended to operate at lower cost than our are tested by technicians before delivery to customers’ existing production buildings in Shanghai. Specifically, premises, where final assembly and setup take place. we want to reduce water consumption by 40% and improve energy efficiency by 15%. To achieve this, we are In clinical practice, radiography is presently the most equipping the new building with air-cooled heat pumps common method of medical imaging. Radiologists fall for heat recovery, among other things. The lighting can back on this method especially when they need to exbe adjusted infinitely to meet current requirements and amine bone structures but also use it for other organs modern sanitary facilities will save precious drinking such as the lungs. They are increasingly demanding Global value chain Efficiency through collaboration Erlangen/Forchheim, Germany Global product management, qualification processes and shipment Joinville, Brazil Assembly and distribution depot for South America  Erlangen/Forchheim, Germany Getafe, Spain Software development  Getafe, Spain and imaging  Wuxi, China  Shanghai, China Goa, India Mechanical subsystem  Goa, India design and prototype construction Shanghai, China Development, product management, assembly and distribution depot for China and the ASEAN states Joinville, Brazil Wuxi, China Generator and X-ray tube production The Multix Select DR is the outcome of interaction between highly specialized Siemens departments and units and suppliers on three continents. They collaborate closely using advanced online tools and videoconferencing. www.siemens.com/worldwide 35  Responsibility, page 14 Growth, page 20 Efficiency Above – Before delivery our engineers inspect the technical ­reliability and image quality of the Multix Select DR. The mobile X-ray detector can be seen on the X-ray table. 36 Above – All test results meet expectations. A dosimeter in every tester ’s breast pocket monitors compliance with permissible ­radiation limits. 37  Responsibility, page 14 Growth, page 20 Efficiency faster, more exact results. Operators of clinics also want Advantages for patients that – at a cost that is as low and calculable as possible. Patients also benefit from this digital technology: a deUp to now that has been the forte of conventional X-ray tector is more tolerant of errors than an X-ray film as it systems, in which films are exposed and then develis better at compensating for overand underexposure. oped in a photochemical process. The X-ray images With film-based systems it is often necessary to repeat then had to be viewed against a lightbox and archived the X-raying process for this reason, which means extra in cabinets or on shelves. stress for the patient. Digital radiography, however, will avoid many of these repeats. Simultaneously, digital Adopting digital radiography ­radiography will improve the quality of diagnoses beThe Multix Select DR now enables clinics to adopt digital cause the images can be transmitted quickly and easily radiography. Instead of using a film cartridge, this systo experts over long distances. tem features a flat detector that converts the X-rays it receives directly into digital information. This informaStrong arguments for clinic operators tion can be passed on without any media discontinuiSiemens’ Multix Select DR beats film-based systems in ties and be viewed on screen both locally and remotely. three ways in clinic life. First, it only takes half the time This makes it possible for experts from other places, or to reach findings from the images, which reduces the even countries, to examine the images and make their turnaround time per patient. As a fully digital system, the findings from afar in real time. On top of that, archiving This makes it possible to examon digital media saves a lot of space and money: on the ine more patients in the same Multix Select DR transfers basis of 360 working days with 100 examinations a day, time or spend more time on inthe images to the physician’s getting rid of conventional films will avoid a 36 meter dividual patients. Second, there display within seconds. stack of X-ray images in a year. This approach also conis less personnel effort and exserves the environment because, under the same aspense as the process does not sumptions, it saves about 6,000 liters of chemical develentail any photochemical development. Third, we offer oper solution and roughly 12,000 liters of water each clinic operators in emerging countries specially tailored year. By way of comparison – assuming a capacity of service packages at attractive terms and conditions to 150 liters – that is equivalent to 40 bathtubs of develhelp them minimize their financial risk and extend the oper solution and around 80 tubs of water ­every year. lifecycle of the Multix ­Select DR. Left – The Multix Select DR in use at the Hangzhou Changqing Chaoming Community Health Care Centre. Wei Feng Lin is preparing to examine a patient’s ankle. Wei Feng Lin, director of X-ray diagnostics at the Changqing Chaoming Community Health Care Centre in Hangzhou “ In the first six months after installation we took more than 30,000 X-ray images at our clinic with the Multix Select DR. Quality and reliability have a long tradition in Siemens’ highgrade medical engineering.” 38 Our sustainable healthcare strategy Together with customers and partners we are working on improving healthcare throughout the world. We measure our progress in three key areas. In the year under review we managed to continue the positive trend from the previous year and made further progress. Fighting the most threatening diseases 1 More accurate and faster diagnoses reduce the risk of life-threatening illnesses According to statistics published in 2011 by the World Health ­Organization (WHO), about 30% of all deaths caused by illness 90 million treated patients in 2014 can be attributed to cardiovascular diseases, 15% to cancer and 15% to infections. Siemens’ medical engineering products help in the continuing fight against these most dangerous diseases. In 2012, 83 million Siemens products were used in examining or treating more than treated patients in 2012 83 million people with the following six medical conditions: heart attacks, strokes, breast cancer, lung cancer, HIV/AIDS and tuber­ 70 million culosis. Our goal is to have our products treat over 90 million people treated patients in 2010 a year by 2014. 1 We based the calculation on the active installed base of Siemens equipment used for the diagnosis and in the treatment process of stroke, heart attack, Starting point Current situation Goal lung cancer, breast cancer, TBC and HIV/AIDS. Only equipment used in line with strongest recommendations in accepted medical guidelines is included. Improving quality and productivity in healthcare 1 High-quality healthcare services must remain affordable Throughout the world, Siemens products were used to examine or treat more than 195,000 patients per hour in 2012. We want to further improve quality and productivity in healthcare and have 2014 200,000 set ourselves the target of increasing this figure to over 200,000 patients per hour in 2014. At present, inefficiency causes a consider2012 195,000 able proportion of global expenditure on healthcare to be wasted. By boosting efficiency in this field we are helping to make medical 2010 170,000 examinations available for many people in the face of rising cost Patients pressure. per hour 1 We based the calculation on the active installed base of Siemens imaging equipment and the associated utilization rates. Additionally, the worldwide Starting point Current situation Goal in vitro diagnostic test volume was considered, adjusted by the average number of tests per patient. Providing access to healthcare 1 Medical imaging for everyone – from basic care to highly specialized diagnoses More than 890 million people had access to Siemens imaging ­systems in 2012. But we are not content with that: we want to give more than a billion people access to our imaging systems by 1 billion 2014 2014. Our goal is not only to improve the utilization of existing X-ray ­systems and CT/MRT scanners. We also want to improve 890 million 2012 basic healthcare in less developed countries by providing low-cost ­medical technology, for example our Multix Select DR digital X-ray People with access ­system and our SOMATOM Spirit CT scanner, both of which were to Siemens imaging systems 760 million designed in China for growth markets. 2010 1 We based the calculation on the number of installed Siemens CT systems in 113 developing countries (UN HDI < 0.785 in 2010). Starting point Current situation Goal Population covered per CT was derived from CT density in selected countries. 39  Responsibility, page 14 Growth, page 20 Efficiency Reporting method Sustainability is for us a guiding principle and a key precept of our actions. In the following “Facts and Figures” section, we use selected indicators to show how Siemens performed in fiscal 2012 in its efforts to meet the economic, environmental and social demands placed on it. The reporting method provides you in advance with details of the key elements on which our reporting is based. Reporting approach Where applicable, we point out any significant limitations in Our Sustainability Report 2012 describes the strategy, organizathe information presented in the Report. As a rule, no companytion, initiatives and goals for ensuring sustainability. It not only wide standards exist for the information published in continues and supplements last year’s Sustainability Report, the ­ Report. This applies in particular to specific financial but also serves as our annual progress report on implementing ­figures, including, for example, the revenue attributable to the the United Nations CEO Water Mandate and the Global ComEnvironmental Portfolio. As a result, these figures may not be pact’s ten principles. In addition, our Report is oriented to vercomparable with the data published under the same or similar sion 3.0 of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global designations by other companies. The data published in our Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the recommendations of the Sustainability Report is collected through various internal Global Compact and Transparency International regarding anti­reporting systems which, for the most part, are different from corruption reporting. those applicable to the financial information presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In particular, the standards Review period and report boundaries and controls applied and the computer systems used during This Report is based on activities during Siemens’ fiscal 2012 the preparation of the data can be less comprehensive in com(October 1, 2011 – September 30, 2012). Any exceptions are inparison. We reserve the right to change our internal guidelines dicated as such. In general, all of our fully consolidated comparegarding the inclusion of data in the Sustainability Report nies are covered by the Report. Here, too, possible exceptions without prior announcement. Due to rounding, numbers preregarding the data are indicated and explained. Minority equity sented throughout this Report may not add up precisely to the investments are not included in our reporting. To provide an totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the up-to-date picture of the Company, we also include information absolute figures. about important developments in fiscal 2013 up to the editorial deadline on March 01, 2013. Independent review We prepared our Sustainability Report to high quality standards. During the fiscal year we announced our plan to publicly list Consequently, as in previous years, we again commissioned an OSRAM as part of a spin-off. The shareholders of Siemens AG independent accounting firm to conduct an assurance review voted in favor of this plan by a large majority at the Annual of the Report to provide a limited degree of certainty. You can find Shareholders’ Meeting on January 23, 2013. OSRAM is classithe results of the review by Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsfied as a discontinued operation and so not included in all disprüfungsgesellschaft on page 66 . For such limited assurclosures on continuing operations. The indicators and informaance reviews, which provide a limited degree of certainty, the tion reported in the following section relate to the Company’s review procedures are not as extensive as for a review of our continuing operations. In order to ensure comparability of the financial reporting, for example. The auditors merely confirm details, those for the previous years were adjusted accordingly. that nothing has come to their attention during the review that Deviations are indicated. would cause them to believe that the information contained in the Report departs materially from the relevant sustainability Data collection reporting requirements. Given Siemens’ size and global spread, gathering data poses a major logistical challenge. Moreover, our companies throughout the world are required to comply with local regulations concerning the compilation and definition of performance figures, which means that the generated data is not always comparable. 40 Facts and figures 40 Reporting method 42 Innovation 44 Customers and portfolio 46 Compliance 48 Employees 52 Occupational health and safety management 54 Environmental protection and products 61 Suppliers 64 Corporate citizenship 66 Independent assurance report 68 United Nations Global Compact 70 United Nations Water Mandate 71 Global Reporting Initiative 72 Notes and forward-looking statements 74 Information resources Innovation Innovation management constitutes a core task at Siemens. As analysis, imaging, systems engineering as well as automation an integrated technology company, this approach helps us and communication technologies. It also deals with material maintain our leading market positions. Innovations are a mainresearch, electronics, sensor systems, drive technology and stay of Siemens’ business success, including when it comes to ­energy engineering. Products with major profit potential in mastering sustainability challenges. ­innovation-driven growth markets – such as electric mobility, sustainable urban development and biotechnology – are develOur research activities are aimed at developing the necessary oped internally at CT so that they can be integrated in our daytrailblazing technologies that enable Siemens to take a leading to-day business operations at a suitable time. position in innovationand technology-driven growth markets. To do that, we need the best experts worldwide as well as a First filings 4,600 first filings global network giving us access to the most renowned universities, research institutes and other partners. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT A CORE TASK Siemens submitted 4,600 first filings to patent offices. Siemens has a Chief Technology Officer who is member of the www.siemens.com/sr/patents Managing Board and in charge of Corporate Technology (CT), our research unit. This underscores the great importance that innovation management has within the Company. Our innovaOne important Company-wide task of CT is to leverage synergy tive strength is the subject of a thorough strategy review held effects among the various technologies and application areas by the Managing Board every year. We continued to focus on of the operating units and to maintain and expand contacts to the following aspects of research and development (R&D) in fisuniversities, research institutes and other partners. In the cal 2012: (1) ensuring long-term future viability, (2) enhancing IRENE pilot project in Germany’s Allgäu region, for example, technological competitiveness and (3) optimizing the allocaSiemens and partners from the fields of research and energy tion of R&D resources. production are showing what power systems could look like in Germany in the 2020s. With the aid of numerous measuring In fiscal 2012, intelligent innovation management again constations, variable network components and software agents, a tributed to developing key technologies and getting important smart grid maintains a balance between production and coninnovations ready for the market. For example, Siemens is supsumption, thus keeping power frequencies stable. U ­ sing phoplying key components that are helping to make a success of tovoltaic, wind and biomass installations, companies and prithe energy transition in Germany. A combined cycle power vate producers in the region are already generating over three plant will be erected in Düsseldorf by 2016. Boasting net times as much electricity as they use. And they are also driving ­efficiency of over 61% and a capacity of 595 megawatts, it will electric cars – a rewarding preview of the new age of electricity. be one of the most efficient and ecofriendly power plants a ­capacity worldwide. In addition, we delivered the first protoCooperations with universities and non-university research type of an electrolyzer with a peak power rating of 300 kilo­ institutes contribute significantly to Siemens’ capacity to watts to RWE at the beginning of 2013. This makes it possible to ­innovate. The key goals of these partnerships are: convert electrical energy produced, for example, by wind farms into ­hydrogen and store it. >> tapping the potential for joint research and development projects, Working with a worldwide network of experts, CT’s task is to act >> developing and extending a network of universities or reas a strong innovation partner for the operating units of search institutes with which Siemens works and increasing Siemens and to secure the technological future of the Company communication between Siemens and these universities or through expertise in strategically important fields. CT is thereinstitutes, and, last but not least, fore positioned in globally operating technology areas, includ>> strengthening the appeal of Siemens to highly qualified ing software architectures and IT platforms, IT security, data young people as a potential employer. 40 Facts and figures 42 40 Reporting method 52 Occupational health and safety management 68 United Nations Global Compact 42 Innovation 54 Environmental protection and products 70 United Nations Water Mandate 44 Customers and portfolio 61 Suppliers 71 Global Reporting Initiative 46 Compliance 64 Corporate citizenship 72 Notes and forward-looking statements 48 Employees 66 Independent assurance report 74 Information resources Making the most of employee knowledge R&D expenses (in millions of €) We value the knowledge, skills and creativity of every Siemens FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 employee. We also follow new avenues to tap these valuable Energy 840 756 651 assets for research. This includes Internet-based idea competiHealthcare 1,314 1,173 1,116 tions and social media which enable the innovation potential Industry 1,215 1,128 993 of Siemens employees to be used effectively. On the internal Infrastructure & Cities 699 696 591 social media platform Technoweb, for example, any employee can submit an urgent request. Suggestions for a solution will ­arrive from other employees all over the world within a short R&D intensity (in %) time. This saves time and money and is a way of making the knowledge of an integrated technology company available FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 to everyone. In addition, each year we award the titles of “Top Energy 3.0 3.1 2.9 Innovator” and “Inventor of the Year.” In December 2012, we Healthcare 9.6 9.4 9.0 honored twelve outstanding Siemens inventors, whose work Industry 5.9 5.8 5.7 has led to 613 invention reports and 734 individual patents. Infrastructure & Cities 4.0 4.1 3.6 Research and development figures With a continuously high level of R&D activities, we pursue the goal of further increasing our innovative strength. In fiscal In fiscal 2012, we had an average of 12,900 R&D employees 2012, our expenses for research and development amounted to in Germany and approximately 16,700 R&D employees in about €4.238 billion. As a result, our R&D intensity, i.e. the ratio of 30 other countries, including the U.S., China, Austria, India, R&D expenses to revenue, was 5.4% and thus higher than in Slovakia, Switzerland, the U.K., Croatia, Sweden, Denmark, ­fiscal years 2011 and 2010 (5.3% and 5.2% respectively). Mexico, and France. Research and development figures Position in patent office statistics 1 FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 2011 2010 2009 R&D expenses (in billions of €) 4.238 3.899 3.547 Germany – German Patent R&D intensity (in %) 1 5.4 5.3 5.2 and Trade Mark Office (DPMA) 3 3 3 Inventions 2 8,900 8,600 7,800 Europe – European Patent Office (EPO) 1 1 2 First filings 3 4,600 4,300 3,700 U.S. – United States Patent Patents granted (as of end of FY) 57,300 53,300 52,400 and Trademark Office (US PTO) 10 9 13 1 R&D intensity is defined as the ratio of R&D expenses to revenue. 1 Complete figures for calendar year 2012 were not available from the patent 2 Number of inventions submitted by Business Units based on an internal reporting. offices as of the publication date. Source: DPMA: published patent applications, 3 First filings as part of the inventions submitted to patent offices. EPO: patent applications, IPO (Intellectual Property Owners Association): patents granted. In carrying on research and development at the Company, the As of September 30, 2012, the Company held approximately Sectors concentrate on the next generation of their products 57,300 patents worldwide in its continuing operations. In terms and solutions and prepare them for market launch. In the year of submitted patent applications, the statistics show that the under review, the Energy Sector invested €840 million (R&D Company in 2011 ranked No. 3 in Germany and No. 1 in Europe. ­intensity of 3.0%), the Healthcare Sector €1.3 billion (9.6%), In the U.S., Siemens ranked No. 10 for patents granted.  the Industry Sector €1.2 billion (5.9%) and the Infrastructure & www.siemens.com/sr/innovation Cities Sector €699 million (4.0%). 43 Customers and portfolio Sustainability entails extensive business opportunities. Siemens portfolio divestments that already have been implemented and taps these opportunities through long-term customer partnerplanned in the meantime, cannot, however, be compensated ships and a strong local presence in the markets where our purely with our own businesses by that time. Siemens’ stratecustomers operate. With our focus on innovation-driven ­ gic focus on technologies for energy efficiency and climate and growth markets and the expansion of our Environmental environmental protection will remain in place despite the port­Portfolio, both of which are core themes of our One Siemens folio changes that have been announced. Our Water TechnoloFramework, we want to continue contributing to the sus­ gies Business Unit and our solar business contributed less than tainable value creation of our Company. 5% to the t­ otal ­Environmental Portfolio revenue before the announced sales. Around 70% of the revenue from our EnvironThe Environmental Portfolio mental Portfolio today is generated with products and solutions as a key driver of sustainable growth for energy e ­ fficiency, with wind energy accounting for another Since 2008, green technologies have been a constant growth €5 billion. These are the areas in which we want to grow and driver for Siemens. In the year under review, they accounted for strengthen our Portfolio in the future. There is extensive evi42% of our revenue from continuing operations. In our Environdence for our outstanding expertise when it comes to energy mental Portfolio we bundle all those products, systems, soluefficiency: tions and services (Environmental Portfolio elements) that make particular contributions to environmental and climate >> Example 1 – Stadtwerke Düsseldorf: For this customer, we protection. They can be divided into three main categories: are building one of the most energy-efficient and environFirst, products and solutions with outstanding energy efficienmentally friendly natural gas power plants in the world with cy, such as combined cycle power plants or intelligent building an efficiency rating of over 61%. technologies; second, equipment and components for renew>> Example 2 – Taipei 101: This building, which is among the able energies, such as wind turbines or the grid connection tallest in the world, was modernized by Siemens and subof wind farms; and third, environmental technologies for the sequently received LEED Platinum Certification for its energy provision of clean water and air.  efficiency and environmentally friendly design. >> Example 3 – drive technology: Electric drives account for Revenue from the Environmental Portfolio in fiscal 2012 nearly two-thirds of industrial electricity demand. Our ener€33.2 billion in revenue gy-efficient drives enable energy savings of up to 70%, ­particularly in energy-intensive areas. In fiscal 2012, we generated €33.2 billion in revenue with our With our Environmental Portfolio we intend, among other ­Environmental Portfolio – 10% more than the year before. things, to help our customers reduce their carbon dioxide footwww.siemens.com/sr/environmental-portfolio print, cut their energy costs and improve their profitability through an increase in productivity. Taking together all elements of the Environmental Portfolio that were installed at cusThe qualification of the elements within our Environmental tomer locations since the beginning of fiscal 2002 and remain Portfolio is based on defined processes and strict criteria. Once in use today, we have reduced customer carbon dioxide emisa year, the Siemens Sustainability Board checks and approves sions by 332 million tons in the year under review, equaling changes in the composition of the Portfolio. In fiscal 2012, for 41% of Germany’s total annual carbon dioxide emissions in example, frequency converters were qualified. ­calendar year 2010. We generated revenue of €33.2 billion with the Environmental Customers and portfolio in figures Portfolio in the year under review. These products and soluFY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 tions are part of our Environmental Portfolio, which generated Revenue generated by the revenue of €33.2 billion in the year under review. That is some Siemens Environmental Portfolio (in billions of €) 1 33.2 30.2 27.7 42% of our total consolidated revenue, up roughly 10% yearAccumulated annual customer reon-year on a comparable basis. If you add the revenue of €3.9 duction in carbon dioxide emissions billion generated by OSRAM with its environmental portfolio generated by elements from the in the same period, it becomes apparent we are already quite Siemens Environmental Portfolio (in millions of tons) 1 332 257 213 advanced on the path towards our target of €40 billion reveNumber of interview responses nues with products and solutions from the Environmental Portfor the Net Promoter Score folio by the end of fiscal 2014, a goal which was set in fiscal (in thousands) 24.1 25.0 18.5 2010 on the basis of the portfolio structure at the time. The 1 You can find more information on the calculation logic at: www.siemens.com/ep-brochure 40 Facts and figures 44 40 Reporting method 52 Occupational health and safety management 68 United Nations Global Compact 42 Innovation 54 Environmental protection and products 70 United Nations Water Mandate 44 Customers and portfolio 61 Suppliers 71 Global Reporting Initiative 46 Compliance 64 Corporate citizenship 72 Notes and forward-looking statements 48 Employees 66 Independent assurance report 74 Information resources Success on the basis of long-term customer business-specific, regional and industry benchmarks, is used to relationships in a spirit of partnership set target values for Sectors and Clusters. The NPS for fiscal Sustainable customer relationships are the basis for all our 2012 was based on the results of more than 24,000 interviews. business. We employ a structured key account management We use the results to strengthen our customer orientation and approach throughout the Company to look after our key cusdevelop concrete measures for improvement together with our tomers. This means that our key account managers continually customers, using their feedback as a basis. This year, we mandevelop Siemens’ relationships with its most important cusaged to convert almost half of the customers who were dissattomers and secure them over the long term. We also ensure isfied in 2011 to “neutrals” or “supporters”. When implementing that our products and solutions are tailored to the size and remeasures such as these, we attach great importance to reactgional site structures of our customers. Our key account maning to the information needs and comments of our c­ ustomers. agers work in cross-unit organizations in line with the different As a result, we have experienced an increase in the referral rate industries. In concrete terms, employees from a variety of Busisince the introduction of the NPS in 2009. ness Units come together here, concentrating on areas like the automotive industry, data centers or power utilities. With this Our customer management system has also been recognized approach, we can offer a comprehensive spectrum of products by outside institutions. In 2012, for example, Siemens was once and services from a single source. again ranked in a leading position in Customer Relationship Management in the “­Diversified Industrials” category of the Small and medium-sized enterprises and organizations in parSAM Dow Jones ­Sustainability Index. Many of our customers ticular – and they represent the majority of Siemens customers – also contacted us in fiscal 2012 about our successful key acbenefit from our ability to provide local support through our count management and want to learn from us. In addition, our large multinational sales force. Our Business Units around the customer management is also considered exemplary in the acworld bear responsibility for their revenue and profits. They ademic world – a position we strengthened over the past fiscal steer the national sales departments through regional Clusters year through four case studies with the renowned universities and Regional Companies, thus ensuring that our business-speof Harvard, Columbia, Rotterdam and Mannheim. We see this cific sales strategies are implemented. Customers receive caseas an important step in terms of positioning ourselves in the specific support directly from the headquarters of the respeccompetition for young sales talents and as part of our social tive units, particularly in connection with major contracts or engagement in training young people in different countries. large-scale projects. Assuring the quality We regularly assess the strategic importance of the market opof customer support in the long-term portunities available to our Company. The Siemens Sales Board To assure the high quality and ongoing improvement of cusdetermines whether the key account managers have met their tomer support at Siemens, we use Company-wide uniform targets and makes sure that, synergies in customer managetraining programs for both our key account managers and our ment are maximized within Siemens. This approach of looking sales force. In fiscal 2012, we additionally introduced a globally after our key customers is supplemented by our Executive standardized certification program for key account managers. ­Relationship Program, in which all members of the Company’s Moreover, employees in both areas are also trained on the topic Managing Board stay in direct ­contact with their allocated cusof compliance to encourage conformance with guidelines, tomers and maintain an ongoing dialog with them to ensure which itself ensures our business success. Absolute complithey are always familiar with customers’ needs. ance with all laws and the Company’s internal guidelines and regulations is an elementary aspect of all our worldwide Improving customer satisfaction marketing and sales activities. Our business success is critically dependent on the satisfaction of our customers. For this reason, we measure customer satisIn fiscal 2012, we were able to develop our relationships with faction in every unit of the Company. During the year under our customers around the world even more strongly and review, we used the Net Promoter Score (NPS) once again as a ­expand our business in the corresponding industry organizauniform standard for this purpose. This internationally recogtions. We are aiming for sustainable customer development in nized and commonly applied managerial performance indicafiscal 2013 as well – a goal that we intend to achieve in particutor, which we determine annually on a worldwide basis by lar in our target industries and across industry boundaries with means of customer surveys, measures the referral rate of our our Environmental Portfolio.  customers. Our internal NPS target system, which is based on www.siemens.com/sr/customers 45 Compliance We understand compliance holistically – not just as adherence On December 9, 2009, Siemens launched a global US$100 to the law and internal Company regulations, particularly the ­million Siemens Integrity Initiative to support organizations Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines – but also as the foundaand projects that fight corruption and fraud through Collective tion of all our decisions and activities, and at the same time as Action – that is cooperation on the part of companies and other an elementary component of business integrity. institutions in the battle against corruption – as well as through education and training. This initiative is part of the compreOur commitment: hensive World Bank-Siemens AG settlement of July 2, 2009. The Only clean business is Siemens business status of the 31 projects funded within the first funding round Preventing corruption and other violations of fair competition with a total contractual funding volume of US$37.7 million was has the highest priority at Siemens. Our principle is: Only clean presented to the World Bank in March 2012, based on the first business is Siemens business. This means complying strictly annual report on the Siemens Integrity Initiative, which is with all laws and regulations and adhering to the principles available to the public online. of ethical business conduct defined in the Siemens Business www.siemens.com/sr/integrit y-initiative Conduct Guidelines. These Guidelines are binding for all www.siemens.com/sr/collectiveaction Siemens employees worldwide and focus on the prevention of corruption. Siemens is expressly committed to international Compliance indicators conventions and recommendations for combating corruption. The “Ask us” help desk encourages our employees to ask their Examples include our active participation in the United Nacompliance-related questions. Employees submitted 1,009 tions’ Global Compact and our engagement in a variety of its ­inquiries to the help desk in fiscal 2012. We believe the decline local networks. compared to fiscal 2011 is due to improvements made in our processes and to increasing knowledge and understanding of Compliance within Siemens compliance policies and processes among Siemens employees. The central element of Siemens’ compliance system – with its Furthermore, all employees can pose questions directly to the three action levels Prevent, Detect and Respond – is the responCompliance Officer responsible for their unit. The “Tell us” help sibility of all Siemens managers for compliance. In addition to desk and the Company’s ombudsman are two secured reporting specifying a role-model function for senior management, this channels that can be used by our employees and external responsibility goes further: All our managers must exemplify stakeholders to report violations of external and internal rules. compliance and ensure that business decisions and actions in These reports are passed on to our Compliance Organization. their areas of responsibility are always in complete accordance Furthermore, possible misbehavior may also be reported with the relevant legal requirements and our own values and ­directly to the Compliance Organization, particularly to the guidelines. To further strengthen the responsibility of all manCompliance Officers in our individual units. Our employees agers for compliance, we have revised our recurring complimake regular use of this reporting channel. We perceive this as ance training activities. First, Compliance Officers train the top an indication of the confidence they place in our Compliance managers in their respective units. These managers then train Organization. their immediate subordinates, who, in turn, train those under them. This annual integrity dialog is integrated in regular meetCompliance in figures 1 ings and events. During the year under review, we started imFY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 plementing a new compliance risk assessment covering all Inquiries submitted to the “Ask us” Siemens entities, which the Sectors, Clusters and Divisions as help desk 1,009 1,740 3,077 well as cross-Sector businesses are required to perform on Incidents reported to the “Tell us” help desk and the ombudsman 715 787 582 a regular basis. This step further improves our existing com­ therein treated as plausible 612 683 502 pliance assessment and control processes. Identified risks are Disciplinary sanctions 266 306 448 assessed and mitigation measures can be defined. The resulttherein warnings 173 179 313 ing analyses are incorporated into the Company-wide com­ therein dismissals 73 77 108 pliance risk analysis, which covers the material compliancetherein other 2 20 50 27 related risks for Siemens as a whole. 1 Continuing and discontinued operations 2 Includes loss of variable and voluntary compensation elements, transfer and suspension. 40 Facts and figures 46 40 Reporting method 52 Occupational health and safety management 68 United Nations Global Compact 42 Innovation 54 Environmental protection and products 70 United Nations Water Mandate 44 Customers and portfolio 61 Suppliers 71 Global Reporting Initiative 46 Compliance 64 Corporate citizenship 72 Notes and forward-looking statements 48 Employees 66 Independent assurance report 74 Information resources In addition to the compliance indicators listed above, the sonably designed and implemented to detect and prevent Siemens Annual Report 2012 contains information on legal ­violations of anti-corruption laws within Siemens. The Year ­proceedings, including corruption and antitrust proceedings. Four Report also states that all recommendations from Year As of fiscal 2013, we will publish this information only in our Two and Year Three Reports are fully implemented. Since the ­financial reports and no longer in an extra document. Year Four Report does not include any new recommendations, this means that all recommendations of the Monitor have been Anti-corruption reporting fully implemented. As was set forth in the aforementioned On our website you will find an overview of the published com­settlement, the Monitorship ended four years after the settlepany information on compliance within the structure of the ment date on December 15, 2012. guidance by the Global Compact and Transparency International on reporting for the Global Compact’s 10th principle – Compliance Monitor ­anti-corruption. www.siemens.com/sr/anti-corruption-reporting-index Dec. 15, 2012 End of Monitorship Compliance-Monitor The Monitorship of Dr. Theodor Waigel ended on December 15, 2012. Siemens has fully implemented his recommendations. On October 12, 2012, the Company received the Year Four Report from the Compliance Monitor Dr. Theodor Waigel, ­ www.siemens.com/sr/compliance whom Siemens had engaged as part of the settlement reached with U.S. authorities in December 2008. During Year Four, the Monitor evaluated the long-term sustainability of Siemens’ Priorities and targets for fiscal 2013 compliance program and its compliance risk assessment and At the beginning of fiscal 2011, we launched a system of four compliance program evaluation processes, in addition to riskcompliance priorities to further develop and improve our based themes and the implementation of recommendations ­compliance system. These compliance priorities also guided from previous years. As was set forth in the Settlement Agreeour activities in fiscal 2012. For example, we developed the ment with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) ­Integrity Dialog, started implementing the new compliance and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), this Year Four Report risk assessment for all Siemens entities, and developed and contains (1) an evaluation of the open recommendations from ­implemented a new antitrust compliance program. Effective as the Year Two and Year Three Reports plus (2) a certification of fiscal 2013, we have updated the compliance priorities (see by the Compliance Monitor once again that the Siemens Comgraph below). pliance Program, including its policies and procedures, is reawww.siemens.com/sr/compliance compliance priorities effective FY 2013 Compliance priorities Stand for Integrity Committed to Business Manage Risk & Assurance Focus on Efficiency Our aim is to further encourage We want to leverage the We continue to develop the We focus on increasing the effi­business management responCompliance system to support com­pliance risk management ciency of compliance operations si­bility for compliance and to sustainable growth and and to provide reliable assurance and collaboration. continue promoting responsible as a competitive advantage. for our business entities. business practices in our markets with Collective Action and the Siemens Integrity Initiative. 47 Employees Committed, qualified and creative employees have always been Recruiting one of our biggest assets. We give our employees plenty of Our strategy is to make Siemens an even more attractive em­opportunities for continued education and consistently encourployer throughout the world and to recruit the best personnel age them so they can fully realize their diverse potential in the for the Company – employees with the necessary qualifications long term. One Siemens, our target system for sustainably enat the right time and in the right place. hancing the Company’s value, provides the framework for these efforts. In order to meet our requirements for qualified staff, we aim not only to attract new people to Siemens as a preferred A particular strength of Siemens lies in the creative potential ­employer but also to keep instilling our existing workforce and commitment of its approximately 410,000 employees with enthusiasm for the Company and retain them over the (about 370,000 in continuing operations)1. To ensure that we long term by providing targeted opportunities for their further continue to be an attractive employer, we give high priority to ­development. providing an HR policy that responds flexibly to the changing career phases of employees and their diverse needs as well as To ensure that our target groups perceive us as a desirable to different generations of workers.  ­employer, we will be expanding our presence on the social ­networks Facebook and LinkedIn in fiscal 2013, among other things. On top of that, we will also be giving our global career 1 All figures quoted in this section refer to continuing and discontinued operations; website an even more appealing design and making it even any ­deviations from this are indicated. more user-friendly. We have defined target institutions of higher education in more Siemens employees than 40 countries worldwide with which we are cooperating closely, for example in the form of guest lectures and part-time FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 professorships. This allows us to address talented people who Siemens (in thousands) 410 402 405 could provide valuable knowledge for our business in the Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, Middle East (as a percentage of employees) 58 58 59 ­future, making them more aware of Siemens as a preferred Americas ­employer and giving them a lasting interest in the Company. (as a percentage of employees) 23 22 23 Asia, Australia We offer an array of attractive programs to entice new talent (as a percentage of employees) 19 19 18 to Siemens. Our international Siemens Graduate Program, for example, prepares young employees for future management 1 Commonwealth of Independent States tasks over a period of two years. This program currently has Proportion of women (as a percentage of employees) more than 200 participants and has already been introduced in 14 countries. FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 Siemens 25 25 25 Diversity in practice Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, Our diversity is an invaluable source of talents and fosters Middle East 23 22 23 ­creativity. The diverse mix of skills, experiences and points of Americas 26 26 26 view creates a wealth of ideas forming the basis of our inno­ Asia, Australia 31 32 33 vative strength. This is a competitive advantage for Siemens 1 Commonwealth of Independent States that we want to convert into added value for our customers and employees alike. That is why we are pursuing a holistic Employees in management positions ­approach to promoting diversity at our Company. You can find more information on diversity, our commitment to employee FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 rights, and details of our working arrangements at:  Siemens 51,200 49,900 50,800 www.siemens.com/sr/diversit y Proportion of women (as a percentage of employees in management positions) 15.3 14.6 13.7 We have organized our hiring and appointment processes to ensure that the diversity of our customers and employees is 1 Employees in management positions include all managers with disciplinary already reflected at all levels when candidates are shortlisted. ­responsibility, plus project managers. 40 Facts and figures 48 40 Reporting method 52 Occupational health and safety management 68 United Nations Global Compact 42 Innovation 54 Environmental protection and products 70 United Nations Water Mandate 44 Customers and portfolio 61 Suppliers 71 Global Reporting Initiative 46 Compliance 64 Corporate citizenship 72 Notes and forward-looking statements 48 Employees 66 Independent assurance report 74 Information resources The proportion of women in management positions is one age group makes up just 2% of the workforce in the Asia, ­example of greater diversity at Siemens. Globally, it has nearly ­Australia Region. To remain an employer of choice in the most doubled since fiscal 2002 and now comes to 15.3%. In addition, competitive labor markets and to ensure the necessary transfer we intend to continue promoting the compatibility of work and of knowledge within the Company, we are analyzing the life and, in this regard, are offering flexible solutions for our ­respective environments and taking the appropriate action. We employees at many of our international locations. are also encouraging the exchange of proven methods among countries. At Siemens we actively support the engagement of our workforce because we are convinced that every voice should be Training and lifelong learning heard. For instance, more than 14,000 employees have signed In fiscal 2012, we invested €283 million, or €693 per employee, the online Siemens Diversity Charter and thus visibly demonin training and continuing education, thus giving our employees strated their commitment to greater diversity. Employees have at all levels throughout the world the chance to fully ­develop a choice of over 100 local and global networks to become their potential. It begins with our young new employees, whom ­actively involved in diversity initiatives – such as participation we prepare for their tasks in the competitive global a ­ rena with in cross-generation mentoring projects, discussions of the training programs worldwide. In Germany, we’re one of the work-life balance, and events to promote intercultural cooperalargest private providers of vocational training programs and tion. Our employees’ tremendous contributions to local initiaprofessional training within the country’s work-study system. tives around the world were presented on our Global Diversity In the year under review, we spent €183 million on this in Tour 2012 through ten countries in seventeen days. We also ­Germany and €216 million worldwide. engage in social networks like Facebook, YouTube and Twitter to support and foster discussions between stakeholders both Expenditure on continuing education in fiscal 2012 €283 million for continuing education inside and outside of Siemens. You can find out more about work-life compatibility at:  www.siemens.com/sr/work-life-bal ance All around the world, Siemens gives its employees at all levels the chance to fully develop their potential. In fiscal 2012, expenditure on continuing As in the past, actions and programs relating to diversity, and education and expenditure per employee on continuing education were the progress made here, are measured via the Siemens diverincreased once again. sity scorecard. In our principles for the promotion of diversity management, we have defined clear standards that are binding www.siemens.com/sr/employees for our Company throughout the world. Siemens is investing in diversity and in a sustainable future. Diversity is important for our business and a key element of our value proposition as an Continuing education programs of a demanding nature enable employer. our employees to enhance their skills. Our Global Learning ­Portal on the intranet alone offers regional learning opportuniIt goes without saying that we employ and educate people ties to all employees via 24 country portals. These facilities with disabilities, fully integrating them into our normal work range from general training for employees and managers to ­processes. This is a major contribution to their integration in tailored courses and services for groups and organizations. society too. Around the world, our employees can avail themselves of uniform Siemens Core Learning Programs to acquire the typical Demographic change key qualifications they need to excel in their work. These proDemographic change and cross-generation collaboration are grams are ­oriented to the specific challenges faced by staff in increasingly challenging issues, and we are looking intensively day-to-day business and are aimed, for example, at employees into their impact for Siemens. The situation differs from region engaged in sales, project management, procurement, developto region. Whereas, for example, the proportion of employees ment and production. New programs relating to logistics and older than 55 is continuously rising in Europe and the U.S., this system ­architecture were added in fiscal 2012. 49 At Siemens, qualified skilled workers and managers can comThe Siemens workforce in figures plete academic degrees – such as a Bachelor of Engineering in Employee development Electrotechnical Systems, a Master of Business Administration New hires were down by 29% in the year under review. This is or a Master of Science – while they work. These courses are the first year-on-year decline for two fiscal years. At the same based on a combination of seminars and self-learning phases time, exits were 17% lower in comparison with the previous especially tailored for working professionals. We identify talyear. The percentage of all Company dismissals was 19% for the ented people on a global basis and offer them challenging work year, compared to 16% the year before. All other variations in all areas of the Company. Selection and development of tal­result from changes in the scope of consolidation and other ented personnel are based on decisions by the respective manchanges. ager and Human Resources department in accordance with globally uniform criteria defined in our Siemens Leadership Siemens employee hires (in thousands) Framework. In this way, we match employees’ skills and potenFY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 tial to the requirements of their new positions. Since 2005, we Siemens 52.6 74.4 60.8 have offered the Siemens Leadership Excellence program to Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, train selected managers – from team leaders to upper manageMiddle East 24.4 32.7 23.3 ment. We pay special attention to the continuing education and Americas 14.4 16.4 14.8 development of the upper management level. A separate Asia, Australia 13.9 25.4 22.7 ­department looks after these managers. These training facili1 Commonwealth of Independent States ties not only help managers develop the skills they require in a targeted and personalized manner, but are also useful tools for Women hired (as a percentage of new hires) ensuring that they all understand and work toward common goals. Today, highly qualified skilled workers and managers FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 ­actively choose companies that offer them more than just an Siemens 31 28 33 interesting job. You can find additional information on partEurope, C.I.S.1, Africa, Middle East 27 24 28 time study programs at:  Americas 29 26 26 www.siemens.com/sr/education Asia, Australia 38 34 43 Third global employee survey 1 Commonwealth of Independent States In fiscal 2012, more than 286,000 Siemens employees (excluding OSRAM) took part in our Siemens Global Engagement Siemens employee exits (in thousands) ­Survey 2012 relating to employee engagement – in 40 languagFY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 es. The participation rate was even better than the high figures in previous years. The number of employees engaging themSiemens 43.5 52.6 51.4 selves for the Company and committed to our values remains unchanged at the same high level. The results show that we have made progress in various areas but they also show potenRetiring within the next five years tial for improvement, which we will systematically put into (as a percentage of employees) 1 practice between now and the next employee survey. To this FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 end, we will intensify dialog with employees and use their high Siemens 12 12 11 engagement to improve our processes and collaboration and evolve our corporate culture. 1 Based on the Siemens worldwide average retirement age of 60. Employee fluctuation rate (in %) 1 FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 Employee decision 4.3 5.2 5.1 Other reasons for exit 6.4 7.7 7.8 Total 10.7 12.9 12.9 1 Employee fluctuation rate is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary exits from Siemens during the fiscal year to the total number of employees. 40 Facts and figures 50 40 Reporting method 52 Occupational health and safety management 68 United Nations Global Compact 42 Innovation 54 Environmental protection and products 70 United Nations Water Mandate 44 Customers and portfolio 61 Suppliers 71 Global Reporting Initiative 46 Compliance 64 Corporate citizenship 72 Notes and forward-looking statements 48 Employees 66 Independent assurance report 74 Information resources Change in age structure Continuing education The distribution of employees by age group remained virtually unchanged in comparison with the year before. As in the previExpenditure on continuing education (in millions of €) 1 ous fiscal years, the median age in the year under review was FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 again 40. Siemens 283 251 225 Age structure in FY 2012 (as a percentage of employees) 1 Travel expenses not included. < 35 35 – 44 45 – 54 > 54 Siemens 36 27 25 12 Expenditure per employee on continuing education (in €) 1, 2 Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, Middle East 29 28 30 13 GJ 2012 GJ 2011 GJ 2010 Americas 29 26 27 18 Expenditure per employee Asia, Australia 61 27 9 2 on continuing education 693 608 560 1 Commonwealth of Independent States 1 Figures are a mathematical average. 2 Travel expenses not included. Working hours and working arrangements Trend in time spent on continuing education by category Average official weekly working hours 1 Compared with the previous fiscal year, the average number of FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 hours spent on training by participants in the Siemens LeaderSiemens 39.1 39.1 39.2 ship Excellence programs remained unchanged in fiscal 2012. Europe, C.I.S.2, Africa, Training measures at corporate management level are decided Middle East 37.6 37.6 37.7 and implemented as needed in close cooperation with the CEO Americas 41.2 41.0 41.2 and the Company’s Managing Board. Asia, Australia 41.5 41.5 41.5 www.siemens.com/sr/employees 1 Contractually agreed weekly working hours at the end of the fiscal year. Average number of training hours per category 1 2 Commonwealth of Independent States FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 Use of working hour programs at Siemens (in thousands) Corporate management (approx. 0 participants/year) – – 25 FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 Top management Part-time 11.3 16.1 24.2 New appointees Employees on leaves of absence 7.1 7.4 6.6 (38 participants in FY 2012) 56 56 56 Alumni (39 participants in FY 2012) 25 25 25 New general management appointees (approx. 175 participants in FY 2012) 94 94 94 New higher management appointees (approx. 330 participants in FY 2012) 64 64 64 New management appointees (approx. 465 participants in FY 2012) 66 66 66 1 Based on participants in Siemens Leadership Excellence programs or Executive Courses. 51 Occupational health and safety management Occupational health and safety management are key elements of fatal accidents, we also call on the services of independent of our sustainable corporate strategy and an integral part of our teams of experts. The causes of accidents are communicated business processes. It is therefore very important to us that our within the affected unit and, if universally applicable, beyond activities in all Company units support our employees in their it. This allows us to take precautions where similar machines, work and contribute to their safety and well-being. Our prudent facilities or procedures are involved. Technical measures are commitment here also strengthens the competitiveness of our amended as necessary through qualification measures. customers and lays the foundation for future success. Occupational safety figures Our approach to occupational health and safety management is Accidents worldwide international in scope, proactive and oriented toward longWhen recording lost-time injuries (LTI), we incorporate the apterm development. Both topics are anchored in our Business plicable national definitions. In order to reduce the number of Conduct Guidelines and form part of our internal monitoring, accidents, we have introduced additional Sector-specific actions risk management and internal control systems. In addition, and programs, particularly on construction sites and in projects. ­occupational safety is an important element of the international framework agreement between Siemens AG, the Central Lost-time injuries in fiscal 2012 0.38 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate Works Council of Siemens AG, IG Metall and the IndustriAll Global Union. 1 Occupational safety During the period under review, Siemens succeeded in further As a globally operating, integrated technology company with ­reducing the LTIFR of its employees to 0.38. The LTIFR of our contractors also declined in the year under review, going down to 0.28. core activities in the fields of energy, healthcare, industry, and infrastructure and cities, our employees and contractors are www.siemens.com/sr/safet y subject to a variety of risks. We counter these hazards both through centrally formulated, globally applicable guidelines and specialized standards, and through programs that allow LTIFR employees and contractors 1 for local adaptation. We also ensure that occupational safety is FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 upheld at contractor companies through the Code of Conduct Employees 2 0.38 0.44 0.51 for Siemens Suppliers. Contractors 3 0.28 0.32 0.40 Within the framework of our global “Zero Harm Culture” pro1 Lost-time injury frequency rate: number of lost-time injuries (LTI) x 100,000/work hours performed; LTI are accidents that result in at least one lost day of work. gram to reduce accidents and damage, we continue to anchor 2 Depending on national regulations, foreign or temporary workers may also count occupational health and safety management as an integrated as employees. 3 Contractors who bill by time. part of all our business and improvement processes. The ­program comprises three principles: >> Zero accidents is achievable. Fatal accidents involving employees and contractors >> We make no compromises on safety and health. We have integrated the topics of occupational health and safety >> We look out for one another. management more rigorously in our project business to try and improve the situation. In fiscal 2011, we developed and introThis is designed to ensure that, in the long term, ruleand duced a Company-wide standard for this purpose. control-based behavior is replaced by a culture of mutual ­ ­awareness and that hazards are eliminated from the outset as Regrettably, the number of fatal accidents further increased far as possible. After developing concepts, methods and tools during the period under review. Of the 15 fatal accidents over the past two years and testing them in pilot projects among our contractors, seven occurred on construction sites in in Germany, Brazil and Portugal, we have now implemented India. We took immediate action and launched the “Suraksha” the program at many locations and construction sites through(Hindi for safety) project in August 2012. With this project, we out the world. are intensifying our occupational safety training for contractors and our own employees. In addition, we inspected 50 construcWe investigate all accidents to determine their causes and take tion sites in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 and extended our steps to prevent their reoccurrence. When analyzing the causes training activities by some 10,000 hours. 40 Facts and figures 52 40 Reporting method 52 Occupational health and safety management 68 United Nations Global Compact 42 Innovation 54 Environmental protection and products 70 United Nations Water Mandate 44 Customers and portfolio 61 Suppliers 71 Global Reporting Initiative 46 Compliance 64 Corporate citizenship 72 Notes and forward-looking statements 48 Employees 66 Independent assurance report 74 Information resources We also take a very rigorous approach to selecting contractor In order to establish sustainable and systematic health mancompanies and have introduced even more stringent occupaagement, we developed a globally applicable health managetional safety requirements. As a result of the systematic assessment system similar to the occupational safety and environment process that we developed and introduced in 2012, some mental management systems. The management system sup100 contractor companies have been excluded from Siemens ports organizational units in dealing with the health of their projects for the time being. They will not be reconsidered by us employees in a systematic way. In addition, it leaves room for as potential contractors until the issues objected to have been content-related and cultural adaptation in the Sectors and Rerectified and they have successfully completed our assessment gions. process again. You can find further information on how we ­select our suppliers in the SUPPLIERS CHAPTER ON PAGE 61 .  Siemens has established a high standard of health and safety. www.siemens.com/sr/suppliers We help our employees assume responsibility for their own personal behavior in health-related matters, and support ­ We do not present specific figures for fatal commuting accihealth-promoting general conditions within the Company. The dents. In cases in which commuting accidents are regarded measures we offer focus on the topics of healthy work environas work accidents according to national definitions, we have ment, psychosocial well-being, physical activity, healthy nutri­included them as such in the figures. tion and medical care. Fatal accidents involving employees Ergonomics has always been an important factor in designing and contractors workplaces, and its importance has even increased due to FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 recent demographic developments. During the year under ­ Employees 4 3 4 ­review, we therefore piloted an ergonomic assessment tool for Contractors 15 12 8 different types of workplaces at our sites in Regensburg and Berlin. We are now working on incorporating our findings in a preventive ergonomics management system. Over the past two years, we have also developed a standardized Occupational illness service for frequent travelers who go on more than ten internaThe total number of cases of occupational illness relative to tional business trips a year or for employees who travel to the number of employees has remained at a low level for many countries with severe health risks: the Siemens Traveler Health years. The corresponding indicator (occupational illness Check (STHC). The STHC includes consultations and medical ­frequency rate, OIFR) relative to 1,000,000 work hours perexaminations considering risks due to individual, regional and formed was 0.45 in the year under review (FY 2011: 0.34, work-related hazards. This is a defined procedure that can be FY 2010: 0.39). Here we report only the figures for Siemens AG. adapted to country-specific laws and regulations. The OFIR is c­ alculated solely on the basis of cases of occupawww.siemens.com/sr/health-management  tional illness recognized by the Employers’ Liability Insurance Association. www.siemens.com/sr/safet y Health management Healthy, productive and motivated employees are the foundation of a successful company. Siemens invests in the physical, mental and social well-being of its employees to promote their personal health in a sustainable manner and reduce work-related health risks. Siemens’ health management is based both on applicable legal regulations and internal requirements for occupational health and safety. It also includes additional health programs for ­promoting and strengthening health and well-being that pick up on the challenges of the working world as well as developing trends. 53 Environmental protection and products Protection of the environment enjoys high priority at Siemens. In the “Serve the Environment” program we have set the folTo best fulfill our responsibilities in this field, we are pursuing lowing main goals: a holistic approach: Our focus is not only on the environmentally relevant impact of our products – throughout their entire >> to systematically continue our efforts to improve energy lifecycle – but also on the environmental impact of our own ­efficiency, and therefore achieve greater efficiency in the activities at our sites worldwide. Against this background, we area of CO2 emissions; decided this year to combine the topics of environmental pro>> to increase our waste efficiency by 1% annually by fiscal 2014; tection and product responsibility in a single chapter. and >> to reduce our waste for disposal by 1% annually by fiscal Management approach 2014. Our Siemens environmental management system defines principles and standards that are valid Company-wide. The ­system Furthermore, Siemens is pursuing a new approach to water helps our Company units to comply with applicable laws and ­resources management developed in 2012. At locations where regulations, satisfy our corporate requirements properly, and there are increased water-related risks – for example, as a result achieve the Company-wide targets according to our environof aridity, high wastewater loads, or poorly developed technical mental programs. We monitor results and progress by means of infrastructures – we define goals that are matched to local regular internal audits, and use the findings to continuously ­circumstances. This enables us to effectively reduce risks and improve our performance.  negative impacts on the environment. Our environmental www.siemens.com/sr/ehs-management-approach  ­ program also addresses air pollution, defining alternative ­solutions for ozone-depleting substances whose use is still In our product-related environmental protection activities, ­legally permitted, and generating complete solvent balance we focus not only on the manufacturing phase but also on the sheets – in the case of solvents also for quantities below design, sales, use, service, and disposal phases of our products. ­statutory minimum thresholds. We achieve the above goals This allows us to satisfy product-related environmental proby integrating local targets and measures into the existing tection requirements at an early stage in product and produc­environmental management systems at our sites. tion planning. We have defined our basic requirements in a Siemens-wide standard on environmentally compatible prodThe “Product Eco Excellence” program defines an integrated uct and system design. At the same time, we ask our business ­approach toward meeting environmental product-related repartners to comply with this same standard. We are therefore quirements over the entire product lifecycle and thus supports able to reduce environmental impact beyond the boundaries of our business activities. Its goal is to better prepare Company Siemens. As concerns industrial environmental protection, we units to satisfy future regulatory requirements, to strengthen have introduced environmental management systems locally environmental communication with our customers, and to in accordance with the international standard ISO14001. This broaden environmental awareness among our employees. The ensures the systematic organization and documentation of inmain ­elements of the program are: (1) to optimize the use of ternal environmental procedures designed to conserve resourcinformation relating to product components, (2) to provide a es and achieve legal certainty. better way of assessing substances and materials used with regard to their properties and effects, and (3) to establish a harOUR ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS monized procedure for determining the ecological footprint of Our environmental activities are based on two programs that our products whose coverage we want to further increase. we launched in the year under review. The “Serve the Environment” (industrial environmental protection) and “Product Eco By using our worldwide IT-based environmental information Excellence” (product-related environmental protection) prosystem, we record and monitor the environmental impact of grams describe our activities and goals. They are designed to Siemens and the success of our programs. Based on the improve energy and resource efficiency, to fulfill growing inter­ environmental data recorded, we determine relevant KPIs national requirements with regard to environmental protecand identify the product-related and industrial environmental tion, to increase customer benefits, and to proactively strengthprotection requirements that need to be met. en our position as a sustainable Company.  40 Facts and figures 54 40 Reporting method 52 Occupational health and safety management 68 United Nations Global Compact 42 Innovation 54 Environmental protection and products 70 United Nations Water Mandate 44 Customers and portfolio 61 Suppliers 71 Global Reporting Initiative 46 Compliance 64 Corporate citizenship 72 Notes and forward-looking statements 48 Employees 66 Independent assurance report 74 Information resources Industrial environmental protection ENERGY AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY In fiscal 2012, we registered a reduction of approximately 50% REPORTING ON ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS in direct energy consumption and 24% in indirect energy AND COLLECTING ENVIRONMENTAL DATA ­consumption compared with the previous year. The reduction In fiscal 2012, we used our environmental information system is due, for the most part, to the OSRAM share no longer being to analyze 335 reports from sites in 42 countries at which dereported. The Company’s “Serve the Environment” program fined threshold values were exceeded for parameters such as also contributed to the reduction by, among other things, ­ energy use, resource consumption, and emissions. The reduced ­improving energy efficiency. In the year under review, for number of reports analyzed compared to the previous year is ­example, Siemens Real Estate (SRE) realized s­ avings potential due to the planned spinoff of OSRAM. at selected locations of more than €4.5 m ­ illion in reduced ­energy costs and around 17,000 tons of CO2 emissions. To measure and monitor our environmental impact, we use ­absolute values such as energy consumption in gigajoules. Primary energy consumption (in 1,000 gigajoules) 1 With the exception of CO2 emissions, this information is shown FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 as a timeline and is not portfolio-adjusted. By contrast, we Natural gas/ ­calculate environmental performance using normalized and liquid petroleum gas 4,683 9,405 9,545 9,009 portfolio-adjusted efficiency figures. We use plant revenue – Fuel oil 120 189 264 315 production manufacturing costs – as the normalization factor Coal 28 52 48 44 for the production sites and the net floor space for the office Gasoline/diesel fuel 2 207 400 487 322 sites. This enables us to evaluate the Company’s environmental Total 5,038 10,0473 10,344 9,690 performance consistently over time, independent of portfolio 1 Figures as recorded in the environmental information system; continuing operations changes. FY 2012, continuing and discontinued operations up to FY 2011. Coverage of the recorded energy consumption (primary energy) was 74% in FY 2012. www.siemens.com/sr/environmental-reporting  2 Energy consumption reported in the environmental information system for ­vehicles and machines at environmentally relevant locations. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 3 Including OSRAM according to environmental information system: 4,845. All our locations have an environmental management system Secondary energy consumption (in 1,000 gigajoules) 1 in place, 295 of which are also certified in accordance with ISO14001. The decision as to whether a unit has its environFY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 mental management system certified in accordance with Electricity 9,116 12,388 12,188 11,705 ISO14001 is made by the environmental protection executives District heating 2,032 2,286 2,409 2,405 of the Sectors, Divisions and Regions in close consultation Total 11,148 14,6742 14,598 14,110 with the environmental protection officers. Compared to the previous year, the Healthcare Sector introduced a worldwide 1 Figures as recorded in the environmental information system; continuing operations FY 2012, continuing and discontinued operations up to FY 2011. Coverage of the certificate for all locations and replaced its self-certifications recorded energy consumption (secondary energy) was 94% in FY 2012. 2 Including OSRAM according to environmental information system: 3,210. with an external certification. As a result, the number of selfcertifications has fallen to ten only. Three Siemens locations have implemented an energy management system in accordance with ISO50001. Further locations are in the process of In addition to energy consumption at the locations as ­reported implementation. above, energy consumption of the Company’s business vehiwww.siemens.com/sr/environmental-management-system  cles is recorded centrally. Staff vehicles, service vehicles, and the Company’s own trucks are grouped together. In fiscal 2012, Locations with an environmental the Company fleet consumed fuel whose energy content management system in accordance with ISO 140011 amounted to around 5 million gigajoules. Fuel energy use is FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 distributed in almost equal parts between diesel fuel and gasoExternal certifications 285 256 243 209 line; a remainder of approximately 1% is accounted for by liquid Self-certified 2 10 65 31 11 petroleum and natural gas. 1 Figures as recorded in the environmental information system; continuing operations FY 2012, continuing and discontinued operations up to FY 2011. 2 Self-certified: Locations are permitted to certify their environmental management systems internally in line with ISO 14001, provided they follow defined, in-house quality standards. 55 INCREASE IN ENERGY EFFICIENCY (in %, BASE YEAR 2010) 1 Increase in energy efficiency in FY 2012 8% increase in energy efficiency Target: Continuous increase in energy efficiency FY 2012 8% FY 2011 4% In the year under review, we increased our energy efficiency for continuing operations by 8% compared with base year 2010. 1 Figures as recorded in the environmental information system; continuing operations; previous years adjusted for comparability. www.siemens.com/sr/environmental-protection We aim to continuously increase our energy efficiency within Greenhouse gas emissions the framework of the “Serve the Environment” program. To this (in 1,000 tons of CO2 equivalents) 1 end, we are deploying the Siemens Energy Efficiency Program FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 (EEP) and are implementing energy management systems at Scope 1 1,042 961 1,059 1,115 energy-intensive locations. In fiscal 2012, we were able to boost Scope 2 1,385 1,390 1,397 1,459 our energy efficiency by 8% compared to base year 2010. Scope 3 2 428 478 431 413 We have therefore achieved our target of a continuous increase Total 2,855 2,830 2,888 2,987 in efficiency. We have recently refined the methodology employed to determine our energy efficiency. We now use a single 1 Continuing operations; previous years adjusted for comparability. KPI which incorporates weighted calculations of the primary 2 Emissions from travel (flights, rail, rental cars). energy input for all the energy sources used at our sites. This KPI takes into account the amount of energy used to extract, Distribution of greenhouse gas emissions (in %) 1 convert and distribute the fuels consumed. Fossil energy sources FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 receive a higher primary energy factor than ­renewable energy Electricity and district sources. Siemens sites can accordingly i­ncrease their energy heating 48 49 48 49 efficiency and reduce the impact on n ­ atural resources of Natural gas, liquid petrotheir energy demands by strategically ­adjusting their choice leum gas, fuel oil, fuels 27 27 27 27 Other Kyoto gases 2 10 7 9 10 of energy source. Business travel 15 17 15 14 www.siemens.com/sr/eep  1 Continuing operations; previous years adjusted for comparability. Our greenhouse gas balance is made up of the total emissions 2 This includes technical CO2, SF6, HFC, PFC, CH4 and N2O. at our locations and the emissions caused by Company vehicles and business travel. We report our greenhouse gas emissions on the basis of the Corporate Standard of the Greenhouse Gas Greenhouse gas emissions rose by 1% compared to the previous Protocol of the World Resource Institute and of the World Busiyear. This is mainly due to higher emissions at smaller locaness Council for Sustainable Development. Direct greenhouse tions and to a rise in sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) emissions as a gas emissions (Scope 1) arise from sources in the Company’s result of increased switchgear production. Electricity and ownership or under its control. Indirect greenhouse gas emis­district heating emissions (Scope 2) fell by 5,000 tons as a resions (Scope 2) refer to the consumption of purchased electrisult of lower consumption of district heating but emissions cal energy and district heating. Business travel is reported in from electricity consumption remained almost unchanged. We Scope 3 because it is based on the use of services and vehicles were able to reduce business travel emissions by 10%, thanks in of external companies. This timeline is based on continuing part to the increased use of electronic communication media. ­operations and is adjusted annually. All values are extrapolated to 100% coverage. As compared to base year 2010, we also succeeded in improving our energy-induced CO2 efficiency by 12% due to increased production capacity utilization. Our environmental information system covers about 92% of our indirect and direct greenhouse gas emissions. The remaining 8% comprises greenhouse gas emissions caused by activities at small sites that are of little environmental relevance and are therefore not recorded directly in the environmental information system. Emissions of this kind are calculated on the basis of extrapolation. 40 Facts and figures 56 40 Reporting method 52 Occupational health and safety management 68 United Nations Global Compact 42 Innovation 54 Environmental protection and products 70 United Nations Water Mandate 44 Customers and portfolio 61 Suppliers 71 Global Reporting Initiative 46 Compliance 64 Corporate citizenship 72 Notes and forward-looking statements 48 Employees 66 Independent assurance report 74 Information resources Siemens operates a heating plant in Germany that is covered Year on year, waste volume (excluding construction waste) by the European emissions trading system. Its CO2 emissions fell by a total of 4%. The reduction applies across all waste account for 0.4% of our direct and indirect greenhouse gas types and is attributable mainly to the fact that waste at OSRAM emissions. sites is no longer reported. However, the reduction was compensated in part by the inclusion of new sites and increased ATMOSPHERIC POLLUTANT EMISSIONS production capacity utilization. Other industrial emissions into the atmosphere are also of great relevance in terms of environmental protection. Volatile Waste (in 1,000 tons) 1 organic compounds (VOC) contribute to the formation of ozone FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 close to the earth’s surface and are responsible for what is Non-hazardous waste 393 400 359 339 known as summer smog. We use these organic compounds as Hazardous waste 46 56 53 49 solvents in paints and adhesives, in impregnation processes, Construction waste 21 35 30 27 and for surface cleaning. Total 460 491 2 442 415 We also monitor the use of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 1 Figures as recorded in the environmental information system; continuing operations FY 2012, continuing and discontinued operations up to FY 2011. Coverage of the and comply with the Montreal Protocol, an international convolume (total waste volume excluding construction waste) recorded in the environmental information system was 94% in FY 2012. vention on the protection of the ozone layer, as well as with 2 Including OSRAM according to environmental information system: 53. country-specific legislation. Recycling (in %, including construction waste) 1 Atmospheric pollutant emissions (in tons) 1 FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 Share of recycling Volatile organic in total waste 84 78 80 81 ­compounds 1,026 1,200 2 1,100 900 Ozone-depleting 1 Figures as recorded in the environmental information system; continuing operations ­substances in tons FY 2012, continuing and discontinued operations up to FY 2011. of R11 equivalent 3 0.1 0.2 4 0.3 0.2 1 Figures as recorded in the environmental information system; continuing operations The waste recycling rate increased to 84%. This is due to the FY 2012, continuing and discontinued operations up to FY 2011. Coverage of the VOC emissions recorded in the environmental information system was just below higher proportion of recyclable waste in demolition projects. 100% in FY 2012. 2 Including OSRAM according to environmental information system: 131. 3 R11 equivalence measures ozone depletion potential. Our goals set out in the “Serve the Environment” program were 4 Including OSRAM according to environmental information system: 0.03. achieved in fiscal 2012: Waste for disposal was reduced by 4% compared to base year 2010. The target of 1% per year was The major part of the reduction in VOC emissions and half the therefore clearly surpassed in the year under review. Waste reduction in ODS emissions compared to the previous year can ­efficiency also rose by 6%, compared to 2010, due to greater be attributed to the OSRAM share in emissions that is no production capacity utilization, and therefore also exceeds the ­longer reported. environmental program target of 1% per annum. In calculating nitrogen oxides, we have assumed typical comIncrease in waste efficiency bustion conditions in the relevant thermal processes, resulting (excluding construction waste) (in %, BASE YEAR 2010) 1 in a figure of 179 tons for environmentally relevant locations in Target: 1% increase per year the year under review. FY 2012 6% WASTE FY 2011 10% The environmental relevance of waste depends on the type of waste and its method of disposal. We distinguish between 1 Figures as recorded in the environmental information system; continuing operations; previous years adjusted for comparability. hazardous and non-hazardous waste. These two groups are ­further divided into recyclable waste and waste for disposal. We report waste from construction or demolition work separately because this kind of waste material arises independently of production. 57 Reduction of waste for disposal ENVIRONMENT-RELATED INCIDENTS (in %, BASE YEAR 2010) 1 AND PENALTIES Target: 1% improvement per year In the year under review, we recorded 15 environmentally ­relevant incidents. These are occurrences that must be notified FY 2012 4% to the authorities – notifiable incidents – or that had an external FY 2011 (3)% impact on the environment. Ten of them involved releases into bodies of water or sewer networks. There were four incidents 1 Figures as recorded in the environmental information system; continuing operations; involving the discharge of oil or resin, and one relating to atmoprevious years adjusted for comparability. spheric emissions. We reported them all within the framework of our management systems, including external reports if WATER AND WASTEWATER ­required. We eliminated minor damages, and analyzed the Year on year, water consumption and wastewater volumes fell ­incidents to rule out their re-occurrence. No significant penalby about 30%. This is due to the removal of sites from the ties were imposed this year. ­statistics, including the water-intensive OSRAM manufacturing facilities. NATURE AND WILDLIFE CONSERVATION Siemens activities have an impact on nature and wildlife at its Water consumption (in 1,000 cubic meters) 1, 2 own locations. In the year under review, we conducted a study FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 to identify activities that, bearing costs in mind, can be pursued Water consumption 10,625 15,180 3 14,990 14,110 to promote nature and wildlife on Siemens premises. The aim is to incorporate the findings of the study in the design and 1 Figures as recorded in the environmental information system; continuing operations operation of our locations. For example, at our Anhangüera site FY 2012, continuing and discontinued operations up to FY 2011. 2 Does not include roughly 16.7 million cubic meters of cooling water drawn from in Brazil, we have set up a large protected area traversed by groundwater and surface water resources and returned chemically unchanged, but a nature trail in the Atlantic rainforest. Our employees also warmed. 3 Including OSRAM according to environmental information system: 4,347. demonstrate their commitment to the conservation of nature and wildlife by desealing and restoring green spaces at our Wastewater (in 1,000 cubic meters) 1 sites, improving the microclimate, and protecting wildlife.  www.siemens.com/sr/environmental-protection FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 Cooling water 757 2,030 2,100 1,660 Wastewater from ­employee facilities 5,064 6,380 6,570 6,350 Product-related environmental protection Wastewater from ­manufacturing ENVIRONMENTALLY COMPATIBLE PRODUCT ­processes (total) 3,038 4,450 4,160 4,060 AND SYSTEM DESIGN Other (incl. losses) 1,290 2,280 2,080 1,670 In our view, a sustainable lifecycle begins with the design of Total 10,149 15,140 2 14,910 13,740 a product. This is where our long years of varied experience help minimize the expected environmental impact of a product 1 Figures as recorded in the environmental information system; continuing operations FY 2012, continuing and discontinued operations up to FY 2011. in its use and recycling phases. 2 Including OSRAM according to environmental information system: 4,316. In our internal environmental standard derived from the former We are breaking new ground with our water management Siemens standard SN 36350, we define requirements with ­system which we further developed in 2012. In our “Serve the ­regard to the environmentally compatible product and system Environment” program, we have set the goal of reducing the design throughout the entire lifecycle and thus set minimum impact of local water use. With this in mind, we are concentratstandards for the environmentally responsible development of ing on regions where sustainable water supplies or good water our products and solutions. The standard is continually adapted quality present a special challenge. Many options are open to to meet international requirements, with corresponding work us. Water consumption and wastewater loads can be minimized instructions providing more detailed guidance. The implemenand the risk of pollution by wastewater or substances hazardtation of these requirements is a mandatory part of the proous to water can be reduced. cesses we use to control the entire lifecycle of our products and systems.  www.siemens.com/sr/environmental-standards  40 Facts and figures 58 40 Reporting method 52 Occupational health and safety management 68 United Nations Global Compact 42 Innovation 54 Environmental protection and products 70 United Nations Water Mandate 44 Customers and portfolio 61 Suppliers 71 Global Reporting Initiative 46 Compliance 64 Corporate citizenship 72 Notes and forward-looking statements 48 Employees 66 Independent assurance report 74 Information resources The use phase of many of our products and systems has the LIFECYCLE ASSESSMENTS greatest ecological impact. We attach particular importance The assessment of the environmental impact of our products to resource and energy efficiency during this phase. We also and systems throughout their entire lifecycle is one of the key evaluate the findings of lifecycle assessments and integrate activities we are targeting with our internal environmental them into future product development. In this way, we help standard. We use specific software solutions and scientifically customers improve their environmental impact. recognized databases to determine and evaluate the “ecological footprint.” We adopt the requirements of international stanAt Siemens, closing material loops (cradle to cradle) is becomdards ISO14040 and ISO14044 so we can cover the complex ing increasingly important in product development and is ­subject of lifecycle assessment (LCA). In addition to detailed therefore included in our environmental standard. It means lifecycle assessments (full-scale LCAs), we make use, where that through reuse, refurbishing or recycling, products, compoappropriate, of simplified lifecycle assessments (screening ­ nents, or materials go through more than just one lifecycle, LCAs) such as CO2 screening. CO2 screenings are also used as a and therefore make a substantial contribution to the protection selection and control criterion for the elements in the Environof the environment. In this context, the use of critical substances mental Portfolio.  in an electronic product can greatly impact the product’s recywww.siemens.com/sr/lca  clability. Consequently, the list of declarable substances (LoDS) is also a part of our environmental standard. The list contains LCA is also one of the key tools used to determine environsubstances that are restricted in use due to regional or applicamental benefit with the help of the Eco-Care-Matrix. It enables tion-specific regulations or due to potential health and environus to compare customer benefit in monetary terms and envimental risks posed by the substances in the manufacture, ronmental benefit vis-à-vis the predecessor product so we can use and disposal of associated products. As far as technically provide our customers with a comprehensive picture of their feasible, Siemens avoids the use of all such LoDS-listed product. ­substances in its products worldwide. We therefore exceed the existing statutory requirements. ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT DECLARATIONS  It is important to us to inform our customers about the environWe are committed to continuously increase transparency mental impact of our products and solutions. We therefore use ­ regarding declarable substances, particularly in purchased environmental product declarations (EPD) as a vivid and transparts. This enables us, for example, to assess the environmenparent information and communication medium. To ensure tal impact of our products and to satisfy the requirements of that our environmental product declarations offer a consistent our customers in the respective target markets. level throughout the Company, we bring together the experience of the individual Business Units in the form of a dedicated During the supplier qualification process, new suppliers must panel of experts. The panel addresses overarching issues relatcommit to declare substances from the LoDS. These basic subing to lifecycle assessment and environmental product declarastance declaration requirements are mandatory for our supplitions, and drives the ongoing development of environmental ers and are included in procurement and project contracts. In product declaration requirements in our company-wide stanreal terms, this means that our suppliers must notify us if their dard. The standard is subjected to regular reviews and is adaptproducts and components contain declarable substances, and ed to changing national and international conditions. must provide us with relevant detailed information. www.siemens.com/sr/epd  To make an easy-to-use method with high data quality readily As of fiscal 2012, the key figures on lifecycle assessments and available, Siemens relies on an Internet-hosted database in environmental product declarations will be reported retrospecwhich our suppliers declare the substances they use in their tively on the basis of the revenues of relevant Business Units products. and no longer at Division level. A Business Unit is regarded as relevant if it develops products or systems and must therefore meet the requirements of the environmental standard. The sharp increase in the key figures from fiscal 2010 to 2011 can be attributed to the additional inclusion of other Business Units. Coverage has remained at this constant high level since. 59 Lifecycle assessments and environmental Product safety product declarations (percentage of revenue covered) FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 Product safety has utmost priority for the entire Siemens prodFull-scale LCAs 75 75 68 uct portfolio. Our goal is to design and manufacture products Screening LCAs 54 54 33 that are safe in all respects. This applies both to tangible and Environmental product intangible products. Our system to ensure product safety: ­declarations (EPD) 78 78 72 >> Avoids dangers and minimizes risks to users and third Reference base: Revenue of Business Units that develop products and systems and therefore meet the requirements of the environmental standard. In revenue coverage ­parties, we include the total revenue of a Business Unit once we have carried out “Full-Scale LCAs”, “Screening LCAs” or “EPDs” for their products or systems. No product-related >> Provides binding rules for all products – our own and those coverage is calculated. of third parties – that we market, >> Underscores the emphasis we place on product safety along USE PHASE the entire value chain, and The environmental product declarations also serve, for exam>> Safeguards the sustainable success of Siemens and protects ple, to inform our customers of the environmental impact of our reputation. our products in their use phase. We also provide additional ­information on many of our products and systems to enable Our “Principles of Product Safety” and the related guidelines customers to use them as efficiently as possible and therefore ­define the framework for the methods and measures implein an environmentally friendly way. The products in our Environmented at Siemens and are binding for all units concerned with mental Portfolio exhibit particularly ecofriendly characteristics product safety. in the use phase. In the Healthcare Sector, parts of returned systems which are Communication no longer intended for sale, are removed by the Refurbished Systems Business Unit. They are then refurbished and made With product communication, as with all our communication available as spare parts for healthcare products by the Healthactivities, we also make consistent and balanced information care Customer Services department. These parts may be small available to all our stakeholders. Our Company-wide communielements such as printed circuit boards or even complete comcation policy affirms our credibility and trustworthiness and ponents. Consequently, our Refurbished Systems Business demonstrates how seriously we take our responsibilities. We Unit also significantly contributes to saving resources and publish all in-house communication guidelines on the corpo­reducing CO2 emissions. rate intranet. We also require all Company information and its distribution to adhere to local statutory regulations and generEnd of life ally applicable ethical and cultural standards. Throughout Siemens we have adopted a philosophy of resource conservation that covers the entire lifecycle of a product. For product designers, this completes the information loop ­between the end of life of one product and the development phase of a new product. The handling of used electrical and electronic equipment or their disposal now entails much more than collecting and recycling old devices. What’s important is the sensible return and recycling of such devices or even the refurbishing of complete systems. We make appropriate information available to our ­customers and give recommendations as to how to deal with our products at the end of their use phase.  40 Facts and figures 60 40 Reporting method 52 Occupational health and safety management 68 United Nations Global Compact 42 Innovation 54 Environmental protection and products 70 United Nations Water Mandate 44 Customers and portfolio 61 Suppliers 71 Global Reporting Initiative 46 Compliance 64 Corporate citizenship 72 Notes and forward-looking statements 48 Employees 66 Independent assurance report 74 Information resources Suppliers A competitive, globally balanced and localized network of suprisk assessment for every site, an appraisal of the risks identipliers is vital to Siemens’ success. This is one of the reasons fied, and measures to minimize them. From fiscal 2013 on, spewhy we put sustainability into practice throughout the value cially devised health and safety audits will be held at the conchain. In our collaboration with suppliers, we not only take struction sites themselves to check this. In the year under ­criteria like quality, cost and availability into account, but also review, we also trained suppliers in India in health and safety their innovative strength and approach to sustainability. at construction sites. In addition, in the year under r­ eview we began checking the effects of an American legal p ­ rovision REQUIREMENTS FOR SUPPLIERS enacted in 2012, which aims to increase transparency and ­ We have integrated our sustainability requirements in all ­responsibility in the procurement of “conflict minerals” from ­relevant Supplier Management processes – such as Supplier the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo and Selection, Supplier Qualification and Evaluation, as well as the surrounding region. A concrete implementation strategy ­Supplier Development – and are refining them ­constantly. This is currently being drafted. For further information, please enables us to recognize risks at an early stage on the one hand see the Siemens Annual Report 2012, Financial Report, on and to actively exploit opportunities on the other hand. PAGE 121 .  We expect all our suppliers to make a clear commitment to Identifying deviations and implementing the principles of sustainability. Our requirements – such as measures for improvement ­respect for the basic rights of employees and environmental Because our supplier network is very large and ramified, it is protection – are defined in the Code of Conduct for Siemens not possible for us to inspect all suppliers to the same extent by Suppliers. ­Under relevant clauses in our procurement contracts auditing them on site. We have therefore established a riskand our Conditions of Purchase, all Siemens suppliers must based system of appropriate processes to enable us to system­undertake to meet these requirements and also promote comatically identify potential risks in our supply chain. It consists of pliance with them in their own supply chain. Find out more Sustainability Self-Assessments by suppliers, Risk Evaluation about the Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers, which is conducted by the buyer, a Sustainability Module as part of based on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and re­Supplier Quality Audits, and Sustainability Audits by external flects the content of our Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines: ­auditors. www.siemens.com/sr/code-of-conduct www.siemens.com/sr/supplier-audits Siemens’ purchasing volume in fiscal 2012 Sustainability Self-Assessments 1 �40 billion purchasing volume Number FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 Europe, C.I.S.2, Africa, Middle East 1,218 752 109 We procure from some 90,000 suppliers in over 170 countries. Siemens’ Americas 1,796 568 67 purchasing volume in fiscal 2012 amounted to about €40 billion. That Asia, Australia 3,128 1,557 777 is roughly half of our total annual revenue. In the year under review, we Total 6,142 2,877 953 focused on continuing to enhance our supply chain management and strengthening Siemens’ competitiveness by achieving substantial savings. Results FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 The supplier initiative successfully completed before the start of fiscal Category “green” 2012 also helped us in this regard. In line with our strategic priorities, (no deviations) 3,580 1,692 512 we further developed and continuously rolled out this initiative for leverCategory “yellow” aging saving potential. (minor deviations) 3 1,342 605 193 Category “red” www.siemens.com/sr/suppliers (suspicion of serious deviations) 3 1,220 580 248 Total 6,142 2,877 953 In fiscal 2012, we made particular efforts to tighten the require1 To be conducted by suppliers from non-OECD states with a purchasing volume ments for occupational health and safety standards for suppli> €50,000 p.a. Questionnaires initiated and completed in the year under review. 2 Commonwealth of Independent States ers at our project construction sites. Specifically, for the normal 3 Clarification of the situation by the responsible buyer, agreement on corrective health and safety management systems, we require a detailed measures within a defined period of time or conducting of an external Sustainability Audit. 61 External Sustainability Audits If deviations from our requirements are identified, they must Number FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 be remedied by the suppliers in question within a reasonable Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, period of time. In the event of serious deviations or unwillingMiddle East 37 24 20 ness to implement measures for improvement, we exclude supAmericas 51 29 31 pliers from any business with Siemens. In all we do, we are Asia, Australia 269 231 152 guided by the principles of developing our suppliers in close Total 357 284 203 partnership and building up their competencies for the long term. Furthermore, following a pilot phase in fiscal 2011, we Agreed Improvement Measures 2, 3 FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 conducted the first large-scale follow-up audits. These entail Legal compliance/prohibition of corruption and bribery 1,303 443 270 revisiting the sites to see if the agreed measures have actually Respect for the basic been implemented. human rights of employees 2,129 1,466 326 Prohibition of child labor 93 105 81 Deviations identified in the audits mainly relate to structural Health and safety of employees 2,600 2,277 336 deficiencies in management systems and the lack of specific Environmental protection 598 377 160 processes and guidelines at the supplier. This includes, for Supply chain 353 295 199 ­ instance, measures to effectively prevent corruption and Total 7,076 4,963 1,372 ­bribery and to rule out child labor. In addition, serious deviations were identified at eleven suppliers but were corrected 1 Commonwealth of Independent States by the set deadline. 2 A more detailed questionnaire is used to audit the suppliers even more thoroughly. This led to a clear rise in the number of measures for improvement in the year under review. 3 Improvement measures agreed with suppliers relate either to actual deviations We implemented our supplier qualification process throughout from the Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers or to structural improvements of management systems and the lack of specific processes and guidelines at the the world in previous years. In fiscal 2012, this enabled us to supplier. more than double the number of self-assessments carried out. Follow-up audits to external sustainability audits Know-How transfer and Number FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 building competence Europe, C.I.S.2, Africa, Our suppliers’ commitment to comply with our sustainability Middle East 6 –1 – principles is most effective when it is based on their own Americas 8 –1 – ­convictions. We are therefore increasingly committed to buildAsia, Australia 168 –1 – ing our suppliers’ competence and intensifying knowledge Total 182 –1 – transfers related to sustainability. In addition to providing Internet-based training, we regularly organize sustainability courses 1 Planning and pilot phase for suppliers in various countries. In fiscal 2012, we held such 2 Commonwealth of Independent States meetings in Saudi Arabia, Brazil, Indonesia and Turkey. Here we Number of supplier quality audits see great potential to anchor sustainability even more firmly with sustainability module in the supply chain. That is why we are developing another Number FY 2012 1 FY 2011 FY 2010 ­innovative training offer for suppliers. We will make it available Europe, C.I.S.2, Africa, free of charge to all suppliers in fiscal 2013 in addition to our Middle East 50 96 62 existing training offers.  Americas 2 10 48 www.siemens.com/sr/supplier-trainings Asia, Australia 101 188 236 Total 153 294 346 On top of that, sustainability is an integral part of the Company-wide training programs for buyers. Moreover, all employees 1 The decline is due to portfolio changes and a modified supplier quality audit with purchasing responsibility are obligated to take part in procedure. We have effectively minimized the risks in our supply chain by both enhancing external Sustainability Audits and Sustainability Self-Assessments and ­intranet-based training on the subject of “Sustainability in the increasing their number. 2 Commonwealth of Independent States Supply Chain.” 40 Facts and figures 62 40 Reporting method 52 Occupational health and safety management 68 United Nations Global Compact 42 Innovation 54 Environmental protection and products 70 United Nations Water Mandate 44 Customers and portfolio 61 Suppliers 71 Global Reporting Initiative 46 Compliance 64 Corporate citizenship 72 Notes and forward-looking statements 48 Employees 66 Independent assurance report 74 Information resources Regional responsibility as a customer work out concrete measures to improve their resource effiOne essential element of moving toward a globally balanced ciency. The following actual example demonstrates how this supply chain network is to constantly increase the share of works and the successes our efforts can achieve. sourcing from emerging markets (Global Value Sourcing countries). For this purpose, we identify suitable suppliers in these We carried out a detailed energy and environmental analysis countries and then integrate them in an ongoing development for our supplier and partner LEONI Kabel GmbH at its main process that extends to sustainability. Both we and our suppli­production facility in Roth, Germany. During the project, our ers benefit from these long-term partnerships. ­energy consultants on site conducted a thorough analysis of www.siemens.com/sr/global-value-sourcing the status of all energy-related operational processes, evaluated the management processes, and investigated the imResource efficiency and climate protection provement ­ potential of the organizational structures. The in the supply chain ­entire process chain was scrutinized from raw materials and We collect and publish our greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) production to the final product. The results are impressive: The caused by purchased products and services as part of the identified measures in the areas of lighting, machine c­ ontrol, ­Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). We have also examined our drive ­optimization, heating, aeration and ventilation, and coolsupply chain with regard to water shortage risks and report on ing show cost-cutting potential for the company of up to our activities as part of the CDP Water Disclosure program. €250,000 per year. This is further proof that environmental protection and commercial benefit can be reconciled through conEnergy Efficiency Program for Suppliers (EEP4 S) crete ­measures.  916 participants www.siemens.com/sr/suppliers www.siemens.com/scm In the year under review, over 916 suppliers took part in our Energy Efficiency Program for Suppliers (EEP4 S). www.siemens.com/sr/eep4s Energy efficiency is one of the most effective ways we can help protect the climate. This is where our expanded Energy Efficiency Program for Suppliers (EEP4 S) comes in. In this ­ program we offer our suppliers environmental and energy ­efficiency checks in the shape of Internet-based self-assessments and help them identify opportunities for reducing the consumption of energy and other resources. In this regard, we draw upon the knowledge and expertise we have gained from our own environmental program and our Environmental Portfolio. 916 of our suppliers had conducted a self-assessment by the end of fiscal 2012. The results confirm that we have pointed out reduction potentials and effective measures to reduce emissions here. Roughly 18% of the self-assessments show the potential to save 14 to 20% and roughly another 56% the potential for 9 to 14%. Another 1,000 suppliers are due to be integrated into the program in fiscal 2013. On top of that, we want to hold discussions with about 60 suppliers to sound out this issue and 63 Corporate citizenship Siemens does business in over 190 countries around the world. Donations by Siemens AG in fiscal 2012 €27.1 million in donations Ever since our Company was founded, we have been conscious of our responsibility in the various societies in which we operate – as an employer, customer and taxpayer. As a good corporate citizen, we see it as our job to make long-term, positive In fiscal 2012, we donated €27.1 million. contributions to the development of these societies. Corporate www.siemens.com/sr/corporate-citizenship citizenship is therefore an integral part of our holistic understanding of sustainability. The Siemens values of being responsible, excellent and inno­ OUR CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ACTIVITIES vative also apply to our social engagement. They are the founWith our product portfolio, we provide answers to the major dation for our high quality standards when choosing projects to challenges of our time: demographic change, urbanization, support and carrying them through. To focus our engagement globalization and climate change. On the basis of this strategic activities around the world even more effectively, we have uporientation, we focus our corporate citizenship activities on the dated the strategic specifications for donations and sponsoring topics of environmental protection, education and science as with more precise spheres of activity and practical aids, e.g. for well as social issues. We are convinced that these are the areas measuring impact. Our social engagement can take a variety of in which the combination of our specific know-how, our reforms, ranging from product donations such as ultrasound sources and products and our local presence around the world ­systems, to cash donations and volunteering activities of our can bring the biggest benefit for society – and therefore also for employees. In addition, we provide immediate aid in the wake Siemens. These strategic focal points are complemented by our of natural disasters. commitment to the arts and culture. Our activities are geared towards the long term and aim to effectively and sustainably One example of how we make use of our specific competences improve living conditions by helping people help themselves. for the benefit of society is the “Asha” project (which translates to hope) in India. Early in 2012, Siemens launched this project We also contribute our expertise in our collaborations with inin the remote, 350-inhabitant village of Amle, which is located ternational organizations in the interest of joint learning. As a 130 kilometers north of India’s financial hub Mumbai. Situated member of the United Nations Global Compact, for example, in a valley and surrounded by a river on three sides, the village we contributed practical project examples to two publications did not have electricity and was completely cut off from the on best practices in strategic social investment. More infor­ mainland during the monsoon season. In partnership with a mation on our experience with selected projects is available in non-governmental organization, the local self-governance the publications “New Paths to Performance: Strategic Social body and the forestry department, Siemens set up a solar powInvestment and Philanthropy” and “The Reconceptualization er station, installed a water filtration plant and built dams and of Business” at: water reservoirs. Pumps in two d ­ ifferent parts of the river enwww.siemens.com/sr/cooperation able nearly 15 acres of arable land to be irrigated. The villagers are being trained on multiple cropping and how to sell the Effective corporate citizenship activities require profound local crops profitably. We are working on raising health consciousknowledge and long-term commitment. The responsibility for ness, increasing literacy and strengthening the position of choosing and carrying out charitable activities therefore lies women through a series of events. To sensitize the people to with the local units in each country. This ensures that we prothe value of healthcare, education, water and energy, the vilvide support where it is needed most. To continuously improve lage’s development committee has decided to charge each our performance, we regularly compare notes using virtual household a small amount of money for the power provided. ­internal and external networks. In the year under review, we Farmers also make a small contribution from the profit they also established a new knowledge platform that will help us realize thanks to the increase in productivity. This money ­exchange experiences and methods even more effectively. will be used for the upkeep of the system and make the project 40 Facts and figures 64 40 Reporting method 52 Occupational health and safety management 68 United Nations Global Compact 42 Innovation 54 Environmental protection and products 70 United Nations Water Mandate 44 Customers and portfolio 61 Suppliers 71 Global Reporting Initiative 46 Compliance 64 Corporate citizenship 72 Notes and forward-looking statements 48 Employees 66 Independent assurance report 74 Information resources self-sustaining. In keeping with the meaning of sustainability, Donations by region (in millions of €) the project aims to ensure an ­autonomous development of the FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 village and the livelihood of its inhabitants. The experience we Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, gathered there will also be incorporated in other projects. Middle East 13.4 19.3 25.82 www.siemens.com/sr/asha thereof Germany 10.1 15.0 21.52 Americas 8.9 9.6 5.6 Acknowledging outstanding projects is very important to us. Asia, Australia 4.8 3.7 2.8 In October 2012, for example, the Managing Board honored Total 27.1 32.6 34.2 ­another corporate citizenship project during the conference of 1 Commonwealth of Independent States the top 500 Siemens managers. The Innovation Think Tank 2 Donations for education and science in fiscal 2010 in Germany (Siemens AG) project of the Healthcare Sector, which has been running since include a special effect from the contribution of €7.5 million by Siemens AG to the ESMT-Stiftung, European School of Management and Technology GmbH. 2010, aims to integrate students from countries like ­Germany, India and China in the innovation process. This way, everyone benefits: the students, society and not least Siemens. While the Our achievements to date as well as the high expectations students gather practical experience in interdisci­plinary and of our employees and other stakeholders are both an acknowlmultinational teams, thus broadening their ­ horizons and edgement and an incentive to keep improving our programs ­expanding their networks, Siemens can position itself as an and practices in the coming years. By this means, we aim to ­attractive employer for the strongly contested up and coming fulfill our responsibility as a company and make effective contalents in the biomedical sciences. And society also benefits tributions towards achieving the millennium development from the innovations in healthcare and the practical qualificagoals and implementing the ten Global Compact principles tion of young people: In the past fiscal year, more than 1,000 of the United Nations. students from 136 universities as well as over 150 Siemens www.siemens.com/sr/corporate-citizenship ­employees took part in the program as advisors or jury members. To date, more than 50 inventions have been ­registered as Siemens STIFTUNG a result of this flow of ideas.  Established in 2008 with a capital of €390 million, Siemens www.siemens.com/sr/think-tank Stiftung complements our corporate citizenship activities ­ and cooperates with the other five corporate foundations in FACTS & FIGURES ­Argentina, Brazil, France, Columbia and the United States. Its goal is to empower people to actively contribute towards social Donations development. The foundation is involved both in national and FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 international projects dedicated to enhancing people’s basic Total (in millions of €) 27.1 32.6 34.2 services and social entrepreneurship, promoting education and Share of net profit (in %) 0.6 0.5 0.8 strengthening culture. An example of the kind of projects Siemens Stiftung engages in is the global ”empowering people. Award”, which aims to Donations by category (in millions of €) find and provide simple technical solutions that help deal with FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2010 pressing tasks relating to basic services in developing and Education and science 15.8 18.8 19.61 emerging countries. The setup of a central knowledge database Humanitarian and social issues 6.7 8.9 9.9 ensures that these inventions will be available to everyone Arts and culture 4.4 4.5 4.5 ­involved in development partnerships.  Environmental protection 0.2 0.3 0.2 www.siemens-stiftung.org/en Total 27.1 32.6 34.2 1 Donations for education and science in fiscal 2010 in Germany (Siemens AG) include a special effect from the contribution of €7.5 million by Siemens AG to the ESMT-Stiftung, European School of Management and Technology GmbH. 65 Independent assurance report The assurance engagement performed by Ernst & Young rethat the report is not in accordance, in material respects, with lates exclusively to the German print version of the Sustainthe aforementioned reporting principles and criteria. In a limability Report. The following text is a translation of the original ited assurance engagement the evidence gathering procedures ­German Independent Assurance Report. are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable To Siemens AG, Berlin and Munich assurance engagement. Our engagement During the engagement, we observed the independence requireWe have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagements of the IFAC Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants. ment on the Siemens AG Sustainability Report (hereinafter: the report) for the reporting period from 1 October 2011 to Key review procedures 30 September 2012: The performance of our engagement mainly involved the following work: The report is published both as a printable version and as an online version at  >> Inquiries of employees concerning the sustainability stratewww.siemens.com/sustainabilit y-report gy, sustainability principles and sustainability management including the stakeholder dialog of Siemens AG. Limitations of our engagement >> Inquiries of employees responsible in the central corporate Our engagement is exclusively limited to the German printable sustainability department for the preparation of the Sustainversion of the 2012 Sustainability Report by Siemens AG. Our ability Report in order to assess the sustainability reporting engagement did not include any prospective statements. system, the data capture and compilation methods as well as internal controls to the extent relevant for a review of the Criteria Sustainability Report. We assessed the report against the criteria set out in the >> Inquiries of employees responsible in the corporate depart­Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3.0 issued by the Global ments for the topics innovation, customers and portfolio, Reporting Initiative (GRI). We believe that these criteria are compliance, employees, occupational health and safety, suitable for our assurance engagement. ­environmental protection and products, suppliers and corporate citizenship to assess the data capture and compilation Management’s responsibility methods as well as internal controls to the extent relevant The Managing Board of Siemens AG is responsible for the for the review of the Sustainability Report preparation and the content of the report in compliance with >> Inspection of the relevant documentation of the systems and the above-mentioned criteria. This responsibility includes the processes for compiling, analyzing, and aggregating sustaindesign, implementation and maintenance of internal controls ability data in the reporting period and testing such docufor the preparation of a report that is free from material mismentation on a sample of basis statements, in accordance with the above mentioned criteria >> Analytical measures at Group level, on the level of sectors and based on suitable methods for gathering source data and divisions regarding the quality of the reported data ­including judgments and estimates of the individual sustain>> Inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample basis ability data. ­relating to the collection and reporting of the sustainability data from the topics environmental protection and occupaOur responsibility tional safety during site visits Our responsibility is to issue an assurance report on the report –– in the Energy Fossil, Industry Automation and Building based on our work performed. Technology Divisions –– at the Energy Fossil locations in Mülheim an der Ruhr and We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accorCharlotte (USA) dance with the International Standard on Assurance Engage–– at the Healthcare location in Cary (USA) ments (ISAE) 3000. This standard requires that we comply with –– at the Industry Automation locations in West Chicago our professional duties and plan and perform the assurance (USA), Haguenau (France) und Suzhou (China) engagement to obtain a limited level of assurance to preclude –– at the Building Technology location in Zug (Switzerland) 40 Facts and figures 66 40 Reporting method 52 Occupational health and safety management 68 United Nations Global Compact 42 Innovation 54 Environmental protection and products 70 United Nations Water Mandate 44 Customers and portfolio 61 Suppliers 71 Global Reporting Initiative 46 Compliance 64 Corporate citizenship 72 Notes and forward-looking statements 48 Employees 66 Independent assurance report 74 Information resources –– as well as Regional Companies in Switzerland (Zug, Compliance and employee data) and Canada (Drummondville, environmental protection and occupational safety) >> Inquiries of employees from selected departments at the Group’s headquarters, corporate departments, sectors and divisions and at the sites visited on material qualitative statements in the Sustainability Report as well as the inspection of selected underlying documents >> Review of material qualitative statements in the Sustainability Report for plausibility and consistency Our conclusion Based on our procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information in the 2012 Sustainability ­Report of Siemens AG has not been prepared, in all material respects, with the aforementioned criteria. Munich, April 19, 2013  Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Peter Nolden Nicole Richter Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüferin (German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor) 67 United Nations Global Compact Siemens has been a participant in the UN Global Compact since 2003 and is expressly committed to upholding the Compact’s ten principles. This Sustainability Report, and in particular the following report index, describes the progress we have made during the year – broken down according to the systems and measures we have implemented and our achievements. Index according to the ten principles of the Global Compact Principle Systems Measures Achievements Principle 1 With the Siemens Business Conduct We operate a modular, risk-based In the year under review, we conducted Support of Guidelines we have committed our­system to check that all our suppliers 357 external sustainability audits and human rights selves to observing human rights are adhering to our Code of Conduct 153 quality audits incorporating a sustainand the core labor standards. With for Siemens Suppliers. In the year ability module among suppliers. In the Principle 2 our Code of Conduct for Siemens under review, we increased the numexternal audits, we identified a total of Exclusion of human ­Suppliers we ensure that these ber of external sustainability audits 7,076 potential improvements: Around rights abuses basic rights and principles are also by about 25% and more than doubled 30% (2,129) involved improvements in the Principle 3 observed in our supply chain. the number of supplier self-assessarea of “respect of basic employee rights,” Assurance of freeCompliance, Page 64f. ments. For the first time, follow-up and 1.3% (93) in the area of “prohibition dom of association Employees, Page 48ff. audits were held on site to verify the of child labor.” 182 follow-up audits were SUPPLIERS, Page 61ff. agreed measures for improvement. also conducted. The main objections Principle 4 IDENTIFYING DEVIATIONS AND related to poor aspects of policies and Elimination of all IMPLEMENTING MEASURES FOR ­processes, especially in regard to child forms of forced labor IMPROVEMENT, Page 61f. labor. IDENTIFYING DEVIATIONS AND Principle 5 ­IMPLEMENTING MEASURES FOR Abolition of child IMPROVEMENT, Page 61f. ­labor Principle 6 We do not tolerate discrimination To reflect diversity across all levels in In the year under review, women Elimination of and have anchored that in the the Company, we are rolling out variaccounted for 25% of our total work­force. ­discrimination Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines. ous focused measures, including the The proportion of women in management We actively foster diversity within formation of a network of around 150 positions at Siemens has risen continuthe Company through the Siemens Siemens Diversity Ambassadors and ously in recent years and is now 15.3%. Diversity Initiative. our Global Leadership Organization of EMPLOYEES IN MANAGEMENT D IVERSIT Y IN PRACTICE, Women. Since the Diversity Charter was ­POSITIONS, Page 48 PAGE 48FF. introduced in December 2010, over WOMEN EMPLOYEES, Page 48 14,000 employees have signed it. The success of all measures is assessed annually in the diversity scorecard. EMPLOYEE DIVERSIT Y, SIEMENS ANNUAL REPORt, Page 107 D IVERSIT Y IN PRACTICE, Page 48f. Principle 7 We have embedded our responsibility In the year under review, we took Our increases in efficiency relative to Precautionary for environmental protection in our extensive action in this field by rolling ­fiscal 2010 were as follows in the year ­approach to ­in-house environmental standard. On out our new “Serve the Environment” under review: ­environmental top of that, all our locations have an program and continuing the activities Energy 8%, waste 6% and waste for ­protection environmental management system; in our Energy Efficiency Program (EEP). ­disposal 4%. 295 of them have been certified As far as product-related environmental ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND according to ISO 14001. protection is concerned, the new proPRODUCTS, Page 54ff. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION gram “Product-Eco Excellence” enables AND PRODUCTS, Page 54ff. us to define environmental requirements throughout the product lifecycle. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND PRODUCTS, Page 54ff. 40 Facts and figures 68 40 Reporting method 52 Occupational health and safety management 68 United Nations Global Compact 42 Innovation 54 Environmental protection and products 70 United Nations Water Mandate 44 Customers and portfolio 61 Suppliers 71 Global Reporting Initiative 46 Compliance 64 Corporate citizenship 72 Notes and forward-looking statements 48 Employees 66 Independent assurance report 74 Information resources Index according to the ten principles of the Global Compact Principle Systems Measures Achievements Principle 8 Raising our employees’ awareness of Siemens maintains a global environIn the year under review, we donated Specific initiatives environmental and climate protection mental communications network to around €27.1 million for corporate citizento promote is an element of both our environensure that knowledge about environship activities, of which €15.8 million ­environmental mental strategy and our social commental management, methods, soluwent to education and science and €0.2 ­protection mitment. With internal communications and experiences is communimillion to environmental protection tions measures and our corporate cated across locations, Sectors and ­activities. citizenship focus on “environmental national borders. For instance, Division D ONATIONS BY CATEGORY, protection,” we help create a greater environmental officers meet several Page 65 sense of responsibility for ecological times a year. At an international level, issues. we maintain communication at annual ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION meetings of the Regions. We reward AND PRODUCTS, Page 54 ff. special commitment to environmental Corporate Citizenship, protection with the Siemens EnvironPage 64f. ment Award, which is presented every two years. Innovation, Page 42f. NATURE AND WILDLIFE conservation, Page 58 Principle 9 As part of our Environmental Portfolio, In the year under review, we added The Environmental Portfolio elements Development we develop and market products, numerous elements to the Siemens that were installed for our customers and diffusion of solutions and services that enable Environmental Portfolio. from 2002 to 2012 helped them cut their ­environmentally our customers to reduce their CO2 THE ENVIRONMENTAL CO2 emissions by 332 million tons in the friendly technologies emissions, lower lifecycle costs and PORTFOLIO AS A KEY DRIVER year under review. protect the environment. OF SUSTAINABLE GROWTH, THE ENVIRONMENTAL THE ENVIRONMENTAL Page 44 PORTFOLIO AS A KEY DRIVER PORTFOLIO AS A KEY DRIVER OF SUSTAINABLE GROWTH, OF SUSTAINABLE GROWTH, Page 44 Page 44 Principle 10 The Siemens Business Conduct GuideAs part of One Siemens, we set four The four-year mandate of the Compliance Measures lines are the heart of our Compliance medium-term priorities in fiscal year Monitor ceased in 2012. All compliance against corruption Program. 2011 aimed at advancing the prevenrecommendations had been implemented. Compliance, Page 46f. tion of corruption and other anti-­ The Compliance Monitor’s task was to competitive practices within the Comverify that the Siemens Compliance Propany. Our efforts here include steps gram was implemented in a sustainable to maximize the effectiveness and manner. efficiency of our compliance proCompliance, Page 46f. cesses. We backed this up by launching the Integrity Initiative in 2009 with a budget of US$100 million. Our goal is to support organizations and projects in the fight against corruption and fraud. Compliance, Page 46f. 69 Progress report on the United Nations CEO Water Mandate Siemens became a signatory to the United Nations CEO Water In addition, Siemens supports the SkyJuice Foundation, a Mandate in 2008. Our continuing support for the CEO Water ­humanitarian aid organization incorporated in Australia. In Mandate reflects our commitment on two fronts: Firstly, man­cooperation with the Siemens Stiftung, SkyJuice supplies Sky aging water efficiently in our own facilities. Secondly, providing Hydrants™ to people living in remote regions. Siemens prosolutions that help our customers handle water and waste vides these water filtration systems at a reduced price and also ­water more economically. takes care of the necessary servicing. We have compiled ­further information for you on the following website pages: 1. Our own activities www.siemens.com/sr/safe-water-kiosk For more information about the resource conservation and www.siemens.com/sr/water-treatment  ­water consumption goals at Siemens locations, see section ­“Environmental Protection and Products” on pages 54-60 . We More information is also available on the SkyJuice Foundation are pursuing a new approach to water resources management website: that was developed in 2012. At locations where there are www.skyjuice.com.au/skyhydrant.htm ­ increased water-related risks – for example, as a result of ­aridity, high wastewater loads, or poorly developed technical We support a variety of water-related projects through our infrastructures – we define goals that are matched to local ­corporate citizenship activities. Examples include the provision ­ circumstances. This enables us to effectively reduce risks of water treatment systems to help the victims of natural diand negative impacts on the environment. sasters like the tsunami in Japan and the floods in Pakistan. Similarly, we have supplied water pumps, dams, water collecOur Siemens Water Technologies Business Unit specializes tion reservoirs and filtration systems that provide sustainable in the development of innovative and sustainable water treatirrigation and clean water as part of the Asha project. The goal ment technologies.  of the Asha project is to safeguard the livelihood of a village www.water.siemens.com/en with 350 inhabitants located near the city of Mumbai in India. Read more about our activities on pages 64-65 or on our 2. Our suppliers ­website at: The environmental requirements that our suppliers must fulfill www.siemens.com/sr/corporate-citizenship-references are defined in our Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers. The www.siemens.com/sr/asha responsible use of water forms an integral part of this code. For more information on these requirements and on supply chain 4. Transparency management, see pages 61-63 . You will find GRI confirmation for our Sustainability Report 2012 on the next page and the corresponding index in full on our 3. Community engagement website at:  As a member of various international organizations, we’re www.siemens.com/sr/gri involved in numerous initiatives and programs, including ­ the Water Project of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. We are also sponsors of the Stockholm Water Prize, which is awarded annually at the World Water Day. 40 Facts and figures 70 40 Reporting method 52 Occupational health and safety management 68 United Nations Global Compact 42 Innovation 54 Environmental protection and products 70 United Nations Water Mandate 44 Customers and portfolio 61 Suppliers 71 Global Reporting Initiative 46 Compliance 64 Corporate citizenship 72 Notes and forward-looking statements 48 Employees 66 Independent assurance report 74 Information resources Global Reporting Initiative The detailed GRI Index is available at our Sustainability website at:  www.siemens.com/sr/gri 71 Notes and forward-looking statements There is no standard system that applies across companies for affect Siemens’ operations, performance, business strategy qualifying products and solutions for environmental and and ­results and could cause the actual results, performance or ­climate protection, or for compiling and calculating the respecachievements of Siemens to be materially different from any tive revenues and the quantity of reduced carbon dioxide emisfuture results, performance or achievements that may be sions ­attributable to such products and solutions. Accordingly, ­expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements or revenues from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction anticipated on the basis of historical trends. These factors of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions may not include in particular, but are not limited to, the matters ­ be comparable with similar information reported by other com­described in Item 3: Key information – Risk factors of our most panies. Revenues from our Environmental Portfolio and the recent annual report on Form 20-F filed with the SEC, in the ­reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions chapter “Risks” of our most recent annual report prepared in are derived from various internal reporting systems that are accordance with the German Commercial Code, and in the generally different from those applicable to the financial inforchapter “Report on risks and opportunities” of our most recent mation presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements and interim report. are, in particular, subject to less sophisticated internal documentation as well as preparation and review requirements, Further information about risks and uncertainties affecting ­including the IT systems in use and the general internal control Siemens is included throughout our most recent annual environment. We may change our policies for recognizing and ­interim reports, as well as our most recent earnings re­revenues from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction lease, which are available on the Siemens website, www. of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions in the siemens.com , and throughout our most recent annual report ­future without previous notice. on Form 20-F and in our other filings with the SEC, which are available on the Siemens website, www.siemens.com , and This document contains statements related to our future busion the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov . Should one or more ness and financial performance and future events or developof these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should under­ ments involving Siemens that may constitute forward-looking lying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results, performance statements. These statements may be identified by words such or achievements of Siemens may vary materially from those as “expects,” “looks forward to,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” ­described in the relevant forward-looking statement as being “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “will,” “project” or words of ­expected, anticipated, intended, planned, believed, sought, ­similar meaning. We may also make forward-looking state­estimated or projected. Siemens neither intends, nor assumes ments in other reports, in presentations, in material delivered any obligation, to update or revise these forward-looking to stockholders and in press releases. In addition, our repre­statements in light of developments which differ from those sentatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking anticipated. statements. Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of Siemens’ management, Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this and other and are, therefore, subject to certain risks and uncertainties. A documents may not add up precisely to the totals provided and variety of factors, many of which are beyond Siemens’ control, percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures 40 Facts and figures 72 40 Reporting method 52 Occupational health and safety management 68 United Nations Global Compact 42 Innovation 54 Environmental protection and products 70 United Nations Water Mandate 44 Customers and portfolio 61 Suppliers 71 Global Reporting Initiative 46 Compliance 64 Corporate citizenship 72 Notes and forward-looking statements 48 Employees 66 Independent assurance report 74 Information resources Internet presence Sitemap Sustainability at our corporate website Innovation w ww.siemens.com/sr/ innovation Sustainability at Siemens www.siemens.com/sr/ Customers and portfolio sustainabilit y-siemens w ww.siemens.com/sr/ customers Organization Compliance w ww.siemens.com/sr/ w ww.siemens.com/sr/ organization compliance Environmental protection w ww.siemens.com/sr/ Environmental Portfolio environmental-protection w ww.siemens.com/sr/ environmental-portfolio Home Safety w ww.siemens.com/ w ww.siemens.com/sr/ sustainabilit y safet y Core topics w ww.siemens.com/sr/ core-topics Health management w ww.siemens.com/sr/ health-management Reports and Rankings Employees w ww.siemens.com/sr/ w ww.siemens.com/sr/ reports employees Suppliers Practicing sustainability w ww.siemens.com/sr/ suppliers w ww.siemens.com/sr/ practicing-sustainabilit y Corporate citizenship w ww.siemens.com/sr/ corporate-citizenship www.siemens.com/sustainabilit y 73 Information resources Address Ordering the Sustainability Report Siemens AG E-mail siemens@bek-gmbh.de Wittelsbacherplatz 2 Internet  w ww.siemens.com/ 80333 Munich order-sustainabilit yreport Germany Fax + 49 (0) 7237 1736 Content responsibility and Ordering the Sustainability Report contact for content-related questions Siemens employees Corporate Sustainability: Intranet ht tps://c4bs.gss.siemens.com Stefan Reicherz Fax + 49 (0) 911 654 4271 E-mail sustainability@siemens.com English Order no. A19100-F-V97-X-7600 German Order no. A19100-F-V97 Project coordination When placing your orders, please specify your full delivery Corporate Communications and Government Affairs: address and Org-ID. Dr. Johannes von Karczewski Legal note Further information Designations used in this report may be trademarks, the use This Sustainability Report is also available in German. of which by third parties for their own purposes could violate Both the English and German versions are available online at: the rights of their owners. www.siemens.com/sustainabilit y-report www.siemens.com/nachhaltigkeitsbericht Text / Design / Production Additional information on sustainability is available Complan Medien GmbH, Berlin – Bonn – Hamburg at the ­Internet links specified in this report as well as at: hw.design GmbH, Munich www.siemens.com/sustainabilit y Publicis Munich – Branch of the PWW GmbH In addition to the Sustainability Report, Siemens publishes a comprehensive Annual Report at the end of each fiscal Ecofriendly production year and consolidated financial statements on a quarterly The Sustainability Report has been produced with particular basis. All these financial reports are available from Investor attention to using chlorine-free bleached materials and Relations at: ­climate-friendly production processes. In accordance with www.siemens.com/financialreports the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes (PEFC), the paper used was made only from wood from controlled sources such as managed forests. The mill in which the paper was manufactured is ­certified in accordance with the ISO 9001, 14001 and 18001 standards. It uses only chlorine-free bleached (TCF) cellulose, which in some cases is even elemental chlorine-free (ECF). Key to references Reference within the publication Reference to an external publication Reference to the Internet © 2013 Siemens AG, Berlin and Munich 74 Siemens at a glance Fiscal 2012 siemens.com/answers Order no. A19100-F-V 97-X-7600 Siemens Aktiengesellschaft siemens.com/sustainability-report
