Like Us on Facebook Shopping Cart Continue Shopping Home About Us Products Recipes and Pairings News and Events Press and Awards Contacts Crafted from fresh, hand-harvested fruits SUBSCRIBE Email: GO For Email Newsletters you can trust Customers' Testimonials Sylvia, Thank you for the great preserves. Everyone really enjoyed it.... Especially my mom! Good luck in 2012 Welcome to Harvest Song Artisanal Preserves Guy Fieri Each batch of Harvest Song Award Winning Preserve begins with the fertile ground of biblical Ararat Valley, famed as the landing site of Noah's ark. We pride ourselves to be one of the few main preserve makers that use volcanic soil grown Fresh fruits ONLY . FEATURED PRODUCT Each batch is cooked using old fashion methods in HACCP certified cannery meeting all International Hygiene Standards and certified Orthodox Union Wild Black Currant They are slowly simmered in small batches and allowed to thicken without use of any pectin (jellying component) This method allows us to have more natural sugar from the fruits, which is less sweet and lower calories than ordinary jams and preserves. Do you need professional PDFs? Try PDFmyURL! I hope you enjoy tasting these award winning preserves from the deep rural mountains of Armenia. Sylvia Armenia is blessed with a rich natural environment, full of broad green pastures and expansive meadows covered in multicolored wildflowers. Fruits and vegetables in Armenia are grown 1400-1800 meter above sea level in thin air and direct sunlight. Fertile land and exceptional spring waters give Armenian fruits and vegetables an unparalleled succulent taste. In addition, a range of microclimates and altitudes in the country allow for unique and delicious fruits All Products and berries. US Department of Agriculture MAGAZINE EDITORIAL PRESS NEWS AND EVENTS AWARD WINNERS Fancy Food Magazine The New York Times Newsletters Apricot By FLORENCE FABRICANT Another job for Walnuts: Plop one in a Manhattan They look like black olives, but they are whole walnuts, picked green in the Ararat Valley of Armenia, and steeped in sugar syrup until they turn lush, sweet, tender and irresistible, a little like marrons glaces, only moister. read more... HARVEST SONG COCKTAILS RECIPES CHEESE PAIRINGS WINE AND BEER PAIRINGS Do you need professional PDFs? Try PDFmyURL! Site Map | Privacy Policy | Shipping & Returns | Terms of Service Harvest Song Ventures, LLC 120e New South Road, Hicksville, NY 11801 Like Share 2,726 people like this. Sign Up to see what your friends like. Phone: 516-773-7356, 516-773-7346 Fax: 516-773-7726 Follow us: © 2014 Harvest Song Ventures Made in ArattaDesign Do you need professional PDFs? Try PDFmyURL!
