FY 2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report The FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report describes Seagate’s approach to advancing sustainable, responsible business practices in all aspects of its operations. This report provides highlights of our FY2013 performance and opportunities we see in FY2014 and beyond. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 2 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report TABLE OF CONTENTS Message from Our CEO 4 About Our Report 5 Company Profile 6 Global Citizenship Highlights 8 Governance and Ethics 10 Product Stewardship 12 Environmental Sustainability 17 Our Employees 25 Supplier Engagement 32 Community Engagement 37 Summary of Performance 42 Report Content Index 44 External Recognitions 50 Acronym Index 52 ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 3 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report Message from Our CEO Welcome to the Seagate Global Citizenship Report for FY2013 Seagate executed strongly in FY2013, as it continued to address the changing opportunities for the company in mobile, cloud and open-source computing. The fundamental changes occurring in our industry require Seagate to think broadly and holistically about the digital world enabled by our products. As our customers evolve and new opportunities emerge, Seagate’s commitment endures to maintaining an open, sustainable and engaged business. We are pleased to report on responsibility activities and progress in the past fiscal year. In FY2013 Seagate: • Completed Life Cycle Assessments for all hard disk drive products in all markets. • B  egan publicly reporting water usage, reclamation/re-use, sourcing, recycling and discharge quality in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) water questionnaire. •  xpanded publicly reported greenhouse gas (GHG) data to include additional Scope 3 emissions E types, such as product use, product end-of-life and waste generated in operations. • Increased supplier monitoring, with a corresponding significant increase in EICC audits to 75, with corrective action plans underway. •  chieved 100% completion by direct material suppliers of the EICC/GeSI conflict mineral A declaration forms, with work on the second version underway. •  ontinued to make progress on energy conservation, completing projects delivering more than C 15,000 MWh savings during the year. • M  ade the final grants of its $1 million commitment for long-term flood preparedness in Thailand, sponsoring emergency infrastructure, equipment and disaster response training. It is an honor to report that, for these and many other efforts by employees, suppliers and other stakeholders, Seagate was awarded Hewlett-Packard’s Supplier Corporate Social Responsibility Award in FY2013. This award recognized Seagate’s work in labor, health, safety and environmental practices, and our efforts to ensure our own supply chain met HP’s requirements. In closing, Seagate continues to look for ways to ensure sustainability and transparency in our business. Our Global Citizenship Annual Report continues to align to GRI standards, with this edition conforming to GRI V4. I invite you to learn more in the pages of our FY2013 report. Thank you. Steve Luczo Chairman and CEO ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 4 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report ABOUT OUR REPORT This report covers activities managed by Seagate Technology public limited company (plc) from June 30, 2012, through June 28, 2013, and references to “Seagate,” “we,” “us” and “our” within this report refer to Seagate Technology plc and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Unless indicated otherwise, data found within this report, and in previous Global Citizenship Annual Reports, do not include data from EVault (www.evault.com), a subsidiary of Seagate acquired in FY2007 that provides online network backup, recovery and data protection solutions. There were no significant changes to Seagate or restatements of information from previous reporting period. Previous Global Citizenship Annual Reports can be downloaded from Seagate’s company website at www.seagate.com. This website contains an array of information on Seagate’s company history, values, management and most recent financial performance. Inquiries regarding this report may be directed to social.response@seagate.com. DEFINING REPORT CONTENT Using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, the FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report applies principles of materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context and completeness for defining report content. This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. A list of the Standard Disclosures and their location can be found at the back of this report. Seagate conducted a materiality assessment in FY2012 to identify, prioritize and validate the most relevant global citizenship issues. We reviewed external trends across social and environmental dimensions to develop a comprehensive list of relevant global citizenship issues and examined how these issues influenced decision-making at Seagate through a series of meetings with key internal stakeholders across the business. These issues were prioritized according to their influence on Seagate’s business success and their importance to responsible, sustainable development. We considered impacts that were both material within and outside of the company. From this assessment, we confirmed the structure and content of this report. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 5 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Environmental Sustainability Company Profile Founded in 1979, Seagate Technology plc (NASDAQ: STX) is a leading provider of digital storage solutions, including hard drives, solid-state drives, solid-state hybrid drives and external direct, networked and wireless storage solutions. We employ about 52,200 people worldwide and are incorporated in Dublin, Ireland. Seagate’s executive offices are located in Cupertino, California. Approximately 45,000 employees are located in our Asian operations. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 6 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | CompanyEnvironmental Profile Sustainability From the first 5.25-inch hard drive for the personal tablets and other mobile devices; and consumer computer to current innovations including shingled applications, with products for digital video recorders, magnetic recording and “hybrid” solid-state hard gaming consoles, personal data backup systems, drives, Seagate has lived at the cutting-edge of portable external storage systems and other digital the data storage industry for more than 30 years, media systems. pioneering new technologies and fueling the advance Seagate’s global operations encompass design, of digital information. manufacturing, sales and marketing functions. Our Today, Seagate’s product portfolio serves multiple manufacturing facilities are located in Brazil, China, markets, including enterprise storage, with products Malaysia, Minnesota, Northern Ireland, Singapore and for cloud applications, servers, mainframes and Thailand. Our product development centers are located workstations; client computing, with products in the United States, Singapore and South Korea. for desktop and notebook computers, as well as Net Revenues (Dollars in millions) $20,000 $16,000 $14,939 $14,351 $12,000 $10,971 $8,000 $4,000 $0 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY2013 Revenues by Geography FY2013 Units Shipped by Category FY2013 Revenues by Channel 19% 20% 13% 11% 54% 21% 68% 27% 67% Asia-Pacific Enterprise Storage Original Equipment Manufacturers Americas Client Compute Distributors Europe, Middle East Client Non-Compute and Africa (EMEA) Retail ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 7 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Environmental Sustainability FY2013 Global Citizenship Highlights As an industry leader, Seagate is committed to developing and maintaining sustainable, responsible practices in its global operations and throughout its supply chain. Key areas of emphasis include governance and ethics, product stewardship, environmental sustainability, health and safety, labor and human rights, community involvement and much more. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 8 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report In the area of product stewardship, Seagate continued and labor, safety and environmental standards. We to make great strides in FY2013. We completed life released a revised Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) cycle assessments (LCAs) for our hard drive products to determine more easily what each of our suppliers in each market segment. We also conducted LCAs for must do to achieve total compliance with the Electronic retail packaging and the bulk packages used to ship Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct. drives to our computer manufacturing customers. For these and other related efforts, Hewlett Packard— Reporting of environmental sustainability data was one of our top customers—recognized Seagate expanded in FY2013. Our greenhouse gas (GHG) with its highest supplier awards for corporate social reporting now includes a number of additional Scope 3 responsibility (CSR). emissions, including those from product use, product Throughout FY2013, Seagate supported various end-of-life and waste generated in operations. In community organizations, urgent relief causes and addition, we conducted our first full water footprint, with institutions of learning with cash and goods donations reporting through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). totaling nearly USD$5.5 million. Nearly 20,000 hours In an effort to institutionalize our commitment to were volunteered by our employees to various local employees, we launched a major cultural-change community organizations and initiatives. As a leading initiative in FY2013, called the Seagate Way. This effort provider of electronic data storage products, we were is a cultural transformation designed to meet the needs pleased to donate almost 2,000 terabytes of memory of our employees and help prepare them and our capacity to various nonprofit organizations around the business to be more agile, flexible and better prepared world. to adapt quickly to rapid changes that are reshaping For a summary of our FY2013 performance, computing architectures, markets and devices. see page 42. Within our supply chain, we continued to work with our direct and indirect suppliers to uphold human rights ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 9 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report Governance and Ethics Seagate is committed to maintaining the highest level of ethical standards throughout its business operations. This commitment coincides with and contributes to the company’s sustainable development initiatives. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines provide a framework for Seagate’s Board of Directors in exercising responsibilities to the company stakeholders. These guidelines empower the Board with the necessary authority to review Seagate’s business operations and to make decisions independently from Company management. The guidelines also describe a process for shareholders to communicate with members of the Board. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 10 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Governance and Ethics We remain vigilant to ensure our policies for ethical of Interest Policy, and disclose any actual or potential business conduct reflect the latest standards, conflicts of interest they might have. In FY2013, requirements, laws and regulations at local, national approximately 18,000 employees completed this and international levels. Seagate’s Ethical Conduct and certification process. Conflict of Interest Policy and Code of Ethics adopt a more principles-based approach to our activities while promoting ethical conduct and compliance with laws More than 19,000 employees completed an online and regulations. training module designed to enhance employee understanding of the Ethical Conduct and Conflict of The Ethical Conduct and Conflict of Interest Policy Interest Policy. Throughout the year, we continued to summarizes Seagate’s ethical standards and key promote our Ethics Helpline, which was established policies in areas such as insider trading, conflicts as a means for employees and third-party business of interest, bribery and corruption, privacy and partners to report confidentially any illegal or unethical confidentiality, antitrust and fair dealing, and provides situations that they encounter in the workplace. We relevant information about expected behavior. The also promoted the availability of our web-reporting tool, Board reviews these policies on an annual basis to using blogs, short videos, emails and other means of ensure that Seagate continues to operate within the employee communication. letter and spirit of the law. LOOKING FORWARD FY2013 HIGHLIGHTS We will continue to use blogs and other e-tools to To execute our Ethical Conduct and Conflict of Interest communicate relevant information, develop online Policy, we require all new employees to certify that training modules for general ethics training and offer they have read and understood the policy. Each year, live training sessions tailored for specific groups of all non-operator Seagate employees with company employees within Seagate. We also will continue to email addresses are required to certify that they have promote the Ethics Helpline and web-reporting tool. read and understood the Ethical Conduct and Conflict ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 11 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report Product Stewardship Seagate uses a variety of different materials to make its products. To effectively manage product environmental impacts, we strive for a complete understanding of material and chemical content. Seagate works closely with suppliers to obtain full disclosures on every part and material included in our drives. This information is maintained in a database and is accessible as new material and chemical concerns arise. We also use tools such as LCAs to understand the environmental impacts of our products. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 12 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Product Stewardship To reduce the negative environmental impacts of our This year, we achieved 100 percent supplier compliance products, we address several key product sustainability with our full material disclosure requirements related to challenges, including the management of materials retail packaging. Seagate is now positioned as a leader identification and restricted substances, conflict in materials management within the information and minerals and the mining and smelting of materials communications technology (ICT) sector, proactively for Seagate products, and impacts from the product managing the full range of materials and chemicals that transport and use stages. make up our products. Seagate places a high value on assessing product As of late FY2013, 100 percent of our suppliers using impacts and communicating them transparently. tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold (3TG metals) in their Maximizing sustainability through product stewardship products had provided information verifying the source is a committed goal that is ongoing. of their metals. FY2013 HIGHLIGHTS LOOKING FORWARD Seagate made great strides in product stewardship We will continue our work with LCAs to further during FY2013. LCAs were completed for hard drive characterize and reduce product environmental products in each market segment. We conducted LCAs impacts. In FY2014, we plan to release a summary of for retail packaging and the bulk packages used to ship findings for each of the eight product and packaging drives to our computer manufacturing customers. LCAs that we conducted—the first time producing such a comprehensive report. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 13 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Product Stewardship ENVIRONMENTAL on average, sector-wide information. Ultimately, we would like to be able to include specific information from IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS Seagate’s suppliers. This is a long-term challenge, but Seagate is well positioned in moving to this next level by Our analysis suggests that energy consumption and collecting detailed product information from suppliers. resource depletion represent the most significant environmental impacts related to Seagate products. The greatest amount of energy consumption occurs during the extraction and processing of minerals for product CONFLICT MINERALS components, customer use of products and product Conflict minerals are a significant challenge facing transportation. many industries. Illegal mining of the 3TG metals from We conduct LCAs according to International small-scale mines in the Democratic Republic of Congo Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14040—an has contributed to a decade-long civil war, forced international standard for LCAs—in order to construct an labor and child labor in the region. Addressing conflict estimate of each product’s impact on the environment. minerals became an even higher priority in 2012 when Our LCAs encompass 15 impact categories, ranging the United States Securities and Exchange Commission from GHG emissions to health impacts to resource finalized the rules for the Dodd-Frank Act, Section 1502. depletion. These LCAs address impacts at each stage The law requires companies to disclose whether any in the life of a product, from extraction of raw materials conflict minerals used in their products originated in to end-of-life disposal and recycling. We prioritize which the Democratic Republic of the Congo or an adjoining products undergo analysis based on production volume country. If so, the companies must describe what and customer data needs. efforts they have undertaken to ensure the use of these During FY2012 and FY2013, Seagate completed LCAs metals does not contribute to human atrocities in those for products in each market segment. This includes countries. notebook and desktop computer hard disk drives, As part of compliance with this new edict, Seagate is hybrid solid state drives, portable hard drives packaged working with the industry to identify illegal 3TG in its with retail enclosures and enterprise hard disk and solid products. We actively participate in the EICC Extractives state drives used in data centers. In addition to these Committee, its Due Diligence Subcommittee and the six product LCAs, we also conducted LCAs for our retail Institute of Preferred Circuits’ Conflict Minerals Data and bulk shipping packaging. Exchange Standard Committee. Participation in these Over the course of conducting these LCAs, we have groups helps Seagate remain informed and maintain learned important information about our processes. standard processes for data collection and quality. In For example, energy used by the product during its addition, Seagate is working with the EICC on industryoperation is a large share of the overall impact of a wide mechanisms to certify supply chains, from hard drive. This is particularly true for enterprise drives, products to the mines of origin. which run nearly 24/7 in performance-optimized data The EICC-Global e-Sustainability Initiative Conflict centers. In addition, air-freight shipment of products Minerals Reporting Template (“Reporting Template”) is to our customers far outweighs the impact of material a widely adopted standard throughout the industry for production, making transportation efficiencies an conflict mineral supply chain reporting. We updated our important consideration in reducing our carbon Conflict Minerals Policy and deployed the Reporting footprint. Template throughout our supply chain to identify suppliers whose components contain 3TG metals. LOOKING FORWARD FY2013 marked the first year that 100 percent of We are compiling the results from the LCAs conducted Seagate suppliers submitted complete and accurate during FY2013 and will release summaries of our Conflict Minerals Reporting Templates. These templates findings in FY2014. Results from these assessments will are used to verify the source of suppliers’ 3TG metals. be used to drive investigation of alternative materials Given that conflict minerals reporting is new for many with lower environmental impact for future product lines. suppliers, Seagate reviews each of these templates in Improving the quality of the data used in the LCAs is depth, to ensure accuracy. another area of focus. Today’s assessments are based ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 14 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Product Stewardship LOOKING FORWARD detailed information from each node in their supply chain. In addition, most ICT companies currently do not Mapping Seagate’s supply chain accurately is only a require full materials disclosure. part of the solution. We are committed to improving the process of certification, which ensures sourcing from Full materials disclosure allows Seagate to go beyond conflict-free smelters, and expect to report progress on restricted substances lists and proactively include this issue in FY2014. chemical hazard considerations in our product design. It also enables us to be completely transparent about the Seagate will continue to monitor the degree to which materials in our products. our suppliers use 3TG metals, and act accordingly when suppliers fail to comply with United States restrictions. Another major accomplishment was Seagate’s endorsement of the BizNGO Principles for Safer Chemicals. These NGO-developed principles provide RESTRICTED SUBSTANCES guidance for manufacturers and supply chain companies through four specific recommendations: As a leading supplier to major original equipment know and disclose product chemistry, assess and manufacturers (OEMs), we establish standards for direct avoid hazards, commit to continuous improvement and materials—the components that make up our products— support public policies and industry standards that to meet customers’ strictest specifications. advance implementation of safer chemicals. These We are meticulous when it comes to cataloging principles align with Seagate’s approach to chemical restricted substances; currently we list more than 2,000 management and disclosure. of them. Seagate maintains a database to evaluate ongoing legal and customer compliance and documents LOOKING FORWARD the Chemical Abstract Service Number for every Our intent is to continue to identify chemicals of concern chemical substance contained within components and beyond those listed in restricted substances lists. We products. see this as a natural extension of our commitment to minimizing restricted substances. In the last few years, consistent with the European Union REACH Directive, we added several dozen new chemical substances to our restricted list and completely eliminated others from Seagate products. We reduced PRODUCT WASTE tetrabromo bisphenol-A, bromine and chlorine from Seagate products become waste at the end of their adhesives, inks and other plastic compounds to less useful lives. While aluminum and plastic used to make than 900ppm. Additionally, beryllium and antimony our drives can be recycled, many regions where Seagate trioxide have been eliminated from our hard disk drive products are sold do not have strong electronic waste products. recycling programs, so Seagate drives can add to the Due to their prevalence in the “building blocks” of waste stream destined for incinerators and landfills. electronics, restricted chemical substances are often Because the vast majority of Seagate’s products are difficult to eliminate. We will continue to add chemicals sold as components to larger systems produced by to our restricted substances list and work with suppliers OEMs, we have less leverage over how our products to identify safer alternatives that serve their needs. are managed at the end of their useful life. Therefore, One of Seagate’s biggest accomplishments this year we encourage reclamation, just as we recycle our own was to secure full material disclosure on the plastic internally generated scrap, and urge users of products boxes used in retail packaging, bringing us to 100 that include our drives to participate in manufacturer percent supplier compliance with our full material take-back programs. disclosure requirements. This process was a significant For the remainder of our products—our retail products— challenge, as suppliers are often hesitant to disclose we currently are investigating product take-back product information, and because suppliers must get options. In the meantime, we provide customers with ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 15 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Product Stewardship drive disassembly instructions to facilitate recycling. We also manage our own take-back program for hard drives under warranty, and 100 percent of these drives are refurbished or, if not repairable, are recycled. Seagate continues to make strides in the way we deal with product waste. In FY2013, we identified a supplier that can recycle old disk drives into materials that are usable in new disk drives. We are working to integrate this supplier into our design process, with the goal of integrating materials from recycled disk drives directly into our product manufacturing. LOOKING FORWARD Moving into FY2014, we will continue efforts to integrate recycled materials into our manufacturing process. In particular, we will test the reliability of materials produced from recycled disk drives to verify whether they meet our quality standards, as well as look for additional avenues to reclaim product waste. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 16 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Environmental Sustainability Environmental Sustainability With manufacturing operations all over the world, Seagate is committed to improving environmental sustainability in all of the communities it serves. Seagate sets goals, tracks progress and audits systems to reduce energy, GHG emissions and waste. Together, these initiatives comprise the bulk of our environmental sustainability efforts. We continue to administer an environmental management system that adheres to industry-leading ISO14001 requirements at 100 percent of our manufacturing facilities. By managing and reducing environmental impacts through this system and following the EICC Code of Conduct, Seagate demonstrates sustainability leadership as a key supplier in the electronics industry. We also adhere to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), three of which focus on the environmental responsibility of business. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 17 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Environmental Sustainability FY2013 HIGHLIGHTS LOOKING FORWARD Reducing energy use, GHG emissions, water use Seagate will continue to work toward meeting energy, and waste continue to be primary environmental foci emissions, waste and hazardous waste goals for for Seagate. In FY2013, we achieved or exceeded all FY2014. We have set targets to exceed FY2013 annual targets for energy, GHGs, water and waste. performance for energy and GHG emissions intensity, achieve 15,000 megawatt hours (MWh) of electricity While we increased energy use in two specific locations savings from energy conservation projects and worldwide, we were able to reduce our overall energy maintain a solid waste landfill diversion rate of greater intensity by 18.5 percent. Because our product mix is than 80 percent in the coming year. changing to more high-end drives that provide higher capacity but more components and test time, we We also have stated publicly a goal to reduce Scope also changed the way we report our energy intensity 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity by 10 percent over by moving from a per drive to a per petabyte (PB) the next five years, and will work to make good on a calculation. We feel this move more accurately conveys 5-year goal to reduce water use by 10 percent by 2017. our changing product mix. Finally, we will expand Scope 3 GHG reporting into different areas of our business, and will conduct a risk We also expanded our GHG reporting to include a assessment related to our water use in 2014. number of other Scope 3 emissions types, including those from product use, product end-of-life and waste generated in operations. Additionally, we conducted a complete water footprint and reported the results via the CDP’s water questionnaire. Finally, during FY2013, more than 40 environmental regulatory visits took place at Seagate facilities related to issues such as environmental compliance and wastewater sampling. No violations were identified and we experienced no significant spills.* *Significant spills are those which are reported in our financials as a liability and those which required outside response. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 18 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Environmental Sustainability ENERGY AND CARBON via the CDP Supply Chain and Investor Questionnaires. We continue to assess risk to the business from climate EMISSIONS PERFORMANCE change as part of our annual ISO14000 management process, and have determined that our climate risks do Manufacturing drives uses energy and produces GHGs. not differ from other companies in our industry. To combat these realities, Seagate works to reduce the amount of energy and carbon required to produce disk The biggest challenge in this area will be the continued drives by identifying energy efficiency opportunities, reduction of overall GHG emissions, especially given auditing management systems and performance and increasing production volumes and product complexity. reporting on progress throughout the manufacturing In the coming years, Seagate also will expand the scope process. of its GHG assessment to include additional types of Scope 3 emissions. Our primary objective is to reduce both energy use and GHGs per PB of storage we produce. Across our industry, these types of measurements are known ENERGY as “energy intensity” and “GHG emissions intensity” In FY2013, Seagate’s total electricity consumption because they measure impact relative to the amount increased slightly, though energy intensity decreased of economic activity taking place. How intensity is by 18.5 percent, demonstrating continued progress measured depends on the type of products a company in electricity use per PB of data storage produced. produces. Seagate measures energy and carbon Increases in the total amount of energy used were a emissions intensity per PB of data storage shipped. result of higher production at Seagate’s China facilities and the expansion of its facility in Korat, Thailand. The two largest sources of GHG emissions for Seagate are purchased electricity and “fugitive emissions,” or Seagate’s focus on energy efficiency continued in the unintended release of gases. To drive down GHG FY2013. Our target in FY2013 was 15,000 MWh of emissions intensity, each Seagate manufacturing site is electricity savings from energy conservation projects, required to achieve annual energy efficiency goals. and we ended the year having completed energy conservation projects that accounted for 17,000 MWh of Seagate conducts a third-party verification of its GHG electricity use reductions. emissions reporting every year. In addition to keeping track of factory performance for our own records (compiled annually in this report), we share our results Electricity Consumption Energy Consumption Per Data Storage Shipped (MWh) (MWh/PB Shipped) 1,600,000 20 1,200,000 15 800,000 10 400,000 5 0 0 FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 19 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Environmental Sustainability Scope 1 & 2 CO 2 e Annual Emission (Metric Tons) CO2e Annual Emission (Metric Tons) CY2010 CY2011 CY2012 Source Type Scope 1 Direct Emissions Stationary Combustion 16,149 15,705 13,566 Mobile Combustion 233 286 377 Process / Fugitive Emissions 310,773 307,318 243,118 Total Scope 1 327,155 323,309 257,061 Source Type Scope 2 Indirect Emissions Purchased Electricity 944,098 929,867 1,016,992 Total Scope 2 944,098 929,867 1,016,992 Total Scope 1 & 2 CO2e Emissions 1,271,253 1,253,176 1,274,053 CARBON EMISSIONS depend significantly on product mix and results can vary from year to year depending on shifts in products based One significant achievement in FY2013 was the on customer demand. establishment of a five-year GHG reduction goal: Seagate aims to reduce GHG emissions by 10 percent Against the backdrop of this reduction in Scope 1 over the next five years. emissions, our overall Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions increased by 1.7 percent due to increases in drive In addition, for the 2012 calendar year (CY), we reduced production and related electricity use. However, as with Scope 1 emissions (those generated directly from our energy intensity, GHG intensity decreased significantly sites) by 20 percent. This was due to reductions in the during the CY2012, showing continued improvements in use of a particular manufacturing chemical. While we the amount of GHGs produced per PB of storage media are proud of this accomplishment, we also recognize it shipped. could be challenging to duplicate. Scope 1 emissions Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions Per PB Shipped (Metric Tons CO 2e) (Metric Tons CO 2e) 1,400,000 25 1,200,000 20 1,000,000 15 800,000 600,000 10 400,000 5 200,000 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Process / Fugitive Stationary Combustion Mobile Combustion Electricity ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 20 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Environmental Sustainability In FY2013, Seagate significantly expanded its GHG As is typical for technology products, we found that reporting to include a number of other Scope 3 Scope 3 emissions, particularly those from product use, emissions types, including those from product use, are much greater than Scope 1 and 2 emissions. This product end-of-life and waste generated in operations. highlights the importance of Seagate’s continued efforts These data expands upon the Scope 3 emissions to reduce the amount of energy used by its products. from business travel and Seagate-provided employee commuting, which we have reported since 2010. CY2012 Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG Emissions (Metric Tons CO 2e) Scope 1 257,061 1,016,992 Scope 2 Scope 3 2,426,196 CY2012 Scope 3 GHG Emissions (Metric Tons CO 2e) 197,068 6,211 13,034 Business Travel 22,259 Hire Employee Commute 14,302 Fuel and Energy Related Activities (not included in Scope 1&2) Waste Generated in Operations 2,173,322 Use of Products Sold End of Life Treatment of Sold Products ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 21 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Environmental Sustainability LOOKING FORWARD Solid Waste Generation Seagate will continue to work toward further energy and emissions reductions. We are targeting reductions in 35,000 90 Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity by 10 percent 30,000 86 by 2017. In addition, our FY2014 target for electricity 25,000 savings from energy efficiency projects is 15,000 MWh. 82 Percentage 20,000 Tons In FY2014, Seagate also will attempt to analyze more of 15,000 78 its data about emissions overall, focusing on Scope 3 10,000 emissions from product transportation and distribution 74 5,000 and employee commuting not directly offered by 70 Seagate. 0 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Solid Waste Generation % Diverted from Landfill WASTE MANAGEMENT Waste is an inevitable part of any manufacturing process. Over the last decade, Seagate has established Through the year, Seagate met its goal of keeping more systems to track, manage and report waste at every than 80 percent of solid (non-hazardous) waste out of one of its factories around the world. Seagate’s sites landfills, with a landfill diversion rate of 88 percent in are very active in identifying and implementing waste FY2013. In total, we diverted 29,102 tons of solid waste minimization initiatives, in order to prevent waste from from landfill. being produced and to recycle or reuse it whenever We also nearly doubled the amount of solid waste possible. In addition, Seagate is committed to zero we generated to 33,071 tons in FY2013 from 17,654 landfill disposal of hazardous waste, except in those tons in FY2012. This increase in waste production is cases where no other viable treatment method is primarily explained by a parking lot replacement at available. our Normandale site, which produced 9,529 tons of Each Seagate site is responsible for reporting data waste. Nearly 99 percent of this waste was reused or on waste to a central database reviewed by Seagate’s recycled—an accomplishment that helped us improve Corporate Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) our landfill diversion rate in FY2013. professionals. Seagate has established minimum Excluding this one-time parking lot refurbishment requirements for the selection and performance project, Seagate generated 23,542 tons of waste during of hazardous waste treatment vendors. We qualify FY2013. This increase from FY2012 is largely explained hazardous waste treatment vendors through a thirdby increased production across the company. party audit of set criteria. We may never be able to eliminate hazardous waste entirely from our production process, but we are HAZARDOUS WASTE steadfast in our efforts to reduce to the lowest amount Seagate exceeded its expectations for reducing feasible. This issue will remain one of our biggest hazardous waste in FY2013. Going into the year, challenges. Seagate’s target was to reduce hazardous waste production by 3 percent. Instead, we reduced it by more than 5 percent, to 13,820 tons from 14,594 tons. As part SOLID WASTE of this effort, our top five waste-generating facilities now In FY2013, Seagate started quantifying waste have detailed waste reduction plans in place. management in terms of its landfill diversion rate, which Of the hazardous waste we did create, an overwhelming takes recycling, as well as energy recovery into account. amount (82 percent) was disposed of through treatment. Seagate’s annual totals continue to include all waste Other methods of hazardous waste disposition included generated at facilities under the company’s ownership incineration, recycling and energy recovery. and control. This total does not include waste generated as part of new construction projects. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 22 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Environmental Sustainability Hazardous Waste Generation FY2013 Hazardous Waste Disposition 25,000 300 250 20,000 Tons / Million Terabyte 200 4% 15,000 Tons 150 9% 82% 10,000 100 5,000 50 5% 0 0 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Hazardous Waste Generated Hazardous Waste Produced (tons) Treatment Incineration Recycling Energy Recovery per PB (petabyte) Shipped LOOKING FORWARD During FY2013, Seagate established a 5-year water use reduction goal that targets an overall reduction Seagate’s goal is to continue to keep more than 80 of 10 percent by 2017. We are on track to achieve that percent of its solid waste out of landfills in FY2014 and objective. beyond. Of course, we also understand that waste generation depends entirely on production volume—the To support this goal, we conducted our first full water more drives we make, the more waste we will produce. consumption water footprint to create a baseline for the Regardless of output, Seagate is committed to exploring company. This improves upon our past water use data, new and creative means to minimize environmental which was only available for product manufacturing. In impact. future years, we will use this new CY2012 baseline for year-on-year comparisons. WATER MANAGEMENT Water Consumption in Product Manufacturing Water is a key natural resource and warrants proper management to preserve and protect the health of 15.0 20% our ecosystem as a whole. Seagate’s manufacturing processes withdraw water from local watersheds for 12.5 use as coolants and cleaning agents at factories. While 15% 10.0 the amount of water used in product manufacturing has million m3 Percentage increased somewhat over the past four years (owing to 7.5 10% increased production), we have implemented measures to improve water recycling and have achieved significant 5.0 5% gains in the same period (from 9.9 to 16.8 percent of 2.5 water recycled). 0.0 0% Continuing to improve water recycling and reduce FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 consumption remains one of Seagate’s biggest Water usage (million m3) opportunities for the months and years ahead. % recycled ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 23 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Environmental Sustainability Manufacturing Water Use (m3) Per PB Shipped 150 120 90 60 30 0 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 Water Withdrawal Recycled Water Intensity Water Intensity (Metric Liters) (Metric Liters) (Liter/drive) (Metric Liter/PB) CY12 10,577 1,647 44.0 0.0945 In CY2012, Seagate withdrew 10,577 megaliters of water (ML, equivalent to one million liters) and recycled 1,647 ML of water, or 15.5 percent of its water withdrawals. We also used this water footprint as part of our first report to the CDP Water Program. LOOKING FORWARD In FY2014, Seagate is planning to conduct an assessment of water-related business and sustainability risks in the supply chain. We also plan to assess our water consumption and impact on local water availability and quality to determine whether a formal policy and management approach is necessary. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 24 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report Our Employees At Seagate, our people drive our success. Taking care of employees enhances our commitment to global citizenship by protecting labor and human rights. It also means that our team is healthier, happier and more productive. Seagate has a global workforce of approximately 52,200—nearly two-thirds of whom are operators in manufacturing sites. This employee profile creates unique opportunities to assure that all employees are protected from potential work-related hazards and are treated with respect and dignity. Seagate also is committed to supporting employee wellness, offering opportunities for career development and increasing diversity in the workplace. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 25 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Our Employees Total Workforce by Employment Type FY2013 Management 18% 6% Professionals 13% Support Operators 63% Total Workforce by Region Total Workforce FY2011-2013 Asia-Pacific 3% EMEA United States/ 52,151 America 57,172 11% 51,705 86% 0 20,000 40,000 60,000 FY11 FY12 FY13 ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 26 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Our Employees FY2013 HIGHLIGHTS Candidate Relationship Management system and more Social Recruiting tools, in order to help maximize the Seagate in FY2013 continued its emphasis on employee effectiveness and efficiency of our talent acquisition. development, safety and human rights through a range of programs. We will continue our efforts to drive down ergonomic risks across the company, with site-specific plans in Seagate was proud to be recognized by a key customer addition to the introduction of a company-wide office and presented with its highest supplier award for ergonomics risk management application. corporate social responsibility for our commitment to upholding human rights and high labor, safety and environmental standards. In an effort to drive our LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS competitive advantage, we also launched a major cultural-change initiative, dubbed the Seagate Way. To remain a successful and well-regarded company, This effort is a cultural transformation designed to Seagate must protect human rights and ask of help prepare Seagate to become more agile, flexible, employees only what is fair and respectful. Our global and better prepared to adapt quickly to rapid changes manufacturing model means that we need to take that are reshaping computing architectures, markets, careful steps to prevent and address common labor and devices. Because faster, better decision making issues worldwide, such as child labor, excessive is critical in this dynamic environment, the Seagate working hours and staff retention. Way will focus initially on Teamwork and Initiative. Additionally, Seagate continued its commitment to Seagate worked hard in FY2013 to continue to employee health and wellness, through expansion of uphold and protect human rights. We partnered with the Healthy Journeys program and implementation of a component sites (non-drive, non-assembly sites that Wellness Champions program in multiple regions. produce components that go into our hard drives) to ensure their readiness for EICC audits, and rolled out Seagate’s comprehensive global health and safety an e-learning course for all sites that were audited this management systems continued to enable a safe year. We also created a streamlined website for EICCworking environment for all employees, whether in related tools and processes; this resource is designed volume manufacturing operations or administrative to be used by Seagate’s human resources teams during functions. Injury frequency rates were more than 45% audit preparations. below industry average and attributable to the strong commitment to safety at all levels of the company. Elsewhere in the company, Seagate adopted expanded internal processes for the remediation of underage workers in the event that an underage/child worker is inadvertently hired. We also significantly revised LOOKING FORWARD how we obtain acknowledgement from our employees As we continue our Seagate Way culture that they understand related company policies. transformation, we will be enrolling all managers in a Under this new method, we achieved a 99.7 percent leadership skills program, and rolling out organizational acknowledgement of selected policies by global nonculture assessment to all non-operator employees operator employees and operator employees in the globally. Expansion of our Seagate 101 program will United States and EMEA region. also continue to all non-operator new hires in an effort to help new hires rapidly gain an understanding of Finally, as part of our basic management system and Seagate, our industry, and to encourage networking, approach to protecting labor and human rights, we while helping them maximize their productivity. We kicked off development of an internal EICC cross-site will also continue to expand our targeted University labor audit process for component sites preparing Recruitment approach beyond the R&D and engineering for external EICC audits. This program is expected to functions to include new functions across our global continue in FY2014. organization. Additionally, we will be focusing on proactive recruiting through implementation of a ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 27 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Our People LOOKING FORWARD Being healthy on and off the job also means more satisfied and more productive employees. Seagate is In order to protect human rights and meet our committed to providing benefits, programs, health and commitments to the EICC, the UNGC, and key wellness education and support for healthy lifestyles. stakeholder expectations, we will continue to partner Seagate ensures that employees have access to with component sites and drive site plants to ensure resources to make informed decisions for healthy readiness for sites scheduled for EICC audits in lifestyles, and offers benefits and health and wellness FY2014. We also plan to complete the annual policy programs customized to local needs. acknowledgement process, which should enable us to improve upon our performance there, as well. Seagate remained a safe place to work in FY2013. While we continued to perform well under industry averages—(the industry average for injuries and EMPLOYEE HEALTH, illnesses per 100 full-time employees, as determined by SAFETY AND WELLNESS the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, was 0.6 in 2012)—our recordable case rate of 0.28 and days We are committed to keeping employees safe, away case rate of 0.17 in FY13 increased from the year healthy and well—their talent and dedication drive our prior. These increases can be attributed to ergonomicachievements as a company. related injuries and to injuries from slips, trips, and falls. Seagate has spent more than a decade collecting To address ergonomic-related injuries, we conducted health and safety performance indicators to inform extensive root-cause analysis and developed sitestrategies for reducing risks associated with workspecific action plans, which included redesigning related injury and illness. Today, our health and safety workstations, providing new tools and job rotation management systems support continuous improvement opportunities for employees, and promoting early in risk reduction and mitigation. Seagate’s global health reporting of symptoms. To address injuries from slips, and safety standards and accompanying management trips, and falls, our sites utilized existing behaviorsystem often go beyond country-level regulations and based safety programs, redesigned trolleys, and industry guidance, with well-defined responsibilities, improved site layout and housekeeping. All work requirements and training to ensure that health related incidents were fully investigated by trained and and safety is integrated into company operations. authorized EHS professionals, and targeted action Furthermore, we try to make sure that all employees, plans for improvement were developed. from plant managers to operators, understand they are accountable for their actions on the job. Recordable Case Rate (per 100 employees) 0.30 0.30 0.28 0.25 0.25 0.25 Recordable case rate is the 0.23 0.23 number of work related lost time 0.20 0.20 and non-lost time cases, which require more than first aid per 0.15 100 employees. This is calculated globally using US OSHA guidelines. The U.S average in 0.10 2012 for the Computer Storage Device Manufacturing industry 0.05 was 0.6. 0.00 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 28 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Our People In health and wellness, Seagate made significant Days Away Case Rate strides with its employee wellness programs around the (per 100 employess) world in FY2013. 0.20 In the United States, 45 percent of all employees participated in biometric screenings (and received 0.17 a financial incentive for doing so), while a total of 38 percent completed online health assessments. More 0.15 0.13 than 25 percent of employees participated in online programs or phone coaching related to topics such 0.11 0.10 0.10 0.10 as nutrition, sleeping better, stress management and 0.10 exercise. Spouses also were provided with incentives to 0.08 complete biometric screening and health assessments for the first time. 0.05 Also in the United States, we launched the Healthy Journeys newsletter to provide locally relevant content about Seagate health and wellness initiatives. Articles 0.00 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 in the quarterly newsletter include features, interviews with executives and employees, tips for living a more healthful life and a calendar of events. At certain locations in the EMEA region, Seagate Furthermore, as part of our commitment to keep our implemented a Wellness Champions program on each workplaces as safe as possible, we continue to provide shift to promote overall employee wellness activities. ongoing health and safety training to our employees. In More than 60 percent of employees participated in FY2013, we completed 41,080 EHS e-learning courses. free on-site biometric screenings, while the company While this figure decreased from the previous year, we offered resilience classes and subsidized smoking continued to exceed our annual expectation of about cessation classes. In addition, we overhauled the 40,000 courses. Finally, we hosted more than 60 health canteen in our Springtown facility in Northern Ireland and safety regulatory visits on issues such as safety, and implemented a “red light/green light” nutrition radiation, fire codes, food and transportation in FY2013 program to inform employees about the relative and achieved zero notices of violations or fines. healthfulness of all cafeteria items. In Asia, we introduced the Wellness and Healthy Journeys branding to sites in China, Malaysia, EHS e-Learning Course Completions Singapore and Thailand, and formed wellness committees at each location to roll out related wellness 50,000 49,110 activities. We also set up a task force to drive a 44,411 cohesive framework to guide local sites in implementing Number of Course Completions 41,080 40,000 wellness programs, share ideas, know-how, 33,847 communication materials and promotional materials. 30,000 20,000 LOOKING FORWARD The more a company emphasizes issues such 10,000 as health, safety and wellness, the better off that company’s constituents will be. With this in mind, we 0 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 expect to extend and amplify our EHS programs in FY2014. We also look forward to launching a Healthy Journeys web portal, which is under development right now. The site is expected to debut in the United States and expand to other countries after that. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 29 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Our People EMPLOYEE TRAINING, additions to the program include new award values aligned globally across countries and an expansion of DEVELOPMENT AND RECOGNITION the number of people who can nominate employees for recognition. To ensure a world-class workforce, Seagate trains, educates and recognizes employees so that they are successful contributors to the business. Seagate’s performance management and career development LOOKING FORWARD philosophies are that employees should be engaged, In FY2014, we will continue to offer educational aligned and excited about their careers and opportunities for all employees, and will augment contributions to the company’s success. training for directors and managers in the Seagate Way initiative. We also will conduct self-assessments In FY2013, we significantly exceeded our annual goal of for directors and managers and interpret those 30,000 hours of instructor-led training by delivering more assessments to help our leaders get a better sense of than 92,500 hours of training overall. This exceeded the the roles they can play in driving culture change overall. previous year’s result of approximately 45,000 hours of training by nearly two times. Furthermore, we achieved a graduation or completion rate of 93 percent, which WORKFORCE TALENT exceeded our goal of 80 percent. AND DIVERSITY Ranging from situational leadership to business writing In a globalized and digitized world, Seagate continuously to leadership development, training in FY2013 covered seeks to attract the best people. To this end, our a variety of topics, all to help improve employee job recruitment processes focus on finding talented and performance and satisfaction. Approximately 92 percent motivated individuals who fit with the company’s culture. of employees who participated in training self-reported We also strive to bring new views that help the company a post-training increase in job performance, which be flexible in a rapidly changing marketplace. In the surpassed our goal of a minimum 80 percent rate. United States, we hold ourselves accountable for hiring, retaining and promoting minorities, and we provide We also provided training for directors and other detailed information about our performance in this managers on our Seagate Way culture initiative in the area—relative to the available labor pools—to our Board form of workshops and e-Learning. Across the board, of Directors on an annual basis. the objective of this training was to improve decisionmaking and teamwork skills—areas that Seagate’s We continued to grow a workforce comprised of Executive Committee has defined as mission-critical. employees with a variety of backgrounds, experiences, More than 96 percent of directors participated in styles, cultures, languages, skills and competencies the Seagate Way workshops, with a satisfaction rate in FY2013 through our recruitment and hiring efforts. exceeding 90 percent. We communicated about these 13 of 15 groups of 300 employees also successfully programs through eNewsletter and video campaigns. completed our Working Globally diversity training We offered our directors networking events and a program with a 90 percent satisfaction rate. speaker series as part of leadership development program under the direction of the McChrystal Group. In Asia, we increased headcount at our new building in Korat, Thailand, and made particular strides in hiring We also redesigned our Rewards & Recognition disabled employees; this segment of our workforce program in FY2013. This program is open to increased to 51 in FY2013 from 22 in FY2012 and 15 all employees and the goal is to recognize and in FY2011. In FY2013 we also established a sourcing acknowledge the value of those who contribute above structure from which we identified 13 employees from and beyond their normal responsibilities. Some of the the recruiting team to serve as members of Talent ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 30 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Our People Generation, a team tasked with recruiting future Seagate employees. Members of this team go through a year of training in smart sourcing and candidate engagement in order to find the best people. These efforts helped reduce the average time to accept a job offer to 24.5 days FY2013 from 37.4 days in FY2012. They also contributed to a slight rise in the satisfaction rating of hiring managers with the performance of new nonoperator hires. In the area of university recruiting, we expanded our targeted approach to recruiting beyond the R&D and engineering functions to include new functions across our global organization. In total, we hired more than 750 graduates and interns in FY2013, an increase of about 400 student hires compared to FY2012, when we hired about 340 graduates and interns. We also developed country-specific recruiting strategies and timelines, and designed new criteria for determining which universities to target for recruiting. We will begin using these criteria in FY2014. LOOKING FORWARD We will continue our commitment to diversity and to recruiting and retaining the best and the brightest candidates possible. This will include reviewing our diversity metrics to provide more comparable data in annual reporting, and converting more interns to graduate hires. Furthermore, we plan to recruit at universities based on our new target school selection criteria in FY2014. We will expand Seagate 101, a training program that helps new recruits develop career skills and integrate quickly into the company, to be inclusive of all global new hires. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 31 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report Supplier Engagement Seagate has two types of suppliers: direct suppliers, which provide components and parts for products, and indirect suppliers, who provide products and services to support operations. We have adopted the EICC Code of Conduct as our supplier code of conduct, and we have established long-term, stable relationships with our top suppliers to better align goals and standards. We meet regularly with suppliers to communicate our expectations and evaluate their engagement. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 32 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Supplier Engagement We also require that certain service providers (e.g. We also redoubled our commitment in FY2013 to janitorial service, canteen providers, etc.) that bring making sure that our process for coordinating and workers onto our sites follow our SOP, which details collecting requests for information and proposals for specific steps for supplier engagement, including all types of suppliers are consistent on a global basis, signing the Code of Conduct, training and completing including the information we request from our suppliers the EICC Self-Assessment Questionnaire and the in terms of their social and environmental performance. Validated Audit Process (VAP). We see healthy and proactive supplier engagement as LOOKING FORWARD an ongoing and important goal as we continue to grow. Seagate’s goal for FY2014 is to complete audits for all As long as we rely on suppliers to source our product, of its direct and indirect suppliers that meet the criteria we will prioritize the right kind of relationships with for audit before the end of the year. Under this plan, these companies. these identified suppliers would have to go through at least one audit. As part of the effort to achieve FY2013 HIGHLIGHTS this goal, we also will expand our quarterly business reviews to include a broader number of key suppliers. We continued to demonstrate our commitment to We also will incorporate CSR into the business review upholding human rights and high labor, safety and to supplement other key factors—such as cost, quality, environmental standards by working directly with delivery and reliability—that we use to assess our business partners to meet these expectations supplier performance. throughout the electronics supply chain. In FY2013, we released a revised SOP to determine more easily Finally, we will continue to discuss the importance of what each of our suppliers must do to achieve total EICC compliance with all of our constituents. compliance with the EICC Code of Conduct. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 33 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Supplier Engagement SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT suppliers by industry category and by the requirements they need to meet. The goal of this effort is for us to AND DIVERSITY determine more easily what each of our suppliers must do to achieve total compliance with the EICC Code For Seagate, business success depends on quick-toof Conduct. As a byproduct of this new approach, we market, high-volume product delivery—a reality that conducted 75 EICC audits, each known as a VAP audit, requires a robust and flexible supply chain. Protecting in FY2013, with 20 instances where a first, second or workers, preventing EHS hazards and including local third follow-up was necessary. The majority of our VAP communities in the benefits of our business puts us audits were conducted in China, Thailand, Malaysia and in a commanding position to experience growth and Singapore. success. We achieve these goals by promoting supplier education, embracing supplier management, overseeing In terms of our overall supplier diversity, we spent nearly a transparent supply chain and ensuring supplier USD$215 million in FY2013, up 17 percent from FY2012, diversity. on 1,102 diverse suppliers. These suppliers included small businesses; minority, women and veteranManaging suppliers is no easy task, but in FY2013, owned businesses; and businesses in historically Seagate released a revised SOP for supplier disadvantaged areas. management. The new approach attempts to organize FY2013 VAP Audits FY2013 VAP Audits By Follow-Up By Location Initial VAP 1 4 1st Follow-Up Audit 32% China 2nd Follow-Up Audit Thailand 3rd Follow-Up Audit 17% 55 Malaysia 15 20% Singapore 12% Others* 19% Others include: Philippines, Japan, Korea, Indonesia, Taiwan, Vietnam, and Morocco. Top Five Supplier Audit Findings From our VAP audits in FY2013, the following were the top risks and instances of non-compliance among suppliers: 1. Working hours 4. Hazardous substances 2. Emergency preparedness 5. (tie) Occupational safety 3. Freely chosen employment 5. (tie) Business integrity ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 34 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Supplier Engagement LOOKING FORWARD FY12 Diversity Spend $214.8 M/1,102 Suppliers We expect Seagate’s supplier management strategy to continue to evolve in FY2014. As our supplier mix $217 Small Business changes over time, we recognize that we may need to $397 change the strategy accordingly. $6,340 Minority Owned Woman Owned Seagate’s commitment to supplier diversity is ongoing, and in FY2014, we will continue to forge $19,276 $151,384 Veteran Owned new relationships with businesses that represent Disadvantaged underrepresented groups and regions. $37,157 Hub Zone ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 35 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Supplier Engagement VAP AUDIT CASE STUDIES Indirect Supplier: Direct Supplier: Labor Supplier in Malaysia Components Supplier in China Highlights: Highlights: • Initial EICC VAP audit conducted in April 2012 • Initial EICC VAP audit conducted in September 2012 • 15 major and 21 minor non-compliances were • One priority (working hours), 18 major, and 9 minor initially found non-compliances initially were found • Final follow-up VAP Closure Audits conducted in • Audits have helped to identify issues and ways to March 2013; all findings were closed work jointly toward improving working conditions and meet EICC code requirements Summary: Summary: We conducted an EICC VAP audit on this indirect supplier, As a requirement to work with us, we conducted an a labor supplier that we utilize for the recruitment of foreign EICC VAP audit on this direct supplier, which provides workers for our Penang site in Malaysia. Seagate with key electronic components and is located in Dongguan, in the Guangdong Province of China. This As part of our overall commitment to align with the was the first time that this supplier underwent a code of California Supply Chain Transparency Act, we conducted conduct audit, so we worked closely with this supplier an initial audit in April 2012 and discovered 15 major and to ensure they understood our requirements by briefing 21 minor non-compliances. The majority of these findings them on the EICC VAP process. were related to the suppliers’ documentation process and management of code provision, which we felt were not up During the initial audit in September 2012, we found to our standards. several non-compliances, from a priority finding on working hours to 27 other major and minor findings. Since the initial audit, we continued to work closely with the supplier to help resolve the non-compliances, and Since the initial audit, we have conducted three followby March 2013, we successfully resolved and closed up audits to support the supplier in addressing the all findings. non-compliances and ensure they were making progress toward rectifying all findings. This indirect labor supplier is the first labor agency in Malaysia to undergo an EICC VAP audit and closure While the supplier continues to work toward addressing verification audit. The country’s Ministry of Human all remaining non-compliances, we are pleased to Resources and the Malaysia Performance Management see that our auditing process has helped to identify Delivery Unit have since invited this supplier to present issues and ways to work toward improving working and share its audit experience, ultimately to help shape conditions and meet EICC code requirements. Seagate Malaysia’s Employers’ Code of Conduct to combat labor will continue to work closely with this direct supplier to trafficking of migrant workers. achieve full compliance with our standards on working hours. Seagate is pleased to see that its audit efforts are helping shape local standards that protect laborers and migrant workers. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 36 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report Community Engagement Stronger communities are good for society, good for employees and good for business. For this reason, we invest in our communities through a variety of engagement programs including contributions, outreach and employee volunteerism. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 37 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Community Engagement Seagate believes in engagement efforts that are tailored FY2013 HIGHLIGHTS to different communities. To oversee these programs, With a host of charitable contributions, volunteerism we select organizations that operate within 50 miles of and other endeavors, Seagate supported its our business presence. Through our Capacity to Care communities in a number of ways during FY2013. program, we support initiatives that have demonstrable impact, provide direct benefits to communities and Overall, Seagate contributed USD$5.5 million in offer opportunities for employee volunteering. The FY2013. This figure included more than USD$833,000 Capacity to Care program focuses on four main areas: to the Capacity to Care program, more than USD$138,000 in in-kind giving and more than USD$4.5 • Science, technology, engineering million in other types of contributions. The company’s and math education (STEM) external non-budgeted contributions (made by • Reducing our environmental impact external stakeholders such as employees, customers and suppliers, etc.) increased as well, to more than • Health and wellness for employees USD$775,000 in FY2013 from USD$489,000 in FY2012. and communities The company completed the final phase of its USD$1 • Helping those in need million commitment to engineer flood mitigation programs in Thailand. Finally, we donated about 1,995 Seagate also often responds to humanitarian crises terabytes of memory capacity to various nonprofit that affect its stakeholders, particularly in times of organizations, such as TechSoup in the United States international crisis. In addition to programs that are and Thailand Distance Learning. localized to the immediate communities where we have major facilities, we also occasionally engage in We also got more involved with our local communities. corporate-driven programs. Finally, we support select The number of employee volunteer hours increased to institutions of higher learning to advance technologies nearly 20,000 in FY2013 (including more than 500 hours that are relevant to our core business. from employees of EVault, a wholly owned subsidiary) from 16,200 hours in FY2012. We charted participation ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 38 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Community Engagement satisfaction among employees who participated in these Seagate organized the country’s first unmanned aerialevents and achieved a 98 percent positive response. vehicle contest as part of an ongoing university-level Though this number was unchanged between FY2013 robotics program. and FY2012, we were pleased with the plateau. With an ongoing focus on education, Seagate reached 10,335 In China, Seagate and its employees supported a students with messaging and hands-on opportunities to technical summer camp for middle school children, experience science, technology and related learning. sponsored New Year’s festivities for 1,500 children of migrant workers, held a holiday party for disabled children and much more. We also supported LOOKING FORWARD construction of digital libraries and supported cultural Seagate’s commitment to community engagement is preservation and scholarships for deserving students in ongoing, which means the company will continue to several targeted regions of China. put its employees in a position to make a difference. Seagate will continue to extend and amplify community LOOKING FORWARD engagement efforts where the company can make a difference, whether in the communities or among the Seagate is planning to continue its support of education, many stakeholders that it serves. helping the underserved and protecting the environment in FY2014. ASIA REGION With more than 80 percent of Seagate employees UNITED STATES AND based in countries across Asia, a great deal of our NORTHERN IRELAND community engagement efforts occurs in this region. We continue to support those affected by the historic In the United States and Northern Ireland, a diverse set flooding in Thailand in 2011 by completing the final of community programs included an ongoing education phase of Seagate’s $1 million commitment to flood focus. Engaging young minds and getting them excited mitigation programs. Seagate supports a wide range about future careers in STEM encourages students of educational and other community programs through to contribute to future innovation in their countries its Asia operations, including sponsorship of schools, and communities—and perhaps even at Seagate. We summer camps for learning, renovation of facilities and welcome the opportunity to be role models and mentors schools for the needy and engaging with the elderly, the for kids from the communities we serve. disadvantaged and those with special needs. In FY2013, in the United States, Seagate’s community Seagate dedicates much of its community engagement engagement efforts included everything from charitable efforts to education. In Johor, Malaysia, our employees donations to volunteerism and mentorship. participated in local science fairs, helped with a model bridge competition, served as coaches in an engineering Following the Oklahoma City tornado in May 2013, contest, judged a science contest and participated in Seagate donated USD$150,000 to help with recovery problem-solving contests in biology, physics, chemistry, efforts, USD$100,000 to the Regional Food Bank science and math. In Singapore, Seagate employees and another USD$50,000 to the Infant Crisis Center. raised more than USD$10,000 to purchase groceries for In Colorado, Seagate hosted a math competition in low-income elderly residents and volunteered to spend Boulder County, and employees volunteered as exam time with senior citizens on days off. In Penang, about proctors and graders. 100 Seagate employees participated in the region’s biggest science fair and helped young students learn In Minnesota, Seagate sponsored the state science and about binary codes and magnetic recording. In Thailand, engineering fair, and employees helped judge projects ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 39 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Community Engagement or assisted with logistics. Seagate also provided two its Springtown operation. As an additional challenge, cash awards for students totaling USD$3,500, and students earned extra points by using computer another two awards for teachers totaling USD$2,000. components in their work and by reflecting Seagate’s In Shrewsbury, Massachusetts, Seagate employees vision to “Go Green.” volunteered at a local science and engineering fair, while the company sponsored the robotics team at a In keeping with the green theme, Seagate employees put local high school. In Santa Cruz, California, Seagate on a series of interactive workshops about sustainability sponsored the county’s science fair. and delivered them to the community during the fourth annual Seagate Think-Act Day. The event was developed by a team of employee volunteers, some of whom serve EVault, a wholly owned subsidiary of Seagate, cultivates on the site’s environmental management committee. Not an especially volunteer-focused community engagement coincidentally, Seagate Springtown’s green practices program. On National Volunteer Day—April 11, 2013— were recognized toward the end of FY2013, when the employees volunteered at local shelters by passing out company ranked second overall in an environmental free meals in an attempt to curb hunger. performance survey of more than 100 of Northern Ireland’s largest public and private organizations. In Northern Ireland, Seagate’s initiatives to engage the local community in FY2013 focused on art, education and sustainability. LOOKING FORWARD First, in February 2013, students from 10 schools took Over the course of FY2014, we will continue to extend part in a challenge to create art that reflected the theme and amplify community engagement efforts in all of the of data storage. The art competition was held as part communities we serve. of Seagate’s twentieth-anniversary celebration for ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 40 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Community Engagement CASE STUDY: EARTH DAY 2013 Seagate employees do a great job of engaging with the The EM-infused mudballs inhibit the growth of algae communities they serve on a day-to-day basis. But on and break up sludge and silt. Later in April, Johor Earth Day 2013, our people excelled with engagement employees threw the mudballs into the Skudai River. all over the world. In Korea, 40 employees from Seagate’s local design In Singapore, a team of volunteers organized a center helped spruce up the surrounding neighborhood terrarium-making workshop with children from The by picking up litter in the streets and planting flower Business Times Budding Artists Funds, assisting the seeds. children in creating mini-gardens as part of workshops held at our Woodlands facility. Our local Green Club committee also organized green initiatives such as a In Northern Ireland, a group of Seagate employees “no printing day” to reduce paper usage, a drive to turn from the Springtown facility planted a hedgerow off lights and computers during lunch to reduce power, consisting of a variety of native broadleaf species, a move to more carpooling and more. including hawthorn, blackthorn and alder. Such plants can enhance biodiversity by encouraging the return of birds and other priority species. In addition, In China, Seagate employees from our Suzhou staff from the site’s Facilities department organized facility helped improve water quality in a local lake by and hosted a three-day International Energy and releasing 20,000 silver carp. Taihu Lake, the main lake Facilities Management Symposium, which brought for Wuxi and Suzhou, suffers from excessive growth of together management experts in these fields from blue-green algae that causes water pollution. Seagate’s global sites and from a number of external organizations. In Thailand, more than 100 employees participated in a clean-up event around the Korat plant. Volunteers Finally, in the United States, a number of Seagate sorted through the collected waste and demonstrated employees and family members contributed to the a systematic recycling method to encourage the health of the San Francisco Bay by separating and community to recycle as well. transplanting 600 rare native plants, which will be replanted in sensitive tidal-wetland areas in the future. The team worked on creeping wild rye, a perennial In Penang, Seagate employees helped plant 230 trees grass that is crucial to tidal wetlands, along with around the facility. Management also encouraged another rare and threatened local species, purple employees to carpool to work on Earth Day, and needle grass. The activities took place at the Palo Alto provided a low-carbon cafeteria menu, among other Native Plant Nursery in the Baylands Nature Preserve activities. area, near the heart of Silicon Valley. In Boulder, Colorado, near the company’s Longmont facility, Seagate sponsored “Wild Earth Day,” a family-oriented In Johor, several Seagate employees attended a celebration that features earth science and ecologyworkshop in which they learned how to make mudballs based interactive displays and recreational activities. that contain effective microorganisms (EM) used in cleaning up rivers, lakes and other bodies of water. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 41 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report Summary of Performance We provide a summary of our performance history and a selection of our most recent FY2013 results. For our latest business and financial news and results, visit our company website at www.seagate.com. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 42 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Summary of Performance PERFORMANCE INDICATOR FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Energy Consumption 1.559 1.610 1.614 (Million MWh) Energy Consumption Per Data Storage Shipped 14.91 11.28 9.19 (MWh/PB) Energy Use and Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions Carbon Emissions 1.271 1.253 1.274 (Million Metric Tons CO 2e)1 Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions Per PB Shipped 14.51 10.75 7.53 (Metric Tons CO 2e)1 Scope 3 GHG Emissions 0.0028 2 0.0026 2 2.426 3 (Million Metric Tons CO 2e)1 Hazardous Waste Reduction 21,613 14,594 13,820 (Tons) Pollution Prevention Solid Waste Landfill Diversion 79% 82% 88% (% rate recycled) Injury and Illness Recordable Case Rate 0.30 0.20 0.28 (Cases Per 100 Employees) Health and Safety Injury and Illness Days Away Case Rate 0.13 0.08 0.17 (Cases Per 100 Employees) Ethical Conduct and Conflict of Interest Policy Ethics 99% 99% 100% Certification (%) Seagate Contributions: Cash 846.6 4 3,658 5 5,338 5 (In Thousands USD) Community Engagement Total Employee Volunteer Hours 15.5 16.2 19.8 (In Thousands) Notes to Data: 1 Total annual carbon emissions and carbon emissions per data storage shipped are measured and reported based on the calendar year. The values provided in this table are for calendar years 2010, 2011, and 2012. 2 Includes Scope 3 emissions from business travel and hire employee commute only. 3 Starting CY2012, Scope 3 emissions include four additional Scope 3 emission sources: emissions from fuel and energy related activities (not included in Scope 1 & 2); emissions from waste generated in operations; emissions from use of products sold; and emissions from end of life treatment of sold products. 4 Includes only Capacity to Care community giving. 5 Includes Capacity to Care community giving and additional giving (strategic, disaster relief, higher learning, etc.). ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 43 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report Report Content Index ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 44 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Report Content Index UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT CONTENT INDEX Seagate has been an active participant of the UNGC since 2004 and has aligned its management systems to the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. These principles guide Seagate in developing new programs and strategies in the area of Global Citizenship. We are committed to the implementation, disclosure and promotion of the UNGC’s principles throughout our operations. The table below provides a guide to our strategies and actions in support of the ten principles. UNGC’S TEN PRINCIPLES LOCATION Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Principle 1 Pages 14-15 proclaimed human rights. Page 27 Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Pages 32-35 Labor Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Principle 3 recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Pages 14-15 Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Page 27 Pages 28-30 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor. Pages 32-35 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Principle 7 environmental challenges. Pages 12-16 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Pages 17-24 Pages 39-40 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Principle 9 friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Principle 10 Pages 10-11 extortion and bribery. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 45 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Report Content Index GRI CONTENT INDEX To promote a standardized approach to reporting, we aligned the FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report with the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. For more information about the GRI and G4 Guidelines, visit www.globalreporting.org. STANDARD DISCLOSURES LOCATION / NOTES Strategy and Analysis G4-1 CEO statement Page 4 Organizational Profile G4-3 Company name Page 6 G4-4 Company brand, products and services Page 6 G4-5 Location of headquarters Page 6 G4-6 Main countries of operation Page 6 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Page 5 G4-8 Markets served (e.g. sectors, customers) Page 7 G4-9 Scale of company (e.g. employees, sales) Page 7 G4-10 Employee profile Pages 7, 25-27 G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements See Seagate’s Human Rights Policy. G4-12 Description of company’s supply chain Pages 30-31 G4-13 Significant changes during reporting period Page 5 G4-14 Precautionary approach / principle Pages 14-15 G4-15 External charters / initiatives Pages 14-15, 17-19, 27, 30-33, 41 EICC; United Nations Global Compact; G4-16 Membership of associations Business for Social Responsibility. Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in financial statements See Annual Report (10-K). G4-18 Process for defining report content Page 5 G4-19 Material issues / aspects identified Pages 5, 8-9 G4-20 Report boundaries inside company Page 5 G4-21 Report boundaries outside company Page 5 G4-22 Re-statements of information Page 5 G4-23 Significant changes in scope / boundaries Page 5 ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 46 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Report Content Index Stakeholder Engagement See Stakeholder Engagement section on G4-24 Stakeholders engaged Seagate’s Global Citizenship website. See Stakeholder Engagement section on G4-25 Basis for identification of stakeholders Seagate’s Global Citizenship website. See Stakeholder Engagement section on G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Seagate’s Global Citizenship website. See Stakeholder Engagement section on G4-27 Issues raised in stakeholder engagement Seagate’s Global Citizenship website. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period Page 5 G4-29 Date of previous report February 2012 G4-30 Reporting cycle Page 5 G4-31 Reporting contact point Page 5 This report contains Standard Disclosures G4-32 In accordance option chosen from the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. We currently do not provide external assurance G4-33 External assurance for this report. Governance See Corporate Governance section on G4-34 Governance structure Seagate’s corporate website. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Values, principles and codes Pages 10-11 Economic DMA Disclosures on management approach See Annual Report (10-K). G4-EC1 Direct economic value See Annual Report (10-K). G4-EC2 Financial implications of climate change Pages 17-20 G4-EC3 Coverage of defined benefit plan obligations See Annual Report (10-K). G4-EC4 Financial assistance from government See Annual Report (10-K). G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments and services Pages 36-39 G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts Pages 36-39 G4-EC9 Local supplier spending Pages 32-33 Environmental DMA Disclosures on management approach Pages 17-24 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Pages 14-15 G4-EN2 Recycled materials use Pages 15-16 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within company Pages 19, 40 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside company Page 14 ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 47 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Report Content Index G4-EN5 Energy intensity Pages 19, 40 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Page 19 G4-EN7 Reduction of product / service energy use Page 14 G4-EN8 Water withdrawal Pages 23-24 G4-EN9 Water sources affected by withdrawal Pages 23-24 G4-EN10 Water recycling and reuse Pages 23-24 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) Pages 20-22, 40 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) Pages 20-22, 40 G4-EN17 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) Pages 21-22, 40 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity Page 20 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Pages 20-22 G4-EN22 Total water discharge Pages 23-24 G4-EN23 Total waste Pages 21-24 G4-EN24 Significant spills Pages 17-18 G4-EN25 Hazardous waste Pages 22-24 G4-EN27 Mitigation of product impacts Pages 14-16 G4-EN28 Reclaimed products Pages 15-16 G4-EN32 Supplier environmental screening Pages 30-35 G4-EN33 Supply chain environmental impacts Pages 30-35 G4-EN34 Environmental grievance mechanisms Pages 10-11 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work DMA Disclosures on management approach Pages 25-30 G4-LA1 Employee hires and turnover Pages 28-30 G4-LA2 Employee benefits Pages 25-29 G4-LA6 Injuries and work related fatalities Pages 27-28 G4-LA7 High risk workers Pages 30-31 G4-LA9 Employee training Pages 27-29 G4-LA10 Employee skills and learning Pages 27-29 See Employee Training, Development and G4-LA11 Employee performance reviews Recognition section of Seagate’s Global Citizenship website. G4-LA12 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Pages 28-30 G4-LA13 Equal pay See Seagate’s Human Rights Policy. G4-LA14 Supplier labor screening Pages 30-35 G4-LA15 Labor impacts in supply chain Pages 30-35 G4-LA16 Labor grievance mechanisms Pages 10-11 ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 48 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | Report Content Index Social: Human Rights DMA Disclosures on management approach Page 27 G4-HR1 Human rights screening of investments Page 27 G4-HR2 Human rights training Page 27 G4-HR3 Discrimination See Seagate’s Human Rights Policy. G4-HR4 Free association / collective bargaining See Seagate’s Human Rights Policy. G4-HR5 Child labor See Seagate’s Human Rights Policy. G4-HR6 Forced labor See Seagate’s Human Rights Policy. G4-HR10 Supplier human rights screening Pages 30-35 G4-HR11 Human rights impacts in supply chain Pages 30-35 G4-HR12 Human rights grievance mechanisms Pages 10-11 Social: Society DMA Disclosures on management approach Pages 14-15, 17-24, 36-40 G4-SO1 Local community engagement Pages 36-40 G4-SO2 Impacts on local communities Pages 36-40 G4-SO3 Anti-corruption risk Pages 10-11 G4-SO4 Anti-corruption training and communication Pages 10-11 G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior See Annual Report (10-K). G4-SO9 Supplier social impact screening Pages 30-35 G4-SO10 Social impacts in supply chain Pages 30-35 G4-SO11 Social impact grievance mechanisms Pages 10-11 Social: Product Responsibility DMA Disclosures on management approach Pages 12-16 G4-PR1 Health and safety impacts of products Pages 14-15 G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Pages 14-15 ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 49 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report External Recognitions ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 50 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report | External Recognitions ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY • Northern Ireland Environmental Benchmarking Survey Platinum Award. Seagate Springtown received a Platinum Award for its performance in the Northern Ireland Environmental Benchmarking Survey. The survey measures environmental management and performance among participating companies. In FY2013, our Springtown site placed second out of 129 companies that participated in the survey. • Mayflower Primary School’s Appreciation Award. We received the Mayflower Primary School’s Appreciation Award for our continued support and leadership in science and environmental projects in Singapore. Throughout FY2013, we organized science activities and workshops with the Mayflower Primary School to enhance the students’ STEM education. OTHER RECOGNITIONS • STOXX, a globally integrated index provider, in September 2013 announced to include Seagate as a component of the STOXX Global ESG Leaders index for the third consecutive year. The STOXX Global ESG Leaders index offers a representation of the leading global companies in terms of environmental, social and governance criteria, based on indicators provided by Sustainalytics. The index is made of the following three sub-indices: the STOXX Global ESG Environmental Leaders, the STOXX Global ESG Social Leaders and the STOXX Global ESG Governance Leaders indices. For more on STOXX, visit: www.stoxx.com. • In Singapore, Seagate was recognized for its community efforts with the National Arts Council’s Arts Supporter Award 2012. Singapore’s National Arts Council honors individuals and organizations that contribute toward the advancement and promotion of cultural and artistic activities. • Also in Singapore, Seagate received the ChaoYang School’s Partnership Award for its community contributions and services. Seagate employees for the past five years have been providing mentoring for students who are learning basic information technology skills. ©2014 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. 51 Seagate | FY2013 Global Citizenship Annual Report ACRONYMS USED IN THIS REPORT CDP: Carbon Disclosure Project CO 2 : Carbon Dioxide CO 2 e: Equivalent Carbon Dioxide CSR: Corporate Social Responsibility CY: Calendar Year EICC: Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition EHS: Environment, Health and Safety EMEA: Europe, Middle East and Africa FY: Fiscal Year GHG: Greenhouse Gas GRI: Global Reporting Initiative ICT: Information and Communications Technology ISO: International Organization for Standardization LCA: Life Cycle Assessment ML: Megaliter MWh: Megawatt Hour NGO: Nongovernmental Organization OEM: Original Equipment Manufacturer PB: Petabyte PLC: Public Limited Company SOP: Standard Operating Procedure STEM: Science, Technology, Engineering and Math UNGC: United Nations Global Compact USD: United States Dollars ($) VAP: Validated Audit Process 3TG: Tungsten, Tin, Tantalum and Gold ©2014 Seagate Technology LLC. All rights reserved. Seagate, Seagate Technology and the Wave logo are registered trademarks of Seagate Technology LLC in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks or registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 52
