MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 ANNUAL CORPORATE SOCIAL 2013 RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 PREFACE MediaMonks is one of the biggest global creative Regrettably, in someways the digital age has also had digital production agencies, with work ranging from a number of harmful repercussions. Technology has web design, campaigns and films to games and mobile facilitated some new phenomenons, such as webcam applications. Over the years, we’ve come to hold a child sex tourism, which could not have existed leading position in the sector: moving our four-man before. Fortunately, technology has also contributed operation out of our basement office to set up shop on solutions. A powerful example of this is Sweetie, a three different continents. Today – as a company with campaign by Dutch creative agency Lemz, for which almost 200 employees and a truly global reach – we’ve MediaMonks contributed its time and expertise. The come to acknowledge that we have an important role to campaign tracked and traced more than a thousand play in sharing both our vision and our performance, in men worldwide, complicit in online child sexual abuse, relation to people and the planet. by using a CG (computer-generated) character made to look like a 10-year old Filipino girl. The project At MediaMonks, we see the digitization of media as a successfully raised international awareness of webcamgreat opportunity to contribute to a green economy. related child sexual abuse and even helped contribute Think about all the savings in printed materials and to the arrests of a number of its perpetrators. make/take/waste processes that such digital media represents! At the same time, we feel it’s important Finally, in its role as a production company, to share our digital knowledge and experience, in MediaMonks has created a large number of jobs for a order to give talents in the sector the opportunity to rising class of individuals with digital skill-sets. While grow and develop. This is something we do internally the digital sector is typically characterized by shortat MediaMonks by training our employees, as well as term, freelance contracts, we keep all of our production across the industry by sharing our innovative work and capabilities in-house. This provides MediaMonks ideas with customers, suppliers and other partners. employees with consistent work and job security, in a fiercely competitive and emerging industry. Similarly, MediaMonks has a unique opportunity to make use of its expertise in digital technology to Over the next few years, MediaMonks will continue build campaigns for societal good. 2013 has seen us to play its part in leading the development of the produce a large number of projects that harness digital digital industry. For the meantime, this CSR report communications to raise awareness of, and contribute demonstrates the results of our performance in 2013 to, extremely worthwhile causes. I recently hosted the when it comes to both our daily operations and the Middle-Eastern launch in Dubai for one such campaign, influence we have in the choices we make: From our called Feedie. This mobile application – which converts careful selection of supplier, to the conditions we create shared food photos into actual shared food with for our Monks to religiously produce great work. impoverished children – could not have existed before the digital age. Already well-established in the US, we also plan to launch the application in Europe from Amsterdam later this year, in the hope of creating truly global impact. VICTOR KNAAP Main Monk MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 This report reviews MediaMonks’ Corporate Social Responsibility performance in 2013. Complying with United Nations Global Compact, the report follows the GRI guidelines. MediaMonks has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2012. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) The Global Reporting Initiative is a non-profit organization that promotes economic, environmental and social sustainability. GRI provides all companies and organizations with a comprehensive sustainability reporting framework that is widely used around the world. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Corporate Social Responsibility is a form of corporate self-regulation integrated into a business model. CSR is titled to aid an organization’s mission as well as a guide to what the company stands for and will uphold to its consumers. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 TABLE OF CONTENTS 01 MANAGEMENT SUMMARY 05 DAILY PRACTICE I PEOPLE II ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT III PROCUREMENT IV CLIENTS 13 INDUSTRY LEADERSHIP I RESEARCH & INNOVATION II COMMUNITY 16 APPENDIX MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 1 MANAGEMENT SUMMARY MEDIAMONKS CSR @ MEDIAMONKS MediaMonks is an independent creative digital This document reports on CSR at MediaMonks in 2013. production company that works with and for It complies with the 10 United Nations Global Compact advertising agencies to craft amazing digital work principles and follows the GRI guidelines. for global brands. You can find us anywhere on the The report consists of two parts. The first part Web as well as in Amsterdam, London, New York and describes the performance of our daily business, Singapore. MediaMonks boasts an in-house team of distinguishing four themes: people, environment & 172 Monks that are versed in a virtually infinite range of energy, procurement and clients. digital disciplines, collectively covering almost anything The second part focuses more on our industry you could possibly throw at a digital campaign. leadership, presenting our efforts in 2013 regarding research, innovation, education within the digital media THE DIGITAL MEDIA SECTOR sector, and giving back to the community. All topics have been assessed through on-site Since MediaMonks was founded in 2001, the digital measurements, interviews and sector research. This advertising and marketing industry has expanded and document reflects the findings; it includes performance diversified significantly: moving from the production metrics as well as contextual description. of web banner adverts and website design to include social media campaigns, video games, interactive PERFORMANCE 2013 film, smartphone and tablet applications, digital-outof-home displays and more. Technology’s sustained MediaMonks started measuring performance according expansion into new territory also brings with it to CSR indicators in 2012. This assessment will be innovative opportunities such as virtual reality and repeated every year and forms a basis for continual motion control. As a digital production company, improvement policy. The remainder of this summary the core focus at MediaMonks is the construction of offers an elaboration of our scores from 2013. digital products across the entire spectrum of these technologies and platforms. Digital advertising and marketing is also one of the few industries to have countered the economic crisis of recent years. According to Nielsen, the leading global information and measurement company, digital has experienced double-digit growth year-on-year for the last half decade. The industry is the fastest-growing advertising and marketing sector globally, recently surpassing global revenues of $100 billion in 2013.1 1 Nielsen, “Global Ad Spend: With double digit gains, display ads drive in-your-face results,” <http://www.nielsen.com/us/en/newswire/2013/global-ad-spend-with-double-digit-gains-display-ads-drive-in-y.html>. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 2 2013 IN NUMBERS 4 OFFICES (AMSTERDAM, LONDON, NEW YORK, SINGAPORE) 172 EMPLOYEES 1342 PROJECTS DELIVERED 15.3m APPROXIMATE TURNOVER IN EUROS 509 tonnes CO2 EMISSIONS 10 CHARITIES SUPPORTED MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 3 MOST IMPORTANT FIGURES PEOPLE Employee / Employer ratio 0.23 lowest​gross i​ ncome​/ h ​ ighest​gross​income [ratio] Health & Safety Absenteeism 1.51 absent hours / yearly worked hours [%] Accidents 0 number / year [#] Training & Education 60 € / FTE [€] Nationalities 17 number [#] Diversity 0.17 female / male [ratio] ENVIRONMENT & ENERGY CO2 emission [tonnes] CO2 emission [kg] / FTE Mobility Car 77 484 Public Transport 90 562 Flights 153 954 Energy 170 1,062 Water 0.33 2.05 MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 4 BUSINESS Innovation 11,944 hours worked [#] Suppliers CSR policy 50.13 number of top 20 suppliers [%] Publicly disclosed CSR policy 45.41 number of top 20 suppliers [%] COMMUNITY Donations Projects for Public good 10 projects per year [#] Unpaid / voluntary hours 866 hours per year [#] MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 5 DAILY PRACTICE MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 6 I PEOPLE PERFORMANCE 2013 Employee / Employer ratio 0.23 lowest​gross i​ ncome​/ h​ ighest​gross​income [ratio] Health & Safety Absenteeism 1.51 absent hours / yearly worked hours [%] Accidents 0 number / year [#] Training & Education 60 € / FTE [€] Nationalities 17 number [#] Diversity 0.17 female / male [ratio] A CULTURE OF MEDIAMONKS sports trip and “Summer Soirée”. However, we aren’t only focused on keeping things fun outside of the office. Our employees make our company what it is – after Due to the nature of their work, our Monks spend most all, they put the Monks in MediaMonks. They are of their time sitting at their desks behind screens. We the reason we’re proud to promise premium quality therefore try to stimulate a healthy, safe, and above all production to our clients all over the world. Therefore, creative and vibrant work environment. We also provide fair remuneration; the development of their talents; opportunities for our staff to get away from their desks stimulating new challenges and opportunities; building by paying careful attention to creating spaces for a cohesive culture and creating awareness of social and relaxing, gaming and even partying. environmental responsibility are the foundations of our sustainability policy. TRAINING, EDUCATION MediaMonks has a task-oriented culture, where Due to the accelerating pace of change in digital everyone works together passionately towards a bigger technology, fostering a culture of development in our (collective) goal. Within our company structure we try employees is integral to the continued growth of our to avoid strict hierarchies: our team leaders manage and company. Our employees receive bi-annual evaluation coordinate projects and ensure that deadlines are met, sessions, where we seek to understand how they would but all team members are wholeheartedly committed like to grow, both inside and outside of their working lives. to making the best work possible in the time available. We routinely cover any costs associated with our staff As employers, we try to nurture relationships with attending cutting edge technical and creative conferences; our employees by having regular and personal contact as well as requests for learning materials, supplies (such with them. What’s more, MediaMonks is known for its carefully cultivated culture: we organize a whole host of as books and software) and other work-related training. team building events, culminating in our yearly winter In addition, MediaMonks actively offers Business English for those involved with international relations and Dutch courses for our expatriates. In 2013, eight monks participated in a twelve-class training course in Dutch for expats. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 7 TRAINEEAND INTERNSHIPS AWAY FROM THE MONASTERIES MediaMonks believes in training on the job. Therefore, we Aside from our competitive salaries, comfortable offices offer students from different educational backgrounds and unique culture, MediaMonks also gives above-andthe opportunity to follow an internship at our offices. beyond support for our employees in their personal lives. MediaMonks offers a broad spectrum of internship If needed, we will provide loans, assistance with debt, as opportunities for different roles within the company. well as general advice and administrational support. With What’s more, certain education trajectories such as MBO many of our staff coming from all over the country and (vocational education) require certification for a company even overseas, MediaMonks also pays careful attention to offer internships. In these instances, MediaMonks is to housing and accommodation. Aside from offering certified by both relevant Dutch organizations: assistance in finding a home, each MediaMonks office • ECABO, for a future as a Communications also has its own MediaMonks house. Rooms are offered Assistant, Marketing employee, Management/CEO for free to interns, and at a low cost for full employees. assistant Such premises drastically improve the potential for • GOC for the creative industry: graphic and individuals all over the world to work for MediaMonks, interactive media design, game designer, web making their move and relocation a far less stressful developer, game developer, animation, audiovisual experience. design and authoring. HEALTH & SAFETY In the sports domain, MediaMonks encourages healthy habits amongst its Monks by means of a discount at the Many of our employees take part in the MediaMonks local fitness centre, as well as a company cycle scheme that provides large tax deductions on bicycle purchases. indoor soccer and basketball teams, while we also Many of our employees take part in the MediaMonks indoor soccer and basketball teams, while we also participate in running competitions such as the Dam to participate in running competitions such as the Dam to Dam race, the Hilversum City Run and Mud Masters. Dam race, the Hilversum City Run and Mud Masters. When it comes to prevention and safety, MediaMonks has all important procedures and standards in place. All of our offices have emergency response qualified staff (in Dutch: “BHV”), and adhere to all health and safety regulations (in Dutch: “ARBO”). Our catering staff have also completed hygiene courses. In some cases, staff require special attention; we seek to provide any feasible support, ranging from physical therapy to standing workplaces. This approach has led to a minimum of absenteeism and the successful prevention of any accidents. Finally, catering has become an additional focus point at MediaMonks – 30% of our food and drink is organic, fair trade, or produced locally, which has the added benefit of decreasing the distance it must travel and thus our carbon footprint. However, our catering team makes sure these organic, locally sourced products go a long way when it comes to the different meals they prepare. Aside from our grab-and-go breakfasts and daily salad-and-sandwich bar, our catering team also provide hot, healthy lunches twice a week; as well as dinner every single evening for those that have to stay a little later than planned. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 8 II ENVIRONMENT & ENERGY PERFORMANCE 2013 Amount CO2 emission [tonnes] C02 emission [kg] / FTE Mobility Commuting Car 222,500 km 46 286 Public Transport 2,042,129 km 90 562 Business Car 146,993 km 32 197 Flights 943,562 km 153 954 Energy Gas 9,506 m3 17 108 Electricity 335,350 kWh 153 954 Water 1,100 m3 0.33 2.05 TOTAL CO2 TONNES PER FTE 0 1.25 2.5 3.75 5 AVERAGE MEDIAMONKS TOP SCORE MEDIAMONKS 2012 Source: http://milieubarometer.nl MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 9 Encouraging our Monks to use public transport is an effective way to keep our carbon footprint from travelling to a minimum. We offer every employee a yearly subscription for free public transport to and from work. Digital production agencies are large consumers of ENERGY electricity due to the nature of their work, which requires intensive use of computers, displays and The main focus of our environmental work is the servers. To grasp the global impact of the total digital conservation of energy. Our agency makes use of a large traffic worldwide: all the data centers in the world number of computers and displays, which – together together consume 2% of the global electricity supply. with servers, climate control and lighting – contributes to making electricity the largest part of our carbon footprint. On the other hand, the ICT industry is a key player Last year, we implemented efficiency measures such as in creating a low carbon society and could provide a central power switches and energy saving lights, as well hugely significant contribution to pushing the world in as purchasing green-certified electricity. this direction. According to the report “SMART 2020: Enabling the low carbon economy in the information In addition, alongside our strategic partners we have age” written by The Climate Group, ICTs could create been exploring and executing ways to improve our approximately 7.8 GtCO2 of emissions savings by 2020. This represents 15% of predicted total emissions in energy efficiency further. Our data center, for example, the same year. The spectrum of emission savings makes use of cold corridors, smart meters, and extensive contributed by ICT ranges from smart communications virtualization of its servers. Next year, they plan to install to smart buildings and cities. heat pumps to recycle warm air generated by its servers, which will be transported and supplied to surrounding MediaMonks believes that, in its core business, the buildings for use as heating. company can play an important role in this. We have therefore focused on all business processes that WASTE can improve our performance and reduce emissions, distinguishing three key areas: energy, mobility and MediaMonks produces minimal physical waste. waste. We feel that innovating and changing our Communication via e-mail already reduces our printing behaviour in these areas can contribute significant and the use of ink and paper, whilst in 2013, our paper improvements to MediaMonks’ environmental impact. waste has decreased further due to an increased focus on the digitization of administrative processes. Notably, the MOBILITY majority of waste produced at MediaMonks is organic, and therefore biodegradable. What’s more, in addition Encouraging our Monks to use public transport is an to paper and glass recycling, this year MediaMonks have effective way to keep our carbon footprint from travelling also started collecting plastic waste. We utilise ‘Van to a minimum. We offer every employee a yearly Gansewinkel’ for our waste collection, which is famed for subscription for free public transport to and from work; its sustainability vision and practice. while the careful choice of our headquarters next to the train station enables our Monks to commute from either MediaMonks also uses a sustainable end-of-life policy Amsterdam or Utrecht in 20 minutes. regarding old hardware. This policy distinguishes three scenarios: On the other hand however, as our international business 1. If hardware is not working, we will first try to endeavors continue to grow, 2013 has seen us book an repair it. If this is not possible the hardware will be unavoidably increasing number of flights abroad. recycled in appropriate ways; To challenge this growing impact and further reduce our 2. Workable parts of old hardware will be re-used; footprint we have: 3. Hardware (or parts of old hardware) that we cannot • Opened another foreign branch in Singapore, in use anymore will be sold. addition to our offices in London and New York; • Made intensive use of our video conference call system between the offices, as well as other networked working practices. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 10 III PROCUREMENT PERFORMANCE 2013 Suppliers CSR policy 50.13 number of top 20 suppliers [%] Publicly disclosed CSR policy 45.41 number of top 20 suppliers [%] In the light of MediaMonks’ CSR efforts, a conscious choice of suppliers is key to our impact. In 2014, we therefore intensified our efforts with regards to sustainable supply chain management. Energy, office supplies and other facility requirements have our full priority. SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT POLICY SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT To institutionalize this, this year we have set up a basic From a value chain perspective, we realize that our sustainable procurement policy: for new tenders, we choice of suppliers has a significant impact on our total take into account our sustainability principles and ask CO2 footprint. To ensure our sourcing is transparent, we our suppliers what they do to reduce their environmental assess the sustainability behavior of our current suppliers impact. Based on the size of the potential order and by tracking annually the CSR policies and publications of influence this has on our operational excellence, we’re the largest 20 suppliers. able to make the best choice for sustainability. More than 50% of our suppliers already present their For those companies who do not yet take part we try CSR policies online. What’s more, they are increasingly our best to bring CSR to their attention by informing offering transparency regarding their activities. Where in them of its benefits, both to MediaMonks and their own 2012 only 30% of our suppliers provided sufficient insight business. Next to this, contracts with our staff explicitly into their CSR policies, this year almost half of them do state that MediaMonks employees cannot accept any so by publishing the necessary reports and accompanying gifts from suppliers. This helps us to maintain a fair and figures. transparent relationship with all parties involved. It is great to see that amongst our top 5 suppliers, NS, Sligro and Colliers are taking their CSR policy very seriously. These companies not only publish their CSR reports online, but also actively raise awareness regarding the corporate responsibility of their suppliers and clients. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 11 IV CLIENTS A strong bond of trust between MediaMonks and its Furthermore, our data and office have been secured following clients is integral to the continued existence of our the highest industry standards. All our work is processed on business. Therefore, we take our relationship with our in-house servers, managed by an ISO 27001 certified datacenter clients and their data security and privacy very seriously. manager and secured by a hardware firewall. We do not make In the first place, client data and information about use of cloud-services, and only our IT staff has access to these productions are treated as confidential at all costs. Every servers. Furthermore, the in-house servers are protected by an MediaMonks employee has signed a confidentiality alarm and electronically secure gates. All these measures ensure agreement, acknowledging that they cannot disclose that our data and that of our clients are optimally secured. data or information from MediaMonks nor our clients or other business partners. The same also goes for all of our Finally, in order to maintain fair relationships with our suppliers that deal with our core business, or are in direct customers, MediaMonks employees are prohibited from contact with our clients. purchasing goods or services from a client, unless the purchase is made at the same price and subject to the same conditions On a more regular basis, employees are informed by as for the public. It is also forbidden to accept money, gifts or their team leader about developments regarding clients’ goods from clients. data, privacy and integrity on specific assignments. Sometimes, a client even requires the individual MediaMonks project team members to sign special nondisclosure agreements. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 12 MEDIAMONKS ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE The results below indicate MediaMonks’ performance relative to the ‘average’ office and best practices in the Netherlands. These scores are based on a benchmark set by the Dutch government. FLOOR SPACE M2 PER FTE 0 10 20 30 40 ELECTRICITY kWh PER FTE 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 GAS M3 PER FTE 0 75 150 225 300 WATER M3 PER FTE 0 1.75 3.5 5.25 7 COMMUTING BY CAR KM PER FTE 0 1750 3500 5250 7000 TOTAL CO2 AVERAGE MEDIAMONKS TOP SCORE TONNES PER FTE 0 1.25 2.5 3.75 5 Source: http://milieubarometer.nl MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 13 INDUSTRY LEADERSHIP MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 14 I RESEARCH & INNOVATION PERFORMANCE 2013 Innovation 11,944 hours worked [#] MediaMonks is at the heart of a vibrant and rapidly developing industry. As this industry undergoes remarkable developments, collaboration has become a new form of competition. By means of business associations, the industry as a whole is organizing innovation by sharing experiences, knowhow and best practices. MediaMonks is a member of the IAA (International Advertising Association), PIBN (Platform Internet Bureaus Nederland), Global Compact, and finally SoDA (Society of Digital Agencies). SoDA serves as the voice of industry leaders, speaking on behalf of agencies on the topics of training and the future of the discipline. Not only is MediaMonks an associate of SoDA, but our co-founder and Chief Operating Officer, Wesley ter Haar, was recently made European Chair of the organization. A number of other key employees have also been approached to write opinion pieces for their industry publications. MediaMonks is also a member of the APA (Advertising Producers Association): a trade body for production companies, postproduction and VFX and editing companies. Based in the UK, their objective is to create the best possible business environment for its members to operate in, through offering advice and organizing events. INNOVATION INDUSTRY LEADERSHIP Our Research and Development department is based at We think it is important to promote digital our Amsterdam (NL) headquarters, making their work communication within the sector, giving others in the eligible for the Dutch fiscal stimulus of WBSO (Wet industry the opportunity to grow with us. Therefore, Bevordering Speuren Ontwikkelingswerk). This fiscal as part of our industry leadership, the MediaMonks benefit considerably reduces research & development development department shares relevant innovations labour costs. It includes R&D activities with new via presentations, events or congresses with the world products, production processes and software. In 2013, around us including clients, suppliers and other 11,944 hours were assigned to MediaMonks and partners. Also, some developments and software subsidised according to the WBSO, amounting to 3.73% updates, such as Flash development, are openly shared of the total amount of hours worked. This has enabled with anybody who is interested via an online platform. MediaMonks to increase its capacity for innovation and In the years to come, we will intensify our efforts to respond aptly with new software and creative products. educate the world around us, focusing even more on contributing to the development of young talents in the sector. AWARDS MediaMonks has received a wealth of awards due to the cutting edge nature of its work. In 2013, we were inducted into the prestigious FWA (Favourite Website Awards) Hall of Fame, a dedicated showcase for companies that have “paved the way for forward-thinking.” Last year also saw us win awards for innovation at Eurobest, Cannes Lions, the Lovies and the Webbys, amongst others. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 15 II COMMUNITY PERFORMANCE 2013 Donations Projects for Public good 10 projects per year [#] Unpaid / voluntary hours 866 hours per year [#] Knowing that our skills can serve projects and organizations for the public good, we seek actively to further contribute our expertise, network and resources to the social development of our community. With this, we do not only help the charities in the countries in which we operate, but also stimulate the uptake and use of digital communication for positive social change in general. IN KIND SUPPORT Interesting to note is that many of these charities focus on the development and rights of children all over the MediaMonks has a huge reach across a very diverse world, such as Plan Netherlands, Save the Children, The audience through their digital projects. Because these Serco Foundation and Kidsco. Furthermore, a number of projects – such as web design, social media, games and governmental campaigns on health and safety have also applications are such good tools for charity campaigns, been supported with our creative work. we are investing a substantial amount of time and resources into a number of worthwhile charitable projects. In 2013, we have donated in kind a total of 833 hours of our professional ability to ten foundations and projects for the public good across the Netherlands, the US and the UK. FEEDIE Feedie is an excellent example of a project that harnesses the potential of digital technologies for an extremely worthwhile cause. Feedie is a mobile photography application, which allows users to capture photos of food and share them with their social network. However, the difference between Feedie and other social photography applications (such as Instagram), is that any photograph shared of a meal at a participating restaurant results in a real meal being shared with impoverished schoolchildren in South Africa. The mobile application demonstrates an extremely effective way in which the digital industry can harness existing technologies and current consumer behavior to produce outcomes for the public good. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 16 APPENDIX TEN UNIVERSALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: PRINCIPLES UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PAGE Principle 1 Support ​and ​respect​ protection​ of ​internationally​ proclaimed​ human ​rights. 7, 10, 11  MediaMonks takes a clear position against violations of basic human rights, such as the right to privacy and integrity. Principle 2 Make​sure ​business ​is​not​complicit​in​human ​rights​abuses. 6, 7, 10 MediaMonks contribute to this by promoting fair labour conditions in all our offices, and have integrated this into our human resource policy and procurement policy. Principle 3 Uphold​freedom​of​association ​and r​ ight​to​collective​bargaining. 6 MediaMonks respects the freedom of association and employees’ rights to organize or join employee organizations. Principle 4 Support e​ limination​of​all f​ orms​of ​forced​and​compulsory​labor. 6, 10 Diversity is a prerequisite for success and all discrimination is prohibited. For example, in total 17 different nationalities are working at MediaMonks. Principle 5 Support e​ ffective ​abolition​of ​child ​labor 6, 10 We do not tolerate bullying or other physical or verbal acts of an abusive nature. Decisions that concern employment, promotions, development and compensation are based on the employee’s job knowledge and competence. Principle 6​ Eliminate​discrimination i​n e​ mployment ​and​occupation 10 Active responsible supply chain management helps us track possible human rights violations such as child, forced or compulsory labor. Principle 7 Support​a​precautionary a​ pproach​to ​environmental​challenges 8, 9, 10 MediaMonks works actively towards minimizing our environmental impact it is part of our daily practice. Focus areas within our environmental policy are energy, mobility and waste. Principle 8 Undertake​initiatives​to p ​ romote​greater​environmental​responsibility 9, 10 Active sustainable supply chain management helps us raise awareness on energy efficiency amongst our suppliers, and work with them on innovations. Principle 9 Encourage​the​development​and​diffusion​of​environmentally ​friendly 10, 14 technologies Knowledge is an important factor to our environment and energy management. We work together with our strategic partners on innovative energy measurements – for example, with our datacenter supplier. Principle 10 Work​against a​ ll f​ orms o ​ f ​corruption, ​including​extortion​and ​bribery 10, 11 MediaMonks has zero tolerance with regards to all forms of bribes and corruption. We neither offer nor accept gifts and hospitality that are improper. This is integrated into our contracts with our employees, who have also signed a non-disclosure agreement to prevent data breaches.  Our undertaking is to conduct ourselves in an ethically correct manner in everything we do, in compliance with applicable legislation and our company values, industry standards and international guidelines. MediaMonks Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 17 OUR CSR PROGRAM For questions, recommendations or ideas about the MediaMonks policy, please contact us: Gwen van Asperen gwen@mediamonks.com MEDIAMONKS HQ MEDIAMONKS UK MEDIAMONKS US MEDIAMONKS SG Schapenkamp 2 23 Heddon Street 154 Grand Street 55B Amoy Street 1211 PA Hilversum London, W1B 4BQ New York, NY 10013 069881 Singapore T +31 35 621 21 50 T +44 (0)20 7440 3580 T +1 347 767 6929 T +65 64 389 897 E info@mediamonks.com E london@mediamonks.com E newyork@mediamonks.com E singapore@mediamonks.com www.mediamonks.com
