5/30/2014 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact United Nations Global Compact Alcoa is a values-based company, and we uphold the highest standards of respect for the protection of human rights for all stakeholders. We are a participant in the United Nations Global C ompact. The compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption. Statement of Support Alcoa is fully committed to the United Nations Global C ompact. Integrity and respect for people are core Values for Alcoa, and we believe that financial success, social responsibility, and protection of the environment are totally aligned and absolutely essential for long-term sustainability. The Alcoa Guide to Business C onduct outlines our commitment to be open, honest, and trustworthy in all of our dealings with all stakeholders. Our policies and procedures, which apply to Alcoa-controlled operations globally, specifically incorporate our commitment to human rights, freedom of association, and excellence in environment, health, and safety. In addition, our policies clearly communicate that we will not tolerate forced, compulsory, or child labor; discrimination of any kind; or any forms of corruption and bribery in our global operations. Klaus Kleinfeld Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2013 Communication on Progress The following overview of our 2013 progress against the 10 principles is supplemented by references to information contained on our external website, www.alcoa.com. Principles 2013 Progress References Human Rights 1. Businesses should support Alcoa’s Human Rights Policy is Vision & Values and respect the protection of available in 20 languages on go internationally proclaimed our corporate intranet and human rights. internet sites. We respect all Human Rights Policy internationally proclaimed go human rights standards in our operations throughout the world. Treating each person with dignity and respect is one of our core Values. We value diversity and inclusion in all of our operations. In 2013, 10% of incentive Inclusion compensation for managers go and executives was based on progress in achieving diversity and inclusion objectives in http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 1/7 5/30/2014 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact each of our businesses and in every region throughout the world. We offer a 45-minute human Human Rights Policy rights course to managers and go professional employees that educates them about the human rights principles of the United Nations Global C ompact and emphasizes that all actions taken on behalf of the company must respect and support human rights. 2. Businesses should make We seek to understand fully all Human Rights Policy sure that they are not aspects of how business is go complicit in human rights conducted where we have our abuses. operations throughout the world. Our standard is to contractually require our contractors and suppliers to adhere to the same internationally proclaimed human rights protections and guarantees to which we hold ourselves. Our Global Supplier Supply C hain Sustainability Program go assesses the performance of key suppliers against varied criteria that include human rights components. We continued the global Stakeholder Engagement implementation of the Alcoa go C ommunity Framework, which requires each of our locations to engage with key stakeholders in and around our facilities. Human rights is a critical component of the framework. At the end of 2013, 97% of our manufacturing locations had implemented the framework and met with key stakeholders to review common initiatives, including human rights protections. Labor Standards 3. Businesses should uphold We fully support an Human Rights Policy the freedom of association employee’s right to choose go and the effective recognition whether or not to join a union. of the right to collective bargaining. http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 2/7 5/30/2014 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact We worked cooperatively and Labor Relations in good faith with many labor go unions that represent groups of our employees in various facilities throughout the world. 4. The elimination of all forms We forbid the use of any Human Rights Policy of forced and compulsory forced or compulsory labor go labor. within our own operations and the operations of our suppliers and contractors. We have policies and procedures in place to ensure that our recruitment practices are fully consistent with our human rights requirements in this regard. Our Global Supplier Supply C hain Sustainability Program go assesses the performance of key suppliers against varied criteria that include labor practices and human rights. 5. The effective abolition of We forbid the use of any child Human Rights Policy child labor. labor within our own go operations and the operations of our suppliers and contractors. We have policies and procedures in place to ensure that our recruitment practices are fully consistent with our human rights requirements in this regard. Our Global Supplier Supply C hain Sustainability Program go assesses the performance of key suppliers against varied criteria that include labor practices and human rights. 6. The elimination of Alcoa’s recruitment processes Human Rights Policy discrimination in respect of and practices ensure the go employment and occupation. protection and respect for all people and that no individual Equal Employment Opportunity is discriminated against on the Statement basis of race, color, religion, go national origin, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, veteran status, genetic information, sex, or age (within statutory limits). Our company Values continue Vision & Values to include “respect”—we treat go all people with dignity and provide a diverse, inclusive work environment. http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 3/7 5/30/2014 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact In 2013, 10% of our incentive Inclusion compensation for managers go and executives was based on meeting targets to improve the diversity of our workforce with respect to representation of women and protected class employees in our global operations. We met our 2013 goal to have women comprise 19% of our global leadership (achieved 20.8%) and were slightly under our goal of 16% of U.S. minorities holding leadership positions (achieved 15.6%). We earned the prestigious Awards C atalyst Award in 2013 in go recognition of our progress on recruiting, developing, and advancing women in the workplace. The Human Rights C ampaign again named Alcoa an LGBT Best Place to Work in 2013. In early 2014, we received the Human Rights C ampaign’s C orporate Equality Award. Environment 7. Businesses should support We support the precautionary a precautionary approach to approach to environmental environmental challenges. challenges. We have aggressive 2020 and Strategic Sustainability 2030 goals to drive our Targets environmental performance go against a 2005 baseline. We achieved a 25.5% C limate Protection reduction in carbon dioxide go intensity (carbon dioxide equivalents per ton of production) against a 2005 baseline in our Global Primary Products business group. We reduced our freshwaterWater use intensity (consumption per go unit of production) by 22% versus 2005 levels. We reduced our landfilled Emissions & Waste waste by 24% versus 2005 go http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 4/7 5/30/2014 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact levels. We met our 2020 goal of a 15% reduction in bauxite residue land requirements per unit of alumina produced— seven years ahead of schedule. 8. Undertake initiatives to We have aggressive 2020 and Strategic Sustainability promote greater 2030 goals to drive our Targets environmental responsibility. environmental performance go against a 2005 baseline. We use Sustainability Sustainability Strategy Scorecards to measure each go business’ progress against key near-term sustainability metrics. We included an annual carbon Energy dioxide reduction target as a go component of our 2013 incentive compensation program. Alcoa Foundation invests Alcoa Foundation around one third of its total go annual funding to environmentally focused programs around the world. Among our employees, 62% Month of Service participated in the 2013 Month go of Service employee outreach campaign. Many of the activities were focused on the environment. The Green Works program Green Works supports employee efforts to go address critical environmental issues. Alcoa and Alcoa Foundation Recycling invested more than US$6.3 go million between 2007 and 2013 to develop communitybased recycling programs. In June 2013, we announced a closed-loop recycling program with Boeing to significantly increase the recycling of internal aluminum aerospace alloys used during the production of Boeing airplanes. http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 5/7 5/30/2014 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact In 2013, the advanced recycling system at our Barberton, Ohio, USA, wheels plant was operating at full capacity. The first of its kind in North America, the Barberton process uses innovative technology to produce billet for new wheels from re-melted scrap aluminum wheels. Our Global Supplier Supply C hain Sustainability Program go assesses the performance of key suppliers against varied criteria that include environmental performance. C ase Studies go 9. Encourage the development We continued Bauxite Residue and diffusion of commercialization of go environmentally friendly ReadyGrit™, which is derived technologies. from bauxite residue. The Alcoa-designed Natural NEWT C ase Study Engineered Wastewater go Treatment (NEWT™) system at the Ma’aden Alcoa joint venture project in Saudi Arabia will enable the reduction of freshwater demand by nearly 25% and achieve zero wastewater discharge. The mass production of Automotive aluminum-intensive vehicles— go which are lighter, use less fuel, and emit fewer emissions compared to steel-intensive vehicles—is significantly enabled by Alcoa 951 bonding technology, which we introduced commercially in 2013. Our new Ultra ONE™ heavy C ommercial Transportation duty truck wheel is 47% go lighter than steel wheels of the same size. C ase Studies go Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work Our global Ethics and Ethics & C ompliance Line against corruption in all its C ompliance Line and web go forms, including extortion and reporting capability provide http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 6/7 5/30/2014 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact bribery. employees and external stakeholders with the opportunity to report confidentially any potential violations of law or company policy. This is in addition to employees and stakeholders being able to report by sending letters to management, contacting the C ompliance organization by fax or email, and submitting issues through alcoa.com. Our Anti-C orruption Policy Anti-C orruption Policy prohibits facilitation, or go “grease” payments, and commercial bribery in addition to bribery of public officials. The Alcoa Guide to Business Ethics & C ompliance Program C onduct and Alcoa Supplier go Standards include information on anti-corruption. At the time of hire, all employees are expected to complete “Do What’s Right!” training, which contains anticorruption elements. Alcoa employees who meet certain criteria must participate in online ethics and compliance training, available in 16 languages. Employees who do not participate in the online training program complete annual shop floor training. In October 2013, we launched our Integrity C hampion Network to better integrate our Ethics and C ompliance Program into business operations. Archived Reports 2012 C om m unication on Progre ss 2011 C om m unication on Progre ss 2010 C om m unication on Progre ss 2009 C om m unication on Progre ss http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 7/7
