TruTeq Wireless United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress April 2014 Statement by the Chief Executive Officer TruTeq Wireless has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2009. We joined the Compact because we believe that organizations have a responsibility to conduct business in an ethical way. The ten principles of the Global Compact offered a way of articulating this belief. It also offered a way to measure our progress and publish our commitment. We are pleased to report on progress made in following the ten principles. TruTeq remains fully committed to the United Nations Global Compact and look forward to the journey of continuous improvement. Tjaart van der Walt Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals During the reporting period, TruTeq performed a risk assessment to determine risk that we may be committing any human rights violations or be indirectly supporting such practices. In addition, we formulated and implemented a range of policies and procedures to ensure employee and stakeholder safety. Our goal is to continuously assess not only all our suppliers and customers but also our internal policies for commitment to human rights and to apply policies and procedures that will benefit the stakeholders. Implementation Over the past year, TruTeq have implemented a number of measures to assist in the protection of human rights. This includes: 1) Accreditation of a safety, health and environmental management system according to OSAS 18001:2007. 2) Appointment of Health and Safety Representative. 3) Additional policies formulated or improved and implemented: a. TruTeq Policy on assistance of employees with Tuberculosis or HIVAIDS. b. TruTeq Policy on non-discrimination. c. TruTeq Policy on Offences and Possible Penalties. 4) Displaying of the Basic Conditions of Employment. 5) Displaying of the Employment Equity Act. 6) Formulation and first use of a tool for continuous supplier assessment. Measurement of Outcomes 1) Certification to OSAS 18001:2007 was achieved. 2) Risk assessment was completed for suppliers. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collect ive bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals Rights to freedom of association, freedom from discrimination, collective bargaining and the elimination of forced and child labour are captured in the South African Constitution. Nevertheless, these rights deserve further protection. TruTeq supports these four principles and publishes a web based company statement on human rights that includes these basic human rights. Our goal is to continuously assess not only all our suppliers and customers but also our internal policies for commitment to labour principles and to apply policies and procedures that will benefit the stakeholders. Implementation Over the past year, TruTeq have implemented a number of measures to assist in the protection of labour principles. This includes: 1) A formal labour policy statement freely available from our website. 2) A formal company policy on anti-discrimination, intimidation and sexual harassment. 3) The implementation of a company policy on anti-discrimination. This includes penalties for offences such as discrimination, intimidation and sexual harassment that were included into employment agreements during the previous period. 4) The implementation of a web based hotline to report inappropriate behavior or practices. Measurement of Outcomes The company policy has cleared up issues that may previously have been unclear or poorly understood and internal offences have been successfully dealt with under the new company policy. The implementation of the company policies and labour statements has been reviewed by senior management and found to be very successful. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals Even though TruTeq’s products and services are intellectual in nature, we still have an impact on our environment and we strive to minimize this impact. We aim to reduce our energy use by 10% over the next 12 months. Implementation Over the past year, TruTeq have implemented a number of measures to assist with the protection of the environment. This includes: 1) Accreditation to ISO 14001:2004. 2) A formal environmental policy statement freely available from our website. 3) An energy audit to assess the scope of possible reductions in energy use. 4) A continuous tool and process to monitor energy use. Measurement of Outcomes The ISO 14001:2004 audit was successful and we achieved certification. After an energy audit that included a period monitoring, some areas where significant energy savings may be achieved have been identified. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals The Anti-Corruption principle is what initially attracted TruTeq to the United Nations Global Compact. Corruption is an incredibly difficult problem to deal with in practice. It is an invisible issue that impedes prosperity in the countries that need growth the most. As previously, we will make our position clear and stand against corruption. Implementation Over the past year, TruTeq have implemented a number of measures to assist with the protection of the environment. This includes: 1) The following phrase is contained in our quotations and responses to tenders: We are part of the United Nations Global Compact that subscribes to ten principles including human rights and anti-corruption. As a company policy, we always report corruption – even if it means that we will lose a deal. 2) A formal bribery and corruption statement freely available from our website. Measurement of Outcomes Since implementing the measures, we have not received any solicitations for bribes.
