Annual Report 2013 2013 in b Table of Contents Meda in brief 1 2013 in brief 2 CEO’s report 4 Market 12 Strategy and business model 16 Sales and marketing 19 Product portfolio 28 Product development 30 Manufacturing and supply 32 Employees 34 Investment story 36 Sustainability report Management report 56 Operations 60 Risk factors 63 Corporate governance report Financial reports 68 Accounts group 74 Notes group 97 Accounts parent company 102 Notes parent company 108 Statement of the board 109 Audit report 110 Financial review 112 The Meda share 114 Board members 116 Executives information 118 Definitions 119 Glossary 120 Shareholder information 13,114 3,734 3,062 1,914 Group sales reached EBITDA amounted to At the end of 2013, Meda … about 1,914 of whom SEK 13,114 million SEK 3,734 million had 3,062 employees … in sales and marketing 120 Our pharmaceuticals 60 Our sales organizations are sold in more than are present in close to 120 countries 60 countries Meda in brief Meda is a leading international specialty pharma company with a broad product portfolio and its own sales organization in close to 60 countries. Including the markets where distributors handle sales activities, Meda’s products are sold in more than 120 countries. This means that Meda reaches 80% of the global pharmaceutical market. Measured in sales, Meda is the 48th largest pharmaceutical company and the 15th largest specialty pharma company in the world. At the end of 2013 Meda had 3,062 (2,900) employees, 1,914 of which worked in sales and marketing. Over the past few years Meda’s presence in growth markets has grown. The marketing organizations in these markets employ about 680 people. Meda AB is the Group’s parent company and the head office is in Solna, Sweden. The concept of specialty pharma There are various definitions of specialty pharma. In Meda’s case it means the following: The company has a specialized role in the value chain: • A focus on sales and marketing • No risky in-house drug research in early clinical phases The company has specialist expertise in defined therapy areas: • Respiratory and Dermatology • Over-the-counter drugs (OTC) The company offers niche products that meet ­particular ­medical needs: • Comprehensive product portfolio in selected therapy areas • Clear synergies in sales and marketing Important events during 2013 Geographical Increased Launch of new Strong, positive Acquisitions of expansion for ­therapeutic products contribution Acton Pharmathe OTC focus from Emerging ceuticals portfolio Markets with Aerospan and EB24 Product launches in Respiratory and Dymista (US and Good return Aerospan is the only new markets Dermatology Europe) and on marketing approved inhaler Zyclara (Europe) investments with a built-in spacer The year in figures • Group sales amounted to SEK 13,114 million (12,991) • Organic growth of 4% • Free cash flow of SEK 2,688 million (2,672) • Increased focus on the Respiratory therapy area and the OTC portfolio • Operating profit of SEK 1,548 million (1,801) • Profit after tax amounted to SEK 805 million (1,175) • Earnings per share was SEK 2.67 (3.98) • EBITDA amounted to SEK 3,734 million (3,945), equivalent to a margin of 28.5% (30.4) • Proposed dividend per share SEK 2.50 (2.25) Net Sales EbitDA free cash flow MSEK MSEK MSEK 15,000 5,000 3,000 12,000 4,000 2,400 9,000 3,000 1,800 6,000 2,000 1,200 3,000 1,000 600 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Meda Annual Report 2013 1 CEO’s Report Entering the next phase First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank Anders Lönner for his fantastic work at Meda. It has been a great inspiration working with him and I look forward to continuing to build and position Meda as one of the leading specialty pharma companies. Progress on many fronts 2013 was an important year for Meda. It was a year of focused investments and revived organic growth. While we continued to invest in our key therapy areas Respiratory and Dermatology, growth markets and the over-the-­ counter (OTC) portfolio, we saw organic growth increase. Supported by Emerging Markets, our product Dymista and our international strategy for the OTC portfolio, organic growth acce­ lerated in the second half of the year to reach 4% for the full year. This is significantly ­stronger than in previous periods. Growth driven by product launches… In Respiratory, Dymista was well received in the US and it was ranked the 2nd largest brand in the respiratory area by the end of the year. In Dermatology, Elidel’s strong growth was ­supported by solid demand in several markets. Furthermore, the OTC portfolio benefited from the roll-out of selective products into new ­markets. …and Emerging Markets In terms of geography, Emerging Markets performed very well this year. Net sales increased by 6% with China and Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) as the strongest growth markets. The positive development reflects both our ambitious market investments and our competitive product portfolio. CEO’s Report “Our organic growth accelerated in the second half of the year to reach 4% for the full year. This is significantly stronger than in previous periods.” Synergies coming in Respiratory (CSR) risks relating to suppliers and partners A strong market position In October Meda completed the acquisition of are increasingly important to manage, particuTo conclude, we have the strategy and core Aerospan – a patented product for the treatlarly when entering new markets and facing strengths required to expand our position in our ment of asthma. The acquisition secures unique new local regulations and business ­practices. industry. Our position is well defined, our go-tospacer technology and supports Meda’s It is also important to manage such risks when market capabilities are strong and we have both ­strategy of an increased focus on the respiraconsidering acquisitions of companies and scale and efficiency to leverage our ­product tory area. Aerospan – an important compleproducts. portfolio globally. With greater focus to faster ment to Dymista – is expected to generate growing areas, both in terms of products and ­marketing synergies with Dymista when it is Our talent base is the foundation geographies, Meda’s organic growth outlook is launched in 2014. for future success positive. By adding targeted acquisitions in our Meda’s future success is entirely dependent on key therapy areas, higher growth rates are A trustworthy Meda the strength of our talent base. We have always achievable. Actions to improve our operational Meda has a clear commitment to creating value put a high priority on attracting people who efficiency, especially in the area of supply for the various stakeholders. We express our wish to make a difference. Today we have chain, are also expected to support our profitcontinued support for the UN Global Compact excellent breadth, depth and quality of both ability and cash flow going forward. and renew our ongoing commitment to the employees and management. The Meda Way ­initiative and its principles. For us, it is equally provides leadership inspiration and summaGreat confidence in our future important to be a responsible member of the rizes the key drivers of our corporate culture. Based on the support from all our competent global pharmaceutical market, as it is to be a Fast decision making, continuous learning and individuals, and our newly formed team of reliable and trustworthy partner to the local client focus are imprinted on our DNA. At year­well-­experienced and progressive senior execcommunity. During the year Meda has introend, Meda had a total of 3,226 employees and utives, I have great confidence in our future. duced a new system for supplier follow-up, and contractors. To maintain speed and flexibility Together we will grow Meda considerably in we have further developed our anti-corruption even as we grow, Meda increasingly provides the coming years. In light of our many achieveprocesses. corporate management training and specialist ments, I would like to thank all employees of training. Meda for your hard work, contribution and A sustainable Meda ­dedication in 2013. There has been significant progress in healthCash and cost discipline care, but the needs are far from being met. It is also important to highlight our rigorous Population growth, greater life expectancy and cash and cost discipline. Our cash flow is strong changes in lifestyles are increasing the need for and we protect it by continuously implementing care in different ways. Meda’s most important efficiency measures throughout our business, mission is to provide effective and safe pharmawith the objective of maintaining our financial ceuticals for patients and customers. Patient flexibility. To us, financial flexibility is a strategic Dr. Jörg-Thomas Dierks safety is therefore our highest priority. High asset that enables us to finance both our own Chief Executive Officer quality in the manufacturing process is essengrowth investments and shareholder value initial to ensure patient safety, and we strive to tiatives over time. In 2013, our free cash flow continuously improve our supply chain amounted to SEK 2,688 million, representing ­management practices and expand our market 20.5% of sales. knowledge. Corporate social responsibility Meda Annual Report 2013 3 Market Healthy growth in the global pharmaceutical market In 2012 drugs were sold for a total of USD 965 billion globally, according to IMS Consulting Group. In 2014, for the first time, the global pharmaceutical market is expected to be worth more than USD 1,000 billion and to reach net sales of USD 1,200 billion in 2017, an increase of around 24% from 2012. Faster growth for OTC Branded drugs still growing generics in 2017. A key driver of 24% The market for over-the-counter in developed countries the increased use of generics is (OTC) drugs is growing faster than In 2012 the percentage of generthe expiring patents for numerous the prescription drugs market. In ics (copies of original, more expenblockbusters over the next few 2012 the global OTC drugs market sive drugs whose patents have years. However, even though was worth around USD 115 billion, expired) was 27% of the total sales generics have grown significantly, equivalent to 12% of the total of drugs globally. The percentage branded drugs are expected to The global pharma­ ­pharmaceutical market. The peris expected to increase to 36% in continue to grow, driven by specentage of OTC sales is signifi2017. The percentage of generics cialty pharma. In developed marceutical market is cantly higher in growth markets is highest in growth markets kets branded drugs still account expected to grow around than in Europe, North America and where it is estimated that around for more than 67% of spending. 24% by 2017. Japan. 63% of drugs prescribed will be By Emerging Markets we mean our geographical business segment. By growth markets we mean markets where growth is above the global average for the pharmaceutical industry. global pharmaceutical market, 2012 vs 2017 1) Developed markets are defined Value in USD bn 1,185 1,200 as Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Spain, 956 1,000 UK and US. 2) Pharmerging countries are 800 defined as Algeria, Argentina, 665 622 Brazil, China, Colombia, Egypt, 600 India, Indonesia, Mexico, Nigeria, 385 Pakistan, Poland, ­Romania, 400 ­Russia, Saudi Arabia, South 224 Africa, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, 200 140 120 ­Vene­zuela and Vietnam. 0 Developed1) Pharmerging2) Rest of World Global Source: IMS Consulting Group 2012 actual 2017 estimate 4 Meda Annual Report 2013 Market Growth drivers Demand on the global drug market is mainly driven by three factors: demographic trends, economic development and development of new drugs and therapies. Demographic trends larly in Europe as a result of budpharmaceutical spending in some important countries The earth’s population is increasgetary problems, and an increase ing. An aging population, primarily in the use of generics are slowing Share of the Equivalent to, Expected growth in Europe, North America and the growth in these markets. total market USD billion per year 2012, % 2012 2013–2017, % Japan is driving demand for drugs Growth is, however, expected for age-related and chronic to increase as economies recover. North America 34 330 1–4 ­diseases. The combination of Greater interest among people Western Europe 24 222 0–3 increased drug use per patient in preventive care and a better Growth markets 20 193 10–13 and a growing number of new quality of life is driving demand Source: IMS Consulting Group patients is driving the upswing in for OTC drugs. The change of pharma­ceutical market volumes in ­eating habits is as well impacting Development in the pharmaceutical market looks different depending the number of prescriptions and the demand for drugs such as on the region. While the mature markets in Europe and the US are the dosages dispensed. ­diabetes etc. ­experiencing modest growth, the sales growth in growth markets is taking off with ­double digits. Economic development Development of new drugs As people’s incomes in growth More and more diagnoses, espemarkets rise and healthcare budcially in lifestyle diseases, can be growth. New, advanced drugs can being prescribed and growth is gets increase, the citizens of those treated with drugs. Specialty phartreat increasingly severe diseases therefore expected to be lower countries have more and more maceuticals targeting specific disin very small patient groups and than in the past five years in the access to modern healthcare and eases are expected to become these drugs will grow in imporpharmaceutical market in develmodern drugs. Strong cost control more important going forward, tance in the developed world. At oped ­countries. in many mature markets, particuwhich will support overall market the same time, more generics are global pharmaceutical market, growth rates 2008–2017 Growth% 15.0 15 13.0 12 10.0 9 6.0 6 5.4 4.7 5.0 4.0 2.9 3.0 3 2.0 1.0 0 Developed1) Pharmerging2) Rest of World Global 2008–2012 actual 2013–2017 low estimate 2013–2017 high estimate Source: IMS Consulting Group Meda Annual Report 2013 5 Market Transformation in the pharmaceutical industry The global pharmaceutical industry is changing at a rapid pace and companies are facing major challenges because of this. This trend also brings important opportunities for specialized companies such as Meda to compete in well-defined areas. More expensive research research portfolios containing advanced pro­ The value chain is breaking up but not more drugs ducts aimed at specific therapeutic areas. Paradoxically, this market consolidation is causThe major pharmaceutical companies – Big ­Existing patented products that do not fit into ing the value chain to break up. As competition Pharma – are increasingly seeing the patents the new strategy can, for example, be sold to increases, it is becoming more and more diffifor their blockbuster drugs expire. The cost of specialty pharma companies. cult to retain the highest level of expertise in all research for new drugs has increased considersegments, and companies are being forced to ably. At the same time there are fewer blockConcentration and consolidation specialize in one or a few links in the chain. busters in the pipeline. The increasing cost of research & developThere are no signs that this trend is diminishing. According to Food and Drug Administration ment, in combination with fewer new block­ Conversely, the trend toward drugs for increas(FDA), the global R&D spending by the world’s busters, is driving consolidation in the pharmaingly specific diagnoses with smaller patient top 500 pharmaceutical companies rose from ceutical industry. The industry is being restrucgroups – and by extension, solutions rather USD 59 billion in 2001 to USD 132 billion in tured in the search for economies of scale. than products – is also driving companies to 2011. At the same time, the number of FDA New Many companies have also launched extensive further specialize. Molecular Entity (NME) approvals decreased rationalization programs to reduce costs in from 29 per year to 26 per year. Instead, these research, production and sales & marketing. companies are investing in more diversified R&D activity has more than doubled in the past decade, but new molecule entity approvals have dropped 1999–2001 USD billion 2009–2011 86 FDA NME 140 131.7 77 FDA NME approvals approvals (29 per year) 100 (26 per year) 59.0 50 Global R&D spending by world’s top 500 pharma companies (USD billion) 20 2001 2011 500 Number of companies performing pharma R&D 1,500 1,167 1,500 2,000 2,500 2,455 Source: ATKearney N (companies) 6 Meda Annual Report 2013 market Elidel is currently available for sale in 90 markets globally through Meda’s own marketing organization and via partners. Meda Annual Report 2013 7 market Q&A with our Executive Vice Presidents • Can you provide a brief overview of the competitive landscape in your region? Q • • • What are your growth expectations in the years ahead? Which are the strongest therapy areas? What are Meda’s key priorities for 2014 in your region? A Maria Carell: Executive Vice President, North America/Australia The number of patients in the US growing. According to the Centers gies of our product offering. is rising due to an aging populafor Disease Control and PrevenThis includes continued efforts tion, increased life span and the tion (CDC) asthma rates have to increase Dymista’s market Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) increased and are still increasing, share and to leverage existing which will provide coverage for up and rhinitis prescriptions are growrelationships with allergy and to 30 million previously uninsured ing steadily. The US market for asthma experts to effectively Americans. At the same time, risOTC drugs is on the rise as well, launch ­Aerospan, ­taking advaning government costs and the ecodriven to some extent by governtage of the increased rhinitis nomic downturn since 2008 have ment measures. ­market coverage. increased price pressure. Meda’s main priority in the US is Our key segments in the US – to optimize the portfolio and grow rhinitis and asthma and our OTC the respiratory franchise by capiproduct portfolio – have been talizing on the significant synersales per region MSEK USA MSEK WESTERN EUROPE MSEK EMERGING MARKETS 3,000 10,000 2,000 2,500 8,000 1,500 2,000 6,000 1,500 1,000 4,000 1,000 500 2,000 500 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 8 Meda Annual Report 2013 market Ton van’t Hullenaar: Executive Vice President, Europe/Latin America A The competitive landscape differs ucts. We are facing price pressure We expect the continued rollout of from country to country in the for some of our prescription drugs Dymista in Respiratory and Zyclara countries I am responsible for. In and our challenge is to offset that and Acnatac in Derma­tology to several countries, Meda is the by growing sales for newly increase growth. There is also market leader in selected therapy launched and existing products. good momentum in the OTC portareas and the main objective is to Growth in the OTC segment is folio. These launches continue to continue to grow and ensure that helped by improved brand awarebe key priorities for 2014. patients have access to our prodness for in particular CB12. Esfandiar Faghfouri: Executive Vice President, Europe/Asia/Africa A In the established markets of the growth in the EU countries and we Meda’s key priorities for 2014 in EU, governments and health expect the recently launched Emerging Markets are to strengauthorities have been focusing on products in particular CB12 to then the respiratory and derma­ reducing healthcare costs in ­benefit from that momentum. tology franchises alongside the recent years. However, we expect As regards Emerging Markets, local products and to ensure sales these markets to stabilize and we are expecting ­continued good growth by adding new products to show moderate growth over the growth because a majority of the current offering. In Europe our next few years. Meda is in a strong countries are launching in the priority is to continue with the position, especially in the growing future public health insurance syslaunch and promotion of Dymista, key therapy areas of Dermatology tems as economic growth continZyclara, Elidel and Acnatac. and Respiratory. The OTC sector ues and public demand for healthcontinues to demonstrate good care services grows. sales by country US, 18% Spain, 4% Sweden, 10% Belgium, 3% Germany, 10% Netherlands, 3% France, 10% Other, 30% Italy, 6% UK, 6% Meda Annual Report 2013 9 Meda would be nothing without its employees. Ever since the start, Meda has focused on ­creating a culture of entrepreneurship and drive process. The goal has always been to attract people with a strong desire to bring about change. 10 Meda Annual Report 2013 Meda Annual Report 2013 11 Strategy and Business Model Specialized position in the value chain Clear business Focus on sales concept and marketing Meda’s business concept is to offer costMeda holds a clearly-defined position in effective and medically well-motivated the value chain. The company’s main products. The company’s goal is to be­­ focus is sales and marketing. One of come a world-leading specialty pharma Meda’s strongest assets is the ability to company. The means for achieving this quickly and effectively integrate acquired involves organic growth through marketoperations and commercialize new pro­ adapted product development and an ducts. Key activities are primarily sales active acquisition strategy. and marketing, development of existing products, manufacturing and supply. Based on a broad product portfolio and a strong cash flow, Meda’s business concept is to identify, secure access to, integrate and commercialize pharmaceutical products in the selected therapy areas (primarily Respiratory and Dermatology) and the OTC market segment. Meda’s position in the pharmaceutical value-chain New products secured through acquisitions Meda’s position in the pharmaceutical value chain Drug discovery Drug development Manufacturing & supply Sales & marketing Specialist advisory Market adapted product development in late clinical phase, typically phase III Meda holds a specialized position in the value chain. The company does not conduct any high-risk, in-house, early-stage p ­ harmaceutical development. Instead, Meda is focused on market adapted product development in key therapeutic areas and sales and marketing. Read more on page 28. 12 Meda Annual Report 2013 Strategy and Business Model Products are Two-legged Greater focus acquired and further growth strategy on organic growth developed Meda does not conduct any in-house, Meda’s growth strategy involves a combiSince 2012, in addition to the OTC portfoearly-stage pharmaceutical development. nation of organic growth and acquisitions. lio and growth markets, Meda has focused New products mainly come to the comAcquisitions have historically been the on a number of selected therapy areas, pany through the acquisition of compamain driver of the company’s expansion particularly Respiratory and Dermatology. nies, product rights and through partnerand have been supported on an ongoing This has involved a greater focus on ships with other pharmaceutical compabasis by the company’s investments in organic growth. In 2012 and 2013 new nies. Meda does, however, improve the organic product and market development. products were successfully launched in properties of existing drugs in a variety of The combined results are a significant these therapeutic focus areas, for examways: product portfolio in Respiratory, Derma­ ple Dymista and Zyclara. • T hrough more efficient and new tology and OTC. formulations (Astepro and Zyclara) Several products of the Nordic OTC port• T hrough new combinations of products From 2000 to 2013 Meda made more than folio were launched in new markets in (Dymista and Acnatac) 30 major acquisitions of companies and 2013. Meda also increased its market product rights. Several strategic acquisiinvestments in a number of growth market • T hrough the internationalization tions were completed in the period 2005 countries during the year. The combinaof drugs (Elidel and Dymista) to 2008, including German pharmaceutition of new launches and increased Meda’s development work can best be cal group Viatris, 3M’s European pharmainvestments in countries with higher described as market-adjusted product ceuticals division, US specialty pharma growth improved Meda’s organic growth development in late clinical phases with company MedPointe and Valeant’s Euroin 2013. This is a pattern that is expected the objective of, for example, prolonging pean pharmaceutical division. In 2010 to continue in the years ahead. the life cycle of a drug or securing Meda acquired US specialty pharma comapproval for a drug in new markets so that pany Alaven and in 2011 Nordic OTC comit can be re-launched in those markets. pany Antula was incorporated. Meda Annual Report 2013 13 Strategy and Business Model In 2013 the product portfolio was strengthened in Respiratory through the acquisition of US drug company Acton Pharmaceuticals Inc. This acquisition gave Meda the rights to Aerospan, a patented product with a built-in spacer to treat asthma. 14 Meda Annual Report 2013 Strategy and Business Model Important acquisitions key acquisitions and agreements 2005–2013, sales per year 2013 Acton (Aerospan), Zpearpoint (EB24) 13,114 2012 Jazz (Women's health products), Midnite (Product acquisition) 12,991 2011 McNeil AB/Cilag GmbH International (Treo), Antula (OTC), Novartis (Elidel) 12,856 2010 Graceway (Zyclara), Alaven (US OTC) 11,571 2009 Cipla (Dymista expanded rights) 13,178 2008 Valeant (European business, Expansion eastern Europe including Russia) 10,675 2007 MedPointe (US), Recip 8,145 2006 3M (European business) 5,256 2005 Viatris (Pan-European) 2,870 2004 793 2005 2006–2007 2008–2009 2011 2013 The acquisition of Viatris The acquisition of the 3M Meda acquired the EuroMeda acquired the global Meda acquired Acton was of great importance European business pean business of Valeant product rights to Elidel including the patented for several reasons. It strengthened Meda’s thereby establishing Meda from Novartis. Elidel is one product Aerospan thereby transformed Meda into a European product portfoin Eastern Europe. Meda of Meda’s more important expanding Meda’s product Pan European Specialty lio. The MedPointe acquisiexpanded it’s rights to products within Dermatolportfolio in the focus area Pharma Company, tion established Meda in Dymista to other markets ogy. Recently a new study Respiratory. Through the strengthened the product the US and gave access to including Europe and other has been presented which Zpearpoint acquisition portfolio and had signifian allergy franchise with major markets. has given the use of Elidel Meda received an imporcant synergies. the market leading prodfurther support in the area tant addition to the OTC ucts Asteline and Astepro of atopic dermatitis. portfolio and a compleas well as the developAntula, a Nordic comment to CB12. ment project Dymista pany focusing on the OTC which was at that time in area was acquired in the clinical development. beginning of 2011. CB12 was one of the successful brands in the Antula product portfolio. The product portfolio also included other well-known brands such as Zyx and Naloc. Meda Annual Report 2013 15 sales and marketing Growing presence in growth markets 60 Geographic Expansion strategy distribution Expansion in Emerging Markets A constant focus on sales and marketing Our sales organizations Meda’s sales and marketing organization is disMeda’s expansion has taken place both organiare present in close to tinguished by its efficient structure where the cally and through acquisitions. Sales and maremployees in general have a high level of eduketing are crucial processes in the integration 60 countries. of an acquisition because success depends on cation. The company has 1,914 employees working in sales and marketing in close to 60 the acquired company and its products being countries. quickly integrated and commercialized accordFor historical reasons, Meda’s market pre­ ing to the Meda model. sence is the strongest in Europe and the US, The Meda model reflects several of the comwhere the company has 843 and 345 employpany’s fundamental values: ees respectively in sales and marketing. How• Non-bureaucratic, efficient and businessever, Meda’s presence in Emerging Markets is driven growing. In recent years Meda has invested sig• Highly efficient marketing and personal sales nificant resources into the sales and marketing • Always take full advantage of the top talent organization in these markets. At the end of and expertise in the acquired operations. 2013 Emerging Markets accounted for 15% of Meda’s total sales, compared to 14% in 2012. SALES trend SALES by geography MSEK MSEK 15,000 15,000 12,000 12,000 9,000 9,000 6,000 6,000 3,000 3,000 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2013 Western Europe Emerging Markets US Other sales 16 Meda Annual Report 2013 sales and marketing Marketing Differentiated approach to markets OTC drugs are primarily marketed to the public marketing toolbox. The internet is a growing Quality and knowledge are the cornerstones through a number of different media channels. channel for information and promotion of OTC of Meda’s marketing operations. Meda also Here the emphasis is on developing and posiproducts to consumers, making it an integral has a strong incentive for adapting to local tioning the brands in a retail environment. part of our promotional campaigns, which allows ­conditions, which differentiates the approach It is becoming increasingly common for indiMeda to build stronger international brands. between different markets and products, be­­ vidual patients to search for more information Internet has also increased in importance cause local legislation and the type of approval on both prescription and OTC drugs. This raises in sales and marketing of prescription drugs. that a product has must be taken into account. their level of knowledge and their participation Through a proprietary system called Meda There is a big difference between marketing in treatment decisions. The internet is a very Connects, physicians, pharmacists and other prescription drugs and OTC drugs. important channel for information. Patient orgaprofessionals are able to collect background Prescription drugs are marketed mainly nizations are another channel where relevant information on Meda’s prescription drugs. via personal sales combined with training information can be communicated. Meda Connects is a community platform ­programs and seminars, often in collaboration where professionals can learn more about and with clinics. For prescription drugs in the early Digital marketing exchange experiences on Meda’s products. launch phase, relations with experts and their In recent years Meda has developed expertise in Turning the digital channel into a strong comendorsements are the most important success digital marketing. In the retailing of OTC products, plementary marketing tool is an important part factors. digital knowledge is an essential element in the of eda’s strategy. International Trade Business Marketing centers Operations in around 70 countries Support function for international transactions In the countries where Meda has no sales organization Meda’s Marketing Centers are marketing functions within the company without of its own, the International Trade Business (ITB) unit is any geographical ties. The centers provide support to a group of products in a responsible for the products marketed and distributed specific therapy area and define the strategy for new launches and product develby Meda’s partners. ITB operates in around 70 countries opment. Close interaction with Meda’s other corporate departments – such as and generates significant sales and profits for Meda. Market Access, ­Clinical Research, Drug Regulatory Affairs – prior to launch is key. The ITB partner process is a systematic method to Meda’s Marketing Centers are responsible for medical marketing which involves introduce and market Meda’s products in new markets. establishing and maintaining relationships with worldwide key opinion leaders and A proven concept is used whereby Meda adapts existinternational organizations in the therapy areas. The Marketing Centers also drive ing products for local contexts. ITB also has the general life cycle management in close cooperation with other departments. task of creating the right conditions so that Meda can Other key tasks include providing advanced business support to the local sales take the next step and establish its own new sales orga­organizations by assisting with expertise, ideas and experience from both Meda’s nizations in these markets when the time is right. own therapy areas and the Group as a whole. This involves handling the flow of information on all of Meda’s products. Acquisitions are an important pillar for growth within Meda and the Marketing Centers provide in-depth knowledge on the market environment as well as competition profiles for acquisition targets. Meda Annual Report 2013 17 sales and marketing Interview with Hans-Jürgen Tritschler: Executive Vice President, Marketing RX What are the key issues on the agenda Detection and treatment of all lesions in sales and marketing? (both visible and invisible) is crucial in Meda’s target is to become one of the order to prevent AK from progressing to leading specialty pharma companies invasive cancer. in the world. With Dymista, Aerospan, Acnatac is expected to simplify the Elidel, Zyclara, Acnatac and the treatment of acne. The product has been in­licensed EpiPen, Meda has a strong shown to be safe and effective in a huge and competitive pro­duct portfolio in clinical development program involving Respiratory and Dermatology. more than 4,000 patients. Our efforts to change the landscape in Our key challenge is to make sure that the respiratory area have already been we take full advantage of the product internationally acknowledged. For examlaunches and their potential. ple, Dymista is considered the “drug of choice” for the treatment of allergic rhiniMeda puts more emphasis on organic tis by leading experts as well as the edigrowth in its strategy. What role does tor of the most prestigious allergy jourmarketing play for the strategy? nal. In addition, Meda recently achieved I see our marketing department driving a label extension for the adrena­line autoMeda forward in this respect. Efficient injector Epipen. sales and marketing are instrumental in We are preparing for the launch of exploring and exploiting our organic Aerospan in 2014. It is an important addigrowth opportunities. More specifically, our tion to the respiratory portfolio in the US work is based on three strategic pillars: with good marketing synergies with • Generating a competitive product Dymista. We now need to take full advanportfolio for Meda tage of these synergies. • Ensuring that the value of the products The launch of two other products will is recognized by healthcare providers further strengthen the product portfolio and patients in Dermatology. Zyclara is expected to • Building a sound marketing platform improve the prognosis of patients with for Meda in Respiratory and Derma­ actinic keratosis (AK), the most frequent tology to facilitate continued expanform of skin cancer. It is the only product sion through in-licensing, acquisition that can detect and treat subclinical and and in-house development. clinical AK lesions on the entire sun exposed field of the skin, e.g. the face. marketing organization, employees per country US, 18% Italy, 4% Germany, 11% Spain, 4% France, 8% UK, 3% Turkey, 8% Sweden, 3% Russia, 7% Mexico, 3% China, 4% Other, 27% 18 Meda Annual Report 2013 Product portfolio Focus on selected therapy areas Meda offers its customers solutions in the form of a broad portfolio of products and knowledge in selected therapy areas. Prescription drugs account for around 73% of sales, while OTC drugs account for 24%. The ten largest products account for around one third of the Group’s net sales. Prescription drugs – OTC Products Meda’s two strong therapy areas Meda focuses primarily on two therapy areas – In recent years, Meda has built an extensive operation in OTC drugs. At the end of 2013, 10 biggest Respiratory and Dermatology. The company’s the OTC segment comprised about 24% of products products are meeting a growing need among patients and healthcare providers. This need is total sales. More and more markets offer an increasingly driven by factors such as the growing incidence large range of OTC products. They are key TAMBOCOR of allergies and asthma, particularly in Western complements to prescribed drugs, because BETADINE Europe and North America, but also in growth they often save patients time and reduce DYMISTA markets. Dermatology includes diseases such the cost burden on the health care system. ELIDEL as skin cancer, acne and dermatitis which are Demand is also being driven by the recent ALDARA/ZYCLARA all common conditions where incidence is growing interest in preventive health care. EPIPEN growing. This is partly due to environmental This varies widely from market to market and ASTEPRO factors such as sun exposure. depends on how the health care system is CB12 In more mature markets, particularly in North ­constructed. MINITRAN America and Europe, respiratory is the third Sales of the ten largest OTC products in 2013 SOLCO largest therapy area in the pharmaceutical martogether amounted to around SEK 1,868 ­million, ket and dermatology is the tenth largest. In which represents just over 14% of Meda’s total growth markets, dermatology is the seventh sales. Meda’s ambition is to ­continue to grow in largest and respiratory the tenth. the OTC area and it has gradually increased its market investments. sales by product area sales by therapy area 2009 sales by therapy area 2013 Specialty Respiratory, 23% Dermatology, 25% Products, 63% Cardiology, 20% Respiratory, 17% OTC, 24% Dermatology, 17% Cardiology, 15% Branded Pain and Pain and Generics, 10% inflammation, 12% inflammation, 11% Other, 3% CNS1), 9% CNS1), 9% Gastroenterology, 5% Gastroenterology, 9% Metabolism/ Other, 9% vitamins, 4% Metabolism/ Other, 10% vitamins, 5% Meda has a broad product portfolio which is present in several therapy areas. 1) Central Nerv System 1) Central Nerv System Main focus is however on Respiratory and Dermatology. Meda Annual Report 2013 19 Product portfolio 17% Allergies and asthma – widespread global diseases • Allergies are on the rise: by 2015 close to • Dymista is a novel nasal spray that contains 50% of the world population is expected to the active ingredients azelastine and fluticabe affected by some form of allergy, while sone. The formulation and device also consevere allergic reactions (anaphylaxis) have tribute to the product profile. It is approved of sales increased several fold in the past decade. for treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis in • Allergic rhinitis is one form of allergy and is the US market and seasonal and perennial considered a global epidemic, affecting allergic rhinitis in Europe. some 500 million people worldwide, of • Dymista has the potential to change the respiratory, sales per country which around 180 million are in Western treatment of allergic rhinitis and has quickly Europe, US and Japan. gained strong support from important stakeUS, 35% • Allergic rhinitis is associated with high socioholder groups. Germany, 26% economic costs. If not adequately treated, • Dymista’s efficacy and safety were docuUK, 8% allergic rhinitis can develop into asthma. mented in several studies involving more Sweden, 7% • Asthma is a chronic condition affecting the than 4,600 patients. The drug is faster and France, 4% respiratory tract and lungs. It is the most more effective than the first line therapy Spain, 2% ­common chronic disease among children. (azelastine hydrochloride and fluticasone China, 2% • Asthma affects some 300 million individuals propionate) for patients with moderately Other, 16% worldwide. severe to severe seasonal allergic rhinitis. • The cornerstone in asthma ­therapy is effecIt can thus provide more moderate to severe tively treating the underlying chronic inflamallergic rhinitis patients with substantial or mation with inhaled corticosteroids while complete symptom relief. minimizing systemic exposure. • In the US, Dymista is the second most sold • Optimal drug delivery to the lungs is therebrand in its product category. Dymista was fore of paramount importance and can be launched in Europe in 2013 and quickly facilitated by spacers. ­captured a significant share of the market in • US asthma guidelines have recommended Germany, Italy, Austria, Ireland and Finland. using a spacer for inhaled corticosteroid Dymista has been approved and/or is in the therapy. final stages of the approval process in ­several new markets, such as Australia, RESPIRATORY PRODUCTS ­Canada, Mexico, China, Turkey, South Africa Dymista and the Middle East. • Allergic rhinitis has become more difficult to treat in recent years. More than two thirds of the patients have moderate to severe allergic rhinitis. They are more likely than in the past to be sensitive to multiple allergens, and around 20% of them show greater resistance to therapy. There is an unmet medical need for more effective therapy, in particular since studies have shown that many patients continue to suffer even during and after their treatment with existing therapies. 20 Meda Annual Report 2013 Product portfolio Dymista has the potential to change the treatment of allergic rhinitis and has quickly gained strong support from important stakeholder groups. Meda Annual Report 2013 21 Product portfolio Aerospan EpiPen • The cornerstone in asthma therapy is effec• Anaphylaxis (anaphylactic shock) occurs tively treating the underlying chronic inflamwhen the body’s immune system overreacts mation with inhaled corticosteroids while to a substance, such as a food item. It is an minimizing their systemic exposure. Optimal unpredictable condition that can be life drug delivery to the small airways in the threatening. lungs is therefore of paramount importance • EpiPen is an adrenaline auto-injector used and this can be facilitated by spacers. for the acute treatment of anaphylactic shock • The acquisition of Aerospan will allow Meda or severe allergic reactions to allergens, e.g. to market the only inhaled corticosteroid insect bites or foods. (ICS) treatment containing an integrated • The European Academy of Allergy and Clinispacer. This feature ensures consistent and cal Immunology Organisation (EAACI) recomtargeted delivery to the lungs for the treatmends in its declaration that people at risk of ment of asthma. External inhalation spacers anaphylactic shock should always carry an are commonly used in clinical practice and adrenaline injector. are recommended for use with metered dose inhalers in the US and in international treatAzep ment guidelines. • Azep is a nasal spray for the treatment of • Aerospan is an inhaled corticosteroid which allergic and non-allergic rhinitis. It contains is indicated for the maintenance treatment of the active ingredient azelastine which is an asthma as prophylactic therapy in patients antihistamine. six years of age and older, and for asthma • Azep is a fast growing brand in allergic rhinipatients requiring oral corticosteroid therapy, tis in China where Meda has recently opened where adding Aerospan inhalation aerosol its own affiliate. may reduce or eliminate the need for oral • In Europe, Azep is marketed under the corticosteroids. brands Allergodil and Rhinolast. • Clinical trials in adults and children, where • In the US market the Azelastine Trademark the integrated spacer was used, have demAstelin has largely been replaced by the onstrated the efficacy of the unique delivery ­patent protected life cycle product Astepro. system. Furthermore, side effects associated with ICS, including oral infections and voice Astepro alterations, were shown to be similar to those • Astepro is a nasal spray used for the treatwith placebo. ment of allergic and non-allergic rhinitis. It • Controlled clinical studies have shown that contains the active ingredient azelastine, all orally inhaled corticosteroids, as a class, which is an antihistamine. may cause a reduction in growth velocity in • Astepro is a new, improved formulation of Azep is one of the pediatric patients. Aerospan was assessed in Azelastine (Azep, Astelin, Allergodil and ­products behind the a 52-week, randomized, placebo-controlled ­Rhinolast) which is better tolerated and more good growth in China. study in children. In this study, the mean effective. growth velocity reduction was very low and • Once-daily Astepro is the first nasal antihistasimilar to placebo. mine approved as a single dose for patients • The US launch of Aerospan is planned for with seasonal allergies. The launch of onceduring the second quarter 2014. This will daily Astepro in the US began in 2009. The allow the company to continue to grow in registration process is ongoing in other the respiratory field, addressing upper and important markets. lower airway conditions with its spectrum • Astepro 0.15% is the leading nasal antihistaof products. mine brand in the US. 22 Meda Annual Report 2013 Product portfolio 25% Dermatology • The skin is the body’s largest organ and has Zyclara many vital functions, such as protection from • Actinic keratosis is a common type of cancer microbes and the elements. affecting an increasing share of the popula• Skin diseases are common in all age groups tion, particularly in the northern hemisphere. of sales and in all parts of the world. • Zyclara is currently the only topical drug • Some of the most common skin diseases are (used directly on the skin) that can detect and eczema, psoriasis, acne and skin cancer. eliminate subclinical (invisible) and clinical (visible) lesions of actinic keratosis on large dermatology, sales per country DERMATOLOGY PRODUCTS areas of the skin. Elidel • The active ingredient in Zyclara is Imiquimod France, 17% • Atopic dermatitis (or atopic eczema) is a (cream) 3.75%, a formulation that allows Germany, 9% chronic, recurring inflammatory skin disease ­Zyclara to be used on a significantly larger Italy, 7% for which the incidence is rising. It is estitreatment area than other preparations. UK, 7% mated that more than 20% of all children and • Zyclara was approved in Europe in 2012 and Spain, 6% 2–10% of the world adult population suffer the launch was initiated in 2013. Russia, 5% from atopic eczema. The incidence has Middle East, 5% ­tripled in the past 30 years. Aldara Sweden, 5% • Elidel is a patented drug for the treatment of • Aldara is an immunomodulating agent for Belgium, 5% atopic dermatitis based on the ingredient ­treatment of actinic keratosis, superficial basal pimecrolimus. It is the first topical preparacell carcinorha, and external genital warts. Other, 34% tion for the treatment of atopic dermatitis which does not contain a corticosteroid and Acnatac therefore has fewer side-effects. • Acne is a form of chronic inflammation that • Elidel has been documented in studies affects more than 80% of adolescents. involving more than 60,000 patients. • Acnatac, indicated for the treatment of acne • Elidel is currently available for sale in 90 marwhen inflammatory and non-inflammatory kets globally through Meda’s own marketing lesions are present, is in the launch phase. organization and via partners. In North Ame­ Clindamycin (antibacterial) and tretinoin rica, Canada and Mexico, Elidel is out­(topical retinoid) in combination are more licensed to Valeant. effective for the treatment of inflammatory • Elidel is recommended in the European guideand non-inflammatory acne than each of lines as the first line treatment of atopic derthe ingredients individually, so-called Zyclara was approved matitis in sensitive skin areas (e.g. the face). ­monotherapy. • In 2012, a study in children (2,400 patients • Acnatac has a novel aqueous-based formula in Europe in 2012 and treated for five years) with mild to moderate that provides a better safety profile than the launch was initiated atopic dermatitis was concluded and the existing retinoid-based compounds. in 2013. results showed that Elidel has the same effi• Acnatac has been tested clinically in more cacy as topical steroids without any longthan 4,500 patients. term safety concerns. The study supports expanding the use of Elidel. Betadine • Betadine is an iodine-based antiseptic to treat and prevent infections of the skin and mucous membranes. Other dermatology products • Aldara (Imiquimod 5%) • Efudix (5-Fluoruracil) • Dermatix • Kamillosan • Solcoseryl • Naloc • Endwarts Meda Annual Report 2013 23 Product portfolio CB12 is an oral hygiene treatment that neutralizes the substances that cause bad breath. 24 Meda Annual Report 2013 Product portfolio 24% Over-the-counter drugs The market for over-the-counter (OTC) drugs is • CB12 is an oral hygiene treatment that neuincreasingly interesting for Meda. It is growing tralizes the substances that cause halitosis. faster than the prescription drugs market and • The effect lasts for 12 hours as the product currently accounts for around 12% of the global binds to tissue in the mouth. of sales pharmaceutical market. Unlike with prescription drugs, pricing is unrestricted and the drugs Endwarts can be marketed directly to consumers. • A wart is a growth on the skin caused by the The percentage of OTC drugs is higher in human papillomavirus, HPV. Warts are contaotc, sales per country growth markets than in mature markets, often gious and can easily be transferred to other due to the fact that consumers in those markets people and other parts of the body. Sweden, 19% have less access to advanced healthcare. In • Endwarts is an effective external solution for France, 15% these circumstances, OTC drugs may replace the treatment of warts on the hands, feet and US, 9% prescription drugs. In more developed markets body. The solution is absorbed directly into Germany, 7% demand for OTC drugs is driven by a growing the wart and leaves no scars. Italy, 6% interest in self-healing, wellness and improved • Endwarts is currently available in a number of Netherlands, 6% quality of life. markets in Europe. Belgium, 5% Today, OTC products account for around 24% UK, 4% of Meda’s total sales. The target is to grow this Naloc area to one third of Group net sales over time. • Nail disorders are common and the most Spain, 4% common cause is a nail fungal infection. Other, 25% OTC DRUG PRODUCTS Unsightly and discolored nails may also be CB12 caused by psoriasis, dry nails or external • Bad breath (halitosis) is caused by bacteria damage. found in the mouth cavity between the teeth • Naloc is a topical treatment (on the nail) and and on the back part of the tongue. When is used to treat nail fungal infection and nail these bacteria break down food particles, psoriasis. malodorous sulfur gases are formed, causing bad breath. Interview with Dirk Groen: Executive Vice President, Marketing OTC What are the main differences tation are very important in this pany is our reputation for good between the OTC business and market and therefore it takes time products and our experience in the prescription drugs business? and promotional effort to build promotion to professionals who OTC products are sold via retail good brand names. will recommend our products to channels such as pharmacies, consumers. drugstores or supermarkets Meda’s ambition is to grow OTC directly to consumers. This makes products to represent one third of Which are the three most it comparable to regular retail Group sales in the future. How are ­promising products? business with broad advertising you going to reach that goal? Our three international brands and trade channel promotions. In We are building our OTC franchise CB12, Endwarts and Naloc are our the OTC business the value is in with premium products in selected most promising products. We also brand names. In the healthcare market segments where we are have quite a selection of local segment consumers are very loyal attaining a position of first, second products with very good brand to well-known brands when they or third through strong and names and solid market positions. know they solve their health probfocused promotion. Our unique lems. Recommendation and repustrength as a pharmaceutical comMeda Annual Report 2013 25 26 Meda Annual Report 2013 Meda has experienced considerable growth, primarily through acquisitions. The objective is to preserve the strengths of the small company, i.e. a non-hierarchical and efficient organization and short decision-making paths and combine them with the resources of a large company. Meda Annual Report 2013 27 Product development Product development close to the market Meda is primarily active in late stage clinical development and the development function has around 240 employees including contract employees who work on development, clinical trials and drug registration. The value-generating work at Meda’s develop• New formulations, such as a higher strength 240 ment function is characterized by tailored cliniazelastine nasal spray (Astepro) for oncecal development programs and the compilation daily use or a lower strength imiquimod of scientific ­arguments defending and explorcream (Zyclara) for the treatment of larger ing the product features. areas. As a specialty pharma company, Meda • Combination products, such as Acnatac for refrains from ­high-risk, capital-intensive early multi-factorial treatment of acne vulgaris. Around 240 people at research. Instead the company’s resources are • Internationalization and regulatory approval concentrated on development close to the marof approved drugs, such as Aerospan and Meda work with develket in the late clinical or registration phases. Dymista, in new countries/regions. opment, clinical trials The focus is often on well-known active ingrediand drug registration. ents and improving the characteristics of an In 2013 Meda invested SEK 249 million (143) in existing product, for example through: drug development, equivalen to 2% (1) of group sales. In recent years, Meda has built a strong product portfolio in its key therapy areas. Meda’s most important development projects are presented to the right. Meda’s activities in the drug development phase Proof of concept Efficacy and safety File for approval Launch Market adapted product development in late clinical phase, typically phase III In the drug development phase Meda is focused on market adapted product development through new formulations and combinations of existing products, as well as preparing products for launch in new countries and regions. 28 Meda Annual Report 2013 Product development Products in late development or launch phase RESPIRATORY NOVOLIZER BRANDS OTC PRODUCTS AEROSPAN Meda is working to expand the market of the ENDWARTS PEN Aerospan is an inhaled corticosteroid which is Novolizer brands by registering them in more Endwarts is a highly effective and well-tolerated indicated for the maintenance treatment of countries. Novolizer is an innovative dry powexternal solution for the treatment of common asthma. Clinical trials in adults and children, der inhaler used to administer the active subwarts on the hands, feet and body. Meda is including the integrated spacer, have demonstances salbutamol (albuterol), formoterol and developing a new applicator in the form of a strated the efficacy of the unique delivery sysbudesonide for the treatment of asthma and pen to make the use of Endwarts more convetem. Side effects associated with ICS, including Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease. nient for patients. oral infections and voice alterations, were shown to be similar to placebo. Launch is NEW DENTAL HEALTH PRODUCT LINE planned for 2014. DERMATOLOGY Meda has acquired the global rights to EB24, ZYCLARA an OTC product line for the once-daily treatASTEPRO In Europe, Meda has acquired the dermal ment of dental erosion, i.e. where dental hard Astepro is a nasal spray for the treatment of cream Zyclara, a lower concentrated formulatissue is gradually eroded by factors other than seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis. Astepro tion (3.75%) of the well-established compound caries. There is currently no effective treatment contains a higher concentration of the active imiquimod (Aldara 5%), allowing the treatment for dental erosion. The condition, which is substance azelastine which is more effective of larger areas and more lesions of actinic kerasometimes called the “new caries”, impacts all than the conventional strength of Astelin. tosis (AK) and the simplification of the treatages and is estimated to affect 15–50% of the Astepro is the first nasal antihistamine ment. It is the first treatment that was shown to population. approved for once-daily use. The launch in the be effective also on subclinical (invisible) preEB24 contains hydrogen fluoride highly US began in 2009. The registration process is cursor lesions of clinically manifest AK. Zyclara diluted in water. In studies, the product has ongoing in other important markets. was approved in Europe in 2012 and is in the shown that it is able to penetrate enamel surlaunch phase. faces and form calcium fluoride resulting in an DYMISTA anti-erosive effect on the teeth. Dymista is a novel nasal formulation of azelasACNATAC EB24 is an important addition to the OTC tine and the corticoid fluticasone propionate The dermal combination product Acnatac for portfolio and an excellent complement to CB12 for the treatment of patients with allergic ­rhinitis. the multi-factorial treatment of acne vulgaris is which protects against bad breath. EB24 is Dymista is the first and only product of its kind in its launch phase. The antibiotic clindamycin expected to be launched in the first half of the available for this indication worldwide. Several and the retinoid tretinoin in Acnatac have year as a mouth rinse. Patents valid until 2025 clinical studies involving more than 4,600 shown greater efficacy in the treatment of have been approved in Europe and patents are patients have supported its efficacy and safety, inflammatory and non-inflammatory acne pending in the US. including a long-term safety study of more than lesions compared with each component alone. 600 patients. Dymista provides faster and more complete symptom relief than the current ZYCLARA MULTI-DOSE PUMP first line therapy in the US with intranasal cortiMeda is developing a new multi-dose pump coids alone. device in addition to the mono-dose sachets for Dymista was launched in the US in autumn both imiquimod based products Aldara and 2012 and in most European countries in 2013. Zyclara, in order to make use more convenient The registration process is ongoing in other for patients. The technology is patent-protected markets. and used for approved products in both Australia and the US. Meda Annual Report 2013 29 Manufacturing and supply Manufacturing and supply Meda combines proprietary production with contract manufacturing of drugs. In 2013, Meda’s proprietary production accounted for almost 30% of the volume. Meda has an increased focus on reducing the cost of goods. It is therefore ­natural to have an ongoing focus on improving efficiency in purchasing, ­manufacturing and distribution. This includes finding the right balance between proprietary and external manufacturing. Meda’s proprietary production takes place at four units. Decatur (Illinois, USA) Around 100 employees Production of various Cologne (Germany) ­preparation forms, for Around 300 employees example Soma, Astepro Production of various and Geritol Merignac (France) preparation forms, for Around 200 employees example Novolizer Production of liquids and Lakewood (New Jersey, USA) solutions, for example Around 70 employees Betadine Production of MUSE 30 Meda Annual Report 2013 The same delivery and reliability standards and other parameters apply to both Meda’s proprietary production units and contract manufacturers delivering products to Meda. Meda Annual Report 2013 31 Employees A culture of entrepreneurship The Meda Way rapid expansion in Emerging MarLeadership commitments Meda would be nothing without its kets, a majority of recruitments Meda’s future success and wellemployees. Ever since the start, have been made in these markets being of its employees rely to a Meda has focused on ­creating a in recent years. At the end of 2013 great extent on the capa­bilities culture of entrepreneurship and Meda had close to 800 employand leadership of the company’s drive. The goal has always been to ees, including contract employees managers. Meda expects the folattract people with a strong desire in Emerging Markets. lowing from every leader, regardto bring about change. For Meda, less of their area of work or level of a fast pace is of great importance. Key principles responsibility: The key is for individuals and Meda is committed to create a •  Lead by example, based on the teams to constantly develop and stimulating, challenging and company’s values be elevated to higher and higher rewarding work environment • Coach and support others to levels. – one that supports initiatives, overcome b ­ arriers and solve The corporate culture is fosters commitment and engageproblems reflected in the Meda Way: ment and goes beyond compen• Recognize and respect charac• Dynamic teams that make sation and benefits. We strive ter competences and needs of a difference towards a working environment every employee regardless of • Focus on priorities that clearly defines not only the position • Take decisions fast and execute necessary rules and processes but • Recognize and reward good them quickly also the amount of flexibility performance • Cooperation across borders employees can use to get things • Empower and trust people to • Constant improvement done. We empower people to make decisions and take action • Passion for the customer drive the business and take busi• Create focus and simplify work ness risk that is both necessary Organization and appropriate. An important eleFurther information on Meda’s Meda’s employees are primarily ment of our employee developEmployees is presented in the divided into four different areas: ment philosophy is to support sustainability report together with • Sales and marketing employees in gaining experience the relevant employees data. • Product development and developing on the job. We • Manufacturing and supply believe employees build greater • Administration skills and capabilities by being exposed to new challenges. A key Sales and marketing is the largest role for Meda is to provide the area with 1,974 employees in close necessary development tools for to 60 countries, i­ncluding contract employees and prepare them to employees. Following Meda’s take on larger responsibilities. Employees per function, 2013* Sales and marketing, 63% Manufacturing, 16% Development, 11% Administration, 10% Sales * Excluding contract and marketing, employees 63% Manufacturing, 16% Development, 11% Administration, 10% 32 Meda Annual Report 2013 Meda Annual Report 2013 33 Investment story Several dimensions add to value Solid foundation Supporting growth Organic growth drivers opportunities Today, Meda is an established, Growth drivers exist on sevWith an increased focus on the international specialty pharma eral levels, such as demoselected therapy areas, suscompany with a well-defined graphics (increasing and agetained potential for OTC and product portfolio and clear ing population), economics significantly increased investfocus on geographical and (higher disposable income) ments in Emerging Markets, therapy areas where the and the changing structure of organic growth is a more disgrowth prospects are good. the pharmaceutical market tinct value driver for Meda. The company has a clear spe(expiring patents). The organic growth is supplecialization in the value chain, mented by acquired growth in, an efficient organization and a for example, the defined therstrong financial position. apy areas. ommunicate messages: vestment story clarified ”growth and ambitions” Meda today and tomorrow Targeted acquistions in our areas of Respiratory (Dymista) therapeutic focus Dermatology (Zyclara) OTC (CB12) Emerging Markets Portfolio efficiencies Prescription drugs OTC Organic growth Organic growth Acquired growth Meda today Market Products Acquisitions Meda tomorrow Diversified portfolio Favorable organic growth outlook supported by geography and product launches Bigger Scale and efficiency Targeted acqusition strategy will add to growth over time Better Client centric Operational improvements to leverage our emerging market potential Stronger Strong cash flow Extend the duration (of growth) of our product portfolio Excellent track record Strengthen our position as a leading global company in our areas of therapeutic focus Meda has a solid foundation and a business model supported by several growth drivers. Meda also has the power to affect growth and profitability through product launches, acquisitions and operational improvements. 34 Meda Annual Report 2013 ”Targeted acquistions Investment story Communicate messages: Investment Communicate story clarified ”key drivers of company messages: and shareholder Investment story value”clarified ”key drivers of company and shareholder Three-dimensional value creation value” sales and EBITDA 15,000 There are three dimensions to Meda’s value creation efforts, with market focus, drive and tempo as the 12,000 common denominators: 9,000 Therapeutic Therapeutic focus • Clear therapeutic focus, where Meda has a specialfocus Therapeutic Therapeutic 6,000 focus ist role in building a uniform product portfoliofocus in 3,000 selected therapy areas and is developing the OTC Operation Global business portfolio. Operational 0 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 leverag platform leverage Operation Global business • An effective global business platform and operaOperational leverag platform leverage Sales EBITDA tional efficiency, where Meda develops and commercializes products in attractive markets supAcquisition ported by efficient manufacturing andIntegration supply, sales Acquisition and marketing. Integration • Identification and integration of selected acquisiCompany tions, where Meda identifiesCompany and secures synergy Compan value value value Company gains in different parts of theCompany value chain, and Compan value value value ensures that acquired products can be profitably commercialized. Profitable growth Profitable Cash flow essential for shareholder value growth Free cash flow/net sales (%) Free Cash Flow/net sales (%) Shareholder value is crucial for Meda. It is a function 25 Cash flow Cash flo Profitable of the company’s value-creation activities and its 20 Cash flow Cash flo growth Profitable financial results: 15 growth • Meda has a broad product portfolio and a strong Reinvestment 10 cash flow. The cash flow allows Meda to finance level Cash flow necessary investments in future growth, such as Reinvestment 5 level Cash flow the company’s own product and marketing invest0 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 ment as well as acquisitions.Shareholder Sharehol • The investments, combined with ongoing efficiency value value Reinvestment Shareholder Sharehol level improvements, enable Meda tovalue maintain sustainvalue Reinvestment level able growth in both profits and cash flow. • Meda has a high cash conversion rate, which Shareholder means that a large percentage of the company’s value Shareholder profits are converted into free cash flow. This puts value the company in a position to be able to make investments in the business and to pay dividends to shareholders over time. Meda Annual Report 2013 35 Sustainability report Sustainability report Content 37 The CSR year in brief 38 Follow up of 2013 CSR objectives 39 Meda in context 40 Meda’s prioritized areas 41 Risks and opportunities 42 Patient safety 43 Manufacturing and supply 44 Acquisitions 44 Employees 46 Governance 48 Environment 50 Community involvement 51 CSR objectives in 2014 and onwards 52 GRI index 54 Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Sustainability Report About Meda’s sustainability report 2013 Meda’s annual report 2013 includes the company’s complete sustainability report 2013, p. 36–54. The sustainability report 2013 constitutes Meda’s Communication on Progress Report to the UN Global Compact. Meda has applied the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines 3.0 since 2010. The 2013 sustainability report fulfills level C+ and has been subjected to third party assurance. A complete GRI index is presented on p. 52–53 and the auditor’s assurance statement is presented on p. 54. Meda’s sustainability report 2013 is also presented on the company website, www.meda.se/csr/ The report content is based on Meda’s analysis of the business and value chain from a sustainability perspective – identifying impact, stakeholders, risks and opportunities. Also, stakeholder input is taken into account when defining the report content. Meda’s stakeholders are identified based on an analysis of the business, the value chain and the mutual impact and relevance. The stakeholder dialogue brings understanding of the issues that stakeholders’ value and what information they want to receive in order for the report to support their decision making. In 2011–2013 Meda engaged with investors and public authorities on Meda’s sustainability performance and the content of the sustainability report. The intention is that the annual report including the sustainability report 2013 meet that needs for information and provides a complete picture of Meda’s social, economic and environmental impact and performance. 36 Meda Annual Report 2013 Sustainability report The CSR year in brief The CSR work is conducted on the basis of continuous improvement. Prioritized areas during the year have therefore largely been the same as in the past: supplier assessments, environmental management, ­implementation of Meda’s ethical guidelines (Business Conduct Guidelines) and further reinforcement of Meda’s commitment to the UN Global Compact. CSR efforts relating to suppliers have increased in scope and significance. In 2013 Meda’s CSR work included: Initiated implementaThe Business Conduct GuideAn active dialogue tion of a web-based lines have been developed to with several investors system to monitor more comprehensively cover and stakeholders. The suppliers. The system anti-corruption and bribery interest in Meda’s is based on risk analy­legislation, including the UK CSR efforts continues sis and enables Meda Bribery Act and Swedish to be strong. to have better control. ­bribery laws. Communication and implementation processes have been enhanced. Gap analysis conducted of A so called materiality analysis was conducted. Meda’s efforts with respect to This was an internal exercise involving the key the principles on human rights functions and identified Meda’s most significant of the UN Global Compact sustainability issues based on Meda’s value chain (Meda joined in May 2012). The and stakeholders. The materiality analysis will be analysis will form the basis for a supplemented by input from external stakeholders number of activities in 2014. in 2014. The results will guide Meda’s future sustainability work. Meda Annual Report 2013 37 Sustainability report Follow up of 2013 CSR objectives Meda has had Group-wide objectives for its CSR work in place since 2010. Overall, it can be concluded that Meda’s Group-wide CSR objectives for 2013 were fulfilled. The results with respect to the 2013 objectives were as follows: Meda will improve its Meda will continue to Internal control and the A Gap analysis will be model for monitoring reduce the company’s Business Conduct conducted of Meda’s supplier compliance with environmental impact. Guidelines will be further operations in relation to the Supplier Code of The overarching meadeveloped in the area of the UN Global Compact. Conduct. surement is the amount compliance monitoring. A plan of action will be of CO2 emissions per Anti-corruption routines drawn up. employee. will be improved. Meda purchases more than Meda’s CO2 emissions were A new version of Meda’s BusiA Gap analysis focusing on the 95% of contract manufactured reduced by 3% in 2013, calcuness Conduct Guidelines was Global Compact’s principles products from suppliers who lated as the amount of emisimplemented in May 2013. on human rights and labor accept Meda’s Supplier Code sions per employee. Meda is Anti-corruption policies and rights issues was conducted of Conduct. In 2013 Meda taking active steps to reduce routines have been more during the summer and fall. began to implement a webenergy consumption, particuclearly defined, as has the sigAn action plan has been develbased system to improve monlarly within production. nificance of Meda’s participaoped based on the outcome. itoring and control. The system tion in the UN Global Compact. is designed on the basis of risk Communication and impleanalysis conducted in 2012. mentation processes have been developed. 38 Meda Annual Report 2013 Sustainability report Meda in context Trends and drivers The costs associated with, and therefore also • Patients and consumers There has been significant progress in healthaccess to, medicines have been prioritized • Healthcare providers care, but the needs are far from being met. issues for a number of years now. This is partly • Suppliers Although the right to health is one of the basic due to the fact that medication is largely • Employees human rights, for around 250 million people financed by public funds. Despite intensive • Public authorities and agencies this is not a reality. Population growth and efforts to develop effective drugs at prices that • Owners/investors greater life expectancy are increasing the need make them available to many, there are still • Analysts for care in different ways. Meanwhile, changes people who are denied the right to treatment • Distributors in lifestyles and eating habits due either to due to cost, primarily in developing countries. • Wholesalers/retailers ­economic growth or the opposite, have The pharmaceutical industry has developed increased the demand for healthcare and treatto the stage where it has both production and Relationships with the various stakeholder ment. New and improved forms of treatment sales in regions that are generally associated groups and Meda’s ability to meet their needs are needed and the pharmaceutical industry with higher ethical and commercial risks. In and expectations are c­ rucial factors if the comhas an important role to play in helping to Meda’s case this includes Eastern Europe, pany is to remain a relevant player. Dialogue improve people’s health globally. South America, and Southeast Asia. Having a with stakeholders is both informal and formal. It is not enough to merely provide effective presence in these regions requires companies Most of the stakeholder input is collected therapies and products that meet specific to be aware of, and capable of, handling the through the ordinary business processes. needs. Demands for accountability and good conditions there. Companies must act based on ­Similar to last year, Meda has carried out inbusiness practices are increasing every year. sound business principles and have efficient depth interviews with selected owner repreThis applies not least to the responsibility to operations that can combat unethical business sentatives, who articulated a particular interest patients and the community. practices and corruption. in Meda’s sustainability work. The pharmaceutical industry has for a long The preferences of stakeholders have a time been regulated by legislation and, in Close relationships with stakeholders strong bearing on Meda’s operations and recent years, this has been supplemented by Meda’s value chain consists of the developdevelopment. Prevailing requirements and ethical guidelines and self-regulation. There ment, production, sales and marketing and use expectations have impacted Meda’s definition are now, for example, guidelines for the indusof Meda’s products. These different areas, and of the company’s prioritized CSR issues and try’s cooperation with healthcare providers and the way in which the company is governed, CSR strategy. professional organizations and also for good affect a great many stakeholders. Based on the marketing practices. value chain, Meda has identified the following stakeholders: Generated and distributed financial value 2012 MSEK 2013 Restated2) Revenue1) 13,136 13,052 Operating expenses –7,463 –7,250 Salaries and employee benefits –1,944 –1,796 Payments to providers of funds –525 –593 Dividend –680 –680 Payments to governments –390 –328 Societal investments 0 0 Remaining economic value 2,134 2,405 1) Net sales plus financial income (excluding exchange gains) as well as recognized gains for the sale of non-current assets. 2) The figures of 2012 have been converted for IAS 19. Meda Annual Report 2013 39 Sustainability report Meda’s prioritized areas For a number of years now Meda has been Sales and marketing damental for effective and value-generating focusing on areas identified as particularly The part of Meda’s organization that employs business operations, which in turn is essential important with respect to responsible business the most people and is the most significant for to Meda’s credibility on the market and to manpractices. In 2013 a materiality analysis was profitability is sales and marketing of the comage opportunities. Read more on pages 46–47. conducted with internal key functions which pany’s products. This makes it a critical link in identified Meda’s key issues based on the comMeda’s value chain which includes Meda’s Environment pany’s value chain and stakeholders. The direct distribution to customers and wholesalTo achieve long-term success Meda must make results confirmed and honed in on the areas ers and sales through external distributors. use of natural resources in a sustainable way Meda had previously identified. This analysis Read more on page 43. and constantly reduce the company’s environwill form the basis for future strategic determimental impact. Read more on pages 48–49. nations and goal setting. Acquisitions Meda’s growth strategy involves a combination Community involvement Below is a brief description of the important of organic growth and acquisitions. AcquisiMeda strives to maintain good relationships areas and issues: tions have historically been the main driver of with the communities in which the company the company’s expansion. Acquisitions have operates, and contributes its expertise and Patient safety helped to keep the product portfolio relevant products to communities with significant needs. Meda’s most important mission is to provide and ensure access to new markets. Read more Meda prioritizes initiatives that promote effective and safe pharmaceuticals for patients on page 44. ­people’s health and well-being in the long term. and customers. Patient safety is therefore Read more on page 50. Meda’s highest priority. The area is subject to Employees strict regulations, imposed by both the authoriThe skill and commitment of Meda’s employees ties and Meda itself. Patient safety is the focus is key to the company’s success. It is their knowlboth in the development of new products and edge, relationships and initiatives that generate in supplying products that have already been new products and sales. Meda has established launched. Read more on page 42. processes for employee relations, including routines relating to the working environment Manufacturing and safety. Read more on pages 44–45. High quality in the manufacturing process is essential to ensure that the products have the Governance appropriate inherent qualities and fill the right Running the company in a responsible way and functions. For Meda, good relationships with adhering to good business ethics throughout and knowledge of the actual conditions under the organization are key factors in Meda’s abilwhich suppliers and business partners operate ity to create value for stakeholders and to win is crucial in ensuring the expected quality. This their trust. Meda’s Business Conduct Guideinvolves setting up and monitoring relevant lines outlines the company’s position and comresponsible business practice requirements mitment. and helping suppliers to develop in this area. Meda is listed on NASDAQ OMX Nordics Meda’s Supplier Code of Conduct forms the Large Cap and applies the Swedish Corporate basis for these efforts. Read more on page 43. Governance Code. Good internal control is fun40 Meda Annual Report 2013 Sustainability report Risks and opportunities The basis of Meda’s operations and CSR stratciated with environmental impact and the risk egy is the conviction that high ethical stanof accidents. dards, responsibility and good relationships Meda’s responsibility in relation to stakeholdwith the world around us bring about long-term ers such as patients and customers, owners gains. This approach must permeate all strateand employees requires the company to gies, all decisions and all operations. ­manage its risks correctly. The risks vary The main purpose of Meda’s CSR work is to between different geographies and as Meda improve the company’s business opportunities expands, the need for new knowledge and and help Meda achieve its overall goals. Sevmonitoring activities increases. eral of Meda’s prioritized areas have inherent risks associated with doing business responsiExamples of steps to reduce risks include the bly, and accordingly, an important aspect of the following: CSR work is to reduce those risks. • Meda has communicated the company’s CSR and good conduct are issues of releSupplier Code of Conduct to suppliers and vance for everyone at Meda. The company’s has started to implement a web-based monimanagement has a particular responsibility; it is toring system. the responsibility of every manager to ensure • Meda works with clear objectives for delivery that the guidelines in place are implemented performance in the company’s Supply Chain and adhered to. function. • Meda has established routines for communiRisk analysis cation, follow-up and control to ensure the The materiality analysis that was conducted in correct implementation of the company’s the fourth quarter of 2013 supplements Meda’s Business Conduct Guidelines within the previous risk analysis. Faults in or incorrect organization. There is a particular focus on usage of a product could involve risks for new countries. patients or customers and this is therefore the • Meda has established management systems main risk faced by Meda. Most CSR-related and routines for health and safety and the risks are believed to be in the manufacture and environment. These are employed at the distribution of Meda’s products. This is due to company’s own production units and used to the fact that Meda does not have full knowlmonitor the suppliers. edge or control as these operations are carried • Meda has processes to assess risk in new out by suppliers, distributors, wholesalers, markets. retailers or health care authorities. Some of the considerations are delivery reliability, relationships with suppliers and distributors, business ethics and compliance with Meda’s guidelines. Similar risks exist in Meda’s in-house production where production interruptions may affect delivery reliability. In-house production is assoMeda Annual Report 2013 41 Sustainability report Patient safety Meda’s mission is to provide effective and safe registration of new and existing products and pharmaceuticals. The health and safety of monitor and develop products in accordance patients is always the top priority. with the relevant legislation, public authority Meda is constantly developing the product requirements and guidelines. portfolio to provide drugs and products that • To guarantee that the product is used cormeet actual needs. Several of the recent acquirectly and for the right purpose, Meda also sitions have been aimed at complementing the works in cooperation with local registration existing offering and creating a more relevant and pharmaceutical authorities on, for examportfolio. ple, producing prescription information and Access to medicine is an extremely relevant user directions. issue in this industry. Meda is committed to helping improve access to medicine where this Pharmacovigilance is an issue. However, due to Meda’s product All use of pharmaceuticals is associated with portfolio and geographical presence, the issue the risk of side effects. Side effects can arise in is of little relevance for Meda at this time. Meda various forms and degrees. Simultaneous use does, however, donate medicine wherever posof other medicines or the consumption of sible (see page 50). ­certain foods or beverages can also alter a drug’s effect. Pharmaceutical production, testClinical trials ing and manufacturing must be extremely careMeda does not focus on early research but fully regulated to achieve the highest possible instead on development in the late clinical or patient safety. registration phases. This means that Meda’s Meda has its own pharmacovigilance departproducts have already been tested on humans ments across the world working to ensure the multiple times. In cases requiring clinical trials, safe use of medicines. Meda engages specialized research compa• The aim is to detect, investigate and prevent nies. The services are procured according to any adverse effects from the use of Meda’s Meda’s internal procedures for clinical trials. pharmaceuticals. The procedures are based on the EU • When required, changes may be made to 2001/20EC directive and Guidelines for Good basic information about the drug, or Clinical Practice (GCP), an ethical and scientific ­restrictions may be placed on the use of the quality standard with origins in the World Mediproduct. cal Association’s Declaration of Helsinki. • All potential side effects are reported to the relevant regulatory authority in each country. Drug registration Registering pharmaceutical products with the Complaints authorities is required before a new or modified Meda has an established system for handling product can be launched in the market. The medical and technical complaints. All comprocess is designed to protect patients and plaints are investigated and corrective meaguarantee the safe and correct manufacture sures taken where necessary. Meda registers of the new product. all complaints, allowing the company to track • All of Meda’s marketing companies have recurrent complaints of the same type and local registration experts who deal with the monitor any trends. 42 Meda Annual Report 2013 Sustainability report Manufacturing and supply Meda has both proprietary and contracted proindustry’s Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) ­ usiness Conduct Guidelines, the principles B duction units. This gives the company access to quality system. These audits are also subject to in UN Global Compact and other relevant new technology and flexibility, while achieving public authorities’ standards. Compliance with standards. good cost control. Meda’s proprietary units are the Supplier Code of Conduct is monitored in • Based on the responses, each supplier will in France, Germany and the US, and they connection with quality audits. When required, receive a CSR rating. account for around 30% of the company’s total Meda conducts specific audits with a focus on • These ratings will form the basis for a more product supply. Meda is constantly working to ethics and the environment. detailed risk analysis and for decisions on improve both efficiency and quality. whether a targeted CSR audit is warranted. The same delivery and reliability standards Risks and priorities • The system may be used for additional and other parameters apply to both Meda’s proIn general, Meda has received positive ­suppliers in the future. prietary production units and contract manufacresponses when communicating the Supplier turers delivering products to Meda. Code of Conduct. A CSR risk analysis forms the In cases where Meda considers a CSR audit of a basis for analysis of supplier self-assessments. supplier to be necessary, external expertise will Requirements and monitoring The results of this analysis indicate that Meda’s be brought in. Meda does not intend to develop Meda has strict standards enforced both interCSR risk exposure is low since the overwhelmthis type of expertise internally because the nally and for external suppliers and other busiing majority of suppliers operate in Europe and assumption is that it will only be necessary in a ness partners so that the company can fulfill its North America where the implementation of few cases. The implementation will continue in commitments to customers and other stakelegislation and regulations is well developed. the first half of 2014 and a complete follow-up of holders. Meda only has a few suppliers in countries the suppliers included in the system will be com• These standards relate to safety, quality, where CSR risks are deemed high (China and pleted before the end of 2014. price, function and delivery reliability. India). Meda has a good understanding of the • Meda’s internal standards relating to ethics, operations of these suppliers. Distribution working environment and employment The risk analysis showed that Meda should Distribution of Meda’s products on the market is terms, environmental impact, animal welfare aim to improve the system for regular monitorprimarily carried out by local service providers, and management systems are described in ing of suppliers and develop a standardized but managed by Meda. the company’s Business Conduct Guidelines. model for CSR audits where risk analysis indi• Meda has contracts with independent distri­ • Equivalent requirements for suppliers are set cates such a need. To meet this need Meda butors in markets where Meda’s products are out in the Supplier Code of Conduct. started implementing a web-based monitoring sold but where Meda has no representation • At the end of 2013 more than 95% of Meda’s system in 2013: of its own. purchases were from suppliers who have • The system will initially be used for suppliers • The distributors purchase products from accepted Meda’s Supplier Code of Conduct. with whom Meda has a purchase volume Meda and distribute and sell them in the exceeding SEK 5 million in 2013 – just under ­markets themselves. Meda performs regular audits of contract manu100 companies. • Meda’s ambition is to increase its underfacturers to check compliance with the require• The monitoring process consists of a standing of the ability of these distributors ments associated with the pharmaceutical ­standardized form based on Meda’s to comply with Meda’s guidelines. Meda Annual Report 2013 43 Sustainability report Acquisitions Employees Meda’s growth strategy involves a combination Meda has experienced considerable growth, recent years, which has led to staff turnover of organic growth and acquisitions. Acquisiprimarily through acquisitions. The objective is linked to this. In 2013, 480 employees left Meda tions have historically been the main driver of to preserve the strengths of the small company, either by termination, dismissal or outplacethe company’s expansion. From 2000 to 2013 i.e. a flat and efficient organization and short ment. In 2013 staff turnover at Meda was 16% Meda made more than 30 major acquisitions of decision-making paths and combine them with (15). Employees who are affected by organizacompanies and product rights. The acquisitions the resources of a large company. Here, Meda’s tional changes are offered support where relehave been key in the process of developing a culture is a valuable asset. vant, in compliance with local legislation and relevant product portfolio that meets actual Meda’s employees are of great importance practices. needs and creates value for patients and for the company’s success. The objective is to ­customers. have skilled and well-motivated employees Professional development, equality • When companies are acquired, Meda’s Busiwho are offered an attractive and supportive and diversity ness Conduct Guidelines are implemented workplace. Meda is determined to develop its The skills and commitment of employees are within the acquired company which is then employees by offering opportunities and chalkey to Meda’s development. Professional responsible for educating its employees lenges as well as a stimulating, safe and healthy development is based on the needs of the indiabout the guidelines. work environment. vidual and his/her role. Meda has a process of • The processes and governing documents structured professional development, with a used by the acquired company are harmoMeda’s workforce particular focus on product training when acquinized with those of Meda. At the end of 2013 the Group had 3,062 sitions are made. Meda is fully committed to • Meda monitors how well the harmonization employees (2,900), of which 53% (55) were ensuring that employees’ rights and opportuniand implementation of the Business Conduct women and 47% (45) were men. The majority ties are safeguarded. This applies to both existGuidelines are progressing through internal work within sales and marketing. Out of Meda’s ing and potential employees. controls. 3,062 employees, 137 were temporarily Meda’s Business Conduct Guidelines clearly employed. In addition, Meda had 164 contracstate that all employees and applicants are to Extensive investigations are conducted before tors at the end of 2013. be treated equally. Discrimination based on, for acquisitions are made. CSR factors are part of As the Group grows, Meda strives to achieve example, gender, gender identity or gender the investigation process. Since Meda primarily a balance between enriching the organization expression, ethnicity, religion or other belief acquires established products, manufacturing by bringing in new expertise and taking advansystems, disability, sexual orientation or age is and environmental issues are the main focus of tage of existing experience and routines. Meda strictly prohibited within Meda. No cases of disthe investigation process. has grown a lot through acquisitions over crimination were reported in 2013. Meda no. of employees Gender distribution, gender distribution managers, 2013 3,500 3,000 2,500 Men, 63% 2,000 Women, 37% 1,500 1,000 500 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 44 Meda Annual Report 2013 Sustainability report Employees, continued empowers employees to work on continuous Group. These units have systematic proceimprovements and to raise ideas and proposals dures to ensure a safe and secure working on all levels in the organization. environment. Both accidents and incidents are Of Meda’s (3,062) employees, 53% (55) are followed up and steps taken to prevent recurwomen. In management positions the distriburences. tion is 37% (37) women and 63% (63) men. • In 2013 a total of 39 (35) work-related injuries Meda strives to increase the percentage of were reported. They were mainly “mild trip, female managers through clearly defined skill slip or fall” injuries affecting manufacturing set requirements for each position. The results employees. are actively followed up. • The accident frequency is considered to be low. Meda monitors the number of accidents Health and safety in order to take action should the frequency Meda will offer a safe, healthy, pleasant place to increase. work. In order to ensure compliance with rele• The long-term vision is to eliminate the risk of vant occupational health and safety legislation, accidents and operate the company without Meda has dedicated staff and workplace handany work-related accidents occurring. books for the larger operating countries, such as Sweden, Germany, France and the US. Sick leave is relatively evenly split between All employees are entitled to participate in men and women and the various age groups: labor unions, and where such organizations • In 2013 sick leave was 3.2% (3.1). exist, Meda works actively with them on health • Absence for 60 days or more was 1.0% (0.9). and safety issues. • Monitoring sick leave and any necessary Meda’s factories and laboratories present to measures are handled at the local level. the biggest health and safety risks within the Sick leave (%) work related injuries and diseases 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2013 2012 2011 2010 Women 4.0 3.6 3.7 4.5 3.6 Work related injuries 39 35 27 31 Men 2.2 2.4 2.6 2.6 2.5 Lost working days in relation to Total 3.2 3.1 3.3 3.6 3.1 work related injuries 88 22 15 37 Work related diseases 1 2 2 3 By age Lost working days in relation to 50– 3.9 3.9 3.9 4.1 4.4 work related diseases 30 93 33 14 30–49 3.0 2.9 3.0 3.6 2.7 The collection of data for work related injuries and diseases started in 2010. 0–29 2.4 2.7 2.9 3.4 2.7 Continous sick leave >60 days 1.0 0.9 0.9 1.2 0.9 Meda Annual Report 2013 45 Sustainability report Governance Ethical conduct should be used and the effects of use. In • Auditing and monitoring are done with the Meda’s operations affect people’s lives and some cases information is required about help of external resources and through health. Accordingly, in addition to comply with how to dispose the product. ­self-assessment. laws and regulations, the company must be • Regulated communication Meda always • Self-assessment includes the local units operated in a responsible and ethical manner. complies with national regulations on how to ­following up their compliance with Meda’s This area is governed by Meda’s ethical communicate information to patients and Business Conduct Guidelines and Internal guidelines and the Business Conduct Guideother interest groups. Control Standards, as well as other rules and line, combined with the Swedish Corporate • Good marketing practices The company guidelines. Governance Code. complies with the guidelines associated with • The company conducts business continuity The Business Conduct Guidelines cover busigood marketing practices. These may vary planning risk assessments that focus on ness ethics and the company’s relationships from country to country. product supply and external suppliers. with employees, customers, suppliers, public • Corruption and conflicts of interest Meda’s authorities, competitors and other players. Business Conduct Guidelines provide details In 2013 Meda’s systems for corporate gover• The guidelines expressly prohibit any of Meda’s zero tolerance for corruption and nance and internal control were enhanced in ­influence that aims to create inappropriate rules on how employees should handle situathe following ways: advantages for Meda and/or for individual tions where conflicts of interest may arise. • The Business Conduct Guidelines were employees. updated in May 2013 with clearer wording on • Similarly, attempts to influence political Animal studies anti-corruption and Meda’s undertakings ­parties or candidates through donations are The pharmaceutical industry has made considunder the UN Global Compact, focusing not permitted. erable progress with regard to alternatives to mainly on human rights and labor rights. • The guidelines have been developed to animal studies when developing drugs. Despite • The processes for communication and implefocus more on the issue of anti-corruption. this, animal studies are sometimes unavoidmentation of the Business Conduct Guide• Meda’s companies are permitted to be able, or even mandatory. lines were improved and correct implemenengaged in societal issues that are relevant Meda’s development is essentially concentation will now be assured at the country to Meda’s business. Meda’s companies work trated to late-phase clinical studies. Conselevel within the sales organization and at the locally with various issues depending on the quently, the drugs are tested on humans sevcorresponding organizational level within priorities in a particular market. eral times and the company’s need for animal other functions. • The activities of local companies are subject studies is therefore extremely limited. In 2013, • Further development of the security aspects to Meda’s internal guidelines for ethical Meda did not conduct any animal studies. in Meda’s IT environment was conducted. ­conduct in accordance with the Business Meda complies with relevant guidelines and • In 2013, there was one incident of breach to Conduct Guidelines. regulations relating to animal studies, such as the Business Conduct Guidelines reported those established in Good Laboratory Practice from Meda’s affiliate in Dubai. Corrective Guiding principles according to ISO 15189 and the OECD Princiactions were immediately taken. Also, Meda Meda takes responsibility for operating within ples of Good Laboratory Practice. further improved the process for internal the framework of competition legislation in its control. global operations. The company’s Business Corporate governance Conduct Guidelines supplement this type of Effective corporate governance is an essential Meda has a Whistleblower Policy and a process legislation and prohibit partnerships or agreeconsideration for Meda. As a listed company by which employees can report irregularities ments with competitors on price, terms or simiquoted on the Nordic Large Cap segment of outside the normal line organization. The lar aspects. NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, Meda complies with employees are entitled to remain anonymous. • Correct information All of the information the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. As part of its 2014 CSR objectives, Meda will provided by Meda must be correct and Meda has drawn up several governing docucontinue to develop the model to monitor comissued in such a way that the intended recipiments, including the Business Conduct Guidepliance with the Business Conduct Guidelines. ent can understand it and form an accurate lines and Internal Control Standards, which all Read more in the Corporate Governance opinion on it. affiliates within Meda must observe. report on page 63. • Regulated market Meda operates in a strictly regulated market. All products and services are subject to regulation and standards for content, manufacturing, how the product 46 Meda Annual Report 2013 Sustainability report Governance, continued UN Global Compact • Marketing Document and coordinate the Meda joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in various models for good marketing practices May 2012. This means that Meda has underwithin the company to ensure that the practaken to promote UNGC’s ten principles on tices in all countries meet the expected stanhuman rights, labor rights, the environment and dards. anti-corruption. Meda supports all internationally recognized principles on human rights as Risk management during expansion well as the ILO Core Conventions, and pledges Meda has experienced considerable growth to develop its efforts in these areas. over the past ten years. Much of this expansion Promoting the UNGC’s ten principles will be has been achieved through acquisitions of part of the way in which Meda is governed and companies and exclusive product rights, and pursues its operations. In 2013 Meda analyzed through long-term partnerships. how well the company was fulfilling its UNGC A thorough review is conducted before commitment. This analysis was conducted with acquisitions are made. CSR factors are included help from external experts and resulted in a in the review process. Since Meda primarily plan of action to be implemented in 2014 and acquires established products, production and 2015. The key points are: environmental issues are the main focus of the • Supplier requirements Update Meda’s Supreview process. plier Code of Conduct to more clearly reflect Some of Meda’s new markets are deemed to the company’s expectations of suppliers with be associated with relatively high risk in terms respect to human rights, particularly the right of corruption, human rights violations and envito organize and collective bargaining. This ronmental damage. Meda places particular will be done in 2014 in connection with the emphasis on following up these aspects in development of the system for supplier monhigh-risk markets. The company’s operations in itoring. high-risk countries are almost entirely limited to • Product supply Develop risk assessment of sales and marketing, no development nor the product supply chain. This will be done in manu­facturing activities take place. 2014 in connection with the implementation Meda also takes steps to improve internal of a new system for supplier monitoring. control in countries where the company has • Human rights Develop the Business Conrecently established operations. duct Guidelines to further define Meda’s supDevelopment and manufacturing take port of the ILO Core Conventions and the place primarily in the US, Germany, France UN Universal Declaration of Business and and Sweden. Human Rights. This will be done at the next Acquired companies and products are update planned for no later than spring 2015. integrated immediately into the Meda Group. • Knowledge improvement Improve coordinaThis means that Meda’s CSR work and guidetion of Meda’s internal HR policies between lines are introduced into recently acquired different countries and develop internal traincompanies. ing for employees in CSR risks, e.g. anti-corruption and discrimination. • Whistleblowing Introduce a process whereby external stakeholders can report issues. Meda Annual Report 2013 47 Sustainability report Environment Meda’s environmental impact comes primarily • Operate in accordance with ISO 14001. • These objectives are regularly followed from: • Raise environmental awareness among up and revised. • Energy consumption, emissions and waste ­managers and other employees. • Since 2012, all of the production facilities, from production. the development laboratory in Radebeul and • Energy consumption at offices and other Manufacturing the offices in Solna and Bad Homburg are premises. Meda’s environmental efforts mainly concern covered by the ISO 14001 certification. Envi• Emissions from goods transportation the production units in Germany, France and ronmental audits of all relevant units/facilities and travel. the US. These production units are only are conducted by a third party. engaged in formulating and packaging pharma• Environmental audits of all relevant units/ The goal is to constantly reduce Meda’s environceuticals. facilities are conducted by a third party. mental impact and operate in a sustainable Meda complies with relevant regulatory manner in the long term. The company comrequirements from governmental authorities Water and waste plies with all relevant environmental laws and with respect to documenting the pharmaceutiAs the production units are only engaged in uses an ISO 14001 certified environmental mancal residues in aquatic environments that arise ­formulating and packaging pharmaceuticals the agement system (EMS). The aim is to achieve from pharmaceutical use. The company also amount of waste generated is relatively small higher standards than those required under the monitors research for new findings. The domiand solvent emissions to air are minimal. All of law. Prioritized areas are energy consumption, nant opinion among experts in the field is that the company’s facilities have permits within the hazardous waste and material consumption. the amounts of pharmaceutical residues that framework of current operations to release are possible to be measured in the environ­process wastewater with regular wastewater Meda’s environmental policy in brief ment cannot be considered harmful to humans, for processing in treatment plants. They are in Meda’s environmental policy states that the animals or plant life. compliance with their permits with good company is to: • The production facilities have all the environmargins. • Comply with the environmental laws and mental permits required under the law in the • Most of the waste consists of process water, ordinances in force. respective countries and according to EU coming mainly from equipment cleaning. • Consider commercial opportunities and risks regulations. • The volume of hazardous waste generated from an environmental perspective. • All units are actively monitored and no deviais low. • Reduce energy consumption. tions were noted in 2013. • Only small amounts of pharmaceutical • Consider the environment when purchasing ­residues are generated. goods and services. Meda’s EMS is certified according to ISO 14001. • Meda handles production and laboratory • Ensure the safe and responsible manageThe Group’s units have their own objectives waste in accordance with laws and estabment of chemicals. for energy consumption and waste generation, lished routines. • Limit water consumption and waste and, where applicable, for wastewater and generation. emission levels. Water and waste, Manufacturing greenhouse gas emissions by greenhouse gas emissions, geoand Development units category, meda group 2013 graphic distribution, meda group 2013 2013 Electricity, 27% Cologne, 25% Water 93,970 m³ Company cars, 22% US, 21% of which process Gas & Oil, 18% Supply chain, 15% wastewater 50,423 m³ Transportation, 15% Bad Homburg, 7% Waste 1,112 tons Business travel, 9% Merignac, 5% of which hazardous Commuting, 9% waste 86 tons France Pharma, 3% These values will be the basis for efficiency and improvement Solna, 2% efforts in the years ahead to reduce water consumption and Radebeul, 1% waste volumes. Other units, 21% 48 Meda Annual Report 2013 Sustainability report Environment, continued Energy and carbon dioxide emissions1) and on better coordination. Another priority is CO2 emissions as reported Reducing energy consumption and greenpromoting alternatives to business trips by, for to CDP (ton) house gas emissions is Meda’s top environexample increasing the use of video and telemental priority. Meda met its 2013 goal for phone conferencing. 2013 2012 2011 reducing CO2 emissions per employee when Meda has been participating in the Carbon Scope 1: the emissions level fell from 11.7 to 11.3 metric Disclosure Project (CDP) for several years. ParGas and oil 6,245 5,926 5,416 tons per employee, a reduction of 3%. ticipation in CDP supports the company’s conCompany cars 7,619 7,528 6,621 • In 2013 Meda’s direct and indirect carbon tinuing environmental and climate initiatives Scope 2: dioxide emissions were 34,548 (34,028) metand also provides the company with feedback on reports and measures implemented. Electricity 9,226 9,522 9,261 ric tons equivalent to 11.3 (11.7) metric tons per employee and 2,630 (2,607) metric tons per • Meda’s CDP reporting in 2013 was awarded Scope 3: SEK thousand in net sales2). 83 C/100 A (73 C). For more information on Business trips 3,258 3,251 2,957 • Direct emissions originate from heating and CDP, visit CDP’s website. Commuting 2,900 2,655 2,770 the use of company cars. • Meda’s score for transparency and actual Supply chain 5,300 5,146 4,996 • Indirect emissions come mainly from electricresults has improved from 61 D in 2011 to Total 34,548 34,028 32,021 ity consumption. 83 C in 2013. Per employee 11.3 11.7 12.2 Scope 1: D  irect emissions from CO2 sources owned or The increase in CO2 emissions in 2013 is linked Meda offsets the climate impact of its Swedish controlled by the reporting organization. to the growing number of employees and operations by investing in certified Clean Scope 2: I ndirect emissions caused by the organization’s consumtion of energy. increased energy consumption for heating purDevelopment Mechanism (CDM) projects. Scope 3: O ther indirect emissions that occur as a result poses, where the latter is mainly weather • These projects are run in line with the intenof the organization’s activities. related. The most important long-term meations of the Kyoto Protocol and are monitored sures for reducing CO2 emissions are related to by the UN. energy consumption at the plants. Meda has • They also meet comprehensive requiresuccessfully implemented steps to reduce elecments with respect to measureable reductricity consumption. Meda is also focusing on tions in CO2 emissions and positive social improving efficiency in goods transportation impacts. 1) Minor corrections of data presented previous years have been performed. 2) These emission values are based on actual data from all of the production and development units and other operations in Sweden, the US, France and Germany. CO2 emissions for the whole of Meda were then extrapolated from this data. Energy use 2013 2012 2011 2010 Natural gas, m3 3,195,364 3,070,505 2,806,026 3,474,937 Company cars, driving distance, km 40,100,853 40,004,940 34,849,042 43,144,653 Electricity, MWh 24,324 22,406 24,160 24,710 2013 2012 2011 2010 Natural gas, GJ 124,651 119,780 109,463 135,557 Company cars, driving distance, km3) – – – – Electricity, GJ 87,566 80,662 86,976 88,956 3) Reporting on company cars cannot be converted to GJ as Meda does not collect information on fuel type. Meda Annual Report 2013 49 Sustainability report Community involvement Meda considers it to be the company’s duty to Since it was founded in 1982, the organization make a positive contribution to society. The has supplied more than USD 9 billion in humancompany helps improve health and well-being itarian aid to 137 countries. AmeriCares has helped through its effective operations. Furthermore, mitigate the effects of cyclones in Bangladesh, Meda contributes to the community via donaearthquakes in Peru and Pakistan, Hurricane tions to charitable organizations and sponsorKatrina in the US, famine in Darfur and the tsuship of research. Meda also maintains a Child­ nami in Southeast Asia. ren’s Fund which has supported several pro­ In 2013, products donated by Meda were jects aimed at children in need in developing ­distributed in 31 countries. countries since it was established in 2002. Map international Karolinska institutet Meda has been donating products to MAP In 2008 Meda decided to donate a total of International since 2001. MAP is a voluntary aid SEK 35 million to Karolinska institutet (KI) for organization founded in 1954 that works to research on inflammatory diseases. The dona­support some of the world’s poorest people in tion was part of KI’s Breakthrough for Life over 115 countries. (Genombrott för livet) campaign. The campaign The organization supplies clinics and hospiis supporting research in areas where KI is tals in vulnerable areas with FDA-approved already a leader and where financial investdrugs and medical equipment. MAP Internament can help bring about research breaktional also works to prevent and mitigate outthroughs over the next few years. breaks of disease and to promote the construcIn 2011, thanks to Meda’s donation, KI was tion of local healthcare facilities. able to establish a professorship in clinical therMAP International has played an important apy research of inflammatory diseases. KI is role in providing access to healthcare and expected to play a key role in this development, drugs for millions of victims of disasters, such as largely thanks to the cutting edge research in Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines, the earththe field, new approaches to prevention and quake in Haiti and devastating hurricanes in the early treatment, as well a uniquely close link Caribbean. between basic and patient-centric research. In 2013, Meda’s products reached people in need in 47 countries. Meda’s Children’s Fund Meda’s Children’s Fund is a charitable foundaDirect relief international tion for disadvantaged children. The Fund has Meda regularly donates pharmaceutical pro­ been active since 2002 and since then has ducts to Direct Relief International. Since 1948, ­supported a range of projects. In 2013 Meda’s Direct Relief International has been helping to Children’s Fund donated SEK 2 million to the improve the quality of life of people in Hand in Hand organization for a project in India extremely difficult situations. The organization that is focusing primarily on supporting provides high-demand medicines, OTC drugs, ­women’s education and helping then get into medical supplies and equipment, personal care the workforce, which in turn will enable more products and nutritional supplements. In addichildren to go to school instead of having to go tion, the organization makes targeted capital to work. The project also makes direct investdonations and provides health worker educaments in schools. tion. In 2013, Meda’s products reached nine countries via Direct Relief International. AmeriCares Since 2003, Meda has been a partner of AmeriCares, a non-profit organization that delivers drugs, medical supplies and aid to people in need around the world. 50 Meda Annual Report 2013 Sustainability report CSR objectives in 2014 and onwards The objectives for 2014 will build on the results that have been achieved so far. The Group-wide objectives are as follows: Complete the implemenFurther develop internal Develop internal policies Continue to reduce the tation of a web-based control and the Business and processes relating company’s environmensystem for monitoring Conduct Guidelines with to the UN Global Comtal impact. The overarchsupplier compliance with respect to communicapact in accordance with ing measurement is the the Supplier Code of tion and employee trainthe action plan devellevels of carbon emisConduct, and conduct ing. oped in 2013. sions per employee. the first review of the suppliers included in the system. Meda Annual Report 2013 51 Sustainability report GRI index About Meda’s sustainability report 2013 requirements for application level C+. The inforeconomic and environmental impact and results. Meda reports its sustainability performance mation in this report has been reviewed by a Below is Meda’s complete GRI table. The annually. The sustainability report refers to the third party (PwC) who confirms this statement. table includes the profile information that is manfiscal year 2013. Meda applies the GRI voluntary Meda’s sustainability report covers the entire datory for GRI Level C and performance indicaguidelines for sustainability reporting 3.0. The Group unless indicated otherwise. The report tors considered relevant. Visit Meda’s website information provided in the report meets the GRI provides a complete picture of Meda’s social, for GRI Report Application Level table. Reference to annual report including Reporting: sustainability report Fully/ Standard information/indicator 2013 Partially Comment 2013 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 CEO’s comments 2–3 1.2 Risks and opportunities 6–7, 39, 41, 43 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Organization name 120 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services 12–13, 19–30, 43 2.3 Organizational structure 8–9, 32, 105 (Note 16) 2.4 Location of headquarters 120 2.5 Countries where the organization is active Front cover inside , 16–17 2.6 Ownership and legal form 63 2.7 Markets Front cover inside, 8–9, 16–17 2.8 Company size 1, 56–57 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 1, 56–57 Product acquisitions were performed in 2013 but they do not bring significant changes as referred to by this indicator. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period No awards received in 2013. 3. REPORT PARAMETERS Report profile 3.1 Reporting period 52 3.2 Most recent reporting date Meda’s 2012 sustainability report was published as part of the 2012 annual report in April 2013. 3.3 Reporting cycle 52 3.4 Contact person for questions regarding the report 120 Paula Treutiger, Investor Relations. Email: IR@meda.se Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content 36, 39–40 3.6 Boundary of the report 74 (Note 1) The sustainability report applies the same reporting policies as the annual report, unless stated otherwise. No additional boundaries have been imposed. 3.7 Limitations on the scope of the report 48 Environmental performance data for waste and water are limited to Meda’s production units. 3.8 Reporting policies for joint ventures 74 (Note 1) Please see the Group’s note on reporting principles. 3.10 Explanation for any re-statements from former reports 39, 49 3.11 Significant changes in scope, boundaries, or measurement methods 44–45 Employee turnover is calculated as number of people leaving/ total compared with reports from previous years number of employees. Improved reporting of lost time due to accident by alignment to recommended reporting practice. 3.12 Table identifying location of all parts of the GRI 52–53 This is Meda’s complete GRI index. 3.13 Policy and practice for external assurance 36, 54 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENTS Governance 4.1 Governance Structure 63, 114–115 4.2 Role of the Chairman of the Board 65–66 Bert-Åke Eriksson is Chairman and Dr. Jörg-Thomas Dierks is CEO and President of Meda. 4.3 Independent or non-executive board members 65–66 4.4 Mechanisms to provide proposals or direction to the Board of Directors 46, 63 No additional formal processes in place. 52 Meda Annual Report 2013 Sustainability report Reference to annual report including Reporting: sustainability report Fully/ Standard information/indicator 2013 Partially Comment 2013 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or basic values, code of 43, 46–48, 59 conduct, and principles for sustainable/responsible entrepreneurship 4.12 External declarations, principles, and initiatives 37, 46–47, 58 Meda complies with the requirements and guidelines in the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, ISO 14001, GRI, and GxP (regulatory frameworks that govern the pharmaceutical industry). Stakeholder engagement 4.14 Stakeholder groups 36, 39 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders 36, 39 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 36, 39, 43 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised in dialogues with 39–40 stakeholders PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 39 Fully EC 3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 83–84 (Note 8) Fully 91–95 (Note 25) EC 4 Significant financial assistance received from government Fully Meda has not received significant financial assistance from the government 2013. EC 8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 50 Partially provided primarily for public benefit ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS EN 3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 48–49 Fully EN 4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source 48–49 Fully EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source 48 Partially EN 16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 48–49 Fully EN 17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 49 Fully EN 18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 48–49 Partially EN 21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 48 Partially EN 22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 48 Partially EN 26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services 48–49 Partially EN 28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Fully No such incidents in 2013. sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations SOCIAL INDICATORS Labor practices and decent work LA 1 Total workforce by employment type and region 32, 44, 82 (Note 7) Fully LA 2 Employee turnover 44 Fully LA 7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 45 Partially No fatalities within Meda’s operations in 2013. total number of work-related fatalities by region LA 13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per 32, 44–45, 82 (Note 7) Fully Meda does not report broken down by ethnicity/minority group as it is category according to indicators of diversity 114–117 prohibited by Swedish law to record such information. Human rights HR 2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone 43 Fully screening on human rights and actions taken HR 4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 45 Fully Society SO 4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 46 Fully One incident of non-compliance with Meda’s Business Conduct Guidelines was reported in 2013. Proper actions have been taken. SO 5 Participation in political decision-making processes and lobbying 46 Partially SO 6 Total value of all contributions and gifts to political parties Fully Meda does not contribute with gifts or services to political processes or institutions as referred to by this indicator. SO 8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Fully No such incidents in 2013. sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product responsibility PR 1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and 40–43, 45–49 Partially services are assessed PR 3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and 46 Fully Meda operates in a strictly regulated market. All products and services percentage of significant products and services subject to such information are subject to regulation and requirements with regard to content, requirements production, use, how the product will be used, and the effects of use. In some cases information about how the product will be discarded must also be submitted. PR 9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Fully No such incidents in 2013. Meda Annual Report 2013 53 Sustainability report Auditor’s limited assurance report on ­sustainability report To the readers of the Meda AB Annual Report 2013 Introduction that might be identified in an audit. Accordingly, we do not express a reaWe have been engaged by the management of Meda AB to undertake a sonable assurance opinion. limited assurance engagement of the Meda Sustainability Report for the The criteria on which our procedures are based are the parts of the year 2013. The company has defined the scope of the Sustainability Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3, published by the Global Reporting Report in the table of contents. Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the company has develResponsibility of the Board and Management for the oped and disclosed. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparaSustainability Report tion of the Sustainability Report. The Board of Directors and Executive Management are responsible for We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and approthe ongoing activities regarding environment, occupational health & priate to provide a basis for our opinion below. safety, social responsibility, and sustainable development, and for the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability Report in accordance Conclusion with applicable criteria. Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Responsibility of the Auditor Report, is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the above stated criteria. Sustainability Report based on the procedures we have performed. We have conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in Stockholm, March 31, 2014 nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance PricewaterhouseCoopers AB engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality Control, and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The procedures performed consequently do not enable us to Mikael Eriksson Fredrik Ljungdahl obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters Authorised Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR 54 Meda Annual Report 2013 Table of Contents Management report 56 Operations 60 Risk factors 63 Corporate governance report Financial reports 68 Accounts group 74 Notes group 97 Accounts parent company 102 Notes parent company 108 Statement of the board 109 Auditor’s report 110 Financial review 112 The Meda share 114 Board members 116 Executives information 118 Definitions 119 Glossary and trademark rights 120 Shareholder information Meda Annual Report 2013 55 Operations MANAGEMENT REPORT Operations The board of directors and CEO for Meda AB, corporate ID 556427-2812, North America, but also in growth markets. Dermatology includes diseases hereby submit the following annual report and consolidated financial statesuch as skin cancer, acne and dermatitis which are all common conditions ments for the 2013 financial year. where incidence isgrowing. This is partly due to environmental factors such as sun exposure. Operations Meda is a leading international specialty pharma company with a broad OTC Products product portfolio and its own sales organization in close to 60 countries. In recent years, Meda has built an extensive operation in over-the-counter Including the markets where distributors handle sales activities, Meda’s drugs (OTC). At the end of 2013, the OTC segment comprised about 24% of products are sold in more than 120 countries. total sales. More and more markets offer an increasingly large range of OTC products. They are key complements to prescribed drugs, because Business concept they often save patients time and reduce the cost burden on the health Meda’s business concept is to offer cost effective and medically well-moticare system. Demand is also being driven by the recent growing interest in vated products. The company’s goal is to become a world-leading specialty preventive health care. This varies widely from market to market and pharma company. The means for achieving this involves organic growth depends on how the health care system is constructed. through market adapted product development and an active acquisition strategy. Based on a broad product portfolio and a strong cash flow, Meda’s Sales business concept is to identify, secure access to, integrate and commercialNet sales for 2013 amounted to SEK 13,114 million (12,991). At fixed exchange ize pharmaceutical products in the selected therapy areas (primarily Respirates, sales were 3% higher than in 2012, while organic sales growth ratory and Dermatology) and the OTC market segment. amounted to 4%. Marketing and sales Sales by geographic area Meda holds a clearly-defined position in the value chain. The company’s (SEK million) 2013 2012 Index Index1) Index2) main focus is sales and marketing. One of Meda’s strongest assets is the ability to quickly and effectively integrate acquired operations and com­ Western Europe 8,507 8,452 101 102 102 mercialize new products. Key activities are primarily sales and marketing, USA 2,416 2,481 97 101 105 development of existing products, manufacturing and supply. Emerging Markets 1,951 1,834 106 111 114 Other Sales 240 224 107 108 96 Growth Total sales 13,114 12,991 101 103 104 Meda’s growth strategy involves a combination of organic growth and 1) Fixed exchange rates 2) Organic growth acquisitions. Acquisitions have historically been the main driver of the company’s expansion and have been supported on an ongoing basis by the Sales in Western Europe for the period amounted to SEK 8,507 million company’s investments in organic product and market development. The (8,452), representing 2% growth, both organic and at fixed exchange rates. combined results are a significant product portfolio in Respiratory, DermaFor the full year, Germany and the Netherlands dominated in growth in the tology and OTC. region, while sales trends in the Nordic region were negative compared to Since 2012, in addition to the OTC portfolio and growth markets, Meda the previous year. has focused on a number of selected therapy areas, particularly RespiraSales in the US amounted to SEK 2,416 million (2,481), representing an tory and Dermatology. This has involved a greater focus on organic growth. increase of 1% in fixed exchange rates and organic sales growth of 5%. The In 2012 and 2013 new products were launched in these therapeutic focus positive turnaround in the US is mainly the result of Dymista’s sales growth, areas, for example Dymista and Zyclara. with sales reaching SEK 410 million in this market in 2013. Royalty income Several products of the Nordic OTC portfolio were launched in new from the cooperation agreement with Valeant amounted to SEK 276 million markets in 2013. Meda also increased its market investments in a number (545). of growth market countries during the year. The combination of new Sales in Emerging Markets amounted to SEK 1,951 million (1,834), launches and an increased investments in countries with higher growth ­representing an increase of 11% at fixed exchange rates. Organic growth improved Meda’s organic growth in 2013. amounted to 14%. Growth compared to the previous year was mainly driven by China, Brazil and eastern European markets, whereas growth in the Therapy areas ­Middle East was weaker than in the previous year. Meda offers its customers solutions in the form of a broad portfolio of prodOther Sales amounted to SEK 240 million (224). ucts and knowledge in selected therapy areas. Prescription drugs – two strong therapy areas Meda focuses primarily on two therapy areas – Respiratory and Dermatology. The company’s products are meeting a growing need among patients and healthcare providers. This need is driven by factors such as the growing incidence of allergies and asthma, particularly in Western Europe and 56 Meda Annual Report 2013 MANAGEMENT REPORT Operations Sales by product category Tied-up capital affected cash flow in the amount of SEK –111 million (–238). Inventories increased by SEK 97 million, mainly due to stockpiling of (SEK million) 2013 2012 Index Index1) Index2) Dymista in the US market. Receivables had a negative impact on cash flow Specialty Products 8,265 8,107 102 104 106 of SEK 225 million, mainly as a result of higher sales at the end of the fourth OTC 3,133 3,023 104 105 103 quarter compared to at the end of the fourth quarter of 2012. Liabilities had Branded Generics 1,320 1,454 91 92 93 a positive impact on cash flow in the amount of SEK 211 million, mainly Other Sales 396 407 97 98 106 explained by an increase in accrued expenses. As a result, cash flow from Total sales 13,114 12,991 101 103 104 operating activities amounted to SEK 2,845 million (2,813). Cash flow from investing activities amounted to SEK –1,255 million 1) Fixed exchange rates 2) Organic growth (–1,143). The acquisition of the patented product Aerospan in the US was completed at the beginning of the fourth quarter. Sales in Specialty Products amounted to SEK 8,265 million (8,107), repreCash flow from financing activities amounted to SEK –1,597 million senting an increase of 4% in fixed exchange rates. Organic growth for the (–1,608). period amounted to 6%, which was mainly attributable to Dymista sales, but Free cash flow per share for the period amounted to SEK 8.89 (8.84). also to a positive impact from strong growth for Elidel, Solco and Formoterol. The Specialty Products category was negatively affected by lower Financing sales, particularly for Astepro and Soma. Equity as of December 31 was SEK 15,211 million, compared to SEK 14,723 OTC sales amounted to SEK 3,133 million (3,023), representing an million at the beginning of the year, corresponding to SEK 50.3 (48.7) per increase of 5% at fixed exchange rates. Organic growth was 3% for the share. The equity/assets ratio was 41.9% compared to 40.0% at the beginperiod, mainly attributable to the launch of CB12 and Endwarts in new Euroning of the year. The Group’s net debt as of December 31 was SEK 15,025, pean markets. compared to SEK 16,037 at the beginning of the year. Branded Generics had sales of SEK 1,320 million (1,454), a decrease of 8% at fixed exchange rates. Organic growth in this category amounted to Proposed allocation of profits –7%, mainly explained by lower sales for several products in the US. The following profits are at the disposal of the 2014 annual general meeting: Other Sales amounted to SEK 396 million (407). Parent company, SEK Profit The following profits are at the disposal of the AGM: Operating profit Operating profit for 2013 was SEK 1,548 million (1,801) and EBITDA Share premium reserve 5,694,493,945 amounted to SEK 3,734 million (3,945), representing a margin of 28.5 % Fair value reserve –26,213,269 (30.4). Operating expenses amounted to SEK 6,479 (6,149) million. Retained earnings 2,455,212,311 Selling expenses for the period amounted to SEK 2,993 million (2,867). Profit for the year 327,760,298 The increase is mainly due to marketing investments for Dymista in the US Total profit available for allocation 8,451,253,285 and Europe, and international initiatives in the OTC area. The board proposes the following allocation Medicine and business development expenses increased to SEK 2,794 of available profits: million (2,609), mainly as a result of clinical study costs relating to Dymista. Dividend to the shareholders (SEK 2.50 per share) 755,607,663 Carried forward 7,695,645,622 Financial items and net income Total 8,451,253,285 The Group’s net finance costs for 2013 amounted to SEK –545 million (–565) and profit after net finance costs was SEK 1,003 million (1,236). The average interest rate as of December 31, 2013 was 2.8% (3.0). One of Meda’s most important business goals is to generate long-term The Group’s tax expense was SEK 198 million (61), equivalent to a tax value growth for the shareholders. This value growth may be in the form of rate of 19.8% (5.1). The tax expense for the previous year was positively a higher share price and dividend payments. In preparing its dividend proaffected by the amount of SEK 179 million relating to the revaluation of posal Meda’s board evaluates a number of factors including: deferred tax liabilities due to a reduction in the Swedish corporate tax rate – Sustained profit trends to 22%. Excluding non-recurring effects, the 2012 tax expense was SEK – Expansion opportunities and access to capital 240 million, equivalent to a tax rate of 19.4%. – Operating risk Net income for the year amounted to SEK 805 million (1,175) and earn– Effect of dividends on cash and cash equivalents ings per share amounted to SEK 2.67 (3.98). Excluding the non-recurring – Equity/assets ratio targets effects, the earnings per share for 2012 amounted to SEK 3.39. After an overall assessment of these factors, the board proposes a dividend for 2013 of SEK 2.50 (2.25) per share, making a total dividend of SEK Cash flow 756 million (680). Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital was Based on equity as of December 31, 2013, this dividend represents a SEK 2,956 million (3,051). reduction in the Group’s equity/assets ratio from 41.9% to 39.9%. Meda Annual Report 2013 57 Operations MANAGEMENT REPORT Based on the board’s proposed allocation of profits and the disclosures trated on development close to the market in the late clinical or registration above, as well as other matters of which the board is aware, and after a phases. The focus is often on well-known active ingredients and improving comprehensive assessment of the company’s and the Group’s financial the characteristics of an existing product, for example through: position, the board has determined that the proposed dividend is justified • New formulations, such as a higher strength azelastine nasal spray taking into account the requirements that the risks, nature and scope of the (Astepro) for oncedaily use or a lower strength imiquimod cream business place on the size of the company’s and the Group’s equity, and ­(Zyclara) for the treatment of larger areas. the company’s and the Group’s consolidation requirements, liquidity and • Combination products, such as Acnatac for multi-factorial treatment of financial position in general. acne vulgaris. • Internationalization of approved drugs, such as Aerospan and Dymista, Key events during the financial year in new countries/regions. Dymista approved in Europe Dymista was approved in Europe through the decentralized registration In 2013, Meda invested SEK 249 million (143) in drug development, excludprocess. Dymista has been approved for the treatment of seasonal and ing costs for registration, side-effect management and quality assurance. perennial allergic rhinitis. The national registration processes, including negotiations regarding pricing and reimbursement, as well as product Sustainability and corporate social responsibility (csr) launches have been ongoing in 2013, and Dymista is now sold in ­several Meda coordinates all accountability and sustainability issues under its corEuropean markets. porate social responsibility (CSR) and has for a number of years been focusing on areas identified as particulary important with respect to responsible Meda is expanding its partnership with Indian pharmaceutical business practices. These areas are: patient safety, manufacturing, sales ­company Cipla and marketing, acquisitions, employees, governance, enviroment and comMeda is broadening the scope of its partnership with the Indian pharmamunity involvment. ceutical company Cipla, thereby expanding the exclusive rights for Dymista CSR objectives are defined and monitored regularly. Overall goverand ensuring future product development. This expanded collaboration nance takes place at the Group level with direct feedback to the CEO, while gives Meda coverage in Emerging Markets in Latin and South ­America, the local units are responsible for organization and implementation. The results Middle East, Africa and Asia, encompassing more than 120 new markets. of Meda’s CSR work in 2013 are described in Meda’s Sustainability Report on pages 36–54. Meda acquires Aerospan Meda has acquired the patented product Aerospan through the acquisition UN Global Compact of Acton Pharmaceuticals Inc. The acquisition was completed on October Meda joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in May 2012. This means that 21 and the purchase price was USD 135 million. The transaction includes a Meda has undertaken to promote UNGC’s ten principles on human rights, milestone payment of USD 10 million and royalty-based milestones. labor rights, environment and anti-corruption. Meda supports all internaAerospan (flunisolide HFA, 80 mcg) has been approved by the US Food tionally recognized principles on human rights as well as the ILO Core Conand Drug Administration (FDA) to treat adults and children, six years and up, ventions, and pledges to develop its efforts in these areas. Promoting the with asthma. Aerospan is the only registered product in the US market with UNGC’s ten principles will be part of the way in which Meda is governed a spacer, a built-in inhalation chamber that allows better drug delivery to the and pursues its operations. lungs. Environment Jörg-Thomas Dierks is Meda’s new CEO Meda’s environmental impact comes primarily from: The board has appointed Dr Jörg-Thomas Dierks as the new CEO. He has • Energy consumption, emissions and waste from production worked for Meda as COO (Chief Operating Officer) since 2005. Jörg• Energy consumption at offices and other premises Thomas Dierks is 53 years old and a physician. He has a long experience in • Emissions from goods transportation and travel. the pharmaceutical industry at NovoNordisk and Viatris before coming to Meda. The goal is to constantly reduce Meda’s environmental impact and operate in a sustainable manner in the long term. The company complies with all relNew management team evant environmental laws and uses an ISO 14001 certified environmental Meda’s CEO Jörg-Thomas Dierks has formed a new management team management system (EMS). The aim is to achieve higher standards than consisting of: those required under the law. Prioritized areas are energy consumption, – Maria Carell Executive Vice President, North America/Australia hazardous waste and material consumption. – Esfandiar Faghfouri Executive Vice President, Europe/Asia/Africa – Dirk Groen Executive Vice President, Marketing OTC Production and enviromental permits – Erik Haeffler Executive Vice President, Manufacturing & Sustainability Meda’s environmental efforts mainly concern the production units in Ger– Ton van’t Hullenaar Executive Vice President, Europe/Latin America many, France and the US. The production facilities have all the environmen– Hans-Jürgen Kromp Executive Vice President, Legal & Trademarks tal permits required under the law in the respective countries and accord– Dr. Joachim Maus acting Executive Vice President, Scientific Affairs ing to EU regulations. All units are actively monitored and no deviations – Henrik Stenqvist Executive Vice President, CFO were noted in 2013. – Hans-Jürgen Tritschler Executive Vice President, Marketing Rx Meda’s EMS is certified according to ISO14001 and implemented in – Rainer Weiß Executive Vice President, Human Resources 2009. The Group’s units have their own objectives for energy consumption – Mårten Österlund Executive Vice President, Business Development and waste generation, and, where applicable, for wastewater and emission levels. These objectives are regularly followed up and revised. Since 2012, Group operations in drug development all of the production facilities, The development laboratory in Radebeul and The value-generating work at Meda’s development function is characterthe offices in Solna and Bad Homburg are covered by the ISO 14001 certifiized by tailored clinical development programs and the compilation of cation. Environmental audits of all relevant units/facilities are conducted by ­scientific arguments defending and exploring the product features. a third party. As a specialty pharma company, Meda refrains from high-risk, capital Meda complies with relevant regulatory requirements from governmenintensive early research. Instead the company’s resources are concental authorities with respect to documenting the pharmaceutical residues in 58 Meda Annual Report 2013 MANAGEMENT REPORT Operations aquatic environments that arise from pharmaceutical use. The company (ii) subsequent criteria shall be based on significance of responsibilities, also monitors research for new findings. The dominant opinion among competence requirements, experience, and performance, and experts in the field is that the amounts of pharmaceutical residues that are (iii) remuneration consists of: possible to be measured in the environment cannot be considered harmful • Fixed basic salary to humans, animals or plant life. • Short-term variable pay • Long-term variable pay Energy and carbon dioxide emissions • Pension benefits Reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions is Meda’s • Other benefits and severance terms and conditions top environmental priority. Meda reports CO2 emissions through participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Participation in CDP supports The difference between basic salary and variable pay shall be in proporthe company’s continuing environmental and climate initiatives and also tion to the senior executive’s responsibilities and authorities. provides the company with feedback on reports and measures impleShort-term variable pay is performance-based – mostly on company’s mented. key performance indicators as well as individual qualitative parameters. The short-term variable pay ceiling is 80% of the fixed basic salary for the Restoration obligations CEO and 50% of the fixed basic salary for other senior executives. In the 1980s, long before Meda acquired its production facility in Cologne, Long-term variable pay may include a share-related incentive program. groundwater contaminants, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) and Pension premiums shall reflect usual market conditions. Pension-based salchlorinated hydrocarbons (CHC) were discovered there. An action plan was ary consists of basic salary and variable pay. produced at that time in cooperation with the relevant authorities. The plan Other benefits primarily consist of a company car. Other benefits may involved removing contaminated soil, and in the 1990s a water pump was also consist of customary benefits in connection with the assignment or installed which continues to pump up and purify groundwater with actitransfer of senior executives abroad. Such benefits may include temporary vated carbon. Levels of PAH and CHC contamination have gradually housing and tuition fees, relocation support, tax filing support, or similar. declined. Groundwater pumping is expected to continue until at least 2016. Fixed salary during the period of notice and severance pay must together not exceed two years’ fixed salary. Employees Issues concerning remuneration to Meda’s senior executives are dealt The number of employees as of December 31, 2013, including contract with by the remuneration committee in preparation for decisions by the employees, was 3,226 (3,122). Information on the average number of board of directors. The board of directors has the right to deviate from the employees and staff costs can be found in the Group’s Notes 7 and 8. guidelines for remuneration to senior executives described above if special The majority of the employees, 1,974 (1,907), work in sales and marketing. reasons exist to do so. For information on current remuneration packages for senior executives Professional development, equality and diversity and the guidelines adopted at the 2013 annual general meeting, see the The skill and commitment of the employees is key to Meda’s development. Group’s Note 8. Professional development takes place according to the needs of the individual and his/her role. Meda has a process of structured professional Events after the reporting date development, with a particular focus on product training in connection with Meda has no significant events after the reporting date to report. acquisitions. An important component in guaranteeing that Meda has, and has access to, the expertise it needs is ensuring that employees’ rights and Parent company opportunities are safeguarded. This applies to both existing and potential Net sales for 2013 amounted to SEK 5,477 million (5,733), of which intraemployees. group sales amounted to SEK 3,659 million (3,711). Meda’s Business Conduct Guidelines clearly state that all employees Operating profit totaled SEK 402 million (423), and net finance income and applicants are to be treated equally. Discrimination based on, for was SEK 383 million (970). ­example, gender, gender identity or gender expression, ethnicity, religion Investments in intellectual property rights for the period were SEK 233 or other belief systems, disability, sexual orientation or age is strictly pro­ million (301), and investments in property, plant, and equipment totaled SEK hibited within Meda. No cases of discrimination were reported in 2013. 1 million (1). Financial assets as of December 31, 2013, totaled SEK 23,630 million Sick leave compared to SEK 24,778 million at the end of the previous year. Sick leave is relatively evenly split between men and women and the various age groups. In 2013 sick leave was 3.2% (3.1). Absence for 60 days or Future outlook more was 1.0% (0.9). Monitoring sick leave and any necessary measures are We have the strategy and core strengths required to expand our position in handled at the local level. our industry. Our position is well defined, our go-to-market capabilities are strong and we have both scale and efficiency to leverage our product portGuidelines for remuneration to senior executives folio globally. With greater focus to faster growing areas, both in terms of The board proposes that the 2014 annual general meeting votes in favor of products and geographies, Meda’s organic growth outlook is positive. By the following guidelines for remuneration to senior executives. The guideadding targeted acquisitions in our key therapy areas, higher growth rates lines reflect Meda’s need to be able to recruit and motivate qualified are achievable. Actions to improve our operational efficiency, especially in employees through a compensation package that is competitive in the the area of supply chain, are also expected to support our profitability and ­various countries. The Group’s executive Management consists of the CEO cash flow going forward. and the senior executives representing the leadership functions directly In October Meda completed the acquisition of Aerospan – a patented reporting into the CEO. product for the treatment of asthma. The acquisition secures unique spacer The guideline for remuneration/compensation and other employment technology and supports Meda’s ­strategy of an increased focus on the terms for Meda’s senior executives is based on initial contracts entered respiratory area. Aerospan – an important complement to Dymista – is between Meda and its senior ­executives and imply that: expected to generate ­marketing synergies with Dymista when it is (i) Meda shall strive to offer its senior executives market-based remuneralaunched in 2014. tion/compensation, Meda Annual Report 2013 59 Risk factors MANAGEMENT REPORT Risk factors Meda’s operations may be affected by many different events. Below is a of Meda’s products are purchased by or entitle the end customer to remudescription of the main risks that are considered of material importance neration from paying third parties, such as private insurance companies for Meda because they could have a significant impact on the company’s and public authorities. Changes among such bodies in terms of their scope, financial position, results and/or reputation. The risks are not listed in any efforts, guidelines and ability to influence pricing of and demand for pharmaparticular order of priority. Other risks that are unknown to Meda or that ceuticals may result in negative commercial and financial effects for Meda. are not considered material at this time could have a similar impact on the company. Economic trends Meda’s sales are to some extent dependent on the general economic cliCommercial risks and operational risk mate. An economic downturn resulting in reduced demand, primarily for Emerging Markets products classified as OTC drugs, cannot be ruled out. This could have a Meda’s focus on continuing to develop business in Emerging Markets is a negative impact on the company’s operations, earnings and financial posicritical factor for future growth. It is associated with various challenges, tion. This risk is limited partly by the fact that Meda operates in many marsuch as: kets and partly because the majority of the company’s products are vital for • Greater fluctuation in economic conditions the end user, irrespective of the prevailing economic climate. In general, • Competition from companies that are already established on the market the pharmaceutical industry is affected to a limited extent by economic • The ability to correctly identify and utilize relevant sales and marketing trends, and in this respect Meda does not consider itself any different from opportunities other companies in the industry. • Potentially weak protection of intellectual property rights • Inadequate protection against crimes such as imitation, corruption and Seasonal variations fraud Some of Meda’s sales are dependent on external seasonal variations that • Unintentional violation of local and international laws the company cannot influence. For example, a short pollen season or a sea• Inability to recruit people with the appropriate skills and experience son with low pollen counts may lead to reduced sales of Meda’s products in • Actions of national governments or registration authorities that limit the key asthma/allergy therapy area, resulting in a negative effect on the access to the market and/or introduce price controls that result in company’s sales. However, this risk is limited by the fact that Meda opernegative consequences ates in many geographic markets and has numerous products in its prioritized therapy areas. Thus only a small portion of Meda’s overall sales rely Product launches on individual factors such as pollen seasons and similar external conditions, Launching new drugs takes time and involves considerable investment in and the correlation between these factors has historically been low. for example marketing and stocking of products before launch, as well as other types of costs. The success of new products is particularly important Parallel imports for Meda because it is intended to compensate for the loss of sales of prodIt cannot be ruled out that the difference in the price of pharmaceuticals in ucts with expired patents and products with declining sales as a result of markets where Meda operates will lead to an increase in parallel imports factors such as stiff competition from generic products. There is a risk that with Meda’s products being purchased more cheaply in certain markets new product launches will not succeed for a variety of reasons. Examples and then competing with Meda’s sales in other markets. Parallel trade may could be an inability to demonstrate a differentiated profile for the product, increase and this could result in negative commercial and financial effects the effect of price controls introduced by governments and healthcare for Meda. authorities, and the undermining of intellectual property rights. Success when establishing existing products in new markets is also of Risk for production disruptions particular importance for Meda because they help to drive organic growth. Meda’s production operation consists of a chain of processes, and stopThere is a risk that the launch of existing products in new markets will not pages or disruptions at any stage could impact the company’s ability to succeed for various reasons. An example of this might be an inability to cormanufacture sufficient products to meet the demand. Such stoppages rectly identify and utilize relevant sales and marketing opportunities for the could therefore have a negative impact on Meda’s operations, financial product, an inability to create a differentiated profile for the product and the position and earnings. A large proportion of the company’s production volundermining of intellectual property rights. umes is, however, manufactured at Meda’s own production units and production is planned so that temporary production stoppages do not deterCompetitors and pricing mine Meda’s ability to fulfill its commitments to customers. Also, Meda has The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and price pressure is and production disruption insurance that protects the company against immedican be expected to remain intense within Meda’s business areas. This is ate economic losses in connection with production disruptions or stopthe case in particular when patents expire. There is therefore a risk that pages. Meda will not be able to maintain its current margins on products. There is no guarantee that Meda’s product candidates or products developed by its Ability to recruit and retain key employees partners will be preferred over existing or newly developed products. Meda is highly dependent on a number of key individuals. The possible Future products in development by other pharmaceutical companies may loss of one or more of these individuals could have negative financial and result in increased competition and lower sales of Meda’s products. Some commercial implications for Meda. The ability to recruit and retain qualified 60 Meda Annual Report 2013 MANAGEMENT REPORT Risk factors employees is of utmost importance in order to secure the appropriate level Risks associated with liability, legislation and compliance of expertise within the company. Meda is confident in the company’s ability Product liability and insurance to attract and retain qualified employees. There is, however, stiff competiThe parts of Meda’s operations that involve product development, clinical tion for experienced employees among pharmaceutical companies and trials, production, sales and marketing of the company’s products are assothere is a risk of losing qualified employees. ciated with product liability risk. Although Meda has comprehensive product liability insurance protection, there is no guarantee that Meda will be Partnership agreements able to avoid claims for damages in the event of damages resulting from Meda collaborates actively in marketing and development with other pharthe use of the company’s products. This could negatively affect the com­ maceutical companies. There is no guarantee that the companies with pany’s operations and profitability. which Meda will enter into or has already entered into partnership and/or license agreements will meet their obligations under such agreements. Protection of intellectual property rights Their failure to do so could have a negative impact on the company’s sales Meda invests significant sums of money in product development and and earnings. Nor is there any guarantee that Meda will be able to enter acquires intellectual property developed by other companies on an ongointo partnership and/or license agreements on terms that are acceptable to ing basis. In order to guarantee a return on these investments, the comMeda in the future. pany actively asserts these rights and closely monitors the activities of its competitors. If necessary, Meda will defend its intellectual property rights Uncertainty with respect to future clinical trials through legal processes. There is always a risk that competitors will, intenPrior to the sale of new products, the company or its partners must demontionally or unintentionally, infringe on Meda’s rights. Should this occur, there strate the potential product’s safety and efficacy for humans in each speciis a risk that the company would be unable to fully assert its rights in a court fied indication. There is no guarantee that clinical trials conducted by Meda case, which would have a negative impact on the company’s operations or its partners will be able to demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy in and profitability. order to receive the requisite approval from the authorities, or that they will There is no guarantee that Meda’s rights will not constitute an infringeresult in products that can be sold on the market. ment of the rights of a competitor or that Meda’s rights will not be contested or disputed by competitors. Nor can it be ruled out that Meda will be drawn Acquisition-related risk into court proceedings by competitors for alleged infringement of the comOpportunities for acquisitions and financing petitor’s rights. If this happens there is a risk that Meda may be liable to pay Meda has had an active acquisition strategy for some time and it has significant damages and this would have a negative impact on the comparesulted in a number of successful acquisitions. Meda’s growth strategy will ny’s ability to operate. continue to include strategic acquisitions. There is, however, no guarantee Furthermore, Meda is dependent on know-how and it cannot be ruled that Meda will be able to continue to find suitable acquisition prospects or out that competitors may develop similar know-how, or that Meda will be secure the necessary financing for future acquisitions on acceptable terms. unable to protect its know-how effectively. Any shortage of acquisition prospects and/or acceptable financial terms may lead to reduced or declining growth for Meda. Actions by public authorities Like other companies in the pharmaceutical industry, Meda is dependent Integration on and subject to the actions of public authorities. Such actions include Acquisitions generally involve integration-related risk. Apart from companychanges in regulations on pricing and discounting of drugs or changes in specific risks, the acquired company’s relationships with key individuals, the conditions for prescribing a certain drug. If Meda’s products or operacustomers and suppliers may be negatively affected. There is also a risk of tions become subject to further or changed actions or restrictions from regintegration processes taking longer or being more costly than estimated. ulatory authorities, this could have negative commercial and financial impliSimilarly, the anticipated synergies may only be partially realized or not cations for Meda. materialize at all. The integration of acquisitions may involve organizational changes which, in the short term, could delay the implementation of plans Corporate governance standards and achievement of objectives. Pharmaceutical companies are knowledge Meda operates in compliance with corporate governance laws and rules companies, and accordingly, integration normally involves risk relating to and has also joined several initiatives for responsible business practices the ability to retain talent and to create a common culture. and environmental management. Also, the company has increased its focus on anti-corruption, an area in which the laws have been changed in Governance many countries. To ensure that the company operates in accordance with Through successful acquisitions Meda has accumulated experience in and the standards that apply, the Group’s management system includes a busiknowledge about the governance issues that may be associated with strong ness ethics code, Meda’s Business Conduct Guidelines, a sustainability polgrowth. With continued expansion comes the risk that Meda’s existing conicy and other policies and guidelines for the company’s operations. Meda trol, governance, accounting and information systems may prove to be inadhas also undertaken to apply the UN’s guiding principles for companies equate for the planned growth and additional investment may be necessary. and human rights in its operations. Meda is constantly striving to improve Meda’s potential inability to govern and control this growth effectively could and take the necessary steps to follow up and scrutinize internal complihave negative commercial and financial consequences for the company. ance with policies and guidelines as well as compliance by the company’s Meda Annual Report 2013 61 Risk factors MANAGEMENT REPORT suppliers with Meda’s code of conduct for suppliers. Meda cannot guaranCurrency and interest rate risks tee that no violations will occur. Any possible violations may have signifiA significant portion of Meda’s drug purchasing and sales occurs in foreign cant negative effects on the company and Meda’s brand. currencies. Consequently, exchange rate fluctuations will affect the Group’s future sales and operating profit. Through its financial policy, the company Economic and financial risks aims to identify and reduce financial risks and thereby avoid major shortGoodwill and product rights term fluctuations in earnings and cash flow. Decisions regarding currency Meda reports substantial value for goodwill and product rights. Goodwill is hedging are therefore made on an ongoing basis. However, there is no the only intangible asset that is reported based on interminable economic guarantee that Meda’s currency hedges (if a decision about such is made) life. Product rights are mainly written off on a linear basis and their ecowill provide complete protection against exchange rate fluctuations that nomic life is indicated in the Group’s Note 1. Impairment testing is done on have a negative impact on Meda’s sales and operating profit. Meda’s an ongoing basis. Significant reduction in value may arise in the future for a financing consists partly of interest-bearing liabilities which means that the variety of reasons, such as unfavorable market conditions that either affect Group’s net earnings are affected by changes in general interest rates. The the company specifically or the entire pharma­ceutical industry more interest rate risk is addressed by spreading Meda’s borrowing across differ­generally. This may result in negative effects on the company’s results and ent rate maturities. Information on other financial risks can be found in the financial position. Group’s Note 2. 62 Meda Annual Report 2013 MANAGEMENT REPORT corporate governance report Corporate governance report Corporate governance price interval. Shares may be purchased so that the company holds no Meda is a Swedish public limited company listed on NASDAQ OMX Stockmore than ten percent of the total shares and votes in the company. Own holm. Meda applies the Swedish Corporate Governance Code and hereby shares may be sold at NASDAQ OMX Stockholm at a price within the submits the corporate governance report for 2013. Monitoring of Meda’s ­current share price interval. Shares totaling the number of own shares governance in 2013 resulted in the absence of any deviations from the ­currently held by the company at the time may be sold. Swedish Corporate Governance Code. The above authorizations are valid until the AGM 2014. For further The current version of the Corporate Governance Code is available on the ­information on the share and shareholders, please refer to pages 112–113 Swedish Corporate Governance Board’s website, www.bolagsstyrning.se. and Meda’s website. Corporate governance structure General meetings Meda’s shareholders exercise their right to vote at annual and extraordiNomination Shareholders nary general meetings (AGMs and EGMs). In accordance with the Swedish committee through the AGM Companies Act, resolutions are passed at general meetings by popular majority. There is information from Meda’s most recent AGM and EGMs in the Auditors Remuneration Board of directors committee ­corporate governance section of the company’s website. There is also Seven board members information on the shareholders’ right to have matters addressed at appointed by the Audit committee elected at the AGM board ­meetings and the date Meda must receive shareholder requests in order appointed by the board for the matter to be included in the notice to attend the meeting. Group president Managing Annual general meeting Group and CEO directors The AGM is held in Solna. The meeting date and venue are announced on management Meda’s website no later than in connection with the publication of the third quarter interim report. Shareholders who are unable to attend in person Shareholders may be represented by an authorized proxy. Only shareholders who are Meda’s share has been listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange since 1995 listed in the share register are entitled to vote. and on the Large Cap segment of NASDAQ OMX Stockholm since 2006. At the AGM the shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions about the Group’s operations. Meda endeavors to ensure that members of Ownership structure the board and group management are always present in order to respond As of December 30, 2013 Meda had 28,241 shareholders according to the to shareholder questions. The auditor also attends the AGM. share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB. The largest shareholder is Stena Sessan Rederi AB with 68,741,485 shares, equivalent to 2013 AGM 22.7% of the capital and votes. The AGM took place on Tuesday, May 7, 2013 in Solna. The meeting was attended by 303 shareholders, either in person or by proxy. Meda’s board Shares and votes of directors, management, nominating committee and the company’s The parent company’s shares consist of 302,243,065 Class A shares. Each ­auditors were present at the AGM. Class A share represents one vote. The following main resolutions were passed: According to a decision at the 2013 annual general meeting, the parent • A dividend of SEK 2.25 per share for 2012 company is authorized to issue Class A and/or Class B shares for use as • Bert-Åke Eriksson was re-elected as chairman payment in connection with the acquisition of other companies, shares in • Peter Claesson, Peter von Ehrenheim, Marianne Hamilton, companies, product rights or other assets the board considers of value for Tuve Johannesson, Anders Lönner and Lars Westerberg were the company. re-elected as board members According to a further decision at the 2013 AGM, the parent company is • Karen Sörensen was elected as a new board member authorized to issue convertibles that can be converted into Class A and/or • Adoption of remuneration for the board and auditor Class B shares. This authority only applies to issuances in connection with • Adoption of principles for remuneration for Group management the acquisition of other companies, shares in companies, product rights or • Authorization for the board to decide on issuing shares and convertibles other assets the board considers of value for the company. These authori• Authorization for the board to decide on the acquisition of treasury zations represent a dilution of no more than 10% of share capital and votes shares based on the total number of votes in the company at the time of the 2013 • Adoption of principles for appointing the nomination committee annual general meeting. • Increase in the number of board members from seven to eight The parent company is also authorized according to a decision at the AGM 2013 to, at one or more occassions, decide on the purchase or sale of class A shares substantially according to the following: Shares may only be purchased at NASDAQ OMX Stockholm at a price within the current share Meda Annual Report 2013 63 Corporate governance report MANAGEMENT REPORT The minutes from the 2013 AGM are available on Meda’s website, bers are independent in relation to the company, its management and the www.meda.se. (The information on Meda’s website does not constitute company’s major shareholders. a part of this annual report.) Board of directors 2014 annual general meeting The board of directors has ultimate responsibility for Meda’s organization Meda’s 2014 AGM will take place on Wednesday, May 7 at the and the administration of the company’s operations. The CEO manages company’s offices. Shareholders wishing to have a matter addressed day-to-day operations based on guidelines and instructions prepared by by the AGM must submit a request in writing to the board well in advance the board. The CEO informs the board regularly about events of signifiof the AGM. More information is available on Meda’s website. cance to the Group, including the company’s performance and the Group’s earnings, financial position and liquidity. Articles of Incorporation Meda’s Articles of Incorporation do not contain any limitations on the Composition of the board ­number of votes each shareholder may exercise at general meetings According to Meda’s Articles of Incorporation, the board is to consist of at or any specific provisions on the appointment and dismissal of board least three and no more than ten members, with no more than six deputies. ­members or amendments to the Articles of Incorporation. Meda’s board consists of seven members elected by the AGM, including the chairman. Information about remuneration for board members as resolved Nomination committee at the 2013 AGM is available in the Group’s Note 8. The 2013 AGM resolved that the nomination committee will consist of one member appointed by each of the four largest shareholders as well The board’s independence as the chairman of Meda’s board. The board is deemed to fulfill the independence requirements of the ­Swe­dish Corporate Governance Code. The board members are not Composition of the nomination committee employed by the Group. The nomination committee’s assessment as As announced in a press release on October 18, 2013, the current to whether or not the proposed members meet the independence ­nomination committee consists of: ­requirements is announced when the committee submits its proposal to the AGM. The independence status of each board member is NOMINATION COMMITTEE ­indicated in the tables on pages 65–66. Karl-Magnus Sjölin (nomination committee chairman) Stena Sessan Rederi AB The board’s rules of procedure and written instructions Bert-Åke Eriksson (chairman of Meda’s board) Stena Sessan Rederi AB Annually at the statutory board meeting, the board adopts the rules Evert Carlsson Swedbank Robur Fonder of ­procedure, instructions for the division of responsibilities between the board and CEO and instructions for financial reporting. Anders Oscarsson AMF Fonder Lars Backsell B&E Participation AB Structure of the board’s work As outlined in the board’s rules of procedure, four regular meetings and Nomination committee’s responsibilities one statutory meeting are held each year. The board may convene The nominating committee prepares and submits proposals to the AGM for: ­additional meetings as needed. • Election of a chairman for the meeting The regular meetings address established reporting and decision items. • Election of the chairman of the board and other board members The CEO regularly provides information about the company’s performance. • Fees for the board and their distribution between the chairman and The board makes decisions on general matters such as strategic, structural, other members, and any remuneration for committee work and organizational issues, as well as large investments. The chairman is • Election of and fees for auditors and deputy auditors (where applicable) also actively involved in these issues between board meetings. The • Principles for appointing the nomination committee ­company’s auditor attend at least one board meeting. Nomination committee’s work in preparation for the Work of the board in 2013 2014 annual general meeting In 2013 11 board meetings were held. The attendance of the board The nomination committee held six meetings and had contact by email and ­members is indicated in the tables on pages 65–66. In 2013 the board dealt phone. The chairman of the board provided the nomination committee with in p ­ articular with acquisitions and other strategic issues, in addition to the information on the work of the board and the company’s likely focus for the usual reporting and decision items. years ahead. The committee held meetings with the company’s new CEO and all of the board members were interviewed. The committee discussed New chief executive officer the board’s composition, addressing possible future requirements with On October 1, 2013 the board announced the appointment of Jörg-Thomas respect to new expertise and experience. It is the committee’s opinion that Dierks as Meda’s new President and CEO effective as of October 1, 2013. the board has executed its tasks in an efficient and professional manner. Jörg-Thomas Dierks takes over from Anders Lönner who has served as The committee has concluded that a majority of the proposed board memMeda’s President and CEO since 1999. 64 Meda Annual Report 2013 MANAGEMENT REPORT Corporate governance report Board committees Remuneration committee The board has appointed an audit committee and a remuneration commitThe remuneration committee consists of Bert-Åke Eriksson (committee tee. The committee members are selected from the board members for a chairman), Marianne Hamilton and Lars Westerberg. one-year term in accordance with the principles stipulated in the Swedish The remuneration committee has the following main responsibilities: Companies Act and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. • Preparing for board decisions on remuneration principles, remuneration amounts and other terms of employment for company management Audit committee • Preparing remuneration guideline proposals for senior executives to be The audit committee consists of three members: Tuve Johannesson proposed by the board at the AGM ­(committee chairman), Bert-Åke Eriksson and Peter Claesson. • Monitoring and evaluating programs that are ongoing or were The audit committee has the following main responsibilities: concluded during the year regarding variable remuneration for company • Preparation for the board’s work on assuring the quality of financial management reporting • Monitoring and evaluating the application of the remuneration guidelines • Addressing issues concerning internal control of financial reporting and for senior executives which are to be resolved on by law by the AGM, and regulatory compliance applicable remuneration structures and levels within the company • Monitoring and evaluating the work of external auditors • Monitoring accounting developments in areas that may affect Meda In 2013 the committee held three regular meeting focusing on the Group’s remuneration policies. The attendance of the board members is indicated The committee held three regular meetings in 2013, with a particular in the following tables. emphasis on interim reports, audit reports, internal control and valuation of intangible assets. The attendance of the board members is indicated in the following tables. BOARD MEMBERS Name* Bert-Åke Eriksson Peter Marianne Tuve (Chairman) Claesson Hamilton Johannesson Member since 1998 2009 2006 2006 Born 1944 1965 1947 1943 Education BSc. BSc in finance. BSc and IFL School. BSc in economics and MBA, Dr. (h.c.). Shares in Meda 2,234,077 incl. companies 5,000 18,961 85,000 Other board appointments Board member for Stena Board member for Stena Line Board member for Board chairman for Arctic Adactum AB and Beijer Holding BV, Stena Drilling Ltd, Connecta (publ) Island Ltd and Ecolean Electronics AB. Stena Fastigheter AB, Sveriges and Ek & Bok AB. International A/S. Ångfartygs Assurans Förening, Handelsbanken Regionbank Västra Sverige and Wisent Oil PLC. Current role CEO, Stena Sessan Rederi AB. CFO, Stena AB. Not employed. Advisor to J.C. Bamford Excavators Ltd and Senior Industrial Advisor to EQT. Independent of Meda/company Yes Yes Yes Yes management Independent of major shareholders No No Yes Yes Professional experience Desk officer at the Ministry of EnterVarious positions within the Trelleborg HR Director Atlas Copco Most senior management prise, Energy and Communications, Group (1992–2007), most recently as AB. positions at Tetra Pak (1973– CEO of Rederi AB Gotland, CEO of Senior Vice President Group Treasury. 1982), Vice President of Tetra United Tankers AB. Götabanken (1989–1992). Pak (1983–1987), President of VME (1988–1994), later Volvo Construction Equipment, President of Volvo Car Corporation (2000–2004). Board meetings in 2013 11 11 11 11 Attendance 10 10 9 11 Audit committee Yes Yes – Yes, chairman No. of meetings in 2013 3 3 – 3 Attendance 3 3 – 3 Remuneration committee Yes, chairman – Yes – No. of meetings in 2013 3 – 3 – Attendance 3 – 3 – Meda Annual Report 2013 65 Corporate governance report MANAGEMENT REPORT BOARD MEMBERS Name* Lars Westerberg Peter von Ehrenheim Karen Sörensen Jörg-Thomas Dierks Member since 2012 2011 2013 Not member. Born 1948 1955 1962 1960 Education BSc in finance and MSc. MSc, KTH Royal Institute of MSc. Physician. ­Technology. Shares in Meda 220,000 15,000 0 162,000 Other board appointments Board chairman for Husqvarna Board chairman for Biolin Board member for several Philips – AB, board member for Scientific AB, Denator AB and affiliates and board member for Volvo AB, Sandvik AB, SSAB and Robustus Wear Components AB. Technical University of Denmark. Stena AB. Board member for Biotage AB. Current role Not employed. Entrepreneur in engineering CEO of Philips Nordic and head Group president and CEO of industry and life science of Philips Healthcare in the Meda. ­consultant. ­Nordics. Independent of Meda/company Yes Yes Yes No management Independent of major shareholders Yes Yes Yes Yes Professional experience President & CEO and board CEO GE Healthcare Life Sciences Vice President responsible for Previously: senior vice president member for Autoliv Inc (1999– and a number of positions within western Europe at Sanofi-Aventis for Commercial Operations and 2007). President & CEO of GränAmersham and Pharmacia Bioand previously employed within COO of Viatris and before that, ges AB (1994–1999). President tech. several global pharmaceutical, Novo Nordisk and Asta-Medica. & CEO of Esab AB (1991–1994). biotech and med tech companies. Board meetings in 2013 11 11 81) 22) Attendance 10 11 8 2 Audit committee – – – – No. of meetings in 2013 – – – – Attendance – – – – Remuneration committee Yes – – – No. of meetings in 2013 3 – – – Attendance 3 – – – 1) Took up position at 2013 AGM. 2) Group president and CEO since October 1, 2013. * Anders Lönner resigned as Group president and CEO and board member during 2013. Internal audit To provide the board with a foundation for determining appropriate levels Meda has chosen not to establish a separate audit function (internal audit). of internal governance and control, Meda continuously reviews and anaInternal audit work is carried out according to a specific plan by the Group’s lyzes its governance procedures and internal control based on the five princentral finance function in cooperation with the external auditors. With ciples of the COSO framework (control environment, risk assessment, conrespect to the outcome of this year’s internal audit and development of trol activities, information and communication, and monitoring). Meda’s internal control in general, the board has determined that, for the time being, a special review function is not justified. This oversight results in an annual action plan for the development of internal control. In 2013 this involved: Auditors • Updating and implementing governing documents such as Business Meda’s auditor is the certified public accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers Conduct Guidelines and the Group Accounting and Reporting Manual AB, with certified public accountant Mikael Eriksson as chief auditor. PwC was • Continued upgrading of the IT environment appointed at the 2013 AGM for the period until the end of the next AGM. • Following up compliance with internal regulations and guidelines • Continuing control and monitoring of new entities Internal control of financial reporting The board’s internal control responsibility is governed by the Swedish An action plan has been prepared for internal control work in 2014. Companies Act and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. Internal control of financial reporting forms part of the overall internal control within Control environment Meda and is a fundamental component in Meda’s corporate governance. Meda is organized in such way as to be able to react quickly to market The overall purpose of the company’s internal control is to protect the changes. Operational decisions are therefore taken at the company level. company’s assets and thus the shareholders’ investments. Internal control Decisions on strategy, focus, acquisitions and general financial issues are and risk management are part of the board’s and management’s govertaken by Meda’s board and Group management. Internal control of finannance and monitoring mandate, the objective of which is to ensure that cial reporting within Meda is designed to address these conditions. operations are managed appropriately and efficiently. 66 Meda Annual Report 2013 MANAGEMENT REPORT Corporate governance report The company’s internal control environment is the basis for internal control Information and communication of financial reporting. The internal control environment consists of the orgaMeda’s information and communication channels are intended to help nizational structure, work procedures, routines, decision paths, authority, ensure that the company’s financial reporting is complete, accurate and responsibility, attitudes and values as specified and communicated in govtimely. This is achieved by making all current guidelines and instructions for erning documents. Examples of these governing documents are Meda’s internal procedures available to all relevant employees. Regular updates Business Conduct Guidelines, Delegation of Authority and Internal Control and notifications of amendments to accounting rules/guidelines, reporting Standards. requirements and disclosure requirements are provided as needed. Financial communication is provided to the market by: Risk assessment • Meda’s annual report Risk assessment of financial reporting is based on the income statements • Interim reports and year-end financial statements which are published and balance sheets to assess aspects such as materiality, complexity and as press releases fraud risks. This risk assessment is done at the Group and company levels • Press releases on important news and events that may significantly and results in a risk-level classification for various processes. For a more affect the share price detailed description of Meda’s risks, see the Group’s Note 2 on financial • Presentations and conference calls for financial analysts, investors and risks and the section on risk factors on pages 60–62. the media on the same day that year-end and interim financial reports Identified risks are mitigated through a clear division of responsibility are published and work tasks, and by establishing internal guidelines for accounting and • Meda’s website www.meda.se reporting. Monitoring Control activities Meda’s work with internal controls helps to increase awareness about the Appropriate control activities are developed at the Group and company importance of sound internal control and guarantee its continual improvelevels to manage material risks relating to financial reporting identified durment. ing risk assessment. These control activities include both general and more Throughout the year Meda performs ongoing analysis of the control specific controls designed to prevent, detect and correct errors and deviaenvironment, risk assessment and control activities. This analysis forms the tions. Meda performs and documents the following controls: basis for the action plan for the following year. The purpose of this process • Manual controls and application controls to ensure that key risks in is to identify and monitor areas where internal control could be improved. financial reporting procedures are controlled. Examples of important The board is provided with monthly financial reports. The content of the manual and application controls are verification of journal vouchers, reports is increased ahead of interim reporting. The board reviews and reconciliation, access rights and allocation of responsibilities. approves all interim and annual reports for publication. • General IT controls that secure the IT environment for key applications. Examples of important general IT controls are backup routines, access rights and user management. • Company-wide controls that secure and improve the control environment within Meda. Examples of key company-wide controls are Groupspecific guidelines, accounting rules, signatory authority instructions and financial monitoring. Meda Annual Report 2013 67 Accounts group FINANCIAL REPORTS Consolidated income statement 2012 SEK million Note 2013 Restated Net sales 4,5 13,114 12,991 Cost of sales 6 –5,087 –5,041 Gross profit 8,027 7,950 Selling expenses –2,993 –2,867 Medicine and business development expenses –2,794 –2,609 Administrative expenses –692 –673 Operating profit 4,6–10 1,548 1,801 Finance income 11,12 22 61 Finance costs 11,12 –567 –626 Profit after financial items 1,003 1,236 Tax 13 –198 –61 Net income 805 1,175 Earnings attributable to: Parent company shareholders 807 1,204 Non-controlling interests –2 –29 805 1,175 Earnings per share 14 basic, SEK 2.67 3.98 diluted, SEK 2.67 3.98 Average number of shares basic (thousands) 302,243 302,243 diluted (thousands) 302,243 302,243 Actual number of shares at year-end basic (thousands) 302,243 302,243 diluted (thousands) 302,243 302,243 Dividend per share (SEK) 2.501) 2.25 1) Proposed dividend 68 Meda Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL REPORTS Accounts group Consolidated statement of earnings and other comprehensive income 2012 SEK million Note 2013 Restated Net income 805 1,175 Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement Revaluation of defined benefit pension plans and similar plans after tax 23 113 –178 113 –178 Items that may be reclassified to the income statement Translation difference 23 510 –730 Net investment hedge, after tax 23 –277 403 Cash flow hedges, after tax 23 17 –31 250 –358 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 363 –536 Total comprehensive income 1,168 639 Earnings attributable to: Parent company shareholders 1,168 667 Non-controlling interests 0 –28 1,168 639 Meda Annual Report 2013 69 Accounts group FINANCIAL REPORTS Consolidated balance sheet 31 Dec, 2012 1 Dec, 2012 SEK million Note 31 Dec, 2013 Restated Restated ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 15 848 795 811 Intangible assets 16 29,666 30,419 32,306 Derivatives 21 – – 9 Deferred tax assets 17 918 931 693 Available-for-sale financial assets 18 5 5 5 Other non-current receivables 13 10 12 Total non-current assets 31,450 32,160 33,836 Current assets Inventories 19 1,982 1,931 1,780 Trade receivables 20 2,151 1,929 1,944 Other receivables 196 199 154 Tax assets 106 117 151 Prepayments and accrued income 181 181 320 Derivatives 21 49 60 520 Cash and cash equivalents 22 178 194 140 Total current assets 4,843 4,611 5,009 TOTAL ASSETS 36,293 36,771 38,845 70 Meda Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL REPORTS Accounts group 31 Dec, 2012 1 Dec, 2012 SEK million Note 31 Dec, 2013 Restated Restated EQUITY Share capital 23 302 302 302 Other capital contributions 23 8,865 8,865 8,865 Other reserves 23 –415 –776 –239 Retained earnings including profit for the year 6,491 6,364 5,840 15,243 14,755 14,768 Non controlling interests –32 –32 –4 Total equity 15,211 14,723 14,764 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Borrowings 24 7,792 13,195 14,913 Derivatives 21 33 50 29 Deferred tax liabilities 17 2,211 2,537 2,735 Pension obligations 25 1,107 1,284 1,110 Other non-current liabilities 32 35 35 Other provisions 26 209 220 226 Total non-current liabilities 11,384 17,321 19,048 Current liabilities Trade payables 883 900 878 Current tax liabilities 464 431 373 Other liabilities 195 167 187 Accruals and deferred income 1,343 1,103 1,162 Derivatives 21 113 28 257 Borrowings 24 6,304 1,752 1,802 Other provisions 26 396 346 374 Total current liabilities 9,698 4,727 5,033 Total liabilities 21,082 22,048 24,081 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 36,293 36,771 38,845 Meda Annual Report 2013 71 Accounts group FINANCIAL REPORTS Consolidated cash flow statement 2012 SEK million Note 2013 Restated Cash flow from operating activities Profit after financial items 1,003 1,236 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow 28 2,246 2,164 Net change in pensions –19 –56 Net change in provisions 116 35 Income taxes paid –390 –328 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 2,956 3,051 Cash flow from change in working capital Inventories –97 –277 Receivables –225 35 Liabilities 211 4 Cash flow from operating activities 2,845 2,813 Cash flow from investing activities Acquisition of property, plant and equipment –136 –126 Acquisition of intangible assets –261 –1,026 Asset acquisition 28 –862 – Increase in financial receivables 1 2 Sale of non-current assets 3 7 Cash flow from investing activities –1,255 –1,143 Cash flow from financing activities Loans raised 977 3,603 Loan repayments –1,902 –4,451 Change of financial liabilities –12 –80 Dividend to parent company shareholders –680 –680 Cash flow from financing activities –1,597 –1,608 Cash flow for the period –7 62 Cash and cash equivalents at start of the year 194 140 Exchange-rate difference in cash and cash equivalents –9 –8 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 22 178 194 Interest received and paid Interest received 22 61 Interest paid –377 –435 Total –355 –374 72 Meda Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL REPORTS Accounts group Consolidated statement of changes in equity Attributable to parent company shareholders Retained ­earnings Other ­including NonShare contributed Other profit for controlling SEK million capital capital reserves the year Total interests Total equity Opening balance, equity, Jan 1, 2012 302 8,865 –239 6,047 14,974 –4 14,971 Effect of change in accounting policies for recognition of defined benefit pension plans and similar plans after tax – – – –207 –207 – –207 Adjusted opening balance, Jan 1, 2012 302 8,865 –239 5,840 14,768 –4 14,764 Translation difference – – –731 – –731 1 –730 Net investment hedge – – 490 – 490 – 490 Tax, net investment hedge – – –87 – –87 – –87 Cash flow hedges – – –38 – –38 – –38 Tax, cash flow hedges – – 7 – 7 – 7 Defined benefit pension plans and similar plans – – –260 – –260 – –260 Tax, defined benefit pension plans and similar plans – – 82 – 82 – 82 Total other comprehensive income – – –537 – –537 1 –536 Profit/loss for period – – – 1,204 1,204 –29 1,175 Total comprehensive income – – –537 1,204 667 –28 639 Dividend – – – –680 –680 – –680 Closing balance, equity, Dec 31, 2012 302 8,865 –776 6,364 14,755 –32 14,723 Opening balance, equity, Jan 1, 2013 302 8,865 –776 6,364 14,755 –32 14,723 Translation difference – – 508 – 508 2 510 Net investment hedge – – –355 – –355 – –355 Tax, net investment hedge – – 78 – 78 – 78 Cash flow hedges – – 22 – 22 – 22 Tax, cash flow hedges – – –5 – –5 – –5 Defined benefit pension plans and similar plans – – 179 – 179 – 179 Tax, defined benefit pension plans and similar plans – – –66 – –66 – –66 Total other comprehensive income – – 361 – 361 2 363 Profit/loss for period – – – 807 807 –2 805 Total comprehensive income – – 361 807 1,168 0 1,168 Dividend – – – –680 –680 – –680 Closing balance, equity, Dec 31, 2013 302 8,865 –415 6,491 15,243 –32 15,211 Note 23 contains additional information on share capital, other capital contributions, and other reserves. Meda Annual Report 2013 73 Notes group FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes group value measurement to be more consistent and less complex. To this Note 1 Accounting policies end, the standard contains a precise definition and a common source in IFRS of fair value measurement for all types of assets and liabilities. The Basis for preparation of reports requirements do not expand the area of application for when fair value The consolidated accounts were prepared in accordance with the EUmeasurement is to be applied, but provide guidance for application in adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as interpreted instances where other IFRS standards already require or allow fair value by the International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee, and the measurement. Implementation of the standard has not affected how the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. Recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary Group establishes fair value and therefore has no effect on the financial Accounting Rules for Groups, issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting position or earnings. The Group’s financial instruments measured at fair Board, was also applied. The consolidated accounts were prepared using value are specified in Note 21. the cost method, apart from for remeasurement of available-for-sale finan• IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures has introduced new disclocial assets, and financial assets and liabilities (including derivative instrusure requirements for offsetting financial assets and liabilities. The ments) measured at fair value through profit or loss. Group has financial assets and liabilities covered by the offsetting right Preparing financial statements to conform to IFRS requires the use of some as indicated in Note 21. critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to make certain • IAS 36 Impairment of Assets has been amended with respect to recovjudgments in applying Meda’s accounting policies. Note 3 discloses the erable amount disclosures for non-financial assets. The amendment areas that require a more thorough assessment, are complex, or in which removes a requirement for recoverable amount disclosures for cashassumptions and estimates are of significant importance to the consoligenerating units, which was introduced in the standard when IFRS 13 dated financial statements. was established. Although the amendment is mandatory as of January 1, 2014, the Group has decided to adopt it as of January 1, 2013. New standards and interpretations New and amended standards applied by the Group New standards and interpretations not yet applied by the Group Below are the standards that are mandatory for the first time or which Meda The following new standards and interpretations have been published. has decided to early adopt for the financial year starting on January 1, 2013 • IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements (EU-adopted) is based on and which have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. existing principles as it identifies control as the determining factor in • IAS 19 Employee Benefits, amended in June 2011. The amendments establishing if an entity should be included in consolidated financial relate to recognition of the Group’s defined-benefit pension plans and statements. The standard provides additional guidance to help estabhealth care benefit plans. In applying the amended version of IAS 19 the lish control when it is difficult to determine. The Group intends to apply Group no longer uses the corridor approach and instead recognizes all IFRS 10 for the financial year starting on January 1, 2014. The standard is actuarial gains and losses in other comprehensive income as they arise. not expected to have any significant impact on the Group’s financial Costs for prior years of service are recognized immediately. Interest statements. expense and expected returns on plan assets have been replaced by • IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements (EU-adopted) focuses on the rights and oblinet interest calculated using the discount rate, based on the net surplus gations of parties in a joint arrangement, rather than the legal form of or net deficit in the defined-benefit plan. The revised standard is applied the arrangement. There are two types of joint arrangement: joint operaretroactively. The opening balance is therefore as of January 1, 2012 and tions and joint ventures. A joint operation is where one party in a joint the 2012 comparison figures have been restated. The initial 2012 penarrangement has a direct right to the assets and assumes responsibility sion obligations, including employer contributions and other non-current for the liabilities in the joint arrangement. In such an arrangement, the liabilities related to changes in healthcare benefits, increased by SEK assets, liabilities, income and costs are reported based on the holders’ 334 million. The deferred tax assets have increased by SEK 127 million. share of these. A joint venture is a joint arrangement where the parties The deficit resulting from the transition is recognized against retained who have a joint controlling influence over the arrangement have a right earnings in equity, which decreased by SEK 207 million, taking deferred to the net assets in the arrangement. Joint ventures are reported tax into consideration. As of December 31, 2012, the net pension obligaaccording to the equity method; the proportion-of-equity method is no tions including employer contributions was adjusted from SEK 696 millonger permitted. The Group intends to apply IFRS 11 for the financial lion to SEK 1,284 million. Liabilities related to health care benefits year starting on January 1, 2014. The standard is not expected to have increased by SEK 14 million. Deferred tax assets increased from SEK 715 any significant impact on the Group’s financial statements. million to SEK 931 million. The reported profit declined by SEK 6 million • IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities (EU-adopted) requires and other comprehensive income is SEK –536 million compared to SEK disclosures on subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and uncon–358 million. Earnings per share information can be found in Note 14. solidated structured entities. The Group intends to apply IFRS 12 for the • IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements has been amended with financial year starting on January 1, 2014. The standard is not expected respect to the presentation of the statement of other comprehensive to have any significant impact on the Group’s financial statements. income. Other comprehensive income is now divided up into the items • IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (not adopted by EU) addresses the classifithat may be reclassified to profit and loss and those that will not. cation, measurement and recognition of financial liabilities and assets. • IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement replaces the guidelines on fair value IFRS 9 was issued in November 2009 for financial assets and in Octomeasurement as presented in each IFRS standard. The aim is for fair ber 2010 for financial liabilities. It replaces the parts of IAS 39 that relate 74 Meda Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes group to the classification and measurement of financial instruments. IFRS 9 and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currequires financial assets to be classified into two measurement categorency at the exchange rate on the reporting date. Exchange differences ries: those measured as at fair value and those measured at amortised arising in the translations are recognized in net financial expense through cost. The determination is made at initial recognition. The classification profit or loss. Exceptions are when transactions are hedges that meet the depends on the entitiy’s business model for managing its financial criteria for hedge accounting of cash flows or of net investments, where instruments and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the instrugains/losses are recognized in other comprehensive income. Non-monement. For financial liabilities, the standard retains most of the IAS 39 tary assets and liabilities are normally recognized at historical cost and requirements. The main change is that, in cases where the fair value translated at the exchange rate in effect on the transaction date. Translation option is taken for financial liabilities, the part of a fair value change due differences for non-monetary items, such as shares classified as availableto an entity’s own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income for-sale financial assets, are included in the fair value reserve in other comrather than the income statement, unless this creates an accounting prehensive income. mismatch. The Group will evaluate the effects of IFRS 9 when the remaining phases are concluded by IASB. Translation of foreign subsidiaries • IFRIC 21 Levies (not adopted by EU) clarifies when to recognize an obliAssets and liabilities in foreign operations, including goodwill and other surgation to pay a levy that is not income tax. The interpretation defines plus and deficit values, are translated into Swedish kronor at the exchange what an obligating event that triggers the payment of the levy is, and rate on the reporting date. Income and expenses in a foreign operation are when a resulting liability should be recognized. This interpretation statetranslated into Swedish kronor at an average rate that approximates the ment is not expected to have any significant impact on the Group’s exchange rates on each transaction date. Translation differences arising in financial statements. translation of foreign operations are recognized directly in the statement of other comprehensive income as a translation difference. In addition to the above standards, certain interpretations and amendments to standards were issued that are not yet effective and are not relevant to Net investments in foreign operations the Group. Translation differences arising in translation of a foreign net investment and the associated effects of the hedging of net investments are recognized Consolidated accounts directly in the statement of comprehensive income as a translation differSubsidiaries ence. When disposing of foreign operations, the cumulative translation difSubsidiaries are all companies for which the Group has the right to draw up ferences attributable to the operations, less any currency hedging, are realthe financial and operating strategies in a way that generally accompanies ized in the consolidated income statement. a shareholding of more than half of the voting rights. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They Property, plant and equipment are deconsolidated from the date this control ceases. Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost of acquisition less depreciThe Group uses the acquisition method to recognize its business comation. The cost of acquisition includes expenditures that can be related binations. The purchase consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary directly to the acquisition of the asset. consists of the fair value of transferred assets, liabilities incurred to the preLand is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets to allocate their vious owners of the acquired entity and the shares issued by the Group. costs of acquisition down to their estimated residual values is calculated The purchase consideration also includes the fair value of all assets or liausing the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives as follows: bilities arising from an agreement on a conditional purchase consideration. Buildings 14–50 years Identifiable acquired assets as well as liabilities assumed in a business Machinery and plant 3–14 years combination are measured initially at their fair value on the acquisition date. Equipment and installations 3–14 years The excess is recognized as goodwill and consists of the difference between the cost of acquisition and the fair value of the Group’s share of The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed on each reporting the identifiable net assets acquired. Acquisition-related costs are expensed date and are adjusted if necessary. An asset’s carrying amount is written in the income statement in the period when they arise. down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount Intra-Group transactions, balance sheet items and unrealized gains on exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. transactions between Group companies are fully eliminated. Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing sales proceeds with carrying amounts and are recognized through profit or loss. Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a way that is consistent with the interIntangible assets nal reporting which is submitted to the highest executive decision-maker. Goodwill The highest executive decision-maker is the person/persons responsible Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair for allocating resources and assessing the operating segments’ results. For value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired subMeda this is identified as Group management. Division into geographic sidiary on the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is markets reflects the Group’s internal organization and reporting system. recognized in intangible assets. Goodwill is tested at least once a year for The markets are Western Europe, US and Emerging Markets. impairment and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Gains or losses on disposal of an entity include the remaining carrying Foreign currency translation amount of goodwill relating to the entity disposed of. Goodwill is allocated Functional and presentation currency to cash-generating units in impairment testing. Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are valued using the currency of the economic environment in which the Product rights entity mainly operates (the functional currency). The parent company’s Product rights are carried at cost. Product rights have a limited useful life functional and presentation currency is the Swedish krona. The Group’s and are carried at cost less accumulated amortization and, where applicapresentation currency is the Swedish krona. ble, impairment losses. Amortization is used to distribute the cost of product rights over their estimated useful life, usually 10–25 years. The amortiTransactions and balance sheet items zation pattern for product rights is adapted to the amount of expected earnForeign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency ings. The value of product rights is tested regularly for impairment. See also using the exchange rates in effect on the transaction date. Monetary assets Notes 3 and 16. Meda Annual Report 2013 75 Notes group FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 1, cont. Software other comprehensive income. When instruments classified as available-forAcquired computer software licenses are capitalized based on the costs sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are recincurred when the specific software was acquired and brought into use. ognized in profit or loss as income/expense from financial instruments. These costs are amortized over the estimated useful life of the assets, The Group performs an assessment on each reporting date of whether ­usually 3–7 years. there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. Research and development Research expenditure is expensed immediately. Development project Financial liabilities expenditure (for product development) is capitalized in the Group as an Financial liabilities are recognized when the Group is party to the instruintangible asset of it is highly likely that this expenditure will generate future ment’s contractual terms. Financial liabilities are removed from the balance economic benefits. Acquisition costs for such intangible assets are amorsheet when the liability is eliminated through completion, annulment or tertized over the estimated useful life of the assets. Other development mination of the agreement. The Group classifies its financial liabilities in the expenditure is expensed as it occurs. Expenditure must meet stringent categories financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss requirements to be recognized as an asset. With these stringent requireand other financial liabilities. ments, Meda believes that it is not very likely that a product (drug) will generate future economic benefits before being approved by the relevant regBorrowings istration authority. Meda has no development projects that meet these high Borrowings are initially recognized at fair value, net of transaction costs. requirements, so no development expenditure was recognized as assets. Borrowings are subsequently recognized at amortized cost; any difference between the proceeds received (net of transaction costs) and the repayImpairment ment amount is recognized through profit or loss over the loan period, Assets that have an indefinite useful life, i.e. goodwill, are not subject to using the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as current liaamortization but are tested annually for impairment. Assets subject to bilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer payment of the amortization are reviewed for impairment in value whenever events or liability until at least 12 months after the reporting date. changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the Trade payables asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable Trade payables are initially recognized at fair value and thereafter at amoramount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less selling expenses and its tized cost using the effective interest method. value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows Derivatives and hedging (cash-generating units). Derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet on the contract day at fair value, both initially and in subsequent remeasurement. The method of recFinancial assets ognizing the gain or loss from remeasurement depends on whether the The Group classifies its financial assets into: loan and trade receivables, derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and whether it also fulfills financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, and availablethe hedge accounting criteria in IAS 39. Meda holds both derivatives that for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for which do and that do not qualify for hedge accounting. the instruments are used. The instruments are classified at initial recognition. Fair value disclosure for various derivatives used for hedging purposes can be found in Notes 2 and 21. Changes in the hedge reserve in equity are Loan receivables and trade receivables specified in Note 23. Derivatives are classified as a non-current asset or Loan receivables and trade receivables are non-derivative financial assets non-current liability if the time to maturity exceeds 12 months. If the time to that have fixed or determinable payments and are not quoted on an active maturity is less than 12 months, the derivative is classified as a current asset market. They arise when the Group provides goods or services directly to a or current liability. customer with no intention of trading the receivable. They are included in current assets, except for items with maturities more than 12 months from Cash flow hedges the reporting date; these are classified as non-current assets. The effective part of changes in fair value of the Group’s interest rate derivLoan and trade receivables are recognized at amortized cost using the atives that are identified as cash flow hedges and meet the requirements effective interest method less any provision for a decrease in value. A profor hedge accounting according to IAS 39 is recognized in other comprevision for any decrease in the value of trade receivables is made when hensive income. The gain or loss attributable to the ineffective part is recthere is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover all ognized immediately through profit or loss as financial income or expense. past due amounts as per the receivable’s original terms. The reserved Certain transactions are hedged through currency forward contracts. The amount is recognized in the income statement. Group’s currency forward contracts do not meet the requirements for hedge accounting according to IAS 39. Changes in fair value are recogAvailable-for-sale financial assets nized as financial income or expense through profit or loss. Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative assets that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories. Hedging of net investments They are included in non-current assets. Hedging of net investments in foreign operations is recognized in the same Purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognized on the way as cash flow hedges. The effective part of changes in fair value of the transaction date, i.e. the date on which the Group commits to purchase or Group’s hedging instruments is recognized in other comprehensive income. sell the asset. Financial instruments are initially measured at fair value plus The gain or loss attributable to the ineffective part is recognized in the income transaction costs. Financial instruments are removed from the balance statement. Accumulated gains and losses in equity are recognized in the sheet when the right to receive cash flows from the instrument expires or is income statement when foreign operations are disposed of in whole or in part. transferred and the Group has transferred virtually all risks and benefits of ownership. After acquisition, available-for-sale financial assets are recogFair value hedges nized at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses arising from changes in the Certain loans are hedged through currency forward contracts. The Group’s fair value of instruments classified as available-for-sale are recognized in currency forward contracts do not meet the requirements for hedge 76 Meda Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes group accounting according to IAS 39. Changes in fair value are recognized as Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience-based adjustments financial income or expense through profit or loss. and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognized in other comprehensive income during the period in which they arise. Inventories Costs for prior periods of service are recognized immediately through Inventories are carried at the lower of the cost of acquisition (weighted profit or loss. average price) and net realizable value. Acquisition costs relate to raw materials, direct labor, freight, other direct costs and related indirect proHealth care benefits duction costs. The net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the The Group offers health care benefit plans. The accounting methods and operating activities less applicable variable selling expenses. assumptions for these resemble those used for defined-benefit pension plans. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience-based adjustCash and cash equivalents ments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognized in other comCash and cash equivalents includes cash and bank balances, and other prehensive income during the period in which they arise. The value of current investments with maturities of less than three months. Utilized bank these obligations is calculated annually by independent actuaries. overdrafts are recognized in the balance sheet as borrowings among current liabilities. Share-based payment IFRS 2 distinguishes between payments settled in cash and payments setEquity tled with equity instruments. The fair value of equity-settled share-based Transaction costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or warpayments is determined on the allotment date and the difference between rants are recognized, net after tax, in equity as deductions from the issue this value and the employee’s payment for the warrants is recognized as a proceeds. cost over the vesting period with equity as the offsetting entry. As of December 31, 2013 the Group had no outstanding share-related payments Taxes to be settled with equity instruments. Income taxes comprise current and deferred tax. Income taxes are recogCash-settled warrants give rise to a commitment to the employees nized in the income statement except when the underlying transaction is which is measured at fair value and recognized as an expense with a correrecognized directly in equity, in which case the related tax effect is recogsponding increase in liabilities. Fair value is initially measured on the date of nized in equity or other comprehensive income. Current tax is tax that will allotment and distributed over the vesting period including social security be paid or received for the current year, applying the tax rates enacted or costs. The fair value of cash-settled warrants is calculated according to the substantially enacted as of the reporting date. This includes adjustment of Black & Scholes model taking into account the terms and conditions for the current tax attributable to prior periods. allotted instruments. The liability is remeasured on each reporting date and Deferred tax is recognized in full using the balance sheet liability when it is settled. All changes in fair value on liabilities are recognized method on all temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets through profit or loss for the year as a staff cost including social security and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated accounts. costs. See Note 8 for information on outstanding incentive programs as of Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates and tax rules enacted or subDecember 31, 2013. stantially enacted by the reporting date and that are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realized or the deferred tax liability is Provisions settled. Deferred tax assets regarding deductible temporary differences Provisions for restructuring costs and statutory requirements are recogand loss carry-forwards are only recognized where it is probable that they nized when the Group has a present legal or informal obligation resulting will be used and will result in lower future tax payments. from past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably estiEmployee Benefits mated. Restructuring provisions consist of lease termination penalties and The Group has various post-employment benefit plans including definedseverance pay. No provisions are made for future operating losses. benefit and defined-contribution pension plans and post-employment The provisions are valued at the present value of the amount expected health care benefits. to be required to settle the obligation. The discount interest rate reflects a current market estimate of the time value of money and the risks associPension obligations ated with the provision. The increase in the provision dependent on the A defined-contribution plan is a pension plan under which fixed contribupassing of time is recognized as interest expense. tions are paid to a separate legal entity. The Group’s obligations are limited to the contributions it has undertaken to pay. The obligations with respect Revenue recognition to the contributions for defined-contribution plans are recognized as staff Revenue consists of the fair value of goods and services sold excluding costs in profit or loss for the year as they are earned through the employvalue-added tax and discounts, and after eliminating sales within the ee’s service during the period. Prepaid contributions are recognized as an Group. Revenue is recognized as: asset to the extent cash payment or a reduction of future payments will (a) Goods sold and contract manufacturing accrue to the Group. Goods sold and contract manufacturing are recognized as revenue when a A defined-benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of penGroup company has delivered products to a customer, the customer has sion benefits that an employee will receive on retirement, usually depenaccepted the products and payment of the related receivable is reasonably dent on one or more factors such as age, years of service or salary. The liaassured. bility recognized on the balance sheet for defined-benefit pension plans is (b) Royalty income the present value of the defined-benefit obligation on the reporting date Income from royalties is accrued as per the relevant agreement’s financial less the fair value of plan assets. The defined-benefit obligation is calcuimplications. lated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit (c) Services sold and other income method. The present value of the defined-benefit obligation is determined Services sold are recognized as revenue in the accounting period in which by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates on firstthe services are rendered. class corporate bonds, mortgage bonds or government bonds that are (d) Interest income issued in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms Interest income is recognized as revenue on a time-proportion basis using to maturity comparable to the terms of the related pension liability. the effective interest method. Meda Annual Report 2013 77 Notes group FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 1, cont. Leases Earnings per share Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership Calculation of basic earnings per share is based on consolidated profit for are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments the year attributable to parent company shareholders, divided by the made during the lease term (after deductions for incentives from the lessor) weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares during the year. are expensed through profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease When calculating diluted earnings per share, the average number of term. When lease agreements denote that the company, as a lessee, in outstanding ordinary shares is adjusted where appropriate to take into essence enjoys the economic benefits and carries the economic risks account the effects of diluting potential ordinary shares. There were no attributable to the lease object (finance lease), the object is recognized as a potential diluted ordinary shares in 2013. The dilutive effect of potential non-current asset on the consolidated balance sheet. The discounted presordinary shares is only recognized if a conversion to ordinary shares would ent value of corresponding obligations to make lease payments in the lead to a reduction in diluted earnings per share. future is recognized as a liability. Lease payments made are recognized in Further information is provided in Note 14. the consolidated income statement and divided between depreciation and interest. Other information The financial statements are reported in SEK million unless otherwise Dividends stated. Dividends to the parent company’s shareholders are recognized as a liabilSome tables may not add up because figures were rounded off. ity in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the parent company’s shareholders. Note 2 Financial risks The Group is exposed to various financial risks through its operations. partially by taking external loans and contracting for currency swaps in the Meda’s management of these risks is centralized to the Group’s internal respective currency. Hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39 is bank and is regulated in the Group’s financial policy. The objective is to applied for these hedging transactions. Translation differences recognized identify, quantify, and keep risks of adverse impact on the Group’s income in other comprehensive income in 2013 that relate to net investments in statements, balance sheets, and cash flows at suitable levels. ­foreign operations amounted to SEK 510 million (–730), and exchange rate effects from hedging instruments for net investments amounted to SEK Currency risk –277 million (403) after tax. Transaction exposure Transaction exposure is the risk of impact on the Group’s net income and Translation exposure – income statement cash flow due to change in the value of commercial flows in foreign currenGroup sales are generated principally in currencies other than SEK. cies in conjunction with exchange rate fluctuations. Meda has sales through Changes in exchange rates therefore have a significant effect on the conits own sales organizations in close to 60 countries. Sales to other counsolidated income statement since consolidation in the foreign subsidiaries’ tries occur as export in the customers’ local currency. Purchases are mainly income statements is in SEK. This exposure is not hedged, because the made in EUR, GBP, USD, and SEK. So in all, the Group is continually exposed subsidiaries mainly work in local currencies; exchange rate fluctuations to transaction risk; this exposure is relatively limited. On December 31, 2013, thus have no impact on competition or margins. currency derivatives that hedged transaction exposure had a net fair value The next table shows the annual theoretical translation effect on Meda’s of SEK 11 million (7). Hedge accounting is not applicable to these transacnet sales and earnings before tax. Calculated effects are based on recogtions, which means that the fair value is carried to the income statement. nized figures for 2013. The average EUR/SEK exchange rate for 2013 was 8.6385 and 6.5096 for USD/SEK. Translation exposure – balance sheet Most of the Group’s operations are conducted in subsidiaries outside of Interest rate risk Sweden in accounting currencies other than SEK. Translation exposure Interest risk refers to the risk that changes in general interest rates may arises in the Group for net investments in foreign operations. Meda’s transhave an adverse effect on the Group’s net profit/loss. The time taken for lation exposure is for the most part in EUR and USD. The Group hedges risk interest rate fluctuations to affect net earnings depends on the fixed interOn December 31, 2013 Parameter Change, % Effect on net sales, SEK million Effect on profit before tax, SEK million EUR/SEK +/–1 +/–69 +/–19 USD/SEK +/–1 +/–23 +/–4 Other currencies/SEK +/–1 +/–26 +/–7 On December 31, 2012 Parameter Change, % Effect on net sales, SEK million Effect on profit before tax, SEK million EUR/SEK +/–1 +/–73 +/–22 USD/SEK +/–1 +/–21 +/–5 Other currencies/SEK +/–1 +/–22 +/–6 78 Meda Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes group est period for the loan. As per Group policy, the loan portfolio’s fixed inter• Bilateral bank loan of SEK 1,000 million, maturing in March 2014. est period, on average, should be between 3 and 15 months. On average, • Bilateral bank loan of SEK 500 million, maturing in March 2014. this period was 3 on December 31, 2013. • Bond loan of SEK 4,266 million, maturing in December 2014. Meda uses interest rate swaps to extend/shorten the period of fixed • Bond loan of SEK 500 million, maturing in June 2015. interest on underlying loans. As per Group policy, the duration of an interest • Credit facility of SEK 2,000 million with four Nordic banks, maturing in rate swap may not exceed five years. Hedge accounting is applied to these November 2015. transactions, and fair value is charged to other comprehensive income. In • Credit facility with nine banks amounting to SEK 13,300 million, ­maturing 2013, interest rate swaps had an impact on other comprehensive income of 2015–2017. SEK 17 million (–31) from cash flow hedging after tax. The fair value included – SEK 3,627 million, maturing in March 2015. in the consolidated balance sheet for interest rate swaps as of December 31, – SEK 5,200 million, maturing in March 2016. 2013 was a net amount of SEK -33 million (–56). – SEK 4,473 million, maturing in March 2017. On December 31, 2013, Group borrowings of SEK 14,096 million were • Bond loan of SEK 400 million, maturing in April 2016. mainly distributed as: EUR 764 million (SEK 6,765 million), USD 807 million • Bond loan of SEK 600 million, maturing in April 2018. (SEK 5,186 million), and SEK 1,720 million. The average interest rate including credit margins on December 31, 2013 was 2.8% (3.0). Interest expense for The syndicated credit facilities are available provided that Meda meets 2014 for this loan portfolio at unchanged interest rates would thus amount to ­certain financial key ratios concerning net debt in relation to EBITDA, and SEK 409 million. If interest rates change instantaneously +/– 1%, Meda’s net debt in relation to equity and interest coverage ratio. interest expense would be affected by +/– SEK 119 million on an annual basis, taking into account the loan amounts and fixed interest rates that Liquidity risk existed on December 31, 2013. Further information can be found in Note 24. The Group’s current liquidity is covered by a retained liquidity reserve (cash and bank balances, current investments, and the unused portion of conRefinancing risk firmed credit facilities) that in the long term is to amount to at least 5% of the Refinancing risk is the risk that the refinancing of a maturing loan is not feaGroup’s annual sales. On December 31, 2013, the liquidity reserve stood at sible, and the risk that refinancing must be done during unfavorable market SEK 8,205 million, corresponding to 61% of sales for 2013. conditions at unfavorable interest rates. Meda seeks to limit refinancing risk The previous table shows the contractually agreed undiscounted cash by spreading the maturity structure of the loan portfolio over time and flows from the Group’s financial liabilities and net settled derivatives that spreading financing over several counterparties. On December 31, 2013, constitute financial liabilities classified by the time that, on the closing date, Meda had almost SEK 23 billion (23) in available credit facilities. Syndicated remained until the contractually agreed maturity date. For derivatives with a bank loans with nine Swedish and foreign banks form the basis for the variable interest rate, the variable rate that applied to each derivative on Group’s debt financing. In recent years, Meda diversified its financing December 31, was used for the entire period to maturity. sources. In May 2008, a Swedish commercial paper program was established with an upper limit of SEK 2 billion; as of December 31, 2013, the outCredit risk standing volume in this program amounted to SEK 600 million (660). In The Group’s financial transactions lead to credit risks in relation to financial 2012, Meda established a Swedish MTN program with an upper limit of SEK counterparties. According to Meda’s financial policy, financial transactions 7 billion, and the first issue was carried out under this program in June, may only be conducted with the Group’s financing banks, or banks with a 2012. This issue amounted to SEK 500 million, with a term of three years. high official rating corresponding to Standard & Poor’s long-term A-rating or In April 2013 another two issues was carried out under this program. The better. Investments in cash and cash equivalents can only be made in govissues amounted to SEK 400 million , with a term of three years and SEK ernment securities or with banks that have a high official rating. 600 million, with a term of five years. Credit risk exists in the Group’s cash and cash equivalents, derivatives, On December 31, 2013, confirmed facilities consisted of the following and cash balances with banks and financial institutions and in relation to credit facilities (in chronological order according to maturity): On December 31, 2013, > 5 years from SEK million < 1 year 1–2 years 2–5 years the reporting date Borrowings 6,652 3,955 4,034 – Derivatives 19 18 4 – Trade payables 883 – – – Other liabilities 68 – – – Accrued expenses 456 – – – On December 31, 2012, > 5 years from SEK million < 1 year 1–2 years 2–5 years the reporting date Borrowings 2,130 10,007 3,661 – Derivatives 26 19 22 – Trade payables 900 – – – Other liabilities 56 – – – Accrued expenses 339 – – – The Group’s financial derivatives, which will be settled gross, comprised various currency forward contracts on the reporting date (see also Note 21). On the reporting date, the contractually agreed undiscounted cash flows from these instruments, maturing within 12 months, stood at SEK -18,494 million and SEK 18,429 million respectively (SEK –10,535 million and SEK 10,560 million respectively). Meda Annual Report 2013 79 Notes group FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 2, cont. and advisors when necessary. To the extent that Group management’s assessment of the factors considered are not reflected in subsequent distributors and wholesalers, including outstanding receivables and comdevelopments, the financial statements could be affected. As of December mitted transactions. 31, 2013, provisions for legal disputes amounted to SEK 66 (72) million, see Meda’s sales are mainly to large, established distributors and whole­ note 26. See note 27 for a description of legal proceedings that Meda is salers with robust financial strength in each country. Since sales occur in part of and for which the recognition criteria for provisions according to several countries and to many different customers, the Group has good risk IFRS are not met. distribution. Meda follows up granted credits continually. Group assets that entail credit risk are reported in Notes 20, 21 and 22. Important sources of uncertainty in estimates Impairment testing of goodwill Capital risk The Group conducts regular impairment testing of goodwill, as per the prinThe Group’s capital structure goal is to secure the company’s ability to conciple described in Note 1. Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units tinue its operations with the aim of generating return to shareholders and were established through measurement of their value in use. Certain estibenefit for other stakeholders. The goal is also to keep the costs of capital mates must be made in order to arrive at these measurements (Note 16). down, through an optimal capital structure. Capital in the Meda Group is judged on the basis of the Group’s equity/ Product rights assets ratio. The Group’s long-term goal is an equity/assets ratio of 30%. New The value of product rights is measured based on certain assumptions. shares may be issued to maintain the capital structure in conjunction with These assumptions relate to forecasts of future sales revenue, contribution major acquisitions. The equity/assets ratio on December 31, 2013 and 2012: margins and expenses for each product. Assumptions are also made on discount rates, product life and royalty rates. The Group’s maximum period 2012 of amortization of product rights is 25 years. A need to re-assess the valuaSEK million 2013 ­Restated tion of product rights cannot be ruled out and this may have a major impact Equity 15,211 14,723 on the Group’s financial situation and earnings. The Group conducts reguTotal assets 36,293 36,771 lar goodwill impairment tests, as described in Note 1. On December 31, 2013 Equity/assets ratio, % 41.9 40.0 the value of product rights totaled SEK 15,462 million. Pensions and similar obligations Provisions and costs for post-employment benefits, mainly pensions and Important estimates and assessments health care benefits, are based on the assumptions made when the Note 3 for accounting purposes amounts are calculated. Special assumptions and actuarial measurements are made based on significant estimates of discount rates, health care cost Preparation of the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires trends, inflation, salary increase trends, staff turnover, mortality and other management to make assessments, estimates and assumptions which factors. Each change in these assumptions will impact the carrying amounts affect the reported assets and liabilities and other information disclosed in of the obligations. the closing accounts as well as the income and expenses reported during The discount rate for each country is established on the basis of the the period. Estimates, assessments and assumptions are evaluated continmarket rate of first-class corporate bonds and takes into account the estiually and are based on past experience and other factors, including expecmated time to maturity of each obligation. In countries where there is no tations of future events that are deemed reasonable under prevailing confunctioning market for such bonds, the market rate for government bonds ditions. The actual outcome may differ from these assessments, estimates or mortgage bonds is used. and assumptions. Below is a description of the most important accounting In Sweden, the Group has used Swedish mortgage bonds to establish policies applied based on assessments and the most important sources of the Swedish discount rate. The Swedish mortgage bond market is considuncertainty in estimates what may have an impact on the Group’s reported ered to be first-class (AAA or AA) and liquid, therefore meeting the requireresults and position in future financial years. ments stipulated in IAS 19. In Germany, the US and the UK, the Group uses first-class corporate bonds to establish the discount rate. Assessments in the application of accounting policies Inflation assumptions are based on analyzing external market indicaAcquisitions tors. Assumptions on salary increase trends reflect expected payroll When making acquisitions, the Group, based on IFRS 3 Business Combinaexpense trends. Staff turnover reflects the average long-term staff turnover tions, makes assessments as to whether the transaction is a business comwithin Meda. Mortality is primarily based on official mortality statistics. The bination or an acquisition of assets. Group reviews actuarial assumptions annually and adjusts them where this When a transaction is regarded as a business combination, all identifiis deemed appropriate. able assets and liabilities in the acquired company are identified and As of December 31, 2013, provisions for pensions amounted to SEK 1,107 ­valued at fair value. When the fair value cannot be reliably measured, the million and assets were recognized in the amount of SEK 7 million. Provisions value is included in goodwill. for health care benefits amounted to SEK 70 million. For further information When a transaction is regarded as an acquisition of assets, the individuon expenses and assumptions for post-employment benefits, see Note 25. ally identifiable assets and assumed liabilities are identified and recognized. The cost of acquisition is allocated to the individual assets and liabiliTaxes ties based on their relative fair values on the acquisition date. An acquisiDeferred tax assets are recognized to the extent it is deemed likely that tion of assets does not give rise to goodwill. loss carry-forwards will lower future tax payments. The valuation of loss carry-forwards and the Group’s ability to utilize loss carry-forwards are Legal proceedings based on estimates of future taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Meda is involved in legal proceedings typical for the business from time to Regarding the non capitalized carry-forwards of unused tax losses of time. Meda recognizes a liability when an obligation exists and the recogniabout SEK 185 million (183) that accompanied the acquired German operation criteria for provision according to IFRS are met. The Group reviews outtion, Meda has judged that it is uncertain whether they will be used. This standing legal cases regularly in order to assess the need for provisions in judgment is based on complicated regulations and not the German subsidthe financial statements. These reviews consider the factors of the specific iary’s expected earning capacity. case by internal legal counsel and through the use of outside legal counsel 80 Meda Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes group Note 4 Segment information Group management assesses operations from a geographic perspective. Earnings per geographic area are assessed on the basis of EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization). On December 31, 2013, the Group was organized in three geographic areas: Western Europe, the US, and Emerging Markets. 2013 Emerging Other SEK million Western Europe US Markets Sales Total Segment’s sales 9,347 2,443 1,951 240 13,981 Sales between segments –840 –27 – – –867 External net sales 8,507 2,416 1,951 240 13,114 EBITDA 3,078 872 504 –720 3,734 Depreciation and amortization –2,186 Finance income 22 Finance costs –567 Profit after financial items 3,078 872 504 –720 1,003 2012 Emerging Other Restated, SEK million Western Europe US Markets Sales Total Segment’s sales 10,057 2,508 1,834 224 14,623 Sales between segments –1,605 –27 – – –1,632 External net sales 8,452 2,481 1,834 224 12,991 EBITDA 3,078 1,161 410 –704 3,945 Depreciation and amortization –2,144 Finance income 61 Finance costs –626 Profit after financial items 3,078 1,161 410 –704 1,236 The company is based in Sweden. Total non-current assets, other than Geographic areas ­financial instruments and deferred tax assets located in Sweden, amount Western Europe includes western Europe, excluding the Baltics, Poland, to SEK 10,925 million (11,204) and the total of such non-current assets Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Hungary. The US comprises the US and located in other countries is SEK 16,922 million (20,010). ­Canada, and Emerging Markets includes eastern Europe, including the Revenues from external customers in Sweden amount to SEK 1,310 ­Baltics, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Hungary, Turkey, the Middle ­million (1,352) and total revenues from external customers in other counEast, Mexico, and other non-European markets. Other Sales concern tries amount to SEK 11,804 million (11,639). A breakdown of net sales by ­revenues from contract manufacturing, services, and other income. income type is found in Note 5 and a breakdown by product category is found in the management report on page 57. Note 5 Net sales disclosed by type Note 6 Expenses by type 2012 SEK million 2013 2012 SEK million 2013 ­Restated Goods sold 12,553 12,206 Changes in stock of finished goods and Revenue from contract manufacturing 173 141 work in progress 82 45 Royalties 331 544 Raw materials and consumables 1,395 1,355 Other 57 100 Goods for resale 2,472 2,485 Total 13,114 12,991 Staff costs 1,944 1,796 Depreciation and amortization 2,159 2,144 Other expenses 3,514 3,375 Total cost of sales, selling expenses, ­medicine and business development expenses, and administrative expenses 11,566 11,190 Meda Annual Report 2013 81 Notes group FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 7 Personnel, number of employees 2013 2012 Average no. Average no. of employees No. of employees of employees No. of employees Women Men On December 311) Women Men On December 312) Germany 344 316 668 339 298 648 US 306 277 579 282 254 572 France 227 171 395 215 160 377 Russia 100 36 137 95 32 123 Sweden 73 37 105 92 48 112 Turkey 25 126 157 17 89 106 Italy 60 34 93 63 37 94 Spain 58 28 82 67 33 90 China 36 51 87 25 29 80 UK 38 38 77 34 43 76 Belgium 29 27 52 30 26 57 Mexico 27 30 57 21 28 49 Ukraine 31 18 49 28 18 47 Netherlands 24 18 42 23 19 41 Poland 25 19 44 20 19 40 United Arab Emirates 12 32 44 11 28 39 Austria 15 21 34 16 20 37 Portugal 21 16 37 21 17 37 Finland 16 14 29 15 9 30 Denmark 25 5 31 21 4 28 CIS 18 10 27 16 3 24 Balkans 25 17 43 20 17 24 Norway 9 12 22 13 7 23 Switzerland 14 6 20 13 6 22 Baltics 19 2 19 20 2 21 Greece 9 11 19 9 12 18 Czech Republic 9 6 15 10 4 14 Slovakia 9 7 16 8 6 14 South Africa 13 6 20 9 6 14 Ireland 5 10 15 4 9 13 Hungary 11 4 14 10 1 11 Belarus 9 4 12 8 4 11 Luxembourg 3 1 4 2 2 4 Brazil 4 1 5 1 0 3 Canada 1 0 1 0 0 0 Australia 3 2 11 1 0 1 1,653 1,413 3,062 1,579 1,290 2,900 Total 3,066 2,869 1)  Additional 164 contract employees in: Germany 53, US 37, Turkey 27, France 13, Sweden 12, Kazakstan 4, Belgium 3, United Arab Emirates 3, Ireland 2, Brazil 1, Finland 1, Greece 1, Italy 1, Mexico 1, Poland 1, Russia 1, South Africa 1, Ukraine 1, Hungary 1. 2) Additional 222 contract employees in: Turkey 71, Germany 61, US 29, Russia 15, Sweden 12, Belgium 6, France 6, Hungary 6, Netherlands 5, Denmark 3, United Arab Emirates 3, CIS 2, South Africa 2, Ukraine 1. Gender distribution in meda management 2013 2012 Women Men Women Men Boards3) 10 92 6 88 CEO and other senior executives4) 7 28 5 28 Total 17 120 11 116 3) Boards of the Group’s operating companies. 4) Group management and regional and country/national management. 82 Meda Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes group Note 8 Salaries, other remuneration, and social security costs Remuneration to the board of directors and senior executives Short-term variable pay is performance-based partly on Group profit and partly on individual qualitative parameters. The variable pay ceiling is 45% Board of directors of the executive’s total annual remuneration. The annual general meeting (AGM) determines the fees for the chairman Long-term variable pay may include a share-related incentive program. and members of the board. The CEO does not receive a board fee. Other benefits primarily consist of company car. Pension premiums consist Pursuant to a decision at the 2013 AGM, the fees for the board members of an amount that is based on the ITP scheme or comparable schemes for for the period until the next AGM are SEK 2,850,000, of which SEK 750,000 employees outside Sweden. Pension-based salary consists of basic salary is for the chairman’s fee. The remaining amount is divided so that each and variable pay. board member not employed by the company receives SEK 350,000. Fixed salary during the period of notice for termination and severance In addition to these amounts, according to the 2013 AGM decision, a fee pay shall together not exceed an amount equivalent to two years of fixed totaling SEK 300,000 is paid for serving on the board’s audit committee or salary. remuneration committee. The table below shows remuneration to the Board of Directors for 2013. On September 30, 2013 Ander Lönner resigned as President and CEO of Meda. Jörg-Thomas Dierks took over as President and CEO on October 1, Ceo and other senior executives 2013. Jörg-Thomas Dierks expanded the group consisting of other senior Since the 2013 Annual General Meeting, the following guidelines for remuexecutives, which at the end of the year consisted of 12 individuals includneration to senior executives, as determined by the AGM, have been ing the CEO. The other senior executives are presented on pages 116–117. applied: The board’s proposal for guidelines for remuneration to the CEO and The proposed guidelines for remuneration to the CEO and other senior other senior executives is to reflect Meda’s need to recruit and motivate executives to be submitted to the 2014 annual general meeting by the qualified employees through a compensation package that is competitive board for a resolution are presented in the management report on page 59. in the various countries. As of the 2013 AGM, other senior executives consisted of the Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer. According CEO to the principles for remuneration and other employment terms, the comAnders Lönner was the CEO until September 30, 2013. On October 1 Jörgpany is to offer its senior executives market-based remuneration, the criteThomas Dierks took over as CEO. ria for remuneration are to be based on the significance of their responsibilities, skills requirements, experience and performance, and remuneration is Remuneration to the current CEO to consist of the following components: Jörg-Thomas Dierks’ remuneration for the period October 1, 2013 to • Fixed basic salary. December 31, 2013 consisted of basic salary of SEK 1.0 million, variable pay • Short-term variable pay. of SEK 1.1 million and benefits of SEK 0.1 million. Pension costs for the period • Long-term variable pay. amounted to SEK 0.7 million. For 2014, remuneration consists of basic sal• Pension benefits. ary of SEK 10.0 million and a variable pay of a maximum of 80% of basic sal• Other benefits and severance terms. ary. In addition to the statutory pension Jörg-Thomas Dierks receives a The remuneration principles are in line with those from previous years pension benefit that covers 35% of the fixed and variable pay. If he resigns and are based mainly on agreements already entered into between Meda or his employment contract is terminated, a mutual period of notice of 12 and senior executives. Distribution between basic salary and variable pay months applies. If the company terminates the employment contract, fixed must be in proportion to the executive’s levels of responsibility and authority. and variable remuneration is payable during the period of notice as well as Total salaries, social security costs and pensions 2013 2012 Restated Salaries Social Of which Salaries Social Of which and other security pension and other security pension SEK million r­ emuneration costs costs r­ emuneration costs costs 1,541 446 129 1,433 408 125 Pension costs – Defined-contribution plans 61 57 – Defined-benefit plans 65 65 – Defined-benefit post-employment health care plans 3 3 Total 129 125 Salaries and other remuneration 2013 2012 Restated Salary/ Of which Pension Average no. Salary/ Of which Pension Average no. SEK million board fee ­variable pay costs of people board fee ­variable pay costs of people Board, CEO and other ­executives1) 119 40 12 42 92 30 8 39 Other employees 1,422 179 117 3,031 1,341 141 117 2,836 Total 1,541 219 129 3,073 1,433 171 125 2,875 1) Board of the parent company, Group management, and regional and country/national management. Meda Annual Report 2013 83 Notes group FINANCIAL REPORTS severance pay equivalent to one year’s fixed salary. The CEO’s employwhereby the maximum total cost including social security contributions ment terms are determined by the board of directors. for the program was reduced from USD 6 million to USD 3 million. The incentive program closed at the end of 2011 and has not been replaced. Remuneration to the previous CEO All outstanding options were allocated in 2011. The premium for the options In 2013 the company’s costs excluding social security costs for the previous is USD 0, and the redemption price per option is 100% of the average price CEO Anders Lönner totaled SEK 40.8 million. This was for contractual remupaid for the Meda share in January 2011. The redemption period is five neration up to the end of the contract period, i.e. June 30, 2014. The basic salyears and expires on December 31, 2015. Those wishing to redeem options ary was SEK 14.3 million, variable pay SEK 15.0 million, pension costs SEK 11.2 must still be employed by Meda. The total cost for 2013 recognized in the million and other benefits SEK 0.3 million. The former CEO’s pension is preincome statement is USD 0.2 million (0.2). mium-based and the company has no other pension obligations after employment has ended. Preparation and decision process Issues concerning remuneration to Group management are dealt with Incentive program in the us by the remuneration committee in preparation for decisions by the board In 2008 Meda introduced a long-term incentive program including synof directors. thetic options for employees in the US. In 2011 the program was adjusted Remuneration and benefits to board and senior executives 2013 Fixed basic salary/ SEK million board fee Variable pay Other benefits Pension Other benefits Total Jörg-Thomas Dierks, CEO1) 1.0 1.1 0,1 0,7 – 2.9 Former CEO, Anders Lönner2) 14.3 15.0 0.3 11.2 – 40.8 Bert-Åke Eriksson, board chairman3) 0.8 – – – – 0.8 Peter Claesson, board member3) 0.4 – – – – 0.4 Marianne Hamilton, board member3)4) 0.4 – – – – 0.4 Peter von Ehrenheim, board member4) 0.3 – – – – 0.3 Tuve Johannesson, board member3) 0.5 – – – – 0.5 Lars Westerberg, board member3)4) 0.3 – – – – 0.3 Karen Sörensen, board member4) 0.2 – – – – 0.2 Other senior executives (12 persons5)) 11.0 4.6 1.0 3.8 – 20.4 Total 29.2 20.7 0.6 15.7 – 67,0 2012 Fixed basic salary/ SEK million board fee Variable pay Other benefits Pension Other benefits Total Anders Lönner, CEO2) 9.5 10.0 0.2 7.51) 27.2 Bert-Åke Eriksson, board chairman3) 0.8 – – – – 0.8 Peter Claesson, board member3) 0.4 – – – – 0.4 Marianne Hamilton, board member3)4) 0.4 – – – – 0.4 Peter von Ehrenheim, board member4) 0.3 – – – – 0.3 Tuve Johannesson, board member3) 0.4 – – – – 0.4 Maria Carell, board member 0.1 – – – – 0.1 Anders Waldenström, board member 0.1 – – – – 0.1 Lars Westerberg, board member4) 0.2 – – – – 0.2 Other senior executives (2 persons) 6.8 3.5 0.3 2.7 – 13.3 Total 19.0 13.5 0.5 10.2 0.0 43.2 1) Relates to the period, October 1 – December 31, 2013 2) Former CEO, Anders Lönner used his right to convert his pension benefit into salary, as per his employment contract. 3) Including fee received for board committee work. 4) In addition, an amount corresponding to social security costs in respect of the part of the fee that has been invoiced through a company was paid, amounting to SEK 0.4 (0.3) million. 5) Other executives includes Jörg-Thomas Dierks for the period, January 1 – September 30, 2013. Other changes compared to 2012 relates to additional members of the new management team for the period October 1 – December 31, 2013. 84 Meda Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes group Note 9 Fees and remuneration to auditors Note 13 Tax The next table shows the financial year’s expensed auditing fees and 2012 expensed fees for other assignments that the Group’s auditors performed. SEK million 2013 ­Restated SEK million 2013 2012 Current tax expense PwC Current tax for the year –450 –393 Audit assignment1) 10 10 Current tax attributable to prior years 26 –37 Tax consulting 1 2 Total –424 –430 Other services 0 0 Deferred tax expense Total 11 12 1)  Deferred tax (see Note 17) 226 369 Auditing fees refers to fees for the statutory audit, i.e., such work that was necessary to issue the auditor’s report and audit advice given in connection with the audit assignment. Total –198 –61 Fees for auditing services other than regular auditing assignments amount to SEK 0 million (1). Tax expense constituted 19.8% (5.1) of profit before tax. The difference between the recognized tax expense and the consolidated profit before tax calculated using the local tax rate for Sweden 22% (26.3) is illustrated in Note 10 Operating leases the table below. SEK million 2013 2012 2012 Leasing expensed during the financial year 166 162 SEK million 2013 ­Restated Reconciliation of effective tax The nominal value of future minimum lease Profit before tax 1,003 1,236 payments regarding non-cancelable leases is distributed as follows: Tax as per applicable tax rate for parent Payable within 1 year 122 142 company, % 22.0 26.3 Payable within 1–5 years 202 208 Effect of other tax rates for foreign Payable after 5 years 7 8 ­subsidiaries, % –3.7 –8.4 Total 331 358 Effect of utilization of a non-capitalized loss carry-forward, % 0.0 0.0 Other non-deductible expenses, % 3.6 2.8 The largest proportion of the lease payments is for rent of premises in five of Meda’s companies. An operating lease covering office rent in Bad HomEffect of changed tax rates, % 0.0 –14.4 burg, Germany, was entered into in 2004 and prolonged in 2013. The Tax attributable to prior years, % –2.1 –1.2 agreement runs until 2019. In 2011, Meda AB entered into an operating Recognized effective tax, % 19.8 5.1 lease regarding offices in Sweden for the period January 1, 2011 until December 31, 2015. In the US, the lease for offices runs through 2015. Meda has leases in place for offices in France expiring 2015–2016. In the Note 14 Earnings per share UK, Meda has leases for offices running until 2018. Operating leases for sales representatives’ cars also account for a large portion of the Group’s Basic earnings per share lease expenses. These leases span three to four years. 2012 2013 ­Restated Profit attributable to parent company Note 11 Exchange gains/losses, net ­shareholders, SEK million 807 1,204 Average no. of shares (thousands) 302,243 302,243 SEK million 2013 2012 No. of shares in calculation of basic Finance income/costs (see Note 12) –42 –33 ­earnings per share (thousands) 302,243 302,243 Total –42 –33 Basic earnings per share (SEK) 2.67 3.98 Diluted earnings per share Note 12 Finance income and finance costs 2012 2013 ­Restated 2012 SEK million 2013 ­Restated Profit attributable to parent company ­shareholders, SEK million 807 1,204 Finance income Average no. of shares (thousands) 302,243 302,243 Interest 22 61 No. of shares in calculation of diluted Total finance income 22 61 ­earnings per share (thousands) 302,243 302,243 Diluted earnings per share (SEK) 2.67 3.98 Finance costs Interest –453 –528 Basic and diluted earnings per share Exchange losses (see Note 11) –42 –33 Calculation of earnings per share was based on net profit for the year after Finance leases – –1 tax attributable to parent company shareholders in relation to a weighted Costs of raising loans –25 –29 average number of outstanding shares totaling 302,243,065 Other finance costs –47 –35 (302,243,065). There are no potential diluted ordinary shares. Total finance costs –567 –626 Meda Annual Report 2013 85 notes group FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 15 Property, plant, and equipment 2013 2012 Equipment ConstrucEquipment ConstrucBuildings Machinery/ and tion in Buildings Machinery/ and tion in SEK million and land plant ­installations progress Total and land plant ­installations progress Total Opening cost of acquisition 663 797 534 55 2,049 673 787 537 47 2,044 Investments 12 31 25 68 136 9 39 38 40 126 Sales/disposals – –50 –9 – –59 – –11 –35 –1 –47 Reclassification 1 28 3 –32 0 6 12 10 –29 –1 Translation difference 15 20 8 1 44 –25 –30 –16 –2 –73 Closing cost of acquisition 691 826 561 92 2,170 663 797 534 55 2,049 Opening depreciation –298 –550 –406 – –1,254 –290 –532 –411 – –1,233 Sales/disposals – 50 9 – 59 – 10 32 – 42 Year’s depreciation –16 –48 –36 – –100 –15 –46 –43 – –104 Reclassification – –1 1 – 0 – – – – – Translation difference –5 –15 –7 – –27 7 18 16 – 41 Closing depreciation –319 –564 –439 – –1,322 –298 –550 –406 – –1,254 Carrying amount at year-end 372 262 122 92 848 365 247 128 55 795 Depreciation per function: Cost of sales –7 –38 –10 – –55 –7 –35 –9 – –51 Selling expenses – – –6 – –6 – –1 –7 – –8 Medicine and business ­development expenses –1 –1 –3 – –5 –1 –1 –4 – –6 Administrative expenses –7 –10 –17 – –34 –7 –9 –23 – –39 Total –15 –49 –36 – –100 –15 –46 –43 – –104 Finance leases Future minimum lease payments have these due dates: The Group’s property, plant, and equipment includes objects held via finance leases as follows: Nominal values Present values SEK million 2013 2012 2013 2012 Accumulated depreciation 0–1 year 2 6 2 6 Cost of acquisition and amortization 1–5 years – 3 – 2 SEK million 2013 2012 2013 2012 Total 2 9 2 8 Machinery and plant 50 91 –25 –56 Total 50 91 –25 –56 The income statement includes depreciation and finance costs for finance leases as follows: SEK million 2013 2012 Machinery and plant 10 10 Total 10 10 86 Meda Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL REPORTS notes group Note 16 Intangible assets 2013 2012 Product Other Product Other SEK million Goodwill rights assets1) Total Goodwill rights assets1) Total Opening cost of acquisition 13,809 26,167 144 40,120 14,361 25,647 126 40,134 Investments – 236 25 261 – 1,002 24 1,026 Sales/disposals – –12 – –12 – – –2 –2 Acquired operation – 782 – 782 –16 – – –16 Translation difference 162 179 2 343 –536 –482 –4 –1,022 Closing cost of acquisition 13,971 27,352 171 41,494 13,809 26,167 144 40,120 Scheduled opening amortization – –9,604 –97 –9,701 – –7,742 –86 –7,828 Sales/disposals – 12 – 12 – – 2 2 Scheduled amortization for the year – –2,067 –19 –2,086 – –2,024 –16 –2,040 Translation difference – –51 –2 –53 – 162 3 165 Scheduled closing amortization – –11,710 –118 –11,828 – –9,604 –97 –9,701 Carrying amount at year-end 13,971 15,642 53 29,666 13,809 16,563 47 30,419 Scheduled amortization per function: Cost of sales – – –3 –3 – – –3 –3 Selling expenses – – –3 –3 – – –3 –3 Medicine and business development expenses – –2,067 –4 –2,071 – –2,024 –3 –2,027 Administrative expenses – – –9 –9 – – –7 –7 Total – –2,067 –19 –2,086 – –2,024 –16 –2,040 1) Other intangible assets mainly refers to software Rate of Remaining established the financial budgets based on previous results, experience and Specification of major amortization, amortization, expectations of market trend. The budgets include assumptions on product ­product rights, SEK million 2013 years years launches, price trends, sales volumes, competing products, and cost trends. Elidel 2,028 15 12.2 Cash flow beyond the four-year period has been assumed to have 3M-produkter 1,992 15 8.0 annual growth of 2%. This anticipated growth rate is a moderate assumption in relation to estimated long-term growth rate for the total market. Recip products 1,075 15 8.9 According to IMS (IMS Health Market Prognosis, September 2013), the Valeant products 1,052 15 9.7 global pharmaceutical market is expected to increase by an average of Alaven products 922 15 11.7 3–6% during the 2013–2017 period. Antula products 811 25 22.3 Avereged budgeted gross margin, grotwth rate beyond the four yearAerospan 782 15 15 period and discount rate before tax used in the calculation of value in use Treo 665 25 22.9 are showh in the table below: Jazz products 599 15 13.8 Europe Azelastine nasal ­formulation 522 15 8.7 excluding Other 5,194 8–25 Parameter, % US Nordics Nordics Total 15,642 Average budgeted gross margin 78 57 60 Growth rate beyond the four-year period 2 2 2 Impairment testing of goodwill Discount rate, before tax 13 11 12 The next table shows the carrying amount for goodwill distributed per Assumptions used in the previous year ­geographic area. Goodwill was tested for impairment regarding the US Average budgeted gross margin 80 56 60 (acquisitions of MedPointe and Alaven), the Nordics (acquisitions of Recip and Antula), and Europe excluding Nordics (acquisitions of Viatris, 3M and Growth rate beyond the four-year period 2 2 2 Valeant). Discount rate, before tax 13 12 12 SEK million 2013 2012 Meda judges that the discount rate used is conservative because the US 4,564 4,621 weighted average cost of capital is lower than the discount rate. The recovNordics 2,110 2,111 erable amount for the tested entities exceeds their carrying amount, so no Europe excluding Nordics 7,297 7,077 impairment loss was recognized. Total 13,971 13,809 Meda performed sensitivity analyses on the following parameters: gross margin, growth rate. discount rate and saleses volumes, and observed that there are good margins in the calculations. The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are based on value in use. These In the long term, Meda’s ability to generate future deals constitutes a calculations stem from estimated cash flows based on managementkey factor in justifying recognized goodwill. approved financial budgets and cover a four-year period. Management Meda Annual Report 2013 87 notes group FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 17 Deferred tax Amounts referring to deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities on the balance sheet include: 2012 SEK million 2013 Restated Deferred tax assets: Deferred tax assets to be used after 12 months 362 336 Deferred tax assets to be used within 12 months 556 595 Total 918 931 Deferred tax liabilities: Deferred tax liabilities payable after 12 months 1,919 2,107 Deferred tax liabilities payable within 12 months 292 430 Total 2,211 2,537 Carry-forward of unused tax losses At year-end 2013, the Group reported deferred tax assets attributable to able to Germany. The decision to not account for the loss carry-forwards in carry-forwards of unused tax losses of SEK 84 million. The tax base of loss Germany is based on complicated regulations and not the earning capacity carry-forwards not accounted for is about SEK 185 million, mainly attributof the German subsidiary. Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities on the balance sheet refer to the following: 2012 2013 Restated SEK million Receivables Liabilities Net Receivables Liabilities Net Intangible non-current assets 72 1,558 –1,486 90 1,724 –1,634 Property, plant, and equipment 4 64 –60 2 69 –67 Stock (inventories) 260 5 255 257 5 252 Accrued expenses 317 125 192 302 246 56 Loss carry-forwards 84 0 84 12 0 12 Pensions 204 5 199 294 16 278 Untaxed reserves 0 492 –492 – 510 –510 Other 18 3 15 16 9 7 Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities 959 2,252 –1,293 973 2,579 –1,606 Offsetting of assets and liabilities –41 –41 0 –42 –42 – Tax assets and tax liabilities, net 918 2,211 –1,293 931 2,537 –1,606 Change regarding deferred taxes: Intangible Property, Stock Loss Unnon-current plant, and (invenAccrued carrytaxed SEK million assets equipment tories) expenses forwards Pensions reserves Other Total On January 1, 2012, restated –1,972 –71 219 90 60 229 –540 –57 –2,042 Translation difference 72 3 –3 –10 – –1 –12 – 49 Acquisition of subsidiaries – – – – 16 – – – 16 Recognition in income statement 266 1 36 56 –64 –32 42 64 369 Tax recognized in other ­comprehensive income – – – –80 – 82 – – 2 On December 31, 2012, restated –1,634 –67 252 56 12 278 –510 7 –1,606 Translation difference –7 –1 1 3 0 –8 0 2 –10 Acquisition of asset 8 0 0 3 77 0 0 2 90 Recognition in income statement 147 8 2 57 –5 –5 18 4 226 Tax recognized in other ­comprehensive income 2 0 0 73 0 –66 0 0 7 On December 31, 2013 –1,486 –60 255 192 84 199 –492 15 –1,293 88 Meda Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL REPORTS notes group Changes in the provision for bad debts: Note 18 Available-for-sale financial assets SEK million 2013 2012 SEK million 2013 2012 On January 1 19 23 Carrying amount at start of the year 5 5 Additional provision for bad debts 16 11 Translation difference 0 0 Receivables written off during the year as Carrying amount at year-end 5 5 non-recoverable –12 –12 Reversed unused amounts –2 –2 No impairment losses for decreases in value were taken in 2013 and 2012 Translation difference 1 –1 for available-for-sale financial assets. Carrying amount at year-end 22 19 Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: Note 21 Derivatives, financial assets and financial liabilities SEK million 2013 2012 Unlisted shares – Norway 1 1 Currency forward contracts Funds invested in interest-bearing On December 31, 2013, the Group’s open forward foreign exchange con­(fixed-income) securities – Austria 4 4 tracts had terms of up to three months. This table shows classification by Total 5 5 currency: Assets Note 19 Inventories Nominal amount, Fair value, Currency pairs Exchange rate SEK million SEK million SEK million 2013 2012 EUR/SEK 8.84 662 19 USD/SEK 6.458 196 6 Raw materials 388 378 TRY/SEK 3.22 40 11 Work in progress 90 94 Other 13 Finished goods and goods for resale 1,504 1,459 Total 49 Total 1,982 1,931 Liabilities The Cost of sales item contains expenditure for inventories recognized as Nominal amount, Fair value, an expense amounting to SEK 4,499 million (4,258). Other income stateCurrency pairs Exchange rate SEK million SEK million ment items contain expenditure for inventories recognized as an expense EUR/USD 1.3541 465 75 of SEK 0 million (0). EUR/SEK 8.8383 1,032 30 Impairment of inventories in the Group totaled SEK 174 million (130) during the year. Other 8 Total 113 Note 20 Trade receivables Fair value of financial assets and liabilities The following table comprises the Group’s financial assets and liabilities SEK million 2013 2012 that are measured at fair value. Trade receivables 2,173 1,948 Derivatives are recognized at level 2 and used for the purpose of hedgProvision for bad debts –22 –19 ing. Fair value measurement for interest rate swaps is calculated by discounting with observable market data. Fair value measurement for curTotal 2,151 1,929 rency forward contracts is based on published forward prices. Available-for-sale financial assets are primarily recognized at level 1 and The fair value of trade receivables corresponds to the carrying amount. consist of funds invested in interest-bearing securities Fair value measureOn December 31, 2013, the Group’s trade receivables, excluding those ment is based on market prices on an active market. that were past due and those impaired, stood at SEK 1,854 million (1,567). Group derivatives are covered by right of set-off between assets and On December 31, 2013 past due but not impaired trade receivables ­liabilities with the same counterparty. Offsetting of assets and liabilities has amounted to SEK 282 million (319). Their aging analysis: not been applied. Derivatives recognized as assets and liabilities are presented in the following table. No transfers have been made between level 1 and level 2 during the SEK million 2013 2012 period. < 3 months 199 247 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period 3–6 months 28 30 is the fair value of the derivatives that are recognized as assets in the >6 months 55 42 ­balance sheet. Total 282 319 On December 31, 2013 the Group recognized trade receivables that were impaired amounting to SEK 37 million (62). The provision for bad debts totaled SEK 22 million (19). Meda Annual Report 2013 89 notes group FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 21 cont. 2013 2012 Note 23 Equity Level 1 Level 2 Level 1 Level 2 Assets Share capital and other contributed capital Interest rate swaps1) – – – 0 No. of shares, share capital and premiums increased since 2012 as follows: Currency forward contracts – 49 – 60 Other Available-for-sale SEK million (except for contributed financial assets 4 1 4 1 no. of shares) No. of shares Share capital capital Total 4 50 4 61 January 1, 2012 302,243,065 302 8.865 Liabilities 2012 Interest rate swaps1) – 33 – 56 On December 31, 2012 302,243,065 302 8.865 Currency forward contracts – 113 – 22 Total – 146 – 78 2013 1) Cash flow hedging On December 31, 2013 302,243,065 302 8.865 Dividend per share Note 22 Cash and cash equivalents At the AGM on May 7, 2014, a dividend of SEK 2.50 per share for a total of SEK 756 million will be proposed for 2013. Dividends for 2012 amounted to SEK million 2013 2012 SEK 680 million (SEK 2.25 per share) and for 2011 SEK 680 million (SEK Cash and bank balances 178 194 2.25 per share). Current investments 0 0 Total 178 194 Hedging Defined benefit Translation of net Cash flow pension plans Other reserves, SEK million ­difference investment hedging and similar plans Total Other reserves Jan 1, 2012 –587 360 –12 – –239 Translation difference for foreign operation –731 – – – –731 Earnings from hedging net investment in foreign operation – 490 – – 490 Tax on earnings from hedging net investment in foreign operation – –87 – – –87 Earnings from revaluation of derivatives ­recognized in other comprehensive income – – –38 – –38 Tax on earnings from revaluation of derivatives recognized in other comprehensive income – – 7 – 7 Earnings from defined benefit pension plans and similar plans – – – –260 –260 Tax on earnings from defined benefit pension plans and similar plans – – – 82 82 Other reserves Dec 31, 2012, restated –1,318 763 –43 –178 –776 Other reserves Jan 1, 2013, restated –1,318 763 –43 –178 –776 Translation difference for foreign operation 508 – – – 508 Earnings from hedging net investment in foreign operation – –355 – – –355 Tax on earnings from hedging net investment in foreign operation – 78 – – 78 Earnings from revaluation of derivatives ­recognized in equity – – 22 – 22 Tax on earnings from revaluation of derivatives recognized in equity – – –5 – –5 Earnings from defined benefit pension plans and similar plans – – – 179 179 Tax on earnings from defined benefit pension plans and similar plans – – – –66 –66 Other reserves Dec 31, 2013 –810 486 –26 –65 –415 90 Meda Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL REPORTS notes group Note 24 Borrowings Not 25 Post-employment benefits 2012 SEK million 2013 2012 SEK million 2013 Restated Long-term borrowing Present value of funded obligations 942 1 070 Bank loans 6,295 8,426 Fair value of plan assets –688 –679 Bond loans 1,497 4,766 Deficit of the funded plans 254 391 Finance leases (see Note 15) 0 3 Present value of unfunded obligations 846 893 Total 7,792 13,195 Net 1,100 1,284 Short-term borrowing 2012 Bank loans 1,444 1,083 SEK million 2013 Restated Bond loans 4,266 – Recognized as assets1) 7 – Commercial papers 593 660 Recognized as liabilities 1,107 1,284 Finance leases (see Note 15) 2 9 Net 1,100 1,284 1) Plans with a net surplus, i.e. where plan assets exceed the defined benefit obligations is recognized as Total 6,304 1,752 other non-current receivables. Total borrowings 14,096 14,947 Changes in fair value of plan 2012 assets during the year 2013 Restated Maturities for long-term borrowing: 2013 2012 At year’s start 679 685 Payable within 1–2 years 3,807 5,721 Interest income 25 29 Payable within 2–5 years 3,985 7,474 Remeasurements Payable after 5 years – – Return on plan assets, excluding amounts Total 7,792 13,195 included in interest income 27 37 Contributions Carrying amounts in SEK million, Employers 45 84 by currency, for the Group’s borrowing: 2013 2012 Payments from plan EUR 6,765 8,143 USD 5,186 4,648 Benefit payments –43 –43 SEK 1,720 1,804 Settlements -40 –40 TRY 92 125 Exchange differences –5 –30 CHF 81 76 Settlements – –43 GBP 107 64 At year-end 688 679 CAD 19 20 DKK 49 22 Changes in present value of the 2012 MXN 25 26 obligations during the year 2013 Restated AUD 17 0 At year’s start 1,963 1,795 RUB 21 0 Costs for service in current year 19 19 ZAR 15 19 Costs for service in prior years 1 0 NOK 0 0 Interest expense 65 74 Total 14,096 14,947 Remeasurements (Gain/loss) from change in demographic Unused credits: 2013 2012 assumptions 2 –1 Unused unconfirmed credits 700 700 (Gain/loss) from change in financial Unused confirmed credits 8,001 7,772 assumptions –159 276 Experience (gains/losses) 7 18 Payments from plan Benefit payments –77 –74 Settlements –40 –40 Exchange differences 7 –57 Settlements – –47 At year-end 1,788 1,963 Meda Annual Report 2013 91 notes group FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 25 cont. The defined benefit obligation and plan assets are composed by country as follows in the table below: 2013 Germany US Sweden UK Other Total Present value of obligation 686 747 81 143 131 1,788 Fair value of plan assets – –495 – –149 –44 688 Net 686 252 81 –6 87 1,100 2012 (Restated) Germany US Sweden UK Other Total Present value of obligation 727 870 85 146 136 1,963 Fair value of plan assets – –486 – –141 –52 –679 Net 727 384 85 5 84 1,284 Germany The defined benefit pension plan in the US reports a deficit of SEK 252 milIn Germany, Meda has unfunded defined-benefit pension plans. These lion as of December 2013. Meda is obliged to fund the plan according to the plans are closed to new members and new employees are instead offered rules of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 in the US, which generally a defined-contribution solution. The defined-benefit pension plans are require contributions to the plan on a yearly basis so that the deficit is based on the final salary and give employees covered by the plan benefits funded within 7 years. Any gains or losses to the plan assets will also affect in the form of a percentage of salary upon retirement. The level of benefits the level of future contributions. Contributions in 2014 are estimated to SEK also depends on the employee’s period of service. Withdrawals for pen56 million. The yearly contribution is calculated on a yearly basis by an sions are made for payouts to the retirees with vested pension. The penexternal actuary. sion payouts for the German plans are adjusted based on the consumer The funded pension plan in the US is actively monitored by an investprice index. The plans cover 1,087 people, 401 of whom were active ment committee and by SEI Investments (SEI). The board of Meda US has employees as of December 31, 2013. appointed an investment committee which consists of Meda PharmaceutiOne of the pension plans in Germany, which was partially financed by cals Inc. employees. The committee works with SEI to determine investing the employer and partially by the employees, was discontinued on Decemdecisions and allocation of funds. This work is abided by an investment polber 31, 2004 and is secured by Bayer Pensionskasse. It is a defined-benefit icy, which is determined by the board of Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc., and plan that encompasses several employers. As in previous years, Meda is the SEI investment management agreement. The investments are deterrecognizing this plan as a defined-contribution plan since the Group has mined within an asset-liability matching strategy to achieve a long-term not had access to information that would enable this plan to be recognized investment that is in line with the obligations under the pension plan. The as a defined-benefit plan. In 2012 Bayer Pensionskasse announced that it Company’s overall objective is to improve the funded status of the Plan. may not be able to cover future pension increases. Under German law The investment committee together with SEI actively monitors how the (Gesetz zur Verbesserung der betrieblichen Altersversorgung) Meda would, duration and the expected yield of the investments are matching the in such a case, be liable to cover any future pension increases. For 2012 this expected cash outflows arising from the pension obligation. The company assumption was included in the actuarial calculation and is recognized as a has not changed the processes used to manage its risks from previous revaluation effect in other comprehensive income. Meda will not be paying years. Investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single any premiums to Bayer Pensionskasse for 2014. Meda’s share of the total investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets. number of active participants in the plan as of December 31, 2013 was 0.4%. Sweden US Salaried employees are covered by the ITP plan which is collective-based The defined benefit pension plan in the US is a tax-qualified plan that is and encompasses numerous employers in a variety of industries. Under subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) the ITP plan, newly-employed salaried employees are offered a premiumminimum funding standards. The plan was taken over in conjunction with based solution (ITP 1) negotiated by the Confederation of Swedish Enterthe acquisition of MedPointe Inc., US, in August 2007 and it has been prise and the Swedish Federation of Salaried Employees in Industry and closed for new members and benefit accruals since January 31, 2003. The Services (PTK). Those already employed retain the older ITP plan (ITP 2). plan includes 1,971 persons whereof 119 are active employees as of DecemThe retirement pension in the ITP 2 plan is a defined-benefit obligation ber 31, 2013. Employees are currently offered a retirement solution through hand­led by Meda and administered and secured by PRI Pensionsgaranti a defined contribution plan. which also provides credit insurance. Obligations for family pension and The member’s defined benefit plan benefit is based on their compensadisability pension for salaried employees is secured through insurance with tion and service with the Company. Because the plan was frozen effective Alecta. As per UFR 3 (statement issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting January 31, 2003, there are no benefit accruals after that date. Thus, serBoard) this is a multi-employer benefit-based plan. For the 2013 financial vice and compensation with the Company earned after January 31, 2003 year, the Group did not have access to information that would enable this are not taken into account for benefit accrual purposes but such service is plan to be recognized as a defined-benefit plan. These benefits as per ITP taken into account for purposes of determining eligibility for early retire2, secured through Alecta insurance, are therefore recognized as a ment benefits. A cost of living adjustment is done on the benefit payments defined-contribution plan. Premiums for the defined-benefit survivor’s penfor certain members of the plan who were hired before April 1, 1977. No cost sion plan is calculated on an individual basis and based, among other of living adjustment is required on the portion of the benefit earned after things, on salary, previously vested pension and the assumed remaining September 30, 1980. service period. The expected premiums for 2014 for ITP 2 plans with Alecta 92 Meda Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL REPORTS notes group amount to SEK 2 million (1). Meda’s share of the total contributions to the payment as they fall due. The trustees and LGIM actively monitor how the plan amounts to 0.002% (0.002) and Meda’s share of the total number of duration and the expected yield of the investments are matching the active participants is 0.013% (0.013). At the end of 2013, Alecta’s surplus (in expected cash outflows arising from the pension obligation. The company the form of the collective consolidation level) was 148% (129). has not changed the processes used to manage its risks from previous The defined-benefit ITP plan in Sweden is a pension plan based on final years. Investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single salary and gives employees covered by the plan benefits in the form of a investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets. percentage of salary upon retirement. The level of the benefit also depends on the employee’s period of service. The Swedish plans are unfunded and Other withdrawals for pensions are made for the payouts to the retirees with Recognized liabilities for other pension plans as of December 31, 2013 vested pension. The pension payouts from the Swedish plan are not amounted to SEK 88 million and recognized assets to SEK 1 million. Other adjusted based on the consumer price index. The plan covers 300 people, pension obligations are mainly relate to France, Austria, Italy and Switzer66 of whom were active employees as of December 31, 2013. land. Other plans assets are mainly attributable to Austria and Norway. The defined-benefit pension plans in France are unfunded and withUK drawals for pensions are made for the payments to be made for the retirees The defined benefit pension plan in the UK is a funded plan and was taken with vested pension. The pension payouts are inflation-adjusted annually. over in conjunction with the acquisition of Valeant pharmaceuticals in WestRecognized liabilities as of December 31, 2013 amounted to SEK 45 million. and Eastern Europe in August 2008. The plan has been closed to new The plans cover 388 people all of whom were active employees as of members since January 1, 2007 and there are no benefit accruals after that December 31, 2013. date. New employees are currently offered a retirement solution through a defined contribution plan. The defined benefit pension plan includes 168 The significant actuarial assumptions are presented in the table below: persons whereof none are active employees as of December 31, 2013. The plan is a final salary pension plan, which provides benefits to mem(weighted average %) 2013 2012 bers in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life. The level Discount rate 3.6 3.1 of benefits provided also depends on members’ length of service. The penFuture salary increase 2.2 2.0 sion payment in UK is on a yearly basis adjusted with 3% for some of the Future pension increase 1.3 1.3 plan members. For other members of the plan the pension payments are adjusted for inflation. Assumptions regarding future mortality are set based on actuarial advice in The defined benefit pension plan in UK reports a surplus of SEK 6 milaccordance with published statistics and experience in each territory. lion as of December 2013. Meda makes yearly contributions to the plan to These assumptions translate into an average life expectancy in years for a ensure that the plan does not report a deficit. Any changes on the value of pensioner retiring at age 65. the plan assets may affect the yearly contribution to the plan. Contributions in 2014 are estimated to SEK 5 million. The contribution is monitored and (weighted average, %) 2013 2012 calculated by an external actuary on a regular basis. Retiring at the end of the reporting period The funded pension plan in UK is administrated by Legal & General (age 65 years) Investment Management Limited (LGIM). The administration is regulated by Male 20.2 19.8 an investment management agreement. The agreement includes targets Female 23.3 22.9 related to return on plan assets of which an investment strategy is suggested for Meda Pharmaceuticals Ltd. Investment decisions are handled by Retiring 25 years after the end of the reporting period ( age 40 years) trustees, ENTs (Entity Nominated Trustees), which according to British law is designated by Meda Pharmaceuticals Ltd. The investments are determined Male 19.4 19.3 within an asset-liability matching strategy to achieve a long-term investFemale 22.7 22.6 ment that is in line with the obligations under the pension plan. The company’s objective is to match assets to the pension obligations by investing in long term fixed interest securities with maturities that match the benefit The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions are*: Discount rate Future salary increase Future pension increase Life expectancy 2013 +0.25% –0.25% +0.25% –0.25% +0.25% –0.25% +1 year –1 year Present value of funded ­obligations 942 911 975 943 942 947 938 941 943 Fair value of assets –688 –688 –688 –688 –688 –688 –688 –688 –688 Present value of unfunded ­obligations 846 802 864 837 827 859 806 831 821 Net 1,100 1,025 1,151 1,092 1,081 1,118 1,056 1,084 1,076 * The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuaril assumptions the same method (projected unit method) has been applied as when calculating the pension liability. Meda Annual Report 2013 93 notes group FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 25 cont. Plan assets in the Group which are mainly attributable to US and UK are comprised as presented in the table below. 2013 2012 Quoted Unquoted Total % Quoted Unquoted Total % Equity instruments US 219 – 219 32 212 – 212 31 UK 30 – 30 4 66 – 66 10 Debt instruments US 133 – 133 19 160 – 160 23 UK 119 – 119 17 75 – 75 11 Property US – 27 27 4 – 24 24 4 Other US 23 93 116 17 1 89 90 13 Other countries 44 0 44 7 49 3 52 8 Total 567 121 688 100 514 116 679 100 Post-employment health care benefits The sensitivity of the defined health care obligation to changes in the The Group has some post-employment health care benefits plans for cerweighted principal assumptions are:* tain senior executives in the US. These plans, which are unfunded, were taken over by the Group in conjunction with the acquisition of MedPointe Long-term increase of Inc. in the US in August 2007. The accounting method, assumptions and Disount rate health care cost trend rate valuation frequency resemble those used for defined-benefit pension 2013 0.25% –0.25% 0.25% –0.25% plans. The plans are closed and no active employees are covered by them. Present value Health care benefit liabilities are recognized in other provisions. of unfunded obligation 70 69 72 71 69 2012 * The above sensitivity analyses are based on the same principals as when ­calculating the sensitivity 2013 Restated of the defined benefit pension obligation. Present value of unfunded obligation 70 76 Contributions to the Group’s defined-benefit pension and health care plans Net 70 76 for the 2014 financial year are expected to amount to SEK 103 million. Changes in present value 2012 The weighted average maturity for the pension obligations is 14 years and of the obligation during the year 2013 Restated for health care plans, 9 years. At year’s start 76 73 Interest expense 3 3 The maturities for expected undiscounted payouts for post-employment Remeasurements pension and health care benefits are listed below: (Gain/loss) from change in financial assumptions –5 5 Pension Health care benefits benefits Total Experience (gains/losses) 3 –1 Within 1 year 87 6 93 Payments from plan Between 1–2 years 94 6 100 Benefit payments –6 –5 Between 2–5 years 297 17 314 Exchange differences –1 1 More than 5 years 2,905 81 2,986 At year-end 70 76 Total 3,383 110 3,493 The significant actuarial assumptions are presented in the table below. 2013 2012 Discount rate 4.5 3.8 Long-term increase of health care cost trend rate 5.0 5.0 94 Meda Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL REPORTS notes group Risks Through its defined post-employment defined-benefit pension and healthcare plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks. The most significant risks are described below. Type of risk Volatility The largest proportion of the Group’s plan assets are in the US and the UK. The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate in assets based on corporate bonds. If the plan assets do not achieve returns corresponding to the level of the discount rate, a deficit will arise. The US plan contains a large percentage of equities. Although over the long term the return is expected to exceed the interest on corporate bonds, the equities are associated with volatility and risk in the short term. As the plans approach maturity, Meda intends to reduce the level of investment risk by increasing investments in assets that better match the liability. The UK plan contains 20 (47) % equities. Although over the long term the return is expected to exceed the interest on corporate bonds, the equities are associated with volatility and risk in the short term. As the plans approach maturity, Meda intends to reduce the level of investment risk by increasing investment in assets that better match the liability. Bond yield Corporate bonds: For the plans that are unfunded and where the discount rate is based on corporate bonds, a reduction in the interest changes on corporate bonds results in an increase in plan liabilities. The Group’s largest unfunded plans where the discount rate is based on corporate bonds are in Germany. In the US the pension plans are funded and any increase in the liability as a result of a decrease in interest on corporate bonds is to some extent compensated for by an increase in the value of the corporate bond holding. Mortgage bonds: The Swedish plans are unfunded and the discount rate is based on mortgage bonds. Any decrease in the interest on these will result in an increase in plan liabilities. Inflation In the countries where the Group has pension obligations that are linked to inflation, higher inflation in those countries would lead to higher pension liabilities. The plan assets in the US and the UK are either not affected by (fixed interest on bonds) or slightly correlated with (equities) inflation, which means that an increase in inflation will increase the deficit in these plans. Life expectancy In most of the pension plans, individuals covered by the plans will receive life-long benefits, and accordingly, higher life expectancy assumptions assumptions result in higher pension liabilities. Note 26 Other provisions Legal SEK million Returns Personnel Restructuring ­disputes Other Total On January 1, 2013, restated 257 134 36 72 67 566 Additional provisions 337 5 2 3 31 378 Utilized during the year –204 –19 –20 –5 –29 –277 Reversed unused amounts –34 –1 –4 –5 –18 –62 Translation difference –3 0 0 1 2 0 On December 31, 2013 353 119 14 66 53 605 2012 Provisions for personnel SEK million 2013 R ­ estated SEK 16 million (24) of the provision for personnel refers to earned salary for Non-current provisions 209 220 51 employees in Germany who opted for early retirement in accordance with the German “Altersteilzeit” model, partly financed by public funding. Use of Current provisions 396 346 the recognized provision on December 31, 2013 will occur within 5 years Total 605 566 after the reporting date. In conjunction with the MedPointe Inc. acquisition in the US in August 2007, some plans were adopted for post-employment Non-current health care benefits for certain former executives. The plans are closed. On Expected outflow date provisions December 31, 2013 the provision amounted to SEK 70 million (76 restated). In 2–3 years 68 In 4–5 years 45 Provisions for legal disputes After 5 years 96 Individual assessment of ongoing disputes occurs continually. Total 209 Provisions for restructuring The provision for restructuring amounted to SEK 14 million (36). During the Provisions for returns year, no additional restructuring programs have been initiated. The provision for returns mainly comprises reserves for products that Meda is obliged to buy back from the customer a short time before or after their Other provisions expiry date. Other provisions include, for example, excise duties and product-related provisions. Meda Annual Report 2013 95 notes group FINANCIAL REPORTS and San Francisco. The cases have been delayed by appeals of fundaNote 27 Contingent liabilities mental issues regarding the liability of the generic and brand manufacturer defendants. Initial trials in some of these cases may begin by the Pledged collateral, SEK million 2013 2012 end of 2014. Meda believes it has meritorious defenses to the cases. As Commitments with all litigation, we cannot predict the outcome of the cases with cerGuarantees 32 31 tainty. • From time to time Meda is involved in legal disputes that are common in the pharmaceutical industry. Although it is not possible to issue any • In-licensing of the global rights to Edluar may lead to milestone payguarantees about the outcome of these disputes, on the basis of Group ments totaling USD 60 million when defined sales targets are reached. management’s present and fundamental judgment, we do not antici• The acquisition of the European rights to the substance sotiromod may pate that they will have any materially negative impact on our financial lead to milestone payments of USD 10 million when defined developposition. This standpoint may naturally change over time. ment stages are reached. • The acquisition of the rights to BEMA Fentanyl in the US, Canada and Mexico may lead to milestone payments totaling USD 30 million when defined sales targets are reached. Note 28 Cash flow • The agreement with Ethypharm for the rights to the ketoprofen– omeprazole combination may lead to milestone payments of EUR 5 milAdjustments for items not included in cash flow lion upon registration and when defined sales targets are reached. 2012 • In-licensing of OraDisc A for the European market may lead to milestone SEK million 2013 ­Restated payments of EUR 4.8 million. Operating activities: • The agreement with Cipla to expand the geographic territory for Depreciation of property, plant, Dymista and the product development partnership may lead to mileand equipment 100 104 stone payments of USD 35 million when defined development stages Amortization of intangible assets 2,086 2,040 are reached and upon the launch of new products. • The acquisition of Acton Pharmaceuticals may lead to milestone payOther 60 20 ments of USD 10 million when defined sales targets are reached for the Total 2,246 2,164 product Aerospan. • The acquisition of ZpearPoint may lead to milestone payments of SEK 44 million when defined development stages and sales targets are Acquisition of Acton Pharmaceuticals Inc. reached for the product EB24. During the fourth quarter Meda acquired the patent-protected product • The in-licensed rights to Betadine from Mundipharma will expire on Aerospan. The product was acquired through the acquisition of the comDecember 31, 2017. With this counterparty, Meda has a binding option to pany Acton Pharmaceuticals Inc. The transaction is treated as an acquisiacquire an eternal license for the rights to Betadine under certain condition of assets in the accounts. The total price of the acquisition was SEK tions. The parties have entered into negotiations on future rights to the 879 million. There will also be a milestone payment of USD 10 million as product. well as royalty-based milestones. • The maximum additional purchase consideration for other product rights is around SEK 30 million. Acquired net assets Fair value • In conjunction with the acquisition of Carter-Wallace in 2001, Meda Product rights 782 Pharmaceuticals Inc. (previously MedPointe Inc.) took over certain enviDeferred tax assets 90 ronment-related obligations. In 1982, US Environmental Protection Other net assets 7 Agency (EPA) stated that Carter-Wallace, along with more than 200 879 other companies, were potentially responsible for waste placed at the Cash –17 Lone Pine Landfill waste disposal facility. In 1989 and 1991, without admitting responsibility, Carter-Wallace and 122 other companies Change in Group cash at acquisition 862 entered into an agreement with the EPA to decontaminate Lone Pine. The process is ongoing. The provision for decontamination costs amounted to USD 2.3 million as of December 31, 2013. Note 29 Related-party transactions • In conjunction with the purchase of Alaven Pharmaceuticals in 2010, Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc. assumed responsibility for ongoing U.S. Remuneration to senior executives is described in Note 8. No other relatedproduct liability cases involving the product Reglan® (metoclopramide). party transactions occurred in 2013. Generally, the cases involve plaintiffs who took Reglan for long periods of time to control gastric stasis and gastroesophageal reflux and developed the side effect of tardive dyskinesia, which is characterized by Note 30 Events after the reporting date repetitive, involuntary muscle movements, generally of the face and extremities. While the Reglan labeling since 1986 has warned against Meda has no significant events after the reporting date to report. the side effect if the product is used for longer than 12 weeks, the plaintiffs allege that the warning was not prominent enough. Nearly all of these cases attempt to hold Alaven, which owned Reglan for part of the relevant period, responsible to patients who took a generic product, allegedly relying upon the labeling of the brand. Meda divested the product rights to Reglan in 2011. Presently, there are more than 3,400 cases in which the company is named as one of multiple defendants, with most of the cases having been filed in Philadelphia, Atlantic City 96 Meda Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL REPORTS Accounts parent company Income statement parent company SEK million Note 2013 2012 Net sales 2,3 5,477 5,733 Cost of sales 5 –3,178 –3,507 Gross profit 2,299 2,226 Other operating income 4 – 47 Selling expenses –454 –500 Medicineand business development expenses –1,227 –1,145 Administrative expenses –216 –205 Operating profit 5–9 402 423 Profit from interests in Group companies 10 331 819 Interest income and similar items 11 573 743 Interest cost and similar items 11 –521 –592 Profit before appropriations and tax 785 1,393 Appropriations 12 –457 –1,030 Tax 13 0 94 Net income 328 457 Statement of comprehensive income SEK million 2013 2012 Net income 328 457 Cash flow hedges, after tax 17 –31 Other comprehensive income for the period after tax 17 –31 Total comprehensive income 345 426 Items in the previous table are recognized net of tax. Details are given in the parent companys specification for the equity on the tax attributable to each component in other comprehensive income. Meda Annual Report 2013 97 Accounts parent company FINANCIAL REPORTS Balance sheet parent company SEK million Note 31 Dec, 2013 31 Dec, 2012 ASSETS 1 Non-current assets Intangible non-current assets Product rights and other intangible assets 14 6,172 6,961 Total intangible non-current assets 6,172 6,961 Property, plant and equipment Equipment 15 1 1 Total property, plant and equipment 1 1 Non-current financial assets Interests in Group companies 16 9,244 9,265 Receivables from Group companies 14,338 15,459 Deferred tax asset 13 48 54 Total non-current financial assets 23,630 24,778 Total non-current assets 29,803 31,740 Current assets Inventories 17 460 405 Current receivables Trade receivables 18 283 264 Receivables from Group companies 1,033 898 Other receivables 35 42 Derivatives 47 60 Tax assets 3 7 Prepayments and accrued income 19 21 16 Total current receivables 1,422 1,287 Cash and bank balances 22 0 Total current assets 1,904 1,692 TOTAL ASSETS 31,707 33,432 98 Meda Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL REPORTS Accounts parent company SEK million Note 31 Dec, 2013 31 Dec, 2012 Equity and liabilities Equity Restricted equity Share capital 302 302 Statutory reserves 3,175 3,175 Total restricted equity 3,477 3,477 Non-restricted equity Share premium reserve 5,694 5,694 Fair value reserve –26 –43 Retained earnings 2,455 2,679 Profit for the year 328 457 Total non-restricted equity 8,451 8,787 Total equity 11,928 12,264 Untaxed reserves 20 2,239 2,320 Provisions Provisions for pensions 21 62 61 Total provisions 62 61 Non current liabilities Borrowings 22 7,778 13,173 Liabilities to Group companies 1,811 2,361 Deferred tax liability 13 – 8 Derivatives 137 193 Total non-current liabilities 9,726 15,735 Current liabilities Borrowings 22 6,302 1,736 Liabilities to Group companies 938 800 Trade payables 250 299 Derivatives 82 28 Other liabilities 5 20 Accruals and deferred income 23 175 169 Total current liabilities 7,752 3,052 Total equity and liabilities 31,707 33,432 Commitments 24 41 187 Meda Annual Report 2013 99 Accounts parent company FINANCIAL REPORTS Cash flow parent company SEK million Note 2013 2012 Cash flow from operating activities Profit after financial items 785 1,393 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow 25 712 122 Net change in pensions 1 3 Net change in other provisions 4 26 Income taxes paid –2 –6 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,500 1,538 Cash flow from changes in working capital Inventories –56 8 Receivables –153 71 Liabilities –59 –46 Cash flow from operating activities 1,232 1,571 Cash flow from investing activities Acquisition of intangible assets –233 –301 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment –1 –1 Change of financial receivables 1,473 540 Cash flow from investing activities 1,239 238 Cash flow from financing activities Loans raised 997 3,113 Loan repayments –1,890 –4,438 Capital contributions – –43 Change of other financial liabilities –876 239 Dividend –680 –680 Cash flow from financing activities –2,449 –1,809 Cash flow for the period 22 0 Cash and cash equivalents at periods start 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents at periods end 22 0 Interest received 499 670 Interest paid –386 –453 Total –386 217 100 Meda Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL REPORTS Accounts parent company Equity parent company Restricted equity Non restricted equity Share Retained earnShareStatutory premium Fair value ings and profit SEK million capital reserves reserve reserve for the year Total equity Opening balance, equity, Jan 1, 2012 302 3,175 5,694 –12 3,359 12,518 Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – – – 457 457 Other comprehensive income Cash flow hedging, interest rates derivatives – – – –39 – –39 Tax on cash flow hedging, interest rates derivatives – – – 8 – 8 Total other comprehensive income – – – –31 – –31 Total comprehensive income – – – –31 457 426 Dividend in 2011 – – – – –680 –680 Closing balance, equity, Dec 31, 2012 302 3,175 5,694 –43 3,136 12,264 Opening balance, equity, Jan 1, 2013 302 3,175 5,694 –43 3,136 12,264 Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – – – 328 328 Other comprehensive income Cash flow hedging, interest rates derivatives – – – 21 – 21 Tax on cash flow hedging, interest rates derivatives – – – –4 – 4 Total other comprehensive income – – – 17 – 17 Total comprehensive income – – – 17 328 345 Dividend in 2012 – – – – –680 –680 Closing balance, equity, Dec 31, 2013 302 3,175 5,694 –26 2,783 11,928 Meda Annual Report 2013 101 Notes parent company FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes parent company Note 1 Accounting policies Note 2 Distribution of net sales The parent company prepared its annual report per the Swedish Annual SEK million 2013 2012 Accounts Act (1995:1554) and Recommendation RFR 2 of the Swedish Western Europe 4,576 4,851 Financial Reporting Board. RFR 2 means that in the annual report for the US 85 61 legal entity, the parent company must apply all EU-approved IFRS regulaEmerging Markets 692 668 tions and statements as far as possible within the framework of the Annual Accounts Act, with consideration for the connection between accounting Other Sales 124 153 and taxation. Total 5,477 5,733 The main deviations between accounting policies adopted for the Group and accounting policies for the Parent Company are: Goods sold 5,265 5,585 Royalty income 124 104 Interests in subsidiaries Other income 88 44 Interests in subsidiaries are carried at cost, less any impairment losses, per Total 5,477 5,733 the Annual Accounts Act. Liabilities Note 3 Intra-Group transactions Liabilities that comprise hedging instruments for investment in subsidiaries were not revalued at the closing rate, but were valued at the acquisition These data show the year’s purchases and sales between Group cost of the investment. companies. Pensions SEK million 2013 2012 Pensions are not recognized per IAS 19. Instead, the parent company comGoods sold 3,447 3,563 plies with Recommendation RedR 4 of FAR SRS, the institute for the Royalty income 124 104 accountancy profession in Sweden. Other income 88 44 Taxes Goods purchased –146 –96 Deferred tax attributable to untaxed reserves is not recognized separately Total 3,513 3,615 in the parent company. Tax on Group contributions is recognized per IAS 12 in the income statement. Note 4 Other operating income Group contributions Group contributions paid are recognized as an appropriation in the income SEK million 2013 2012 statement. Group contributions received are recognized as financial Service income, internal – 47 income according to the same principles as for ordinary dividends from Total – 47 subsidiaries. Business combinations Note 5 Expenses by type Transaction costs attributable to the acquisition are included in the cost of acquisition in the parent company statements compared to Group StateSEK million 2013 2012 ments where these costs are expensed as incurred. Raw materials and consumables 352 331 Goods for resale 2,051 2,244 Staff costs 156 128 Depreciation and amortization 1,023 964 Other expenses 1,493 1,690 Total cost of sales, selling costs, medicine and business development expenses, and administrative expenses 5,075 5,357 102 Meda Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes parent company Note 6 Personnel, average number of employees Average no. of employees Gender distribution in the board 2013 2012 2013 2012 Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men 58 30 56 27 The board of directors 2 5 1 6 Total 88 83 Total 2 5 1 6 Note 7 Salaries, other remuneration, and social security costs Total salaries, social security costs and pensions 2013 2012 Salaries Social Salaries Social and other security Of which and other security Of which SEK million r­ emuneration costs pension costs r­ emuneration costs pension costs 115 43 14 91 39 15 Pension costs – Defined-contribution plans 9 9 – Defined-benefit plans 5 6 Total 14 15 Remuneration and other benefits to board and senior executives 2013 For remuneration to the board and executives refer to note 8, Group. Note 8 Fees and remuneration to auditors Note 10 Earnings from interests in Group companies The next table shows the financial year’s expensed auditing fees and SEK million 2013 2012 expensed fees for other assignments performed by the parent company’s Dividends from Group companies 352 754 auditors. Group contributions received – 70 SEK million 2013 2012 Impairment of shares in Group companies –21 –5 PwC Total 331 819 Audit assignment1) 2 2 Tax consulting 0 0 Note 11 Financial items Other services 0 0 Total 2 2 SEK million 2013 2012 1) Auditing fees refers to fees for the statutory audit, i.e., such work that was necessary to issue the auditor’s report and audit advice given in connection with the audit assignment. Interest income and similar items Fees for auditing services other than regular auditing assignments amount to SEK 0.0 million (0.0). Interest 571 743 Other finance income 2 0 Note 9 Operating leases Total 573 743 SEK million 2013 2012 SEK million 2013 2012 Leasing expensed during the financial year 11 11 Interest expenses and similar items Interest –436 –488 The nominal value of future minimum lease payments regarding non-canCosts of raising loans –25 –29 celable leases is distributed as follows: Exchange losses –12 –40 SEK million 2013 2012 Other –48 -35 Payable within 1 year 11 10 Total –521 –592 Payable within 1–5 years 19 16 Payable after 5 years – – Note 12 Appropriations Total 30 26 In 2011, Meda AB entered into an operating lease regarding offices in SEK million 2013 2012 ­Sweden for the period January 1, 2011 until December 31, 2015. Future Group contributions paid 539 765 lease payments will be based on performance of the consumer price index. Excess depreciation/amortization –82 265 Total 457 1,030 Meda Annual Report 2013 103 Notes parent company FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 13 Tax SEK million 2013 2012 The next table shows the difference between recognized tax expense and Current tax expense (–)/tax income (+) the relevant tax rate. Current tax for the year –6 0 The taxrate has with effect from 1 January been reduced to 22%. Current tax attributable to prior years 0 0 SEK million 2013 2012 –6 0 Reconciliation of effective tax Deferred tax expense (–)/tax income (+) Profit before tax 328 363 Deferred tax 6 94 Total 0 94 Tax as per applicable tax rate for parent company 22% (26.3) –72 –95 Other non-deductible expenses –6 –2 Tax items recognized directly in equity Non-taxable income (dividends from Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 ­subsidiaries) 78 197 Deferred tax Revaluation of deferred taxes – –6 Derivatives –4 8 Tax attributable to prior years 0 0 Total –4 8 Recognized effective tax 0 94 Temporary differences resulted in these deferred tax assets/liabilities: SEK million Other receivables Derivatives Derivatives Borrowings Total On January 1, 2012 8 5 –67 –2 –56 Recognized in equity – 8 – – 8 Recognized in income statement 2 –1 59 34 94 On December 31, 2012 10 12 –8 32 46 Recognized in equity – –4 – – –4 Recognized in income statement 0 15 –9 6 On December 31, 2013 10 8 7 23 48 Note 14 Product rights and other intangible assets 2013 2012 SEK million Product rights Other assest Total Product rights Other assest Total Opening cost of acquisition 11,430 24 11,454 11,137 16 11,153 Investments 228 5 233 293 8 301 Closing cost of acquisition 11,658 29 11,687 11,430 24 11,454 Scheduled opening amortization –4,490 –3 –4,493 –3,529 0 –3,529 Scheduled amortization for the year –1,018 –4 –1,022 –961 –3 –964 Scheduled closing amortization –5,508 –7 –5,515 –4,490 –3 –4,493 Carrying amount at year-end 6,150 22 6,172 6,940 21 6,961 Scheduled amortization per function Medicine and business development expenses –1,018 –4 –1,022 –961 –3 –964 104 Meda Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes parent company Note 15 Equipment SEK million 2013 2012 Opening cost of acquisition 8 23 Investments 1 1 Sales/disposals – –16 Closing cost of acquisition 9 8 Opening depreciation –7 –22 Year’s depreciation –1 –1 Sales/disposals – 16 Closing depreciation –8 –7 Carrying amount at year-end 1 1 Depreciation per function: Administrative expenses –1 –1 Note 16 Interests in Group companies Share of Carrying Carrying Subsidiaries Corporate ID number Registered office No. of shares equity, % amount 2013 amount 2012 Meda Germany Holding GmbH1) HRB 9848 Bad Homburg, Germany 4 100 5,041 5,041 Meda US Holding Inc. 22-3801882 Somerset, US 3,000 100 3,793 3,793 Meda A/S 46 03 22 17 Alleröd, Denmark 104 100 144 144 Ipex AB2) 556544-1135 Danderyd, Sweden 1,428 100 139 139 Ellem Läkemedel AB 556196-1789 Stockholm, Sweden 1,000 100 4 4 Medag AB 556489-3948 Täby, Sweden 400,000 100 4 25 Medinet International Ltd. 0113742-0 Åbo, Finland 4,800 100 21 21 Meda Pharma Hungary Kft. 01-09-870550 Budapest, Hungary 130 100 5 5 Meda Valeant Inc. 44 9014-2 Montréal, Canada 2,750 55 22 22 Meda AS 920218199 Asker, Norway 2,000 100 2 2 Meda Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 6130651123 Istanbul, Turkey 523,195 42.963) 23 23 Meda OY 0111457-9 Åbo, Finland 3,200 100 1 1 Meda Pharmaceuticals SA 58280/01AT/B/05/111 Athens, Greece 60,000 99.9 1 1 Cytopharma AB 556538-1018 Täby, Sweden 1,000 100 1 1 Meda Health Sales Ireland Ltd. 403901 Dunboyne, Ireland 510,000 100 43 43 Meda Pharma LLC 1097746271127 Moscow, Russia 1 14) 0 – Meda Pharmaceuticals Sp.z o.o. 5272515293 Warsaw, Poland 50 100 0 0 Scanmeda AB 556053-7002 Gothenburg, Sweden 500 100 0 0 Viatris Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 04303411 Nottingham, UK 1 100 0 0 Meda Pharma S de RL de CV 401800-1 Jardines en la Montaña, Mexico 1 100 0 0 Total 9,244 9,265 1) The most important holdings in Meda Germany Holding GmbH: 2) The most important holdings in Ipex AB: Meda Pharmaceuticals Middle East & Africa FZ LLC, Dubai, Meda Pharma GmbH & Co KG, Bad Holmburg, Germany Meda Pharma GmbH, Wangen, Switzerland United Arab Emirates Meda Manufacturing GmbH, Köln, Germany Meda Manufacturing SAS, Merignac, France Meda Pharmaceuticals Switzerland GmbH, Wangen, Switzerland Meda Pharma GmbH, Vienna, Austria Meda Pharma SAS, Paris, France Meda Pharma Ilaç Sanayi ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi, Istanbul, Turkey3) Meda Pharma s.r.o., Prague, Czech Republic Meda Pharmaceuticals Ltd., Bishop’s Stortford, UK Meda OTC AB, Stockholm, Sweden Meda Pharma spol. s.r.o., Bratislava, Slovakia Meda Pharma S.A. / N.V., Brussels, Belgium Recip AB, Stockholm, Sweden Meda Pharma B.V., Amstelveen, Netherlands Meda Pharma LLC, Moscow, Russia Meda Pharma S.A.U., Madrid, Spain Meda Pharma S.p.A, Milan, Italy 3) IPEX AB has a 57.04% share of equity. Meda Pharma Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A., Lisbon, Portugal 4) IPEX AB has a 99% share of equity. Meda Annual Report 2013 105 Notes parent company FINANCIAL REPORTS Note 17 Inventories Note 21 Pension provisions SEK million 2013 2012 SEK million 2013 2012 Raw materials 95 78 PRI pensions 62 61 Work in progress 0 0 Total 62 61 Finished goods and goods for resale 365 327 Total 460 405 Pension costs for the defined-benefit pension plan were recognized in the amount of SEK 5 million (6) in the operation. Interest expense was SEK 2 The charge for expensed inventories is included in the Cost of sales item million (3). and amounted to SEK 2,488 million (2,684). Impairment of inventories in the parent company totaled SEK 15 million (27) during the year. Note 22 Borrowings SEK million 2013 2012 Note 18 Trade receivables Long-term borrowing Bank loans 6,282 8,407 SEK million 2013 2012 Bond loans 1,497 4,766 Trade receivables 283 264 Total 7,778 13,173 On December 31, 2013, past due trade receivables stood at SEK 44 million Short-term borrowing (44). Their aging analysis is as follows: Bank loans 1,444 1,076 SEK million 2013 2012 Bond loans 4,266 – < 3 months 28 31 Commercial papers 593 660 3–6 months 4 1 Total 6,302 1,736 >6 months 12 12 Total borrowings 14,081 14,909 Total 44 44 Maturities for long-term borrowing: No impairment was deemed to be applicable to the parent company’s Payable within 1–2 years 3,803 5,721 trade receivables. Payable within 2–5 years 3,975 7,452 Payable after 5 years – – Excluding past due trade receivables, the parent company’s trade receivTotal 7,778 13,173 ables amounted to SEK 239 million (220). Their aging analysis: SEK million 2013 2012 Carrying amounts in SEK million, by currency, for the parent company’s Less than three months 239 220 ­borrowing: Total 239 220 EUR 6,762 8,116 USD 5,173 4,613 SEK 1,720 1,829 Note 19 Prepayments and accrued income TRY 92 125 CHF 81 76 SEK million 2013 2012 GBP 107 64 Prepaid rent 2 2 MXN 25 26 Prepaid insurance 3 3 DKK 49 22 Other prepayments 16 11 CAD 19 20 Total 21 16 ZAR 15 18 RUB 21 _ AUD 17 – Note 20 Untaxed reserves Total 14,081 14,909 SEK million 2013 2012 Unused credits: 2013 2012 Accumulated excess Unused unconfirmed credits 700 700 depreciation/amortization 2,239 2,320 Unused confirmed credits 8,001 7,772 Total 2,239 2,320 Accumulated excess depreciation/ amortization by asset type Product rights 2,239 2,320 106 Meda Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL REPORTS Notes parent company Note 23 Accruals and deferred income Note 25 Cash flow SEK million 2013 2012 Adjustments for non-cash items Accrued interest expense 69 64 SEK million 2013 2012 Vacation pay liability 10 11 Operating activities: Prepaid income 2 – Amortization of intangible non-current Other accrued employee benefits expense 6 28 assets 1,023 964 Other accrued expenses 88 66 Impairment of shares in subsidiaries 20 5 Total 175 169 Not yet paid dividend from subsidiaries –352 –754 Group contributions received – –70 Other 21 –23 Note 24 Contingent liabilities Total 712 122 Pledged collateral, SEK million 2013 2012 Commitments Note 26 Financial risks Surety given that benefits subsidiaries 40 186 Guarantees 1 1 See Note 2 of the consolidated accounts for a description of financial risks. Total 41 187 • In-licensing of the global rights to Edluar may lead to milestone payments totaling USD 60 million when defined sales targets are reached. • The acquisition of the European rights to the substance sotiromod from 3M may lead to additional milestone payments of USD 10 million when defined development stages are reached. • The acquisition of the rights to BEMA Fentanyl in the US, Canada and Mexico may lead to milestone payments totaling USD 30 million when defined sales levels are reached. • The agreement with Ethypharm for the rights to the combination of ketoprofen and omeprazole may lead to milestone payments of EUR 5 million upon registration and when defined sales levels are reached. • In-licensing of OraDisc A for the European market may lead to additional milestone payments of EUR 4.8 million. • The agreement with Cipla to expand the geographic territory for Dymista and the product development partnership may lead to payments of USD 35 million when defined development stages are reached and upon the launch of new products. • The maximum additional purchase consideration for other product rights is around SEK 15 million. • From time to time Meda is involved in legal disputes that are common in the pharmaceutical industry. Although it is not possible to issue any guarantees about the outcome of these disputes, on the basis of Group management’s present and fundamental judgment, we do not anticipate that they will have any materially negative impact on our financial position. This standpoint may naturally change over time. Meda Annual Report 2013 107 Statement of the board FINANCIAL REPORTS Statement of the board The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Meda AB (publ) for 2013 statements were prepared using generally accepted accounting principles have been approved for publication according a board decision on March and provide a fair and true presentation of the parent company’s financial 28, 2014. The board proposes adoption of the annual accounts and consolposition and results. idated accounts at the annual general meeting on May 7, 2014. The management report for the Group and parent company provides a fair The board and the CEO hereby provide an assurance that the consolidated and true summary of the performance of the Group’s and parent company’s statements were prepared in accordance with the International Financial operations, their position and financial results, and describes significant Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and provide a fair and risks and uncertainties faced by the parent company and Group companies. true presentation of the Group’s position and performance. The annual Stockholm, March 28, 2014 The board and CEO of Meda AB (publ) Bert-Åke Eriksson Peter Claesson Board chairman Board member Peter von Ehrenheim Marianne Hamilton Board member Board member Tuve Johannesson Karen Sörensen Board member Board member Lars Westerberg Jörg-Thomas Dierks Board member CEO We submitted our audit report on March 31, 2014 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Mikael Eriksson Certified Public Accountant 108 Meda Annual Report 2013 Auditor's report Auditor’s report To the annual meeting of the shareholders of Meda AB (publ) year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting StanCorporate identity number 556427-2812 dards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. A corporate governance statement has been prepared. The statutory administration Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts report and the corporate governance statement are consistent with the We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Meda other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. AB for the financial year 2013. The annual accounts and consolidated We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders accounts of the company are included in the printed version of this adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company ­document on pages 56–108. and the group. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director Report on other legal and regulatory requirements for the annual accounts and consolidated accounts In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the we have also audited the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit preparation and fair presentation of these annual accounts in accordance or loss and the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing with the Annual Accounts Act and of the consolidated accounts in accorDirector of Meda AB for the financial year 2013. dance with International Financial Reporting Standards , as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act, and for such internal control as the Board Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Directors and the Managing Director determine is necessary to enable The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are the company’s profit or loss, and the Board of Directors and the Managing free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Director are responsible for administration under the Companies Act. Auditor’s responsibility Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts and Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance on consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and on the accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally administration based on our audit. We conducted the audit in accordance accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Those standards require that we with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed approprireasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and consoliations of the company’s profit or loss, we examined whether the proposal dated accounts are free from material misstatement. is in accordance with the Companies Act. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about As a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in addition the amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we accounts. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, ­examined significant decisions, actions taken and circumstances of the including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the company in order to determine whether any member of the Board of Direcannual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error. tors or the Managing Director is liable to the company. We also examined In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director ­relevant to the company’s preparation and fair presentation of the annual has, in any other way, acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the accounts and consolidated accounts in order to design audit procedures Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal conappropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. trol. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Opinions Board of Directors and the Managing Director, as well as evaluating the We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the profit be overall presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and ­administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. the Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. Opinions In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance Stockholm, March 31, 2014 with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2013 and of its PricewaterhouseCoopers AB financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have Mikael Eriksson been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present Authorized Public Accountant fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 December 2013 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the Meda Annual Report 2013 109 Financial review Financial review 2012 SEK million 2013 Restated 2011 2010 2009 SUMMARY OF INCOME STATEMENTS Continuing operations Net sales 13,114 12,991 12,856 11,571 13,178 Operating expenses –11,566 –11,190 –10,212 –9,471 –10,276 Other income – 0 – 429 – Operating profit 1) 1,548 1,801 2,644 2,529 2,902 Net finance costs -545 –565 –604 –552 –618 Profit after financial items 1,003 1,236 2,040 1,977 2,284 Tax –198 –61 –432 –549 –747 Net income 2) 805 1,175 1,608 1,428 1,537 1) Operating profit, adjusted for non-recurring effects 1,548 1,801 2,683 2,297 3,033 Non-recurring effects, revenue – – – 429 – Non-recurring effects, expenses – – –39 –197 –131 2) Net income attributable to: Parent company shareholders 807 1,204 1,616 1,444 1,539 Non-controlling interests –2 –29 –8 –16 –2 805 1,175 1,608 1,428 1,537 SUMMARY OF BALANCE SHEETS Assets Non-current assets Property, plant, and equipment 848 795 811 788 854 Intangible 29,666 30,419 32,306 28,214 27,453 Other non-current assets 936 946 592 624 883 Current assets Inventories 1,982 1,931 1,780 1,520 1,666 Current receivables 2,683 2,486 3,089 2,305 2,091 Cash and cash equivalents 178 194 140 111 76 Total assets 36,293 36,771 38,718 33,562 33,023 Equity and liabilities Equity 15,211 14,723 14,971 13,925 13,664 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing 8,899 14,479 15,699 8,421 11,082 Other non-current liabilities 2,485 2,842 3,015 2,924 2,764 Current liabilities Interest-bearing 6,304 1,752 1,802 5,226 2,478 Other current liabilities 3,394 2,975 3,231 3,066 3,035 Total equity and liabilities 36,293 36,771 38,718 33,562 33,023 SUMMARY OF CASH FLOW STATEMENTS Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 2,956 3,051 3,130 2,734 3,087 Change in working capital –111 –238 –272 –198 37 Cash flow from operating activities 2,845 2,813 2,858 2,536 3,124 110 Meda Annual Report 2013 Financial review 2012 SEK million 2013 Restated 2011 2010 2009 Cash flow from investing activities –1,255 –1,143 –5,669 –2,852 –518 Cash flow from financing activities –1,597 –1,608 2,844 365 –2,724 Cash flow for the period –7 62 33 49 –118 Cash and cash equivalents at period’s start 194 140 111 76 198 Exchange-rate difference for cash and cash equivalents –9 –8 –4 –14 –4 Cash and cash equivalents at period’s end 178 194 140 111 76 INVESTMENTS in intangible non-current asstes3) 1,043 1,026 5,596 3,141 412 in property, plant and equipment 136 126 124 127 109 Free cash flow4) 2,688 2,672 2,713 2,390 3,004 Free cash flow per share5) 8.9 8.8 9.1 8.0 9.0 3) Including acquisition of subsidiaries and asset deals. 4) Cash flow from operating activities less cash flow from investing activities (excluding acquisition of product rights, asset deals and subsidiaries). 5) Calculated on average number of diluted shares. KEY RATIOS RELATED TO EARNINGS Gross margin, % 61.2 61.2 63.8 64.1 66.1 Operating margin, % 11.8 13.9 20.6 21.9 22.0 Profit margin, % 7.6 9.5 15.9 17.1 17.3 EBITDA, SEK million 3,734 3,945 4,683 4,306 4,387 EBITDA margin, % 28.5 30.4 36.4 37.2 33.3 EBITDA excluding non-recurring effects, SEK million 3,734 3,945 4,722 4,074 4,518 EBITDA margin excluding non-recurring effects, % 28.5 30.4 36.7 35.2 34.3 CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND EARNINGS Equity, SEK million 15,211 14,723 14,971 13,925 13,664 Adjusted equity, SEK million 14,455 14,043 14,291 13,321 13,362 Return on capital employed, % 5.1 5.7 8.8 9.3 10.0 Return on equity, % 5.4 7.9 11.1 10.4 11.4 Net debt, SEK million 15,025 16,037 17,361 13,524 13,467 Net debt/equity ratio, times 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.0 1.0 Equity/assets ratio, % 41.9 40.0 38.7 41.5 41.4 EBIT interest cover, times 2.8 3.0 3.9 4.4 4.5 Proportion of risk bearing capital, % 48.0 46.9 45.7 49.3 48.5 Dividend yield, % 3.1 3.0 3.1 3.9 1.6 Equity per share 50.3 48.7 49.6 46.1 45.2 Earnings per share 2.67 3.98 5.35 4.78 5.09 Dividend per share 2.506) 2.25 2.25 2.00 1.00 EMPLOYEES Average no. of employees 3,066 2,869 2,591 2,593 2,627 6) Proposed dividend. Meda Annual Report 2013 111 The Meda share The Meda share LISTING AND TRADING VOLUME SHAREHOLDERS Meda’s share has been quoted on the StockMeda’s shareholding structure and apportionment by size are set out below. Based on data provided holm Stock Exchange since 1995 and on the by Euroclear Sweden AB as of December 30, 2013. Large Cap segment of the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm exchange since 2006. One trading unit MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS AS OF DECEMBER 30, 2013 contains one share. On December 31, 2013, market capitalization Name Number of shares Share capital and voting rights, % was SEK 24,663 million. The total trading volume Stena Sessan Rederi AB 68,741,485 22.7 of Meda shares in 2013 exceeded SEK 289 milSwedbank Robur fonder 14,682,070 4.9 lion shares to a value of almost SEK 22 billion. AMF Försäkring och Fonder 8,163,604 2.7 This equates to an average daily trading volume of 1,2 million shares, corresponding to SEK UBS AG LDN Branch A/C Client, IPB 7,116,744 2.4 89 million per business day. B&E Participation AB 6,900,000 2.3 JPM Chase NA 6,719,974 2.2 DIVIDEND Canadian Treaty Clients Account 6,531,979 2.2 The board resolved to propose a dividend of Handelsbanken Fonder AB RE JPMEL 5,764,346 1.9 SEK 2.50 per share (2.25) for 2013, correspondAFA Försäkring 5,393,659 1.8 ing to 94% (58) of profit for the year and 28% (25) JP Morgan Fonder 5,114,610 1.7 of cash earnings per share. Meda aims to Lönner, Anders 4,800,000 1.6 enhance shareholder value in the long term, and the board’s intention is to propose a dividend Skandia fonder 3,838,440 1.3 that reflects Meda’s sustainable earnings trend, Catella Fondförvaltning 3,819,298 1.3 taking into account expansion possibilities and Fjärde AP-Fonden 3,730,087 1.2 financial position. Andra AP-fonden 3,705,663 1.2 TOTAL, 15 LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS 155,021,959 51.3 SWEDISH AND FOREIGN SHAREHOLDING Other shareholders 147,221,106 48.7 TOTAL 302,243,065 100.0 Source: Euroclear Sweden AB as of December 30, 2013 Swedish shareholding, 71% Foreign SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE shareholding, 29% The highest price paid in 2013 was SEK 87.30 and the lowest was SEK 69,00. Market capitalization on December 31, 2013, was SEK 24,663 million, corresponding to an increase of 22% during the year. SEK million volume 150 150,000 SHAREHOLDINGS BY COUNTRY 120 120,000 Sweden, 71% 90 90,000 UK, 11% US, 8% Canada, 2% Luxemburg, 2% 60 60,000 Other, 6% 30 30,000 0 I I I I I 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Meda OMX Stockholm PI Volume of shares traded, thousands Source: SIX Trust and Fidessa 112 Meda Annual Report 2013 The Meda share SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE AS OF DECEMBER 30, 2013 Share interval No. of shares Share capital, % No. of shareholders Shareholders, % 1 – 500 2,747,552 0.90 16,897 59.80 501 – 1,000 3,526,354 1.20 4,158 14.70 1,001 – 5,000 12,440,054 4.10 5,132 18.20 5,001 – 10,000 6,737,307 2.20 897 3.20 10,001 – 15,000 4,287,925 1.40 338 1.20 15,001 – 20,000 2,857,465 0.90 159 0.60 20,001 – 269,646,408 89.20 660 2.30 Total 302,243,065 100 28,241 100 SHARE CAPITAL HISTORY Change in Change in share Total no. Total share Share’s nominal no. of shares capital, SEK of shares capital, SEK quota value, SEK 1994 – – – 200,000 2,000,000 10 1995 Conversion 168,406 1,684,060 368,406 3,684,060 10 1995 New share issue1) 2,000,000 20,000,000 2,368,406 23,684,060 10 1996 Conversion 46,719 467,190 2,415,125 24,151,250 10 1997 Conversion 2,173 21,730 2,417,298 24,172,980 10 1999 Non-cash issue 2,515,963 25,159,630 4,933,261 49,332,610 10 2001 New share issue2) 1,644,420 16,444,200 6,577,681 65,776,810 10 2003 New share issue3) 1,644,420 16,444,200 8,222,101 82,221,010 10 2003 Directed non-cash issue4) 482,759 4,827,590 8,704,860 87,048,600 10 2003 Redemption of warrants 3,180 31,800 8,708,040 87,080,400 10 2004 Redemption of warrants 78,400 784,000 8,786,440 5) 87,864,400 10 2005 Redemption of warrants 100,700 1,007,000 8,887,140 88,871,400 10 2005 New share issue6) 3,554,856 35,548,560 12,441,996 124,419,960 10 2005 Redemption of warrants 95,527 955,270 12,537,523 125,375,230 10 2005 Stock split 5:1 50,150,092 0 62,687,615 125,375,230 2 2005 New share issue7) 41,791,743 83,583,486 104,479,358 208,958,716 2 2006 Redemption of warrants 15,000 30,000 104,494,358 208,988,716 2 2007 New share issue8) 11,610,484 23,220,968 116,104,842 232,209,684 2 2007 Redemption of warrants 13,720 27,440 116,118,562 232,237,124 2 2007 Stock split 2:1 116,118,562 116,118,562 232,237,124 232,237,124 1 2007 Redemption of warrants 54,127 54,127 232,291,251 232,291,251 1 2007 Redemption of warrants 72,863 72,863 232,364,114 232,364,114 1 2007 Directed non-cash issue9) 17,362,775 17,362,775 249,726,889 249,726,889 1 2007 Directed non-cash issue9) 137,228 137,228 249,864,114 249,864,114 1 2007 Redemption of warrants 20,818 20,818 249,884,932 249,884,932 1 2007 Redemption of warrants 1,069,426 1,069,426 250,954,358 250,954,358 1 2007 Redemption of warrants 24,993 24,993 250,979,351 250,979,351 1 2007 Directed non-cash issue10) 5,700,000 5,700,000 256,679,351 256,679,351 1 2008 Redemption of warrants 2,386,134 2,386,134 259,065,485 259,065,485 1 2008 New share issue11) 43,177,580 43,177,580 302,243,065 302,243,065 1 2009 – – – 302,243,065 302,243,065 1 2010 – – – 302,243,065 302,243,065 1 2011 – – – 302,243,065 302,243,065 1 2012 – – – 302,243,065 302,243,065 1 2013 – – – 302,243,065 302,243,065 1 1) Price: SEK 20 5) The number of registered shares on December 31, 2004 was 8,786,440 8) Price: SEK 160. 2) Price: SEK 44. In addition, 41,340 shares were subscribed for but not registered. 9) Directed share issue in connection with the MedPointe Inc. acquisition. 3) Price: SEK 76. 6) Price: SEK 160. 10) Directed share issue in connection with the Recip acquisition. 4) Directed share issue in Pharmalink AB. 7) Price: SEK 70. 11) Price: SEK 35. Meda Annual Report 2013 113 Board members Board members Karen Sörensen Christer Nordén Bert-Åke Eriksson Tuve Johannesson Board member Board secretary Board Chairman Board member Refer to the corporate governance report, page 65-66, for more information about the board members 114 Meda Annual Report 2013 Board members Marianne Hamilton Peter Claesson Peter von Ehrenheim Lars Westerberg Board member Board member Board member Board member Meda Annual Report 2013 115 Executives information Executives information 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 116 Meda Annual Report 2013 Executives information Previous experience/ Shares Name Title Education professional background Employed since in Meda 1 Jörg-Thomas Dierks CEO. Physician. Senior vice president for Commer2005 162,000 (1960) cial Operations and COO of Viatris and before that, Novo Nordisk and Asta-Medica. 2 Maria Carell Executive Vice President, BSc in finance. Group President 2012 12,000 (1973) North America/Australia. & CEO of Q-Med AB and CEO of Actavis AB. 3 Esfandiar Faghfouri Executive Vice President, Pharmacist. Medical Representative, 1988 1,000 (1962) Europe/Asia/Africa. Product Manager, (former ASTA Head of Business Unit. Medica/Viatris) 4 Dirk Groen Executive Vice President, Physician MSD, Genzyme, AT Kearney. 2003 4,000 (1963) Marketing OTC. and Master of (former Viatris) ­Business and Administration. 5 Erik Haeffler Executive Vice President, BSc. Manufacturing and supply 2009 1,000 (1967) Manufacturing chain at AstraZeneca. & Sustainability. 6 Ton van ‘t Hullenaar Executive Vice President, Business school. Healthcare Manager 3M 2007 1,750 (1955) Europe/Latin America. Germany, European Manager 3M Pharmaceuticals. 7 Hans-Jürgen Kromp Executive Vice President, Lawyer. General counsel at ASTA Medica 1997 52,045 (1953) Legal & Trademarks. and Viatris, Head of Legal at (former ASTA Sandoz and Novartis, Germany. Medica/Viatris) 8 Dr. Joachim Maus Acting Executive Vice Physician. Head of Human Pharmacology 2002 1,000 (1967) President, Scientific Affairs. and Head of Clinical Research (former ASTA at ASTA Medica/ VIATRIS; Medica/Viatris) Specialist in internal medicine. 9 Henrik Stenqvist Executive Vice President, BSc in economics. CFO of subsidiaries 2003 190,605 (1967) CFO. in AstraZeneca. 10 Hans-Jürgen Executive Vice President, Ph.D Biochemistry. Medical Affairs, Marketing, 1991 1,000 Tritschler Marketing Rx. Business development, (former ASTA (1962) Emerging Markets. Medica/Viatris) 11 Rainer Weiß Executive Vice President, Master of Business Head Human Resources 1986 5,205 (1962) Human Resources. and Administration. Marketing & Sales, (former ASTA Head Human Resources Medica/Viatris) Commercial Operations. 12 Mårten Österlund Executive Vice President, Ph.D in molecular Research at the Pasteur Institute 2005 105,644 (1957) Business Development. biology. in Paris. E ­ xperience from deve­ lopment companies, ­including an executive position at Karo Bio. Meda Annual Report 2013 117 Definitions Definitions Adjusted equity EBITDA-margin Return on equity Recognized equity less proposed dividend. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, Net profit/loss as a percentage of average and amortization as a percentage of netsales. equity. Average no. of employees Total of the number of hours worked divided Equity/assets ratio Share of risk-bearing capital by the number of compensable hours in a Equity as a percentage of the balance sheet The sum of recognized equity and tax provisions fiscal year. total. divided by the balance sheet total. Capital employed Gross margin Definitions related to sales comments sales The balance sheet total less cash and cash Gross profit/loss as a percentage of net sales. by geographic area equivalents, tax provisions, and non-interestGross profit/loss equals net sales less cost of Western Europe – Western Europe, excluding bearing liabilities. sales. the Baltics, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary. US – includes Canada. Emerging Dividend per share Net debt Markets – Eastern Europe, including the Baltics, Dividend per share, to be issued in the next Net of interest-bearing liabilities and interestPoland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, ­fiscal year. bearing pro-visions minus cash and cash equiva­Turkey, the Middle East, Mexico and other nonlents, including current investments and interestEuropean markets. Dividend yield bearing non-current financial assets. Dividend per share divided by the share’s Sales by product category ­closing price on the last business day of the year. Net debt/equity ratio Branded Generics – Non-patented prescription Net debt divided by equity. pharmaceuticals with brand names. Earnings per share Specialty Products – Original prescription Earnings attributable to parent company shareOperating margin ­pharmaceuticals and specialty products. holders per share. Operating profit/loss as a percentage of net OTC – Over-the-counter products. sales. Other Sales – Revenue from med-tech products Ebit interest cover and income not related to products. Earnings after net finance costs plus financial Profit margin costs divided by financial costs. Profit after net finance costs as a percentage of net sales. EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, Return on capital employed and amortization. Operating profit/loss relative to average capital employed. 118 Meda Annual Report 2013 Glossary and trademark rights Glossary and trademark rights Actinic keratosis NSAID Product Trademark Sign A skin condition characterized by reddishNon-steroidal anti-inflammatory; group of brown, flakey patches on sun-damaged skin medications with anti-inflammatory, analgesic, Acnatac Acnatac ® that can be a premalignant condition, leading and fever-reducing effects. to squamous cell carcinoma. Aerospan Aerospan ® OTC products Basal cell carcinoma Over-the-counter non-prescription products/ Aldara Aldara ® Type of skin cancer caused by sun exposure. drugs. Allergodil Allergodil ® Big Pharma Outsourcing Astelin Astelin ® Major pharmaceutical companies with their Transfer of existing operations within a company, own R&D. along with its resources, to an outside party. Astepro Astepro ® Blockbuster Prevalence Astepro 0.15% Astepro ® Drug that sells for at least USD 1 billion per year. The number of people who have a certain Azep Azep ® ­illness/disease at a certain point in time. Covenants Betadine Betadine ® Requirements for the company’s key figures, Product Life-Cycle Management made by a money-lending bank. Strategies and activities addressed to extend CB12 CB12 ® a drugs life cycle, such as introduction of new Dermatrix Dermatrix ® Dermatology preparation forms, expansion of indications, etc. The study of the skin and its diseases. Dymista Dymista ® Prophylaxis Generic Umbrella term for measures taken to prevent EB24 EB24 ® A chemical equivalent to a brand-name drug a disease or condition. Efudix Efudix ® whose patent has expired. Rhinitis Elidel Elidel ® IFRS Inflammation of the mucus membrane International Financial Reporting Standards. of the nose. Endwarts Endwarts ® EpiPen EpiPen ® COPD Rx Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. International designation for prescription drugs. Geritol Geritol ® Corticosteroid Topical Kamillosan Kamillosan ® A class of steroids that are produced in Applied to the skin’s surface. Minitran Minitran ® the adrenal cortex and synthetic drugs with corticosteroid-like effect. MUSE Muse ® Milestone Naloc Naloc ® Payment upon achieved goals. Novolizer Novolizer ® Monosubstance Rhinolast Rhinolast ® Contains one active ingredient Solco Solco ® Niche buster Specialist medication that targets a small Solcoseryl Solcoseryl ® patient group. Soma Soma ® Tambocor Tambocor ® Zyclara Zyclara ® Aerospan registered trademark of Forest Lab. and used under license. EpiPen registered trademark of Mylan Inc. and used under license. Betadine registered trademark of Mundipharma AG and used under license. Novolizer registered trademark of Almirall S.A. and used under license. Meda Annual Report 2013 119 Shareholder information Shareholder information 2014 Interim financial reports Registration Addresses Interim report January–March May 7 Notice of attendance must be received no later HEADQUARTERS: Interim report January–June August 13 than April 30, 2014. Registrations shall include Meda AB Interim report January–September November 6 name, civil registration or corporate ID number, Box 906, SE-170 09 Solna, Sweden address, phone number, and number of shares Visitors: Pipers väg 2A Annual general meeting held. Shareholders represented by proxy must Phone: +46 8 630 19 00 Location: Medas’s facilities, Pipers väg 2A, send a power of attorney for the proxy. If the Fax: +46 8 630 19 50 Solna, Sweden power of attorney is issued by a legal entity, a E-mail: info@meda.se Time: 5 PM on Wednesday, May 7, 2014. notarized copy of the corporate registration cerwww.meda.se tificate must also be included. The power of Shareholders who wish to participate attorney and registration certificate must not be Media och investor relations: in the meting must: issued more than one year prior to the AGM. Phone: +46 8 630 19 00 Be registered in the Euroclear Sweden AB share E-mail: IR@meda.se database by April 30, 2014, and notify the Share registration ­company by April 30, 2014. Shareholders may To participate in the AGM, any shareholders Contact information for subsidiaries register by postal mail (Meda AB AGM, Box 7835, whose shares are nominee-registered must is available at: www.meda.se SE-103 98, Stockholm, Sweden), by phone ­temporarily register their shares with Euroclear (+46 8-402 90 49), or via the website at Sweden AB. The entry must be effected by April www.meda.se 30, 2014. Address changes should be registered with the appropriate. 120 Meda Annual Report 2013 This annual report was produced by Meda in collaboration with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson Photo: Petter Karlberg, Mårten Levin Print: TMG Sthlm Meda AB Box 906, SE-170 09 Solna Phone: +46 8-630 19 00 Fax: +46 8-630 19 50 E-mail: info@meda.se www.meda.se
