CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT INITIATIVE COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. Corporate Profile 2. President’s Statement of Continued Support 3. Brief Support Statement 4. Communication on Progress report 2013 5. CCC’s Bulletin CSR News Section 6. Appendices CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 CORPORATE PROFILE Consolidated Contractors Company (CCC) is a contracting company formed in 1952 and incorporated under the laws of Lebanon. The managing office is presently located in Athens, Greece. CCC is by far the largest Engineering, Procurement and Construction Company in the Middle East and is rated by the ENR magazine as #21 among International Construction Companies. CCC currently operates in 40 countries across 5 continents and employs over 120,000 employees from over 85 nationalities, building some of the most challenging and complex facilities. Drawing on its long and successful experience, CCC provides a full range of projects services, from Project Development, through detailed Engineering, Procurement and Construction, to Start-Up, Operation and Maintenance pertaining to the following:  Buildings and Civil Engineering Works  Oil & Gas, and Water Pipelines  Oil & Gas, Petrochemical Plants and Refineries  Power Plants  Marine Works  Offshore Installations  Maintenance of Mechanical Installations and Underwater Structures CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 WE SUPPORT The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles Brief Support Statement As part of the requirements of the UN Global Compact’s Initiative, submission of an annual Communication on Progress report is needed to be lodged. CCC has approached this response in relation to the following four key areas – Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. CCC’s ongoing commitments showcase constant focus on core values and principles such as the development and growth of staff on all levels, the sense of belonging and harmony for its manpower, continuous propagation of innovation, sustainable commitments to the environment and anticorruption ideals as well as the utmost respect of cultural identities on company projects. This report was created and developed by a select taskforce composed of staff stemming from diverse departments including Corporate Social Responsibility, Human Resources, and Renewable Energy & Special Assignments. The objective of this taskforce is to examine and assess the sustainability impact of the company across all facets of its operations. Meetings are held every month in order to conduct discussions and assessments of various parameters in order to constantly filter information that will eventually be utilized to compile the report using the contribution and input of all members of this taskforce. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 2013 Report Human Rights Principle 1 The support and respect of the protection of international human rights CCC Core Values Our company’s commitment, support and compliance is crystalized through its set core values, as quoted below: “PROTECTING HUMAN LIFE IS OUR GOAL We believe that nothing is more precious than human life and well-being. The Company’s Owners and Management ensure that all conceivable measures are taken in our operating procedures, mode of execution, organizational setup as well as our products and services, to strictly comply with the highest international h e a l t h and safety standards for achieving the ultimate goal of protecting human life.” “APPRECIATION OF OUR STAFF We believe that our employees deserve to be respected as fellow human beings, as well as for their personal and professional merits. Each is entitled to polite and friendly treatment at all levels, to career development and advancement based on qualifications, and to fair compensation.” “COMMITMENT TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF FUTURE GENERATIONS We aim to recruit, train and develop young leaders so they become positive contributors to society. In doing so, CCC not only contributes to its future success, but to the development and well-being of future generations.” “HUMAN RESOURCES Employees are CCC’s most valuable asset. The dedication and professionalism of managers and employees represent the fundamental foundations required for CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 achieving CCC’s objectives. CCC ensures that each current and new employee receives fair treatment based on merit, without discrimination based on sex, religion, ethnic background, or any other kind.” CCC CULTURAL DIVERSITY At all CCC sites we promote a healthy symbiosis of cultures, constantly promoting inter-cultural relations. This is showcased in the high success of our featured “International Days” where a culture, which is of high proportion in our projects, has an activity day dedicated to it. For example, there is an Indian National Day held annually in many projects across various locations, with tremendous success. Cultural activities enhance camp socialization, cultural exchange, and learning and community building. Camp kitchens are designed and built to the highest standards, equipped and fitted with the best kitchen equipment, units, and utensils. Highest standards of hygiene, cleanliness and safety are maintained in the kitchens at all times. Menus are prepared from fresh and high quality ingredients, and include a variety of main course dishes, salads, hot/cold starters, fruits, sweets, and refreshments (and cold drinks). Theme nights are organized on regular basis and special meals are prepared on festive occasions. Generally menus cover the following cuisines: 1. Continental 2. Oriental 3. Asian 4. Far Eastern and any other nationality that might be residing in the camp. In cases where one cultural group forms the majority of the project workforce like for example in our Kazakhstan project, CCC had a high presence of Turkish manpower, therefore Turkish chefs and kitchen hands have been hired to be placed at that project for its duration. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Cultural activities instigated and promoted on projects include the following: 1. International days on camps. 2. Nature awareness (e.g. in Africa) 3. Nomad excursions. 4. Fine Arts activities. 5. Tribal Art activities. 6. Dance (traditional, contemporary, etc.) All these activities can be conducted in their authentic settings; for example, learning about nature conservation in an African village near a project, explore tribal arts in a remote setting, or watch music performances by culture specific bands. CCC Medical Services CCC ensures that adequate medical and emergency facilities operate within the project temporary facilities abiding by all laws governing health and medical treatment of workers. Medical Services include: 1. First Aid Clinic (Each project should fully abide by hosting countries’ laws and regulations). The clinic opens 24/7. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 2. Clinics are equipped with necessary equipment and medicines (where laws allow) providing medical services for all staff and labors with minor cases and injuries. Major cases are referred to hospitals. 3. All Clinic Staff are certified medical staff. 4. 24/7 Ambulance service on duty. Career Development To CCC, the provision of equal opportunities for employment and career development for staff regardless of gender, religion, race, or age is not merely a legal obligation, but a cornerstone of the company’s Human Resources policy. This policy contributes to the creation of value for all employees as well as for the company itself. It has been incorporated into the human resources management procedures and practices and in all countries where CCC is present. As a responsible employer, CCC is constantly striving to meet the expectations of its staff. We provide continuous education and training. Employee development is a point of paramount importance solidified in the company’s core business ideals. This development is propagated through a variety of actions that include job evaluation training schemes, review of work and performance appraisals, and continuous investment in staff. With a fully integrated automated system since 2009, performance appraisal systems are applied and the results are:  Faster completion of the exercise, ensuring a faster expedition of related HR activities (bonuses, salary administrations, etc.)  More compliant and systematic approach to performance management  Paperless environment CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Graduate Under Development Program CCC endeavors to maintain its dynamic nature by offering new university graduates a stimulating and challenging long-term career. The continuous recruitment and injection into the staff of high calibre graduates is central to the company’s propagated success. Opportunities for individual advancement are numerous, and the company structure gives junior staff unparalleled access to seniors within the company. New Graduates Under Development (GUDs) are constantly employed by the company, in an array of areas. Depending on projects awarded, the GUDs are allocated to project-specific areas. In 2013, the GUD allocation was as per below: AFR & CARRIBEAN GUD ALLOCATION 6% CIS 4% GRE 6% JOR 2% UAE 40% OMA 9% OTHER QAT 3% S.A 16% 14% The total number of currently enrolled GUDs reached 313 persons, with an expectation to recruit 70 fresh candidates next year. The High Fliers’ Program CCC continuously propagates the notion of staff investment, in the sense that growth comes from within the company. The High Fliers Program launched in 2011 aims at delivering exactly that; the next generation of leaders. This scheme aims to address points such as:  Focusing on identifying employees with a strong potential, to assume higher roles CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013  Assessing the depth and capability of current talent pool  Using external sources to provide world class assessment and executive development programs. This is an ongoing program with a fresh intake each year, to ensure that the creation of a leadership pipeline will deliver the highest caliber of leaders capable of meeting future challenges. In comparison to last year, the High Fliers intake of 2013 shows a 15% increase. Skill/Trade Training CCC has developed comprehensive hands-on training programs for all levels of employees within the company. Learning through rotation on various assignments is also often practiced and those able to rise to the demands find that, in a very short space of time, they are able to operate effectively in various positions. CCC recognizes that the training of its employees, involved in the construction Project, is an integral part of CCC’s business performance and a prime responsibility where specified in the Contractor’s scope of work. CCC has initiated a number of vocational training centers globally (Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Oman, Kazakhstan, China, etc.) to support local communities and develop individuals. The main objectives of Skill and Trade Training are to:  Maximize national content  Enhance safety awareness in all workers  Achieve high quality standard in all work performance  Achieve good efficiency level  Support manpower build-up schedule consistently  Aid local communities CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Principle 2 The refusal to participate or condone human rights abuses Our manpower is the basis for the smooth and efficient functioning of the company and our constant goals are to continuously offer stable working conditions and integrated facilities. The development of confidence between management and staff is ensured through the strict compliance to the legal procedures of the company. Through these practices CCC supports each and every staff member. CCC aims to integrate the CSR strategy and understanding of the principles of the social responsibility of CCC to all its employees. CCC makes sure that each employee receives fair treatment based on merit and experience. This in return, induces staff to be dedicated and professional, which are the fundamental foundations required for achieving the company’s objectives. We are committed to developing our staff to their fullest potential, by providing them with appropriate training and frequent and regular feedback. We provide top performers, with a fast track development. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Labour Principle 3 The support of freedom of association and the recognition of the right to collective bargaining CCC Open Door Policy CCC has always been known for its open door policy. Employees can have access to their seniors at any time expressing their opinions, concerns or complaints. Employees can discuss issues of concern at any time of their convenience. Camp Support Committees The camp is considered the home for employees, and in order to create healthy and pleasant living conditions in the camp, the Welfare Committee and the Complaints/Suggestions Committee are set up in each camp. The Welfare Committee This committee is responsible for camp living conditions and working conditions at site for all employees and following-up on complaints from camp resident staff and labors (i.e. Rooms cleanliness, unit maintenance, food, wages payments, overtime, site related issues…etc.) The committee is formed from camp residents that represent various nationalities and meet with employee representatives twice a month to discuss employee needs and concerns. The demands and complaints are then in turn raised to representatives from Administration and Personnel departments for feedback and further actions. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Complaints/Suggestions Office An office is located in the camp area, and opens daily for three hours during the evening time to receive complaints/suggestions from camp residents. Complaints or suggestions can be filled out directly with the attending officer, or dropped in the Complaints/Suggestions Boxes located in office and in the Mess Halls. Any complaint or suggestion is reviewed by Project Administration in coordination with the Camp Welfare Committee for further feedback and actions. All grievances, complaints and suggestions are taken seriously, studied and corrective measures are taken and conveyed to the party/person concerned. Principle 4 The abolition of compulsory labour CCC ensures that all workers are compensated on time for all efforts exerted in the execution of work and never deprived from any entitlements, benefits or subsidies in full compliance with hosting country’s Labor Law’s, and CCC HR procedures. Payment of wages and salaries are done on times specified by hosting country’s Labor laws. Employees are compensated for any hours worked beyond normal working hours per day and for Off-Day and Holiday work in-line with the Labor Law Regulations in each country. Finally, staff and labor are granted regular increments based on their performance and productivity. All staff and labors are medically insured as per hosting country’s labor laws. CCC covers all medical expenses claimed by labor in excess of insurance coverage. Principle 5 The abolition of child labour CCC does not employ persons below 18 years old. Thus child labor is abolished and is integrated in the CCC procedures and regulations. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation CCC is committed to grant equal opportunities to all employees regardless of demographics such as age, gender, race, ethnicity, etc. Predetermined key aspects are used to show transparency when evaluating qualifications, past employment experience, key tasks to be appointed as well as may other aspects. It can be observed that in countries where social circumstances allow, the male/female ratio reaches 70/30. No discrimination or favoritism of a certain ethnic group is advocated in business practices. This is showcased through the multiculturalism of the company’s manpower: *Excluding Sub-contractors & JV staff CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Employee Training and Development  Training and development of staff is one element of paramount importance to CCC. The company bolsters its growth and success on both general and focused training and aims to continuously expand this training for its staff on all levels.  Extensive training workshops are held annually mostly in house by qualified and certified CCC instructors and experts (in Technical, Project Management, Leadership, IT, Health, Safety and Environment, Quality topics, etc.). CCC experts and external speakers also participate in these training workshops to enrich them further.  In numerous cases, our staff is offered training by external providers for a higher level of specialization whenever a need arises.  CCC is certified by the Project Management Institute (PMI) where the Technical and Project Management courses are accredited by the Institute. Company staff passing the PMP exam can benefit from additional and various CCC courses and experience, in order to maintain their certification.  In 2012, in house training has been calculated to equal to 1 training day per employee. We usually offer training to employees in Abu Dhabi due to of its accessibility. However, the Training Department will aim to accommodate CCC staff in different geographical locations by offering training in diversified geographical areas by 5% of its total training schemes. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Equal Opportunity and Transparency  All employees adhere to the proper codes of conduct that are stated on employment agreements signed between staff and the company.  Segregation, discrimination and racism are notions that are not allowed in our company’s environment and if such instances occur, they are dealt with swiftness and justice to all concerned.  Behavior that is unbecoming is not tolerated; preventative steps are taken to resolve conflicts and issues that may arise without their escalation.  If there are instances of discrimination, CCC management swiftly takes action to deal with them. If they exist, we aspire to reduce these incidents to zero. Remuneration  We are committed to always offer standard entry level packages that are comparatively higher than most locations’ minimum wages. Hiring of Local Manpower  We encourage the hiring of locally based staff at all projects and sites (64 % of staff hired in 2011 for many locations were local staff). There are recruitment campaigns carried out on a yearly basis which aim to hire graduates from the countries where the core areas of operations of CCC are.  It is general practice of the company to hire locally based trained and qualified subcontractors to assist each country’s project manpower.  CCC aims to propagate both practices for newly awarded projects. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Employee Turnover  CCC’s continuous commitment to its workforce highlights that all staff are treated with dignity, respect and transparency. International implementation of human rights, ideals and notions are constantly revised and communicated to all staff on all levels.  These policies lead to high employee commitment and low employee turnover. Our staff enjoys security and long-term benefits at CCC which leads to them staying longer in the company.  CCC also has the policy of not releasing project staff in between projects as a commitment by the company to its employees until they find other employment opportunities. Rates of Injury, Occupational Diseases, Lost Days, Absenteeism, Work-related Fatalities  We record all of the above rates and we aim to reduce fatalities to zero. As for absenteeism, committees are formed to reduce it in cases where there is any observation that it has increased. Demographics Diversification  We are committed to equal opportunity and treatment in employment and occupation regardless of demographics such as gender, race, color, religion, etc.  Distinctions are made stringently only on the bases of fundamental requirements of each particular employment position i.e. qualifications, skills acquired, relevant work experience, etc.  CCC encourages:  The hiring of university graduates to promote and develop their careers  Diversified manpower; employees come from 40 countries, composing a total of 110,000 strong workforce CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013  In countries where social circumstances allow (for example, the UK, Greece and Lebanon), the male/female ratio reaches an average of 35/65%.  As for the diversity of CCC, it boasts staff from more than 85 nationalities working at different locations and projects which showcases the company’s equal opportunity policies. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Environment Principle 7 The implementation of a precautionary and effective program to environmental issues CCC is recognized internationally as being one of the leading companies in the field of contracting and construction. CCC's excellence in construction is accompanied by an equivalent excellence in the preservation of Health, Safety, and Environment. CCC is highly concerned with the health and safety of its employees, and extremely values the environment in which it operates, and strives relentlessly to protect it. In this regard, CCC has acquired the OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 certificates. CCC's Environmental Management System (EMS) is developed and certified for ISO14001 (copy attached/Appendices) standards and implemented on all CCC projects taking into considerations certification requirements as well as local environmental rules and regulations. This EMS is composed of environmental policy statement, plans and procedures to prevent/mitigate environmental challenges related to CCC's scope of work. CCC's Environmental Policy (copy attached/Appendices) outlines the environmental commitments of CCC with respect to its operations, activities, and overall environmental performance. During the development of this policy, the appropriateness to the nature, scale and environmental impacts of CCC activities, products and services has been considered. The policy is continuously reviewed during the management review meetings. The policy stipulates the commitment of CCC to continually improve its environmental management system to overcome the environmental challenges associated with CCC scope of work. The environmental policy provides a framework for setting and reviewing objectives and targets, and is maintained, implemented and communicated to all employees of CCC, stakeholders, and the public. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 CCC's EMS has been developed to ensure all environmental issues and potential impacts are identified and managed throughout CCC's operations. The EMS also identifies areas within CCC's operations for continual improvement. All CCC projects operate in accordance with this EMS and are audited against all its requirements to ensure compliance. Below is a brief description on CCC's Environmental Management System Elements: Environmental Policy Describes the intention and principles to be adopted in relation to environmental performance, including but not limited to legal compliance, continual improvements and pollution prevention. Objective(s) * The overall environmental goals that CCC set to achieve. Target(s) * The set of measurable performance requirements that CCC establishes to achieve the objectives. Programme(s) * The programme and schedule which CCC implements to achieve the objectives and targets. Environmental Define the roles, responsibilities, and actions to be taken to Procedures (EPs) ensure that activities are performed and the EMS implemented in accordance with the environmental policy and the requirements of ISO 14001, and local environmental rules and regulations. Register of Compiles the environmental aspects that are derived from Environmental Aspects the activities and services of CCC. The register also denotes the significance of the environmental aspects and the respective operational controls for significant environmental aspects. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Register of Legal and Compiles the legal and other requirements, which include Other Requirements legislation, codes of practice, regulatory and nonregulatory guidelines that are applicable to CCC. Environmental Describe which and how activities should be performed to Instructions (EIs) manage significant environmental aspects and to achieve the EMS ISO 14001 requirements. Environmental Record information for the audit trail and the assessment Forms/Records of environmental conditions and performance. Below is a Plan-Do-Check-Act Cycle that shows the flow of the Environmental Management System: CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Principle 8 Initiatives that demonstrate environmental responsibility Turtles at RLP Project One of the main environmental objectives of CCC is the conservation of natural environment, protection of environment, health and safety of workers and neighboring communities. CCC is keen to prove that advancement in industrial development does not necessarily means the total annihilation of biodiversity but with planning, monitoring and sustainability can both progress. CCC committed to the management and to protection of the environment through the implementation of applicable regulations and standards is always undertaking measures to ensure that industrial development is environmental sustainable. CCC encourages initiatives for conserving natural resources and protecting FLORA, FAUNA & TOPS OIL at RLPEP. The company is currently supporting and assisting RLC Turtle Conservation Program by providing turtle posters, warning signs and leaflets and housekeeping staff for cleaning the beaches and mangroves. As part of the collaborative effort to contribute towards environmental protection, RLP Project HSE – Environment in coordination with RLP Project Administration and RLIC Environmental Department organized a beach cleanup drive in RLIC, the aim of the project was to protect marine turtles by identifying and mapping nesting sites, assessing trend in the nesting activities, increase marine environmental awareness to ensure long term protection of nesting beaches. The first and most major undertaking step towards a successful nesting season was cleaning the beaches. The activity started with a tool box talk & Awareness Induction on Environmental Conservation & Sustainable Activities. The beach cleanup activity drive covered a beach strip from Cost Guard (Northern beach of RLIC) to the storm water drainage channel which means approximately 700 meters in length and 15 to 20 meters in width. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 CCC was recognized as role model contractor to others in alignment with the environmental initiatives and efforts of Qatar. Ras Laffan Port Expansion Project’s participation in beach cleanup work activities were highlighted in Ras Laffan City’s Marine Turtle Protection Booklet published in the Environmental Studies Center at Qatar University for educating students and to increase their awareness in conserving and protecting the marine biodiversity and ecosystem Environmental Protection Procedures The following mitigation measures are implemented by the Company during Project construction:  Restrict access by personnel to No go areas located north to the north breakwater and as well as areas located to the south breakwater during key periods of life cycle (e.g. avoid known turtle habitat between April and the end of August). The Environmental Manager is communicating no go areas to project staff trough tool box talks;  An induction material on turtle conservation is being prepared by the Project Environmental Manager and will be communicated to the construction staff prior to the start of construction works in waterfront areas. All site training and orientation material includes a description and pictures of the turtles likely to be encountered on site and guidelines for the actions to be taken in such cases;  Staff is not allowed to collect turtles for any purposed other than immediate protection from construction risk. Construction staff will be advised accordingly in training programmes and site management notices;  Vehicles will not be allowed to run over, or kill turtles particularly through vehicles or construction equipment working in the RLPEP area;  Minimise artificial lighting (street lights) and vehicular traffic on beaches and restrict traffic to areas away from nesting habitat; The Project Environmental Manager will notify QP/RLC representative as soon as a nest or hatchling is located within the Project area;  Water front areas will be kept clean of food scraps, waste and other debris in order to prevent attraction and ingestion by turtles; CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013  A housekeeping crew will be allocated to the beach areas between South Break Water (SBK) and cooling water to carry out beach cleaning as per contract requirements.  A hydrostatic test plan which is subjected to QP approved will be implemented. Water abstraction method, location of intake points, discharge locations and use of chemicals will be environmentally assessed. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Material Management – Scaffolding Materials It has always been CCC’s priority to successfully execute complex projects delivered in a safe & environmentally sound manner. Currently, with natural resources in short supply and an increasing awareness of sustainability issues in the construction sector, CCC aims to further promote environmental responsibility. This is fulfilled in a dual way, firstly by completing high quality construction projects with a long life span that call for minimum maintenance. Secondly, by setting up construction sites which constantly try to minimize their impact on the environment. It has been documented that building and construction activities annually consume 3 billion tons of raw materials which equals to 40% of the total worldwide use. Embracing its responsibility, CCC strives to use raw materials sensibly and to reduce material losses. There are various “green” related policies in place that sites explore seeking for new materials and procedures that are more efficient and more environmentally-friendly. The most significant contribution towards environmental responsibility during project execution came from the exceptionally high volume of recycled materials used (160,000 pieces). This was the accomplished by the Roto Blast Machine. This machine was originally designed to repair aircraft brake linings. CCC however has been using it on project sites to service and make re-usable scaffolding components such as couplers and bolts. Scaffolding is a temporary structure used to support people and material during the construction or repair of buildings and other large structures. Usually it is a modular system consisting of metal pipes or tubes. Scaffolding equipment is widely used in the construction of most of our projects: building, industrial or commercial. Consequently, a massive amount of couplers, bolts and other related equipment is used by CCC. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Prior to implementing this scheme, these parts after extended use would be decommissioned and sold for scrap. As a result, new replacement components needed to be purchased at an increased material cost to projects. Using the Roto Blast Machine to make scaffolding components reusable has been highly successful. On average, per year more than 160,000 couplers are repaired and re-used with the equivalent cost savings results reaching 350,000$. Apart from the cost effectiveness of this initiative the speediness is also noteworthy since the Roto Blast requires around 15 min to service 150 couplers. If the items are larger or seriously decayed the maximum time required to fix them is 40 minutes. In addition, significantly less waste than usual has been produced. CCC has been utilizing the Roto Blast Machine at various projects in the MENA region and through this initiative has managed to increase the re-use of materials and minimizing waste. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Principle 9 The promotion of the diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Use of PV power on the projects As a pioneer in the Construction Industry and with a vision to lead in promoting green awareness, CCC believes in providing future generations with a healthy and safe environment and social and economic prosperity. Consequently, CCC very early started examining the implementation of solar energy applications on construction camps in MENA. At the moment, solar technology is put to successful use in various CCC units and projects. The rationale behind these schemes is to reduce the electrical energy consumed by camps though the utilizing environmentally friendly technologies. Simaisma CampQatar The start was made with a pilot project at the Simaisma Camp in Qatar. Upon completion it provided solar heated water to various units on site, including the laundry and kitchen as well as photovoltaic lighting. Following this pilot project at Simaisma Camp, CCC have successfully been utilizing solar technology at various CCC locations & projects (Greece, UAE), with the most important being on the Qusahwira Camp (UAE). This was the first off-grid solar installation in the United Arab Emirates. The rooftop CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 photovoltaic system with an output of 368 kWp was one of the largest solar installations in the country, empowering a camp with more than 5,000 people working for an oil field development project in the desert. Qusahwira Camp-UAE This solar installation generated approximately 610 MWh per year which was used for air conditioning, kitchen installations and other daytime power activities. Most importantly, it contributed to reducing CCC´s carbon footprint by offsetting 420 tons of CO2 emissions annually. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Implementation of Data Management Systems rather than achieving Good working practices and legal requirements dictate that businesses and organizations save a vast amount of data. CCC’s main archives in order to avoid huge quantities of consuming paper on a daily basis is converting from paper to electronic/ digital records. CCC turned to digital document capture (scanning) to enable our business to integrate more efficiently with control and management of their archives. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 The promotion and adoption of initiatives to counter all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Commitment  CCC is committed to the United Nations Convention Against Corruption, to UN Global Compact Principle 10 as well as to the World Economic Forum Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) Principles.  CCC supports PACI Principles and Transparency International’s Business principles for Countering Bribery.  CCC has renewed its commitment to target the zero tolerance policy towards bribery. Systems  CCC’s Core Values, Guiding Principles and Code of Practice include our commitment to adopt anti-corruption initiatives in all company offices and projects.  Internal and external auditing systems and management monitoring procedures are in place to ensure the prevention of bribery and corruption.  CCC “Ethics & Anti-Corruption Program” (EACP) covers all aspects related to the subject including commitments, declarations and whistle blowing procedures and tools.  Implementation of the EACP is mandatory across the Group and is monitored and controlled by senior management. Statements on corruption and penalties, as well as periodic bulletins on anti-corruption and legal consequences are issued to all employees. In addition, training sessions are conducted to increase awareness of the staff on the importance of fighting corruption. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Actions  Internal controls have been strengthened to ensure transparent policies and systems. The company is set up in such a way that every department has a system and standard procedures to follow, hence making it harder for corruption activities to exist.  Internal memos clearly defining the legal consequences for corruption and formal meetings on the subject are conveyed to relevant employees.  Employees suspected of being involved in corruption are investigated by a set up taskforce which gathers information from all parties concerned, studies the case and takes action when needed. When found guilty, legal actions are taken against the violators including dismissal from their post. If evidence is not sufficient for legal action, employees are put under probation and surveillance until light can be shed on the incident. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 CCC’s BULLETIN Corporate Social Responsibility News Section January till December 2013 bulletin 1st Quarter 2013 Issue 105 Quarterly Magazine of Consolidated Contractors Company Aiming High Transformation into Strategic Human Resources T. Awad CSR News Report Contribution to CSR Initiative CCC Staff are encouraged to come up with ideas and activities related to CCC’s CSR Initiatives including Going Green and community involvement events. Please send your ideas, initiatives and achievements to “CSR-CCC” email address csr@ccc.gr. Egypt Corporate Social Responsibility E-Shop CSR Egypt has set up an e-Shop/e-Market initiative for publishing internal classified ads where CCC Egypt staff only could buy and sell items through a dedicated e-mail address eshop@ccc.eg which was set up for the purpose. The initiative turned out to be very successful and details about its operation will be published in the next Bulletin issue. This is an initiative which could be implemented in other areas too. Greece Clothing Collection Campaign The MOA CSR Committee launched a Clothing Collection & Donation Campaign last November on behalf of CCC Employees which turned out to be a success. The quantities received were appreciable; the items were sorted out into men’s, women’s, children’s and infants’ clothes, blankets and other items that were consolidated into 70 fully packed big boxes. The distribution and deliveries were made to six needy institutions in Greece and the recipients greatly appreciated the donations and conveyed their thanks to CCC and the donors. C C C Bulletin Issue 105 | 1st Quarter 2013 CSR News Report Corporate Social Responsibility Food Drive Campaigns Several food drive campaigns were organized by MOA CSR Committee that were delivered to St. Olga’s Church, Keratsini Church Old Age Home and Mazi Gia to Paidi which is a main organization for kids. The donations consisted of various dry food items including pastas, rice, oil, sugar, milk and others. Old Age Home in Athens The Old-Age Home in Ampelokipi, Athens received a generous donation from the MOA CSR Committee which consisted of small fridges, blankets, pajamas, nightgowns, and socks for the benefit of its 180 occupants, both men and women. The administration of the home really appreciated the contribution and sent a letter expressing their gratitude. Bulletin Issue 105 | 1st Quarter 2013 C C C 35 CSR News Report Fourth Reforestation Campaign Corporate Social Responsibility A surprisingly sunny Sunday morning of March found CCC’s Volunteers once again on Mount Pendeli to take part in the Fourth Reforestation Campaign. It was early spring and the occasion gave the opportunity to around 45 volunteers to enjoy a couple of hours’ physical work in the beautiful natural environment of Attica. Following up last year’s activity another 1,000 trees of various species were planted. The enthusiasm was once again triggered by the wide participation of the employees’ children of all ages that led the way, setting an example. The highlights of the event included freeing a buzzard in its natural habitat after its medical treatment by Anima (Association for the Protection and Welfare of Wildlife) as well as donkey rides for the young volunteers. C C C Bulletin Issue 105 | 1st Quarter 2013 CSR News Report Corporate Social Responsibility Jordan Job Fairs Job Fairs get organized regularly in Jordan in which CCC always take part to select potential graduate candidates for future recruitment. Tanzania Tunduma Orphanage The Tanzania CSR Team visited the Tunduma Orphanage to support them with safety training and to hand out gifts. The visit was well appreciated by the management of the orphanage as well as the children themselves. Bulletin Issue 105 | 1st Quarter 2013 C C C 37 Z. Ghantous Australian Biosecurity Award Corporate Social Responsibility Brett O’Donovan MCJV, Warren Twist and David Johnson from APLNG The MCJV was actively involved in managing and Inspection Service) and were cleared. a situation which, if allowed to escalate, could During their installation, however, exotic Siamese have had a determinant effect on the project snails were discovered in some of the units and in terms of camps and accommodation. Camp the MCJV proactively and successfully managed 1 units were purchased from Thailand and the situation along with APLNG and AQAIS. underwent the required quarantine process in Thailand (spraying, wrapping the units in plastic On 14 March 2013, the company put out a and so on) and then underwent inspection in press release announcing that the Environment Australia by AQAIS (the Australian Quarantine Management Team from Origin/APLNG Pipelines has recently received an Australian Biosecurity Award. The team received the award on 5 March at the National Convention Centre, Canberra. The award was in recognition of their cooperation and coordination in assisting the Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry (DAFF) manage the exotic Siamese snail detections on the prefabricated buildings from Thailand. Congratulations to everyone involved in achieving this award. C C C Bulletin Issue 105 | 1st Quarter 2013 J.Doumani & A. Sabbagh The Hassib Sabbagh Academy Hassib Sabbagh Academy a programme to train pipe welders and pipe fabricators was inaugurated in 2007, resulting in A memorandum of understanding was signed the training and employment of hundreds of pipe in January 2013 between CCC and the BALQA’ welders and fabricators. Applied University of Jordan to renovate, develop and upgrade an existing building on their campus CCC provided the curriculum, trainers, machines at Marka and develop an Occupational Health and workshops and the number of graduates todate stands at 760 welders and 213 fabricators. Corporate Social Responsibility & Safety Programme based on international standards. The Health, Safety and Environmental curriculum Land Surveyors Training with EFE/JCEF is being developed with the Red Rocks CCC in agreement with the Washington based Community College, Rocky Mountain Education Education for Employment Foundation (EFE), Center of Denver, Colorado which is the developed and delivered a programme in Jordan authorized OSHA Training Institute for Region VIII to train and employ land surveyors. for the U.S. The curriculum and Train the Trainers Courses are being funded by a grant from the CCC contributed to the programme in providing Higher Education for Development (HED) and the required curriculum, trainers and equipment USAID of Washington D.C. for the course. To date 41 land surveyors have graduated from the course. Renovation is expected to be completed by summer 2013 and classes are expected to commence in September 2013. The National Employment Campaign “Kolona Shoraka” Direct Employment Piping Supervision & Technology Training Initiative Programme CCC represented by Suheil Sabbagh signed This programme was designed and delivered an agreement with the Ministry of Labour in by CCC/Morganti and held at the Al Husson January 2013 to secure the direct employment College/Al BALQA’ Applied University in Irbid, of Jordanian citizens at CCC projects in Saudi in collaboration with the Ministry of Labour of Arabia and the Gulf. Jordan, USAID, Peace Corps and the Employment In appreciation for CCC’s contribution to this Technical and Vocational Education and Training national campaign, a certificate of appreciation Fund (ETVET) under a Public Private Partnership was awarded by His Majesty King Abdullah II (SHARAKA) initiated by CCC & USAID. and handed over to CCC by H.E. the Minister of Labour. The programme was inaugurated in 2010 and its duration is one complete academic year. Its students are all associate degree holders from community colleges in Jordan. CCC provided the curriculum, trainers and workshops and so far 54 supervisors have graduated. Pipe Welding and Fabrication Programme (SAHAB) As a public private initiative of CCC, the Ministry of Labour in Jordan and the Jordanian Vocational Training Corporation, At the Vocational Training Centre, Jordan Bulletin Issue 105 | 1st Quarter 2013 C C C 39 T. Awad CSR News Report Contribution to CSR Initiative Greece CCC Staff are encouraged to come up with ideas and activities related to CCC’s CSR Initiatives including Going Green and community involvement events. Please send your ideas, initiatives and achievements to “CSR-CCC” email Corporate Social Responsibility address csr@ccc.gr . Earth Hour Solar Water Heater MOA CSR Committee has upgraded the Saturday, 23 March 2013 was the fifth existing conventional water heating consecutive year for all CCC areas and projects system of the “The Smile of the to recognize and participate in the Global Earth Child Organization” facility Hour Campaign by switching off their lights in Melissia by installing between 8:30 and 9:30 pm local times. Globally, a completely new solar hundreds of millions of people, in thousands of water heating system cities, at hundreds of landmarks, on all seven with a capacity capable continents, switched off their lights for one hour of providing hot water for to display a universal commitment to protect the the 56 children living in the one thing that unites us all--the planet. facility. The management of the organization extended their thanks and appreciation to CCC Algeria for their generous donation. Humanitarian Sponsorship As part of CCC’s CSR contribution and same as every year with the “Union des Francais de L’Etranger”, CCC participated in sponsoring their annual event, the proceeds of which were donated towards humanitarian causes. C C C Bulletin Issue 106 | 2nd Quarter 2013 CSR News Reoprt Greece responsibility. The main objectives of this Corporate Social Responsibility page are to share ideas listen and learn communicate! For a trial period the Facebook Group will be concentrating on activities in Athens and therefore membership is limited to MOA employees and their families. Cycling Taking advantage of the spring and summer weather, many members of MOA staff are cycling to the office. With the provision of cycling tracks in the different municipalities of Athens, cycling has become a popular sight for many of the Athenians including CCC employees. Obviously this shows that cycling is catching up as a popular exercise for enhancing the wellness of cyclists. Food Donations Several food donations were made by MOA CSR Committee during the past three months which included different institutions including the Municipality of Agios Dimitrios, St. Olga Church and others. The donations consisted of various dry food items including pastas, rice, oil, sugar, milk and other. Facebook Group The MOA-CSR Committee has launched a new Facebook Group “Friends of CSR Athens” https://www.facebook.com/groups/friendsofccc/ which was developed for members to discover more about our CSR performance and discuss emerging issues related to corporate social Bulletin Issue 106 | 2nd Quarter 2013 C C C 31 A. Taweela Computer Donation Initiative 2013 Egypt CCC CSR Egypt’s continued commitment towards developing and improving local marginalized communities in Egypt led the team to an opportunity to really impact people’s lives and futures. With the Saudi Embassy Corporate Social Responsibility Project (SEP) wrapping up, the chance to make use of the project’s computers instead of getting rid of them was too good to pass up. In comes Alwan wa Awtar. Nestled in the very heart of the community they serve, this ever-growing NGO in the Hadaba el Wosta area up in Mokattam, combines art and non-formal education to help children and young adults who have little or no access to after-school activities, let alone very minimal research. CCC CSR Egypt with the visual and performing arts, to learn and develop help of SEP donated 15 computers to Alwan their thinking skills and eventually lead them to wa Awtar’s library to maximize its benefit in the brighter futures. Hadaba community. With this simple donation, the hundreds of children and young adults that Having been built by means of donations, Alwan go through the NGO’s library every year will wa Awtar’s weak computer capacity was not now finally be able to add the very important meeting the NGO’s needs. Computers were tool of computer skills to their ever growing and barely functional and could only be used to play enriched creative and intellectual abilities. very simple 10-year-old games and conduct C C C Bulletin Issue 106 | 2nd Quarter 2013 A. Abdel Rahman Employees’ Family Day 2013 Egypt and adults. Many families started off the day at the pool and water slides while others sat by the Nile enjoying the scenery, socializing and even fishing. Children had plenty of fun also at the playground and Corporate Social Responsibility participated with the Egyptian Aragouz play entertainer, magic show and dancing Muppets. In the afternoon all attendees got together for lunch in the restaurant hall. This was followed by tea and dessert in the garden by the Nile to watch the sun set and enjoy the breeze. The Family Day also included one day football league games. Both the players and the cheering crowd thoroughly enjoyed the The CSR Egypt team held a Family Day Event games. Another challenging game: soap soccer bringing together CCC employees from the Cairo also took place with the players sliding on soap offices and the projects in a social event to help and water over the field with much laughter and uplift the employees’ morale and remind them plenty of hilarious falls. what the CCC family and culture are all about. Overall, the day was very successful and was This event was held on 24 May 2013 at the Nile enjoyed by all those present. We would like to Country Club, one of the largest outdoor green thank all those who volunteered their time and areas located directly on the Nile River providing efforts, as well as all the participants who helped many facilities and activities for both children make our Family Day unforgettable. Bulletin Issue 106 | 2nd Quarter 2013 C C C 33 S. Shawa Earth Centre Greece The MOA-CSR Committee organized an activity on 6 April 2013 to raise the environmental awareness of CCC employees and their families by an exploration of the Earth Centre located at the Queen’s Tower Park in Athens city. The centre’s mission is to educate people on modern environmental Corporate Social Responsibility problems and to help them find solutions and apply through their day-to-day activities to ensure sustainable development for the coming generations. The activity encompassed a tour of the park with emphasis on the following: (1) wildlife ecosystem; (2) organic vegetable garden; (3) 19th century agricultural equipment and tools; (4) horse stables and the historical role of horses; (5) the Queen’s tower; (6) talking cypress trees telling the history of the park; and (7) the creativity and diligence of nature’s elements. 145 employees with their families and friends participated in this activity where they enjoyed the tour and the outing in nature. The participants were impressed by the creativity of the centre’s founders and staff, their organization, their hospitality and dedication to the issue of sustainable development. C C C Bulletin Issue 106 | 2nd Quarter 2013 B. Al Mandeel Career Days in Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia CCC Saudi Arabia participated in many social activities during the first six months of 2013 as part of its CSR commitments. The greatest attention was accorded to the provision of job opportunities for graduates of Saudi universities and colleges, and the general public (both men and women and Corporate Social Responsibility those with special needs). This was achieved through the four following career days events: • At the College of Technology Dammam, Khobar, 7-8 April (for the training and recruitment of Saudi national graduates). • At King Saud University, Riyadh, 14-15 From left to right : Mr. Jubran Bishouti (CCC Executive Manager), April (for the recruitment of Saudi national Mr. Sulaiman Blawi (CCC Team) , CCC AGM/SA Mr. Imad Khaled, Mr. Amer Al Shaheen (CCC Team) graduates). • At King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals, Khobar, 28 April-1 May (for the recruitment of Saudi national graduates). • At the Riyadh Chamber of Commerce, Madareem Hotel 5-7 May. This is a big event for the recruitment of Saudi national graduates both male and female. The CCC work team made an outstanding effort the during career days by selectively collecting more than 1500 CVs and interviewing a good number of candidates. Also, we were pleased and thankful for the presence and support of the Saudi Arabia Area Manager, Imad Khaled. The presence of the CCC team at From left to right : Riyadh Exhibition Director / Dr. Abdullah AlShdadi, these events, with the support and Mr. Bader Al Mandeel (CCC Manager of Admin & Gov.Rel.), Deputy of encouragement of the Area Managing the Ministry of Labour Dr. Abdullah Alhagbani. Director, Mazen Qaddoura, reflected a positive image of care on the part of CCC/ CSR in the country. From left to right : Mr. Amer Al Shaheen(CCC Team), Envirotec International Company. Ltd, General Manager / Mustafa Darwish Salman, Mr. Samer El Orr (CCC Team) Bulletin Issue 106 | 2nd Quarter 2013 C C C 35 bulletin 3rd Quarter 2013 Issue 107 Quarterly Magazine of Consolidated Contractors Company All Aboard! The Rail Revival … Tony Awad CSR News Report Contribution to CSR Initiative early diagnosis which nowadays can save many lives. CCC Staff are encouraged to come up with ideas and activities related to CCC’s CSR Facebook Group Initiatives including Going Green and community involvement events. Please send your ideas, “Friends of CSR Athens” Facebook group has initiatives and achievements to “CSR-CCC” email been running for over three months now as a trial period; the response and participation was Corporate Social Responsibility address csr@ccc.gr encouraging so the MOA-CSR Committee has decided to maintain the Group https://www. Paper Consumption facebook.com/groups/friendsofccc/ which was Paper consumption is one of the main developed for members to discover more about measurable items within our CCC Going Green CSR performance and discuss emerging issues Initiative. Continuous awareness campaigns are related to corporate social responsibility. conducted across the group for promoting paper The main objectives of this page are to Share savings. An exercise for collecting data related to Ideas Listen & Learn Communicate! MOA paper quantities consumed during the past 3 to employees and their families are encouraged 4 years is in progress and final statistics will be to join the group. published accordingly. Palestine Greece Distribution of Food Packages Race for the Cure During the holy month of Ramadan, CSR For the fifth year, CCC was one of the main Palestine contributed food packages to 100 sponsors of the event “Greece Race for poor families in Palestine. These packages the Cure 2013” that took place in Athens consisted of rice, vegetable oil, sugar, halva, on 29 September. CCC’s participation was jam, lentil, olive oil and tomato sauce. The encouraging again this year which was contribution was greatly appreciated by the complimented by the organizer who sent us a recipient families. letter of thanks for taking part and supporting this symbolic cause. The race was organized by “Alma Zois”, the Greek Association for Women with Breast Cancer in cooperation with the American Association “Susan G. Komen”. Participation this year was a record of more than 15,000 women, men and children of all ages took part in the symbolic race. The purpose of this race is to make people more aware of this illness and of the methods of C C C Bulletin Issue 107 | 3rd Quarter 2013 Mammuni Musliar Protection of Terrestrial Bio-Diversity Al Wathba Wetlands, Abu Dhabi, UAE History The Al Wathba Wetland Reserve lies about 45 minutes drive from Abu Dhabi city. It was declared a protected area by Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, late President of the UAE, in the year 1988, after it was created by an Corporate Social Responsibility accidental discharge of over-capacity treated sewage water from Al Mafraq Wastewater Treatment Plant. It is a suitable habitat for migratory birds and breeding area for the Greater Flamingo. Today the reserve covers a total area of five square kilometers and it is managed by EAD. The Al Wathba Wetland is a home for the Greater Flamingo The landscape around Al Wathba has changed (Phoenicopteus Roseus) considerably over the past decade. EAD undertakes routine monitoring of the key The UAE Area CSR Department was invited to elements of the reserve’s wildlife and runs be part of a team formed by the Environmental successful flamingo tracking. By monitoring and Authority of Abu Dhabi (EAD) to conduct a tracking this species, EAD was able to acquire terrestrial baseline survey of one of Abu Dhabi’s valuable data about trends, the number of wetland reserves located on the outskirts of flamingos which visit the Emirates’ shores as Abu Dhabi. This was a programme meant to well as the route they travel. EAD also regularly increase the community’s awareness on the monitors the water quality and artemia (or brine importance of conserving the UAE’s species, flora shrimp) to help ensure a suitable environment for and fauna. This was also meant to highlight the the flamingos to breed throughout the year. fact that despite the common stereotype of the The tropical diversity of the wetland and the UAE’s desert being a barren land, it is actually surrounding protected area, as can be seen in a very dynamic living habitat that needs to be the photograph, is a habitat for many of the appreciated and protected. endangered and protected species of the UAE. UAE CSR Volunteers for Environmental The touring team is comprised of members from Protection Programmes of the State, promoted private and public sector companies, university by EAD and CCC have been considered academics and students. as Environmental Ambassador to EAD in appreciation of the assistance rendered. Terrestrial Baseline Survey Team Bulletin Issue 107 | 3rd Quarter 2013 C C C 25 Tony Awad 60 Years of Contributing to the Communities The following is an article which appeared families of its employees as well as to serve the in the United Nations Global Compact societies and the countries where CCC has an Internationa Yearbook 2013. operational presence. Sixty years of continuous giving rooted in CCC’s CSR policy is guided by the company’s the beliefs and values of the founders is strong and ethical family values and traditions. what distinguishes CCC and makes it unique It is an integral part of its corporate vision Corporate Social Responsibility among other companies. Even before the term which ensures that its business values ‘Corporate Social Responsibility’ became quite and behaviour are aligned with popular during recent years, the CCC founders its Mission Statement; put giving and care for the communities, Company Core employees and their families as one of their core values which they have been practicing throughout the history of the company. Their continuous giving to their communities, employees and their families has left its mark on thousands of people who felt their support throughout the years. Their compassion and philanthropic deeds may have grown out of their hardship in their early years; however, becoming one of the most affluent companies in the world had just multiplied these humanitarian acts. CSR is an Integral Part of the CCC Corporate Vision CCC’s Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative (CSR) undertakes the role of “Corporate Citizenship” to ensure that business values and behaviour are aligned to balance between improving and developing the company’s business as well as improving the quality of life of its workforce, their families, local communities and societies at large. CCC’s CSR Initiative CCC’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) philosophy originated from the founders’ strong belief that the company has an obligation towards its shareholders, employees, clients, partners, subcontractors and society. CCC does not exist only to make profit, but rather to improve the livelihood of the more than 120,000 C C C Bulletin Issue 107 | 3rd Quarter 2013 60 Years of Contributing to the Communities Values, Guiding Principles and Code of Practice; supporting arm towards communities that Corporate Social Responsibility Health, Safety and Environment Procedures; and have been badly affected by the prevailing Human Resources Procedures. financial crisis in Greece. The NGOs, charities and institutions that benefitted from these CCC’s CSR Contributions to the campaigns include Medecins Du Monde / Doctors of the World; SOS Children’s Village; various Communities municipalities; old age homes; orphanages; Over the years, CCC has participated and kitchens offering meals for homeless persons; contributed generously to the countries and facilities offering shelter for refugees and communities in which CCC has operated homeless individuals and families; schools; and passed through. CCC has engraved its clinics; and various other needy causes. humanitarian and philanthropic footprint in The contributions and sponsorships consisted support of social development, health and of specific necessities including but not limited education and the contributions were in the form to foodstuffs, medicines and medical equipment, of monitory donations and in-kind participation. clothing, blankets, kitchen equipment, blood A few examples are: donation campaigns, PCs and many other various materials. CCC also contributes generously to In Greece: 36 years ago, CCC moved the Greek Association of Women with Breast the Managing Offices of the group to Cancer. Athens, Greece and over the years, management and employees In Egypt: CCC Egypt is continuously helping became closely connected the local community by donating food packages with local communities. In containing necessities such as rice, sugar, oil, continuation of the CSR flour, salt and dried vegetables to affected Initiatives, the CSR communities mainly daily labour and their Committee in Athens families. These food drives are periodically is continuously repeated to cater for the needs of various NGOs, extending a charities and institutions that fall below poverty levels. Blood donation campaigns are regularly organized to support local hospitals. In Kazakhstan: CCC Kazakhstan has drawn up a programme of visits to different orphanages, old age homes, needy communities on a monthly basis and during national and religious occasions in which they provide food packages and clothing. They also provide entertainment for the elderly and the orphans. In Turkmenistan: CCC Turkmenistan periodically contributes food packages and clothing to old age homes, orphanages and needing institutions to support the needs of the local communities. In Jordan: CCC Jordan continuously provides contributions and donations to various charities and NGOs, financial and inkind. CCC Jordan also organizes blood donation campaigns and is a major supporter of the King Hussain Cancer Foundation. Bulletin Issue 107 | 3rd Quarter 2013 C C C 27 Omar Abdel Qader 3. Paper Consumption at ... King Abdul Aziz International Airport Development Project Paper procurement statistics Paper size/Year 2011 2012 2013 Total A4 reams (500 pcs per ream) 709 2,622 3,140 6,471 Corporate Social Responsibility A3 reams (500 pcs per ream) 55 316 470 841 TOTAL 7,312 Paper procurement cost Paper size/Year No. of reams Avg. cost per reams $ Total cost $ A4 reams 6,471 3.5 22,648 A3 reams 841 8 6,728 TOTAL 29,376 $ In-house Paper Consumption Control & • Whiteboard and markers are used instead of Recycling Plan: using flipcharts most of the time. Reducing and eliminating paper consumption by • Use email instead of paper or faxes whenever controlling the printing operation from the ISD practical, both for internal memos and for Department. communications. • Daily staff timesheets are not being printed • Placed paper recycling bins in all photocopier since the beginning of the project which is rooms: at the end of every day the papers saving the project at least 2,000 papers in the bins are collected and stored in the monthly. shredding room. • Every week, those collected papers/cartons are shredded and stored in plastic bags. • When the shredded recycled material has reached a certain amount, a supplier is contacted for collection. • Use less paper by effectively using computer facilities and other technology to reduce paper consumption by using energy saving projectors. C C C Bulletin Issue 107 | 3rd Quarter 2013 Paper Consumption at KAIA Corporate Social Responsibility • Planning and cost departments are no longer 2. 2,000 reams for client requirements at 25 sending progress reports as a hard copy. % project progress which is approximately 1,000,000 papers. • DCG is no longer circulating any hard copies inside the main office: a digital copy is being 3. At project completion a total of approximately sent instead. 8,000 reams will be consumed which means 4,000,000 papers to be consumed. • A weekly printing volume report is generated in order to keep an eye on our paper consumption Applying the agreement with the client will and presented at the Weekly Progress reduce our consumption of paper by 3,000 Meeting. reams which are approximately 1,500,000 papers hopefully. (Estimated total quantity at completion = 8,000 reams.) Client Requirements & Actions Taken to 50% reduced amount will be (8,000-2,000)/2 = Reduce Paper Consumption: 3,000 reams. The KAIA Project’s main concern about paper consumption comes from the client’s requirements for (shop drawings + RIW + Material submittal) multiplication copies. The project team is always trying to discuss and agree with client to minimize as much as possible the required copies achieved by reducing the RIW copies and now we are trying to reduce the shop drawing copies (from six to three). 1. Till now around 2,000 reams have been printed for the client because the requirements were to make six copies. Applying the new agreement with the client will decrease the consumption of paper roughly by half. (Still not applied, DCG is contacting the main contractor to finalize the agreement.) Bulletin Issue 107 | 3rd Quarter 2013 C C C 29 bulletin 4th Quarter 2013 Issue 108 Quarterly Magazine of Consolidated Contractors Company Underwater Engineering ... to the Surface Tony Awad CSR News Report Contribution to CSR Initiative Human Development Session Anger CCC Staff are encouraged to come up with Management ideas and activities related to CCC’s CSR Employees’ Personal Development is one of Initiatives including Going Green and community CCC’s aims as stated in its Corporate Mission involvement events. Please send your ideas, Statement. Therefore, CSR Egypt came up with initiatives and achievements to “CSR-CCC” email the idea of organizing personal development Corporate Social Responsibility address csr@ccc.gr. sessions on different topics through the utilization of available in-house employees Egypt who are knowledgeable and experienced in the field. The aim is to enhance employees’ Edfu Education Support personal capabilities and help them balance During the month their work, life and career objectives. of September CCC The first session “Anger Management” was CSR Egypt team held at the Cairo Area Office on 12 December chose to proceed 2013 by the Instructor Tayssir Osman (Area with an initiative Cost Manager, North Africa). 21 employees related to community attended the session and as per the evaluation development with forms received from the attendees, the session focus on children was highly appreciated, being effective and and education. beneficial. Due to the current unrest situation in Overall, the experience was encouraging and the country which the CSR team is looking forward to holding resulted in increasing more sessions of useful topics, with the unemployment intention of eventually spreading the idea to and poverty rates, all CCC projects in Egypt. thousands of children throughout Egypt World Health Awareness Days are unable to pay Maintaining a healthy lifestyle is one of for their school fees CSR’s significant goals. It is our mission and and uniforms. These responsibility to deliver health advice and tips fees can be as low as to CCC employees in order to enhance their 40 Egyptian Pounds awareness of how to have a better lifestyle equivalent to around and avoid dangerous diseases. US$6.00, consequently CSR Egypt’s team recently put into place a leading to an increase new initiative in association with the World in illiteracy and some Health Days Calendar. For this special initiative cases street children. we agreed to share the task amongst all the CSR Egypt with the CSR members to reinforce the team work support of CCC Egypt spirit. We gathered all information which has Area Office made a been obtained from various reliable sources in reasonable donation order to summarize the necessary health tips to Egyptian NGO “Nour and awareness points pertaining to certain Ala Nour” leading an diseases. For readers’ convenience we kept initiative for collecting it simple by compiling 7 to 10 health tips into donations for students a single PDF to be delivered to employees by in South Egypt rural e-mail. areas especially those This initiative has a good impact on the in Edfu, Aswan. With employees as they get useful information this donation we aim in a simple and attractive way which can be to lend a helping hand understood easily. in sponsoring 200 children to attend CSR is dedicated to always keeping CCC school for the year employees up to date on the latest health 2013-2014. news. Bulletin Issue 108 | 4th Quarter 2013 C C C 35 CSR News Report Greece Corporate Social Responsibility Olive Oil Production Process Volunteers’ Food Drive Athens Office CSR Committee organized an educational event on 16 November for the children of the Athens Office employees at ‘’Zahaios’’, a place outside Athens which produces olive oil. The owners have a huge olive tree plantation as well as a remarkable The CSR Committee has encouraged and vineyard and their goal is to introduce to supported two Athens Office staff members, children the history and tradition of olive oil Abdelhamid Abdelhamid and Vicky Nicolas who production in Greece. volunteered to prepare, cook and distribute 500 portions of food along with a generous The children were involved in a symbolic way donation of more than 1,000 pieces of in the collection of olives, in cutting them and croissant, chocolates, Christmas cookies and in preparing dough for the famous olive oil juices that were handed over to the Reception cookies.They could follow the traditional way and Solidarity Centre of the Municipality of of mashing the olives to make olive paste by Athens. The donated portions were served out the help of a donkey that turns the mill. They at the “Home of the Elderly” to the homeless were involved in a small theatre play which in Patission in central Athens. concerned ancient history and they were also shown a video which explained the modern The initiative was extremely appreciated by way of producing olive oil. the Municipality officials who expressed their thanks in a letter addressed to CCC. ‘’Zahaio’’ is trying to keep alive the traditional aspect of the place, which is directly connected to the manners and customs of the Mediterranean and to educating the children in an entertaining way as well as to enhancing the appreciation of the cultural identity of the area. C C C Bulletin Issue 108 | 4th Quarter 2013 CSR News Report Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Food Basket for help received a great response and the In acknowledgement of the prevailing tough basket was filled up in a matter of days with economic situation that Greece is passing various dry food items that were immediately through and in order to help in supporting delivered to the Social Grocery of Neo Irakleio certain starving communities who are unable Municipality in Athens. The Basket will to feed their families, the Athens Office permanently be there giving the chance for CSR Committee launched a “Food Basket” employees to deliver their donations that will campaign which would enable employees periodically be delivered to needy institutions to deliver their dry food donations. The call and organizations. 2014 CSR Calendar This is the fourth year that Athens Office CSR support to the local Committee produces its annual calendar. communities in Greece The theme of this year’s calendar is especially during dedicated to the “Achievements the prevailing of the Athens CSR economic Committee during the crisis. past six years” highlighting their Bulletin Issue 108 | 4th Quarter 2013 C C C 37 David Shields Tunduma Ikana Road Project, Tanzania (TIRP) Tunduma Town Market Fire donation to the orphanage in reparation for damage caused to unfinished surfaces. Fund raisers for the orphanage were given access to the camp and a restricted number of work areas to raise funds for the orphanage. Corporate Social Responsibility Tunduma Public Refuse collection Points A call for assistance was received from Tunduma Police to assist in fire fighting a large fire that threatened to engulf the entire high street. A rapid assessment was made of how CCC could assist and deployed three water bowsers which fed the fire appliance brought in from Zambia to fight the fire. Refuse collection points in Tunduma were Over 120,000 litres were fed into the fire fighting identified as a severe health hazard with appliance. The fire was brought under control and the accumulation of waste which regularly the fire contained to the market place which was overflowed the collection points. CCC provided entirely destroyed. CCC provided equipment to machinery and operators to remove the waste to demolish remaining buildings and clear the site out of town dump sites. for reconstruction of the market place. Chipaka Village Tunduma Orphanage Chipaka village where the CCC camp was CCC TIRP identified the “Upendo Orphanage” constructed was provided with a ring well to early in the project as a project that it wanted capture naturally rising water. A bore hole was to support. Over the life of the contract TIRP also installed at the end of the project. provided all children at the orphanage of school age books, satchels, pens and then replaced these on an annual basis. Police Vehicles Members of the public who encroached onto Tunduma police are a vital link in providing a safe unfinished works with their vehicles and environment for the project and were assisted machines were encouraged to make a financial during the life of the project by recognizing the C C C Bulletin Issue 108 | 4th Quarter 2013 Tunduma Ikana Road Project, Tanzania additional burden the project presented and water in the dam by raising the dam walls by 1.5 Corporate Social Responsibility provided a weekly allowance of fuel for each metres around its entire circumference. police vehicle. CCC provided funding to assist a member of In addition police vehicles were selectively Chiwanda village in fighting testicular cancer provided with maintenance in the form of repairs and in return allowed CCC to raise awareness in and tyres. raising the issue of men’s health. Nkangamo Village Youth Training Scheme CCC in conjunction with school principals identified school leavers with particular hardships as candidates for its youth training scheme. School leavers were bought into the work environment and given skills such as • Assistant laboratory technicians. • Assistant auto electric technicians. • Assistant carpenters. • Assistant light duty mechanics. • Assistant heavy duty mechanics. • Office clerks. The youth training scheme was designed to give The village school was provided with playground an introduction to specific skills and to the work equipment which included swings, slides, seeenvironment and successfully provided to some saws and a play frame. 30 school leavers a “kick start” to their working lives. Chiwanda Village Cassava and Other Root Crop Drying Areas The mosque that had fallen into disrepair was upgraded by CCC the main source of funding for Cassava and root crops are part of the staple which came from the expatriate community on diet across Africa. CCC in consultation with the project based in terms of donations. women in the area provided a purpose built Chiwanda village assisted the project in providing cassava drying area in part compensation for the water and agreed to give access to a dam built loss of the quarry area where root crop drying for them by the Catholic Church in return for had been taking place. which CCC provided three strategically placed boreholes and hand pumps and maintained these for the life of the project. CCC also assisted the village in increasing the level of captured Bulletin Issue 108 | 4th Quarter 2013 C C C 39 Tunduma Ikana Road Project, Tanzania Dry Season Water Provision Reserved Employment Corporate Social Responsibility During the dry season and particularly after the The Tanzanian Government has a policy of low level of rain in the wet season during spring “Empowering Women” and raising them from 2013 CCC provided a water bowser for the village their traditional place in society. CCC played its of Ikana for some three months ensuring that role in that empowerment by reserving some villagers had a source of water. trades specifically for the employment of women and actively encouraged qualified women to take Road Awareness Training on roles traditionally set aside for men. Women were employed in the following roles on the project: • Flag women. • Administration. • Housekeeping. • Timekeepers. • Heavy Duty Drivers. • Security. • Laboratory Assistants. • Fuel Attendants. • Nurses. Along the whole project route training was carried out in all schools raising traffic awareness of children. How to cross roads and how to School Infrastructure conduct themselves in a heavy and fast moving During the project life it became apparent that traffic environment was core to the training. Over many schools, predominantly infant schools, the 30 month period some 20,000 children were lacked the basics in furniture. addressed in training and refresher training. CCC identified those schools most in need and Adults were also given training albeit to a lesser literally raised children off the floor and onto degree. bench type desks more conducive to learning. A total of 170 desks were constructed and Sports provided to some 17 schools providing seating and desk top facilities to 510 children. Football and netball tournaments were held at CCC sports field and in village communities where return matches were held. Repairs of Homes and Churches Footballs were also given to all schools along In areas of the project where there was a high the project route. concentration of heavy earth moving equipment causing ground vibration CCC carried out remedial works on schools, homes and churches Installation of Communal Water Sites particularly in the areas of Nkangamo and During borrow pit rehabilitation consideration Chiwanda. was given to local communities’ requests Material was also provided for schools to rehabilitate in such a way as to allow the and churches to enable self help works on collection of water during the wet seasons renovations and extensions for buildings along providing water for farming and communal use. the project route. Bore Holes All bore holes were left to local village executives to administer for the local communities. C C C Bulletin Issue 108 | 4th Quarter 2013 Roula Badawi Innovation Camp at Zayed University, UAE Three lady engineers from the Civil Engineering Department (EPSO) were volunteers at this event Corporate Social Responsibility which took place on 20 March 2013. The main theme of the event was “You Can Be!” which means any person can think and STAGE 3 truly believe in his ideas with the help of good teamwork and spirit can make this idea one of Business Plan Challenge: the biggest business enterprises available on the market. Students were divided into groups of 10 and 5 team leaders were assigned to each group which in this case were us the volunteers in STAGE 1 this camp. We had to supervise the work of the The “You Can Be!” Innovation Day Camp at Zayed students, discuss ideas and choose the best University focused on teamwork, spirit, problem of them, advise them on the best business solving, challenges and creativity. opportunities to think about in their challenge. The challenge was about creating a business Around 50 students from Zayed University project to be performed here in UAE. There participated in this event from different were also judges from INJAZ Company judging colleges. At the beginning we were given a our work. The winning business plan project short introduction about INJAZ and its role with will be funded by Khalifa Fund organization if Khalifa fund organization and how small ideas it passed the challenge and got the highest from normal people after development became a score. successful business enterprise. Students worked for an hour on planning what The introduction also included discussions project they wanted to work on and whether about the positive effects of teamwork and its this business plan covered the important importance on the business enterprises in the elements needed, to plan what product or markets. service they want to deliver and to check whether this project is realistic and achievable or not . STAGE 2 Moreover the students had to give a Activities included the following : presentation on this product or service 1. Ice breaker (Bingo): we as volunteers stood convincing the judges on the business idea with our teams in a circle very close to each they had. Marks were given according to many other holding each other hands and someone points like: outside the team will have to break our bond and if he could break the bond this means 1. Creativity of the project. our bond and connection together was weak 2. Realistic. Achievability of the project plan. and could let outside forces break it and this is exactly what happens in small business 3. Eye contact of the presenting team with projects. the audience. A team should be strongly attached mentally 4. Engaging with the audience. and physically to build a business. 5. Clear voice in presenting the information. 2. Human Knot: a game which focused mainly on interacting and exchanging information 6. Overall teamwork and spirit. from everyone that you think might help you in your project and that we should not limit And this is where the team of Amal Aoudi our resources, knowledge could be achieved Sr. Document Controller (EPSO) won the challenge competition in the innovation Camp from anywhere. Day for the presented project. Bulletin Issue 108 | 4th Quarter 2013 C C C 41 O. Mawed EPSO 2013, CSR Report Abu Dhabi, UAE CSR being an integral part of CCC’s corporate In September 2012, there were 57 which is vision, we in EPSO have carried out CSRequivalent to 25 litres of blood and in March oriented initiatives and have contributed to 2013, 69 donors came which is equivalent to 31 the improvement of the quality of life of our litres of blood. employees, their families, the local community As an acknowledgment, the Blood Donation and of society in general. Bank awarded CCC a certificate in appreciation Corporate Social Responsibility The following CSR activities were implemented of our partnership in a ceremony held on 13 June in 2013. 2013 at the Emirates Palace. We are planning our third Blood Donation Campaign for early next Blood Donation Campaign year. Partners: HSE Group and Abu Dhabi Blood Paper and Plastic (Office Waste) Recycling Bank Partner: Royal General Contracting We had our first Blood Donation Campaign in September 2012. It was a success so that immediately afterwards we announced the second Blood Donation Campaign in CCC yard premises on 26 March 2013. In coordination with our HSE Group, the Abu Dhabi Blood Bank sent their mobile blood bank (bus) along with their team of doctors and nurses to our premises to conduct the blood donation. The mobile bus is capable of hosting six people every 30 minutes for six hours. The necessary medical forms were circulated in advance and a schedule was announced to the interested donors. In 2010 we started our recycling campaign, wherein instead of throwing the paper and plastic waste directly into the trash, we partnered with Royal General Contracting in collecting the office waste for more useful usage. As of November 2013, our paper recycling records shows monthly average of 220kg of wastepaper and 150kg of plastic waste collected in year 2013. Our partner has provided the boxes and is collecting on a weekly basis. Our partner is paying the company 0.45 Fills /per kilo for the white paper waste collected and 0.35 Fills / per Kilo for plastic waste. The money raised is used for our other CSR activities. C C C Bulletin Issue 108 | 4th Quarter 2013 CSR Report 2013 of EPSO Electrical Recycling (E-Waste) Corporate Social Responsibility Partners: Enviroserve Recently we came up with a new campaign and devices in order to send them for recycling. this time it is related to electronic waste. We Below is the recycling process as discussed with have made an agreement with Enviroserve, a our partner. certified electronic recycling company which will Recycling Process of E-Waste. be assisting us in the disposal of all electronic related items for recycling purposes. • Degaussing / Destruction of Data on mother An initial meeting took place in the last week boards. of November 2013 between Enviroserve and • Segregating the device’s components. representatives from HSE, ISD and CD in order to agree on the mechanism on how we would • Recycling the components according to the start this campaign. It was agreed to start with Basel Convention. “Mobile / Portable Devices Recycle Campaign” on 15 December 2013 for a period of two weeks To encourage employees to get involved in this to collect old and unused mobile and portable campaign, we have added a raffle draw. Smoking Shelters Partner: HSE Group Also in November 2013 we installed smoking shelters in all CCC yard buildings. The shelters are equipped with awareness posters and healthy tips on how to quit smoking. Also, each smoking shelter has a fire extinguisher. Bulletin Issue 108 | 4th Quarter 2013 C C C 43 R. Sarkis Help for Children in Algeria Upon returning to school last autumn, a certain number of needy children in the Lakhdaria and Blida areas were the beneficiaries of donations from CCC Algeria in conjunction with the Lions Club Blida La Rose. 32 girls and 33 boys aged between 6-16 years Corporate Social Responsibility received school satchels containing pens, coloured pencils, exercise books, erasers, pencil cases and so on, thus ensuring for them a happy return to class. In December, CCC Algeria was represented at a fund-raising dinner organized by the Union des Français de l’ Etranger (UFE). The sums raised were to support schools for physically disabled children. C C C Bulletin Issue 108 | 4th Quarter 2013 Dr. M. Shami CSR, Ethics & Anti-Corruption Training Course UAE As part of the Technical and Project Management Training Programme at CCC, a very successful training course on “CSR, Ethics & Anti-Corruption” was conducted on 18 Corporate Social Responsibility November 2013 at the Park Rotana Hotel in Abu Dhabi. This course was attended by 27 senior staff from various CCC Areas. The course encompasses two major subjects: CSR and ethics/anti-corruption. The training approach was designed to engage the attendees through discussions, case studies and video presentations. This course raised the awareness of CCC staff on their certificates of completion. The expert on globally important issues and best practices guest speaker of this course was Tony Awad, that is essential for their career and daily who is the Group Corporate Social Responsibility activities. The wisdom gained in this course can Officer and Coordinator of CCC’s Ethics & Antibe applied to all corporate practices/processes Corruption Programme for CCC. across departments, projects, and areas. Attendees earned 5 contact hours (equivalent to 5 Professional Development Units under PMI) Bulletin Issue 108 | 4th Quarter 2013 C C C 45 CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 APPENDICES Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) CSR Mission Statement CCC’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) philosophy originated from the Founders’ strong belief that the Company has an obligation towards its shareholders, employees, clients, partners, subcontractors and the society. CCC does not exist only to make profit, but rather to improve the livelihood of more than 150,000 families of its employees as well as to serve the societies and the countries where CCC has an operational presence. CCC’s CSR policy is guided by the Company’s strong and ethical family values and traditions, it is an integral part of its Corporate Vision which ensures that its business values and behavior are aligned with its Mission Statement; Company Core Values, Guiding Principles and Code of Practice; Health, Safety and Environment Procedures; and Human Resources Procedures. Globally, CCC’s CSR initiative covers programs related to: • CCC and the Environment CCC has committed to carry out its activities in an environment-friendly manner by reducing the environmental burden and improving environmental efficiency wherever possible. • CCC and Workforce Welfare CCC demonstrates its commitment to the CCC Family by promoting diversity, equal opportunities, ensuring safe and secure working environment for its workforce as well as improving the quality of life of its employees and their families within their local communities. • CCC and Community Involvement Carrying on in the footsteps of its founders, CCC believes that business should be conducted in a manner which will benefit the local and global communities where CCC operates. CCC has engraved its humanitarian and philanthropic footprints in support of social development, health and education in every country or area that CCC had operated or passed through. • CCC and Ethics & Integrity CCC believes that its reputation and integrity are the basis and drive behind its capability and ability to conduct and sustain business around the globe. • CCC’s CSR Contributions to the Communities Over the years, CCC has participated and contributed generously to the countries and communities in which CCC had operated and passed through. Contributions were in the form of monitory donations and in-kind participation. =========================================
